                                          ABSTRACT
         According to an example of the present disclosure, a software testing system is
operable to test functionalities of a web application across different platforms. The software
testing system can interact with different platforms via different drivers to facilitate
multiplatform testing of the functionalities. Also, multiplatform test result views may be
generated.

                                          cuo
                           CU
                            -                                               LCu              0)
         -0            0    - co)                                                             0)0
          0                    T-
                               -                                                        F
                                       CD                                       75   -0     U
      j)    o          0
                                                                     mj 0) C     )         E c
                                                                       0-0            >
                                                             CDl
                                                                                                  00
0
                         o.m                                        _        _    c _          _                     U-0
                                               CDm                          CD
                                                                    <)00~~                          a)W0
(j0                                               0~1                   CD
  sU_              col            o-             C~q                              aa)0                             0
                                   U))           a) cu
                                                 H        0
                                                                                V)        CD         V
                                              _0                 ___o_                   _                          0
                                                          -V                                              U) 0CO        1
                                                                                L-        4
               S.'
              0C                                              0            .a)
                                                       CU                     -       -     N-- -        -       -      -

                                                1
                  SIMULTANEOUS MULTI-PLATFORM TESTING
BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
[0001]     Software testing is becoming increasingly important.     Owners, operators, and
users of computer software expect high standards of reliability.            To satisfy these
expectations, software is often tested during different phases of development and after
completion.    There are many well-known approaches and available software tools for
performing software testing. During various phases of testing, a series of test cases may be
generated by a tester or developer, and executed using a particular software testing tool to
test various functionalities of the of software under test. For example, different test cases
may be generated and executed to test the different functions of the software.

                                                   2
SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
[0001a]      In one aspect, the present invention provides a software testing system including
a web object repository to store web page objects of a web application and properties of the
web page objects, a test case repository to store test cases for testing the web application,
a test data repository to store test data for the test cases, a testing device including a
processor, connected to a memory, to execute machine readable instructions to receive a
testing request to test the web application, wherein the testing request identifies
functionalities of the web application to test, and platforms on which the functionalities will
be tested, determine a first test package for testing a first functionality of the functionalities,
the first test package for testing the first functionality on a first platform of the platforms, the
step of determining a first test package including selecting a first plurality of test cases from
the test case repository for testing the first functionality, creating, for the first plurality of test
cases, a first map of key value pairs for test data from the test data repository, and identifying
a first plurality of web objects from the web object repository that are for the first plurality of
test cases, determine a first driver for executing the first plurality of test cases on the first
platform, wherein the first driver interacts with a first web application testing tool, interact with
the first driver to transmit the first test package to the first web application testing tool to
execute the first plurality of test cases on the first platform, wherein the first test package
includes the first plurality of test cases, the first map, and information for identifying the first
plurality of web objects in the web application, determine a second test package for testing
a second functionality of the functionalities in the testing request, the second test package
for testing the second functionality on a second platform of the platforms, the step of
determining the second test package for testing the second functionality including selecting
a second plurality of test cases from the test case repository for testing the second
functionality, creating, for the second plurality of test cases, a second map of key value pairs
for test data from the test data repository, and identifying a second plurality of web objects
from the web object repository that are for the second plurality of test cases, determine a
second driver for executing the second plurality of test cases on the second platform, wherein
the second driver interacts with a second web application testing tool, interact with the
second driver to transmit the second test package to the second web application testing tool
to execute the second plurality of test cases on the second platform, wherein the second test

                                                  3
package includes the second plurality of test cases, the second map, and information for
identifying the second plurality of web objects in the web application, receive, via the first
driver, first test results from the first web application testing tool executing the first plurality
of test cases, receive, via the second driver, second test results from the second web
application testing tool executing the second plurality of test cases, and generate a
multiplatform view of the first and second test results.
[0001b]      In another aspect, the present invention provides a software testing system that
tests a web application across multiple platforms, the software testing system including a
memory to store machine readable instructions, and a processor, connected to the memory,
to execute the machine readable instructions that receive, via a user interface, a selection of
a journey for testing the web application, wherein the journey is associated with testing
functionalities of the web application across different platforms, determine, based on the
selected journey, a first test package for testing a first functionality of the web application on
a first platform of the different platforms, determine, based on the selected journey, a second
test package for testing a second functionality of the web application on a second platform
of the different platforms, interact with a first driver to transmit the first test package to a first
web application testing tool to execute a first plurality of test cases associated with the first
functionality on the first platform, interact with a second driver to transmit the second test
package to a second web application testing tool to execute a second plurality of test cases
associated with the second functionality on the second platform, receive, via the first driver,
first test results from the first web application testing tool executing the first plurality of test
cases, receive, via the second driver, second test results from the second web application
testing tool executing the second plurality of test cases, integrate the first test results and the
second test results to generate a representation of a contiguous test of the journey, and
generate a multiplatform view of the representation of the contiguous test of the journey from
the integrated first and second test results.
[0001c]       In yet another aspect, the present invention provides a computer-implemented
method executed by at least one processor, the method including receiving a testing request
to test a web application, wherein the testing request identifies functionalities of the web
application to test, and a plurality of platforms for testing the functionalities, determining,

                                                   4
based on the testing request, a first plurality of test cases from a test case repository for
testing a first functionality of the web application on a first platform of the plurality of platforms,
determining, based on the testing request, a second plurality of test cases from the test case
repository for testing a second functionality of the web application on a second platform of
the plurality of platforms that is different from the first platform, interacting with a first driver
to transmit the first plurality of test cases to a first web application testing tool to execute the
first plurality of test cases on the first platform, interacting with a second driver to transmit
the second plurality of test cases to a second web application testing tool to execute the
second plurality of test cases on the second platform, receiving, via the first driver, first test
results from the first web application testing tool executing the first plurality of test cases,
receiving, via the second driver, second test results from the second web application testing
tool executing the second plurality of test cases, integrating the first test results and the
second test results to generate a representation of a contiguous test, and generating a
multiplatform view of the representation of the contiguous test in the user interface.

                                                 5
 BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
 [0002]     Features of the present disclosure are illustrated by way of examples shown in the
following figures. In the following figures, like numerals indicate like elements, in which:
 [0003]     Figure 1 illustrates components of a software testing system, according to an
example of the present disclosure;
 [0004]     Figure 2A illustrates a journey, according to an example of the present disclosure;
 [0005]     Figures 2B-C illustrate computer-implemented methods associated with the
journey shown in figure 2A, according to examples of the present disclosure;
 [0006]     Figures 3-7 illustrate examples of screenshots that may be generated by the
software testing system, according to examples of the present disclosure;
 [0007]     Figure 8 illustrates a hardware platform, according to an example of the present
disclosure; and
 [0008]     Figure 9 illustrates a computer-implemented method, according to an example of
the present disclosure.

                                                6
DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE EMBODIMENT(S) OF THE INVENTION
[0009]      For simplicity and illustrative purposes, the present disclosure is described by
referring mainly to examples thereof. The examples of the present disclosure described
herein may be used together in different combinations. In the following description, details
are set forth in order to provide an understanding of the present disclosure. It will be readily
apparent however, that the present disclosure may be practiced without limitation to all these
details. Also, throughout the present disclosure, the terms "a" and "an" are intended to
denote at least one of a particular element. As used herein, the term "includes" means
includes but not limited to, the term "including" means including but not limited to. The term
"based on" means based at least in part on.
[0010]     According to an example of the present disclosure, a software testing system can
execute test cases for an application on multiple platforms simultaneously or in sequence.
The software testing system may interact with multiple application testing tools to test the
application on the multiple platforms.
[0011]     The software testing system can test different types of applications. An application
is a computer program designed to perform a group of functions, tasks, or activities. For
example, an application may perform a series of coordinated activities on behalf of, or for
the benefit of, a user. The software testing system, for example, can test web applications.
A web application may include an application that runs in a web browser. For example, the
web application may be hosted on a remote computer and a user may access and interact
with the web application through a web browser running on an end user device. A web
application may include applications configured to run on one or more devices, such as a
desktop web application that runs in a desktop web browser, a mobile web application that
runs in a mobile web browser, etc. For example, a mobile web application may be executed
on a smartphone, tablet, or another mobile device. Web applications may be designed to
run on different types of browsers. A web application may have a mobile application which
may be downloaded and installed on a mobile device, rather than being rendered within a
browser. A mobile application may pull content and/or data from the Internet, in similar
fashion to a website, or it may download the content so that it can be accessed without an

                                                 7
Internet connection.      Mobile applications may be designed for a specific mobile device
operating system (OS), such as Android@ or iOS@.
[0012]      The software testing system is operable to test an application across multiple
platforms. A platform includes hardware and/or software to run an application. For example,
a platform may include a mobile device and a particular OS, or a mobile device and a
particular browser, or a personal computer and a particular browser. Different platforms may
be used for executing the same application. For example, it is not uncommon for a user to
access an application through a desktop web browser, and then subsequently access the
same application through a mobile web browser or as a mobile application. For example,
with social media applications, a user may receive an email about a friend posting a picture.
The user may click on a link in the email to access the social media application through a
web browser as a web application. The user may subsequently access the same social
media application through a mobile application to post a comment. Then, the user may
access the social media application through a mobile web browser, such as through a tablet.
Multiple different application testing tools may be required to test the application across
different platforms.
[0013]      Typically, to test an application across different platforms, a developer may create
test cases for each platform. For example, a software developer may create test cases
including test scripts written in a test script programming language used by the particular
application testing tool that will run the test scripts. When different application testing tools
are used to test the application across different platforms, multiple test scripts may be
created for each application testing tool. In addition, a software tester, which may be a
person different from the software developer, may need to interact with the software
developer to create test cases to test different functionalities of the application and to create
test data for running the test cases. As a result, the generation and execution of test cases
for the different platforms, and the viewing of test results generally involve disjointed and
time-consuming processes. The software testing system according to an example of the
present disclosure can facilitate testing an application across different platforms through a
framework and a user interface as is further discussed below.

                                                  8
[0014]      Furthermore, it is not uncommon for software developers and testers to create and
execute thousands of test scripts daily, especially for new releases of a web application.
Also, testing is commonly performed one platform at a time, further increasing the testing
time for the daily execution of test scripts based on the number of platforms. The software
testing system can automatically run test cases in parallel across multiple platforms. By
running test cases in parallel, the software testing system can decrease test case run times.
Decreasing testing time can accelerate the release of new application versions that fix bugs
or fix potential security vulnerabilities. Also, the software testing system may include an
easy-to-use user interface that allows non-technical testers to implement and execute test
cases without any underlying knowledge of the testing tool or scripting language used by the
one or more testing tools executing the test cases. This may eliminate or minimize the need
for software developers and testers to have to collaborate every time test cases need to be
generated and executed. Also, the software testing system may generate cross-platform
test results so a single view can be generated to show test results across all the platforms.
[0015]      Figure 1 illustrates a software testing system 100, according to an example of the
present disclosure. The software testing system 100 is referred to as the system 100. The
system 100 includes user interface 102, object repository (OR) generator 103, test reporting
manager 104, testing controller 105, and data storage 110. As is further discussed below,
the testing controller 105 can execute test cases 117 on multiple different platforms 170
through testing tool drivers 125 and application testing tools 140 to test an application. The
system may be used to test any type of application for which application testing tools 140
are available to test the application. By way of example, the application to be tested may be
a web application 150 which may exist in multiple different forms on the platforms 170 as is
further discussed below. A plurality of repositories are described herein. The repositories
may store different types of data. The repositories may be segregated, such as separate
storage systems for storing their particular type of data. For example, the repositories may
include multiple databases, and each database may be for a particular repository.          For
example, one database may store test data and another database may store test results. In
another example, multiple repositories may be combined. For example, a single database
may store data for multiple repositories.

                                                 9
[0016]     The testing controller 105 may also configure the test cases 117. For example,
the test cases 117 include test scripts. The test scripts may include configuration parameters
that are used by the testing tool drivers 125 to execute the test scripts on the application
testing tools 140 for different platforms of the platforms 170. The testing controller 105 may
determine whether a test case includes the configuration parameters for execution on a
selected platform.    For example, the test script for the test case is parsed to search for
configuration parameters for the selected platform. Regular expression matching may be
used for the parsing and searching. If the configuration parameters for the selected platform
are not in the test case, then the configuration parameters may be added by the testing
controller 105.    An example of code, including configuration parameters for a selected
platform, that may be added may include:
           config:{
           Browser: "chrome"
           ChromeDriver: "c:\... \chromedriver.exe"
           },
[0017]     These configuration parameters are for a platform that includes the "chrome"
browser and also includes the path of the testing tool driver. Other parameters may also be
included, such as browser version, whether the browser is a mobile browser, etc.
Predetermined configuration parameters for each platform may be stored and searched for
during the parsing, and if not found, may be included in the test script for a test case.
[0018]     The user interface 102 allows a user of the system 100 to select platforms of the
platforms 170 to test the web application 150, select functionalities to be tested, and select
other parameters for the testing.       For example, one or more platforms for a desktop
application version, mobile web application version and mobile application version of the web
application 150 may be selected by the user through the user interface 102.               Also,
functionalities of the web application 150 may be selected via the user interface 102 for
testing. For example, the test cases 117 may include steps describing operations to be
performed to test functionalities of the web application 150. The functionalities being tested

                                                10
may include operations that can be performed by the web application 150. Functionalities
may be simple, such as a login operation performed in response to clicking a login button on
a user interface of the web application 150 and entering a valid user ID and password, or
may be complex, such as performing complex calculations, data manipulations, data
transformations, etc., based on user input or other data. The user interface 102 may include
a graphical user interface, and functionalities available for testing may be selected via a drop
down menu, text box, etc. Other parameters for the testing may also be selected, such as
whether testing on the selected platforms is to be performed simultaneously (e.g., in parallel)
or sequentially (e.g., serially). Also, report generation may be selected.
[0019]     The test reporting manager 104 controls the reporting of test results. The system
100 may receive test results 119 from the application testing tools 140 and store the test
results 119 in data storage 110. The test reporting manager 104 may manage the test results
119, including gathering and consolidating test results for each test case. The test reporting
manager 104 may generate test reports including the test results 119, and consolidated
views of the test results. The consolidated views may include a multiplatform view of test
results generated from executing test cases on different platforms of the platforms 170. Also,
the reports may be displayed in the user interface 102 that allows drill-downs. For example,
test results may be displayed for a functionality, and the test results may include status
information of whether test cases for a test scenario are completed and percent completion
and whether the test cases passed or failed. The test results may be clicked to get more
information about the testing, such as the steps performed by the test cases and screenshots
associated with executing the steps. In an example, the test results include snapshots of
web pages of the web application 150 that are accessed to execute steps of a test case.
These snapshots may be stored in the test data repository 119 and accessed in a drill down
of a test report. The test results may be stored in the test data repository 119.
[0020]     As indicated above, the system 100 may receive status information from the
application testing tools 140 that indicates which test cases have been executed and which
have yet to be executed and percent completion of test cases that are in progress. The test
reporting manager 104 may generate reports that include the status information. The status
information may be used to determine when a test case has been completed.                   This

                                                11
information may be used to determine when to start execution of a second test case that is
dependent on results generated from executing a first test case.
[0021]      The OR generator 103 can identify web objects of the web application 150, and
store information about the identified web objects in web object repository 111. The stored
information is shown as web objects 114 and may include identification of the web objects
and properties of the web objects. For example, the web application 150 may include web
objects included of elements of one or more web pages of the web application 150.
Examples of the web objects may include image objects, buttons, text boxes, tables,
paragraphs, etc. The web objects may have properties, such as background and text colors,
size of border, height and width of text box, location in web page, etc. Other examples of
properties of web objects may include link properties (e.g., source of link, destination of link),
image properties, character properties, list properties, etc.      The web objects 114, e.g.,
identifiers and properties, may be used in test scripts of the test cases 117 to identify the
web objects and perform operations with the web objects to test functionalities. For example,
a text box identifier of the web objects 114 is used to identify and locate a text box on a web
page of the web application 150 to enter login information to test login functionality of the
web application 150.
[0022]      In an example, the application OR generator 103 may extract the web objects 114
from web page code of the web application 150. For example, web page code of the web
application 150 is parsed to identify known types of web objects, and the code of those web
objects, including their properties, is extracted and saved in a specified destination file in the
web object repository 111. Different tools and library functions may be available to parse
the code and to extract predetermined types of web objects. For example, the OR generator
103 identifies the objects used in the web application 150, and a corresponding library
function is invoked to perform a dump of the web objects 114 from the web page code of the
web application 150 to a destination file. A name and/or location of the destination file may
be received by the system 100. The location of a destination file may include a location
identifier, such as an address, link, or another type of reference. In an example, the web
page code may include Hyper Text Markup Language (HTML), JAVASCRIPT, PHP, PERL,
etc. The invoked library function may identify the web objects 114 from the web page code,

                                                12
extract the web objects 114, and store the web objects 114 in the destination file. The web
objects 114 may include object names which may be used in test cases to identify objects in
steps in the test cases. The properties of the web objects 114 may include location in the
web pages, and other information.
[0023]      The data storage 110 may include repositories to store data and other information
used by the system 100 to test the web application 150. The repositories may include
databases, a file storage system, or other types of data storage systems. The data storage
110 may include memory, hard drives and/or other types of data storage hardware. In an
example, the system 100 may include software included of machine readable instructions
stored on a non-transitory computer readable medium which are executable by one or more
processors to perform the functions and operations of the system 100 described herein.
[0024]      Figure 1 shows examples of repositories that may be stored in the data storage
110. Although shown as separate repositories, the repositories may be combined into one
or more repositories or may be provided as separate repositories. Web object repository
111 may store the web objects 114. As discussed above, the web objects 114 may include
identifiers and properties of web objects in the web application 150.
[0025]      Test case repository 112 stores test cases 117 for testing the functionalities of the
web application 150. The test cases 117 may be grouped based on the corresponding
functionality being tested by each test case. Multiple test cases may be created to test a
particular functionality. For example, test cases may be created to test valid and invalid
executable procedures of the web application 150. A test case with valid functionality may
be referred to as a positive test case and a test case with invalid functionality may be referred
to as a negative test case. A test case may include an identifier, a test case name, a test
case description, precondition, test steps, expected result, actual result, status, comments,
etc. Also, the test cases 117 include associated test scripts. The test scripts are generated
in a programming language that can be understood and executed by one of the application
testing tools 140 and execute the steps of the test cases 117. In an example, the test scripts
may be in one or more programming languages, such as JAVA, C#, GROOVY, PERL, PHP,
PYTHON or RUBY, which can be executed by one or more of the application testing tools
140.

                                                13
[0026]     The test case repository 112 may also include atomics 115. One or more of the
atomics 115 may be used to create the test cases 117. An atomic is reusable program code
that is designed to perform a specific operation. Atomics may be designed to perform a very
specific task. For example, atomics for browser automation may include an atomic for finding
a first matching element (e.g., web object), an atomic for finding all matching elements, an
atomic for finding a location of an element, an atomic for getting the size or another property
of an element, etc. Atomics may be written for testing application functionalities.          For
example, the atomics 115 may include atomics for testing a login functionality of the web
application 115 or other functionalities.       The atomics 115 may include configuration
parameters that allow them to be used on the different platforms 170. The configuration
parameters may invoke the proper testing tool driver of the testing tool drivers 125 for testing
on a particular platform. For example, the configuration parameters may include a browser
name and version for testing the web application 150 from a desktop or laptop computer, or
a mobile device OS for testing a mobile application of the web application 150, or a mobile
device browser name and version for testing the web application 150 from a mobile web
browser.
[0027]     The test case repository 112 may also include workflows 116. The workflows 116
may include atomics or test cases that are sequentially executed. A workflow may specify
conditions for executing the atomics or test cases in a particular order. For example, a
functionality for entering a contact in the web application 150 may require several operations
to be performed in a particular order. A workflow may be created including multiple atomics
for testing the several operations for entering a contact. Also, a workflow may be created
including multiple cases to test the entering of contact information and/or other operations.
[0028]     Test data repository 113 stores test data 118 and test results repository 106 stores
test results 119. Test data 118 is used for testing the functionalities of the web application
150. For example, the application testing tool 140a may execute operations in a browser to
test the web application 150, such as navigating a cursor to a button, clicking on a button,
and entering test data. The test data may be a login ID and password if login functionality is
being tested. Test data for testing other functionalities may be stored and may be associated
with particular ones of the test cases 117. The test results 119 may include test results from

                                                14
testing functionalities of the web application 150. The test data 118 and/or the test results
119 may be stored in a spreadsheet or another type of file in their respective repositories
113 and 106.
[0029]      The system 100 may invoke the application testing tools 140 to execute the test
cases through one or more of the testing tool drivers 125. The testing tool drivers 125 may
include application program interfaces for connecting to the web application testing tools
140, providing the test cases 117 (or test scripts for the test cases 117) to the web application
testing tools 140, and receiving test results from the application testing tools 140.       Each
testing tool driver may provide a test case to a particular application testing tool to execute
a test case for a particular platform as is discussed below. Examples of testing tool drivers
include the SeleniumTM web driver for testing through a desktop browser and the Appium          TM
web driver for testing through a mobile browser or a mobile application.
[0030]      The application testing tools 140 may receive test cases from the system 100
through the testing tool drivers 125 to execute the test cases 117 for the platforms 170. For
example, testing tool driver 125a may facilitate execution of test cases by application testing
tool 140a for a desktop web application platform and a mobile web application platform, and
testing tool driver 125b may facilitate execution of test cases by application testing tool 140b
for a mobile application platform. The application testing tools 140 may include software that
can run tests, including test cases, on a software application to test the functionalities of the
software application. Examples of the application testing tools 140 are described below.
[0031]      In an example, the platforms 170 include a desktop browser, such as Firefox TM,
ChromeTM, or Internet Explorer, for accessing the web application 150, a mobile device
browser, such as Safari TM or Chrome TM for Android T M , for accessing the web application 150,
and a mobile application for the web application 150. The application testing tool 140a may
execute test cases of the test cases 117 for the desktop browser and the mobile device
browser. The application testing tool 140a may emulate user operations via a browser to
test different functionalities of the web application 150. Off-the-shelf tools, including open
source tools, are available for the application testing tools 140. For example, the application
testing tool 140a may include Selenium, which is an open source web application testing
tool. Selenium can execute user operations in a browser and perform other operations to

                                              15
test functionalities of the web application 150. For example, a test case for testing login
functionality may include operations for accessing the uniform resource locator (URL) of the
web application 150, selecting text boxes in the web page for entering a user ID and
password, and selecting a login button after entering the user ID and password. The user
ID and password may be provided in the test data 118. Selenium may run a test script for
the test case to perform these operations, including retrieving the user ID and password,
from the test data 118 and entering the information in the selected text boxes via the browser.
[0032]     A testing tool device 141a may host the application testing tool 140a, such as
Selenium or another type of testing tool. The testing tool device 141a may also host and
execute browsers 142, which include one or more desktop browsers and one or more mobile
device browsers, and the application testing tool 140a may execute test cases via the
browsers 142 to execute the test cases for platforms 170 including a desktop browser and a
mobile device browser. The application testing tool 140a may also or alternatively connect
to mobile device 152 and desktop computer 153 to execute test cases. For example, the
mobile device 152 may include OS 153 and a mobile web browser 154 that can run on the
OS 153, and the application testing tool 140a executes test cases on the web application
150 via the mobile web browser 154. The mobile device 152 may include a smartphone,
tablet or another type of mobile device. Desktop 155 may include a desktop computer, a
laptop computer, etc. The desktop 155 (e.g., desktop computer) may include OS 156 and a
desktop browser 157 that can run on the OS 156, and the application testing tool 140a
executes test cases on the web application 150 via the desktop browser 157.
[0033]     A testing tool device 141b may host application testing tool 140b. The application
testing tool 140b may execute test cases of the test cases 117 for a mobile application 160
of the web application 150. The testing tool device 141b may include a platform emulator
143 that emulates a mobile device platform and that can run the mobile application 160 for
running the test cases on the mobile application 160. The application testing tool 140b may
also or alternatively connect to mobile device 158 to execute test cases. For example, the
mobile device 158 may include OS 159 and mobile application 160, and the application
testing tool 140b executes test cases on the mobile application 160. The mobile device 158
may include a smartphone, tablet or another type of mobile device. In an example, the

                                                16
application testing tool 140b may include AppiumT M,which is an open source testing tool for
mobile applications, but it will be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art that other mobile
application testing tools may be used. AppiumTM can execute user operations and other
operation in a mobile application to test various functionalities. The testing tool device 141a
and 141b are computers. The computers may include servers, personal computers or other
types of computers.
[0034]     In an example, the testing tool and the software testing system 100 may be hosted
on the same device, which may include a server, a personal computer or another type of
computer.     For example, the application testing tool 140a, the browsers 142, and the
software testing system 100 may be hosted on the testing tool device 141a. The testing tool
device 141a may host multiple application testing tools, such as the application testing tool
140a and the application testing tool 140b. The repositories 111, 112, 113, and 106 may be
stored locally and/or may be stored remotely in a central location in a shared repository. In
another example, the application testing tool 140a and/or the application testing tool 140b
may be hosted on a testing device remote from the software testing system 100, and test
cases are executed on the remote testing device.
[0035]     Application server 151 hosts web application 150 which is the application being
tested. A server as used herein, for example, includes hardware, such as one or more
processors, and data storage, including a non-transitory computer readable medium, that
can store machine readable instructions executed by the one or more processors. The
server may include other hardware as is known in the art. A server may have one or more
dedicated operations. For example, the application server 151 hosts the web application
server 150 and provides other computers with access to the web application server 150 via
the Internet.
[0036]     One or more users 109 may connect to the system 100 to perform different
operations. For example, testers may connect to the system 100 to execute test cases and
generate reports of test results. Also, developers may connect to the system to create test
cases and create test data. Also, the system 100 may store test cases for testing multiple
applications. A set of test cases, web objects, test data, test results, etc., may be stored for
each application being tested through the system 100.

                                                 17
 [0037]     A journey may include functionalities of an application, such as web application
 150, to be tested, and platforms for testing the functionalities. For each functionality, one or
 more test cases may be stored in the test case repository 112 to test the functionality. The
system 100 facilitates execution of the test cases for the functionalities of the journey on the
 platforms specified for the journey.
 [0038]     Figure 2A shows an example of a journey 200. The journey includes functionalities
201-203 and indicates platforms for testing the functionalities 201-203. In an example, a
 user may select the journey for testing through the user interface 102.         For example, a
journey may be created and provided as a selectable option in the user interface 102, or the
 user may create the journey in the user interface 102 by selecting functionalities and at least
one platform for testing each functionality.
 [0039]     The journey 200 may be associated with testing common or possible interactions
of a user with the web application 150 over multiple platforms over a period of time.
Accordingly, the system 100 may provide a unified framework for testing the common usage
of an application across different platforms. For example, assume web application 150 is a
social media application that enables users to share content, including posting and viewing
comments and pictures.         The functionalities 201-203 include functionalities of the social
 media application.     The functionalities 201-203 are associated with a user performing
different actions on the social media application through different platforms. For example,
functionality 201 includes logging into the social media application and viewing a picture
 posted by another user. The scenario being tested may include a user receiving an email
from the social media application indicating that the other user has posted a picture, and the
 user clicks on a link to log into the social media application through a web browser and view
the picture. For example, the user may open the email with the link on a laptop computer
while at work and click on the link to access the social media application through the desktop
 browser. The platform for the functionality 201 may be platform 170a included of a desktop
 browser. The platform may be specified by indicating the type of desktop browser, the OS,
and other platform parameters if needed.
 [0040]     The functionality 202 may include posting a comment about the picture. The
 platform for the functionality 202 may include the platform 170b, such as a mobile browser.

                                                18
For example, while at lunch, the user of the social media application may access the social
media application through their office mobile device via a browser on the mobile device, and
view comments about the picture and post a comment about the picture. This scenario is
tested by the functionality 202 on the platform 170b.
[0041]     The functionality 203 may include posting a picture.           The platform for the
functionality 203 may include the platform 170c, such as a mobile application for the social
media application. For example, while at home, the user of the social media application may
execute the mobile application to post a picture.
[0042]     To test the functionalities 201-203 on their associated platforms 170a-c, the testing
controller 105 may generate test packages 240-242 for the functionalities 201-203. A test
package for a functionality may include one or more test cases, test data for the test cases,
and web objects (e.g., identifier for the web objects and properties) for the test cases. The
test package may also include configuration parameters for the associated platform. The
configuration parameters may be incorporated in the test cases.
[0043]     Figure 2A also shows examples of test packages 240-242 for the functionalities
201-203, respectively. Figure 2B shows a method 250 for creating a test package. The
steps of the method 250 are described by way of example with respect to the journey 200
and one or more of the test packages 240-242, and the system 100 may perform the method
250. Test package 240 shown in figure 2A is for testing the functionality 201 on the platform
170a. The test package 240 includes test cases 210 from the test case repository 112 that
are associated with the functionality 201. At 251 of the method 250, the testing controller
105 determines the test cases 210 that are associated with the functionality 201 based on
stored relationships between functionalities and test cases. For example, the functionality
201 may be created in the system 100, and when it is created, test cases 210 are associated
with the functionality 201. The functionality 201 may be stored as a test scenario in the data
storage 110, and the test cases 210 associated with the test scenario are also stored. The
test cases 210 may include an identifier of the test scenario, so the testing controller 105 can
retrieve the test cases 210 associated with the same test scenario from the test repository
112 using the identifier of the test scenario.

                                                19
[0044]     At 252 shown in figure 2B, the testing controller 105 determines whether the test
cases 210 include configuration parameters 209 for the platform 170a. For example, the
testing controller 105 may determine whether the test cases 210 include configuration
parameters 209 for one or more desktop browsers. If the test cases 210 do not include the
configuration parameters 209, the configuration parameters 209 may be added to the test
cases 210 at 253. The configuration parameters 209 may be used by the testing tool driver
125a to facilitate execution of the test cases 210 on the platform 170a by the application
testing tool 140a. The configuration parameters 209 are included in the test cases 210 and
are shown in figure 2A as part of the test package 240.
[0045]     Test data 211 may also be determined for the test cases 210. The test data 211
may include a map of key value pairs determined from test data in the test data repository
113. In an example, test data for the test cases 210 and possibly other test cases may be
stored in the test data repository 113 in a spreadsheet file. The test data may be initially
provided with the test cases, such as by a developer or retrieved from a remote device and
stored in the system 100. At 254 shown in figure 2B, test data 211 for the test cases 210 is
determined by the testing controller 105, and a map of key value pairs of the test data 210
is generated. For example, the testing controller 105 may execute a script to extract the test
data for the test cases 210, and generate a map of key value pairs of the test data 210. For
example, if the test data is formatted in columns and rows (e.g., in a spreadsheet or a
database), the keys may be extracted from column names and the values may be extracted
from the rows.     The key represents an identifier of an item of test data, and the value
represents an actual value of the test data. For example, the test data 211 may include a
login ID and password. The keys for these items may be unique identifiers for the login ID
and password. The values may be the actual login ID, such as a name or email address of
the user, and an actual password of the user. The map of key value pairs may be a JAVA
map. The test data 210 is shown in figure 2A as part of the test package 240.
[0046]     At 255 shown in figure 2B, the testing controller 105 determines web objects 212
for the test cases 210. For example, the test cases 210 may include a pointer or some other
type of identifier for identifying and retrieving particular web objects from the web object
repository 111 that correspond to the test cases 210.         Web objects 212 may include

                                                20
identifiers and properties of the web objects used by the test cases 210. The web objects
212 may be used by the application testing tool 140a to execute steps in the test cases 210.
The web objects 212 are shown in figure 2A as part of the test package 240.
[0047]      At 256 shown in figure 2B, the testing controller 105 determines the testing tool
driver associated with the selected platform 170a for testing the functionality 201. For each
functionality being tested, a correlation of functionality to associated testing tool driver may
be stored and used to identify the corresponding testing tool driver. In this example, the
associated testing tool driver for the functionality 201 is the testing tool driver 125a. At 257
shown in figure 2B, the testing controller 105 interacts with the testing tool driver 125a, such
as through a function call or another mechanism, to provide the test package 240 to the
application testing tool 140a. The application testing tool 140a executes the test cases 210
on the platform 170a and send test results to the system 100 via the testing tool driver 125a.
[0048]      The method 250 may be repeated to create test packages 241 and 242 shown in
figure 2A. For example, the method 250 is performed for determining test packages and
testing tool drivers and providing the test packages to the associated application testing tool
is also performed for the functionalities 202 and 203. For example, for the functionality 202,
the test package 241 is generated.         The test package 241 may include configuration
parameters 213, test cases 214, test data 215 and web objects 216. The testing tool driver
for the platform 170b, e.g., mobile browser, is the testing tool driver 125a. For example, the
testing tool driver 125a may be used for both the desktop browser and the mobile browser
platforms. In other examples, different drivers are used for these platforms. The testing
controller 105 may interact with the testing tool driver 125a to provide the test package 241
to the application testing tool 140a, which may also execute test cases on a mobile browser
in addition to a desktop browser.
[0049]      For the functionality 203, the test package 242 is generated. The test package
242 may include configuration parameters 217, test cases 218, test data 219 and web
objects 220. The testing tool driver for the platform 170c, e.g., mobile application, is the
testing tool driver 125b. The testing controller 105 may interact with the testing tool driver
125b to provide the test package 242 to the application testing tool 140b, which executes
the test cases 219 on the mobile application.

                                                 21
[0050]      Figure 2C shows a method 260 for integrating test results for a journey. The steps
of the method 260 are described by way of example with respect to the journey 200, and the
system 100 may perform the method 250. At 261, the system 100 receives test results from
executing the test cases 210, 214 and 218 from the application testing tools 140a-b via the
testing tool drivers 125a-b. At 262, the system 100 identifies the test results associated with
the functionalities 201-203. For example, the test results for each test case may be stored
with an identifier of the test case. The identifier may further be associated with a test scenario
or test suite that is also associated with a particular functionality.          Accordingly, the
functionality for each test case and the test results for each test case may be determined
and used to correlate test results with a particular functionality.
[0051]      At 263, the test results are integrated to generate a representation of a contiguous
test of the journey 200, and at 264, a multi-platform view is generated in the user interface
102 that represents a contiguous test of the journey 200 across the platforms 170a-c. For
example, the test results from test cases for the functionalities 201- 203 are compiled and
may be represented in a temporal fashion and indicate the platform for each test case. For
example, the functionalities 201-203 of the journey 200 are shown and are sequentially
displayed according to the order the functionalities 201-203 would be performed by a user.
The platforms for each of the functionalities 201-203 are shown and the test results for each
of the functionalities 201-203 are shown and associated with the displayed functionalities
201-203. The test results may include pass/fails and other test metrics. The user interface
102 can provide drill-downs showing additional details for each test case or web page being
tested, for example, in response to a user clicking on test results. The test reporting manager
104 may include the consolidated view generator 230 that can generate the multiplatform
view of the test results received from the application testing tools 140a-b. The multiplatform
view may show test results of all the functionalities 201-203 on a single screen.             The
multiplatform view may include test results across multiple different platforms and may
include test results generated by different application testing tools. The multiplatform view
may be generated in the user interface 102 and may allow for drill downs to display additional
details on the test results. The test results may include indication of passed and failed test
cases and the drill downs may allow a user to view additional details on steps that failed and

                                               22
snapshots of web pages associated with the failed steps. An example of a multi-platform
form is shown in figure 7 which is described below.
[0052]      The test results may also include status information. The status information may
indicate which test cases have been executed and which have yet to be executed and
percent completion of test cases that are in progress. The status information may be used
to determine when a test case has been completed.
[0053]      Status information may also indicate when atomics for a test case are completed,
and this information may be used to determine when to start execution of a second atomic
that is dependent on results generated from executing a first atomic in a test case. For
example, a first atomic in a test case may calculate a value, and a second atomic in the test
case may use the value to perform an operation. The second atomic may be executed on a
different platform by a different application testing tool. The system 100 determines when
the first test atomic is completed based on received status information and received test data
including the calculated value. The system 100 can then invoke testing of the second atomic
on the second platform using the calculated value.          Accordingly, the system 100 may
facilitate an ordered execution of dependent atomics across multiple platforms based on
received status information.
[0054]       Execution of test cases 210, 214, 218 for the functionalities 201-203 may be
performed in parallel or sequentially. If certain test cases are dependent on one another,
then those test cases are executed sequentially. Other test cases may be executed in
parallel or sequentially. A user may specify whether test cases are executed in parallel or
sequentially. Also, computer resources may be evaluated to determine whether there is
sufficient capacity to execute test cases in parallel.
[0055]       Figures 3-7 show examples of screen shots that may be generated in the user
interface 102 by the system 100. Figure 3 shows an example of screenshot for selecting
platforms and functionalities to test. A user interface 300, such as a graphical user interface
(GUI) can include windows for identifying browser types for use in performing ominchannel
testing. For example, a desktop window 301 can display information about available desktop
browsers, such as Firefox   TM, Chrome TM, and Internet Explorer TM. For example, for a desktop

                                               23
browser platform, different types of browsers may be selected at 301. Also, for a mobile
browser platform, different types of mobile browsers may be selected at 302. For a mobile
application platform, different types of OS's may be selected at 303.           Also, at 304,
functionalities to be tested may be selected. A journey may also be selected, which may
include a predetermined set of functionalities and platforms for testing. Once one or more
platforms and one or more functionalities are selected, the user may click the Run button to
automatically execute the tests on the different platforms. Accordingly, a simplified, easy-to
use interface is provided for multiplatform test execution. The system 100 automatically
determines the test cases and other information, such as one or more test packages, and
facilitates execution of the test cases on the selected platform, such as described above.
The user may click on the Generate Report button to generate reports for the executed tests.
[0056]      Figures 4-6 show examples of test reports. As indicated above, the test reports
may allow for drill downs that show the test steps executed for the test cases and show
screen snapshots of web pages accessed for the test steps. Steps 401 for an executed test
case are shown in figures 4-6. The executed test case is determined based on the user
selection at 304 in figure 3. In figures 4-6, screen snapshots 402-404 of web pages are
shown for different steps. Other reports may be generated by the system 100. For example,
a multiplatform view may be generated that include the test results of test cases executed
across different platforms.
[0057]      Figure 7 shows an example of a multi-platform view of test results, which is also
discussed above with respect to step 263 in figure 2C. In figure 7, the multiplatform view is
shown as a journey view, which includes test results of a journet, such as journey 200
discussed above. When the journey 200 is created, the user may name the journey 200,
such as "Social Media Post". The journey name is shown in figure 7. Also, the journey view
identifies the platforms in the journey 200, such as desktop browser, mobile browser, and
mobile app. Test cases are executed to test the functionalities 201-203 of the journey 200
on their respective platforms, and the test results are shown for each platform. For example,
in figure 7, test cases 1-5 (TC1 -TC5) are shown for the desktop browser, TC1 -TC7 are shown
for the mobile browser, and TC1-TC4 are shown for the mobile app. Also, test results are
shown, such as pass or fail, for each test case. A user may click on a test case to drill down

                                             24
to details regarding each test case. Details may include steps executed by a test case, web
pages accessed for the test steps (such as shown in figures 4-6), and an indication any failed
steps. Also, the arrows in figure 7 indicate the temporal execution of functionalities being
tested on different platforms, which is also shown in figure 2A. The test cases for each
platform, however, may be executed simultaneously to minimize testing time.
[0058]      Figure 8 shows a computer system 800 that may be used with the examples
described herein.    The computer system may represent a computational platform that
includes components that may be in a server or another computer system. The computer
system 800 may be used as part of a platform for testing tool devices 141a and 141b and
may be used as a platform for a host of the system 100. The computer system 800 may
execute, by a processor (e.g., a single or multiple processors) or other hardware processing
circuit, the methods, functions and other processes described herein.        These methods,
functions and other processes may be embodied as machine readable instructions stored
on a computer readable medium, which may be non-transitory, such as hardware storage
devices (e.g., RAM (random access memory), ROM (read only memory), EPROM (erasable,
programmable ROM), EEPROM (electrically erasable, programmable ROM), hard drives,
and flash memory).
[0059]      The computer system 800 may include a processor 802 that may implement or
execute machine readable instructions performing some or all of the methods, functions and
other processes described herein. Commands and data from the processor 802 may be
communicated over a communication bus 804. The computer system may also include a
main memory 806, such as a random access memory (RAM), where the machine readable
instructions and data for the processor 802 may reside during runtime, and a secondary data
storage 808, which may be non-volatile and stores machine readable instructions and data.
The memory and data storage are examples of computer readable mediums. The memory
806 may include machine readable instructions residing in the memory 806 during runtime
and executed by the processor 802. The memory 806 and/or the secondary data storage
may store data used by the system 100, such as the object repository including web objects
213, configuration data, test data, etc.
[0060]      The computer system 800 may include an Input/Output (I/O) device 810, such as

                                                 25
a keyboard, a mouse, a display, etc. A user interface (UI) 812 can be a display device that
provides textual and graphical user interfaces to a user of the system 100. The UI 812 may
operate with I/O device 810 to accept from and provide data to a user. The computer system
may include a network interface 812 for connecting to a network. Other known electronic
components may be added or substituted in the computer system. The processor 802 may
be designated as a hardware processor.              The processor 802 may execute various
components of the system 100 described above and perform the methods described below.
[0061]      Figure 9 illustrates a flowchart of a computer-implemented method 900 for multi
platform testing of an application, which may include a web application. The method 900
may be implemented by the system 100 described above, or by other systems.
[0062]     At 901, a testing request is received at the system 100 to test a web application,
such as the web application 150. The testing request may identify one or more functionalities
of the web application to test, and may identify one or more platforms for testing each
functionality. For example, the system 100 receives a selection via the user interface 102 of
one or more platforms for testing and one or more functionalities to test. In another example,
the system 100 may receive a request from another computer, such as over a network, which
identifies one or more functionalities of the web application to test, and may identify one or
more platforms for testing each functionality.
[0063]     At 902, the system 100 determines, based on the testing request, test cases for
functionalities and platforms to execute the test cases.     For example, as discussed with
respect to figure 2, test cases may be predetermined for each functionality to be tested. Also,
the testing request may designate a platform for testing each functionality, and the test cases
for each functionality may be executed on the designated platform. Also, a test package,
including the test cases, may be determined for each functionality to be tested.            In an
example, functionalities that may be selected for testing have pre-assigned test cases that
may be retrieved from the test case repository 112. One or more test cases may be retrieved
for each functionality to be tested.
[0064]     At 903, the system 100 interacts with a testing tool driver to provide the test cases
to each application testing tool associated with each platform.      For example, referring to

                                                26
figure 2, test cases 210 are provided to application testing tool 140a through interactions with
the testing tool driver 125a for testing on the platform 170a, and test cases 219 are provided
to application testing tool 140b through interactions with the testing tool driver 125b for
testing on the platform 170c.
[0065]      At 904, the system 100 receives test results from the one or more application
testing tools executing the test cases. For example, referring to figure 2, the system 100
receives test results from the application testing tool 140a through the testing tool driver
125a, and the system 100 receives test results from the application testing tool 140b through
the testing tool driver 125b.
[0066]      At 905, the system 100 generates one or more reports based on the test results.
The reports may include a multiplatform view of the test results executed on different
platforms. In an example, the reports are generated in the user interface 102. The reports
may include multi-platform views. For example, test results for test cases executed on
different platforms are integrated into a multi-platform view that represents a contiguous test
of a journey across multiple platforms.
[0067]      What has been described and illustrated herein is an example along with some of
its variations. The terms, descriptions and figures used herein are set forth by way of
illustration only and are not meant as limitations. Many variations are possible within the
spirit and scope of the subject matter, which is intended to be defined by the following claims
and their equivalents in which all terms are meant in their broadest reasonable sense unless
otherwise indicated.
[0068]      Throughout this specification and the claims which follow, unless the context
requires otherwise, the word "comprise", and variations such as "comprises" and
"comprising", will be understood to mean the inclusion of a stated feature of step, or group
of features or steps, but not the exclusion of any other feature or step, or group of features
or steps.
[0069]      Any reference to prior art in this specification is not, and should not be taken as
an acknowledgement, or any suggestion that, the prior art forms part of the common general
knowledge.

                                                    27
The claims defining the invention are as follows:
1.      A software testing system including:
        a web object repository to store web page objects of a web application and properties
of the web page objects;
        a test case repository to store test cases for testing the web application;
        a test data repository to store test data for the test cases;
        a testing device including a processor, connected to a memory, to execute machine
readable instructions to:
                receive a testing request to test the web application, wherein the testing
request identifies:
                        functionalities of the web application to test; and
                        platforms on which the functionalities will be tested
                determine a first test package for testing a first functionality of the
functionalities,
                        the first test package for testing the first functionality on a first platform
of the platforms,
                        the step of determining a first test package including:
                        selecting a first plurality of test cases from the test case repository for
testing the first functionality;
                        creating, for the first plurality of test cases, a first map of key value pairs
for test data from the test data repository; and
                        identifying a first plurality of web objects from the web object repository
that are for the first plurality of test cases;
                determine a first driver for executing the first plurality of test cases on the first
platform, wherein the first driver interacts with a first web application testing tool;
                interact with the first driver to transmit the first test package to the first web
application testing tool to execute the first plurality of test cases on the first platform, wherein
the first test package includes the first plurality of test cases, the first map, and information
for identifying the first plurality of web objects in the web application;
                determine a second test package for testing a second functionality of the
functionalities in the testing request,

                                                   28
                       the second test package for testing the second functionality on a second
platform of the platforms,
                       the step of determining the second test package for testing the second
functionality including:
                       selecting a second plurality of test cases from the test case repository
for testing the second functionality;
                       creating, for the second plurality of test cases, a second map of key
value pairs for test data from the test data repository; and
                       identifying a second plurality of web objects from the web object
repository that are for the second plurality of test cases;
                determine a second driver for executing the second plurality of test cases on
the second platform, wherein the second driver interacts with a second web application
testing tool;
                interact with the second driver to transmit the second test package to the
second web application testing tool to execute the second plurality of test cases on the
second platform, wherein the second test package includes the second plurality of test
cases, the second map, and information for identifying the second plurality of web objects in
the web application;
        receive, via the first driver, first test results from the first web application testing tool
executing the first plurality of test cases;
        receive, via the second driver, second test results from the second web application
testing tool executing the second plurality of test cases; and
        generate a multiplatform view of the first and second test results.
2.      A software testing system according to claim 1, wherein the device:
        determines whether a test case of the first plurality of test cases includes configuration
parameters for the first platform; and
        instantiates the configuration parameters in the test case when the test case does not
include the configuration parameters.

                                                29
3.     A software testing system according to either claim 1 or claim 2, wherein the
configuration parameters include at least one of browser name, browser version, and an
operating system identifier.
4.     A software testing system according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the
testing device:
       determines from the testing request that the first plurality of test cases are to be
executed in parallel with the second plurality of test cases; and
        interacts with the first and second drivers to have the first and second plurality of test
cases executed simultaneously by the first and second web application testing tools.
5.     A software testing system according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the
testing device:
       determines from the testing request that the first plurality of test cases are to be
executed sequentially with the second plurality of test cases; and
        interacts with the first and second drivers to have the first and second plurality of test
cases executed sequentially by the first and second web application testing tools.
6.     A software testing system according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the
testing device:
       determines a second test case in the second plurality of test cases is dependent on
test data generated from a first test case in the first plurality of test cases;
        receives status information of completion of the first test case via the first driver; and
        in response to receiving the status information, interacts with the second driver to
have the second test executed by the second web application testing tool.
7.     A software testing system according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein to
receive the testing request, the testing device:
       generates a user interface, the user interface:
               displaying information about functionalities of the web application to be tested,
and

                                                 30
               displaying platforms for testing functionalities;
        receiving, via the user interface, a selection of functionalities from the displayed
functionalities, wherein the selected functionalities are identified as the functionalities of the
web application to test; and
        receiving, via the user interface, a selection of platforms from the displayed platforms,
wherein the selected platforms are identified as the platforms for testing the selected
functionalities.
8.     A software testing system according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein to
receive the testing request, the testing device:
       generates a user interface displaying a journey for testing the web application,
wherein the journey is associated with testing the web application across different platforms;
        receives a selection of the journey; and
       determines from the selected journey, the identified functionalities of the web
application to test and the identified plurality of platforms for testing the functionalities.
9.     A software testing system according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the
platforms include a desktop web browser, a mobile web browser and a mobile application.
10.    A software testing system according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the
testing system server:
           parses web pages of the web application to identify the web page objects and the
properties of the web page objects; and
           stores an identifier of the web objects and the properties of the web page objects
in the web object repository.
11.        A software testing system that tests a web application across multiple platforms,
the software testing system including:
           a memory to store machine readable instructions; and
           a processor, connected to the memory, to execute the machine readable
instructions that:

                                                    31
               receive, via a user interface, a selection of a journey for testing the web
application, wherein the journey is associated with testing functionalities of the web
application across different platforms;
               determine, based on the selected journey, a first test package for testing a first
functionality of the web application on a first platform of the different platforms;
               determine, based on the selected journey, a second test package for testing a
second functionality of the web application on a second platform of the different platforms;
               interact with a first driver to transmit the first test package to a first web
application testing tool to execute a first plurality of test cases associated with the first
functionality on the first platform;
               interact with a second driver to transmit the second test package to a second
web application testing tool to execute a second plurality of test cases associated with the
second functionality on the second platform;
               receive, via the first driver, first test results from the first web application testing
tool executing the first plurality of test cases;
               receive, via the second driver, second test results from the second web
application testing tool executing the second plurality of test cases;
               integrate the first test results and the second test results to generate a
representation of a contiguous test of the journey; and
               generate a multiplatform view of the representation of the contiguous test of
the journey from the integrated first and second test results.
12.    A software testing system according to claim 11, wherein the processor:
       determines whether a test case of the first plurality of test cases includes configuration
parameters for the first platform; and
       in response to determining the test case does not include the configuration
parameters, instantiates the configuration parameters in the test case.
13.    A software testing system according to either claim 11 or claim 12, wherein the
configuration parameters include browser name, browser version and operating system.

                                                  32
14.     A software testing system according to any one of claims 11 to 13, wherein the
processor:
        determines that the first plurality of test cases are to be executed in parallel with the
second plurality of test cases; and
         interacts with the first and second drivers to have the first and second plurality of test
cases executed simultaneously by the first and second web application testing tools.
15.     A software testing system according to any one of claims 11 to 14, wherein the testing
system server:
        determines that the first plurality of test cases are to be executed sequentially with the
second plurality of test cases; and
         interacts with the first and second drivers to have the first and second plurality of test
cases executed sequentially by the first and second web application testing tools.
16.     A software testing system according to any one of claims 11 to 15, wherein a test
case of the first plurality of test cases includes atomics to be executed on the first platform
and the second platform, and the processor:
        determines a second atomic of the atomics is dependent on test data generated from
a first atomic of the atomics;
         receives status information of completion of the first atomic via the first driver; and
         in response to receiving the status information, interacts with the second driver to
have the second atomic executed by the second web application testing tool.
17.     A software testing system according to any one of claims 11 to 16, wherein the
different platforms include a desktop web browser, a mobile web browser and a mobile
application for the web application.
18.     A computer-implemented method executed by at least one processor, the method
including:
         receiving a testing request to test a web application, wherein the testing request
identifies:

                                                     33
                functionalities of the web application to test; and
                a plurality of platforms for testing the functionalities;
        determining, based on the testing request, a first plurality of test cases from a test
case repository for testing a first functionality of the web application on a first platform of the
plurality of platforms;
        determining, based on the testing request, a second plurality of test cases from the
test case repository for testing a second functionality of the web application on a second
platform of the plurality of platforms that is different from the first platform;
        interacting with a first driver to transmit the first plurality of test cases to a first web
application testing tool to execute the first plurality of test cases on the first platform;
        interacting with a second driver to transmit the second plurality of test cases to a
second web application testing tool to execute the second plurality of test cases on the
second platform;
        receiving, via the first driver, first test results from the first web application testing tool
executing the first plurality of test cases;
        receiving, via the second driver, second test results from the second web application
testing tool executing the second plurality of test cases;
        integrating the first test results and the second test results to generate a
representation of a contiguous test; and
        generating a multiplatform view of the representation of the contiguous test in the user
interface.
19.     A computer-implemented method according to claim 18, including:
        determining whether a test case of the first plurality of test cases includes
configuration parameters for the first platform; and
        in response to determining the test case does not include the configuration
parameters, instantiating the configuration parameters in the test case.
20.     A computer-implemented method according to either claim 18 or claim 19, wherein
the plurality of platforms include a desktop web browser, a mobile web browser and a mobile
application for the web application.

                                                                             <removed-apn>             <removed-date>
                                                 Software Testing System 100                     110
                    User Interface                                          Web Object
                         102                                                Repository           Web Objects 114
                                                                              111
                    OR Generator        Testing Controller                                         Atomics 115
                        103                    105                           Test Case
 Users                                                                       Repository           Workflows 116
  109                                                                           112              Test Cases 117
                     Test Reporting
                                                                                113               Test Data 118
                      Manager 104
                                                                               106              Test Results 119
                                                             125
                      Testing Tool Driver 125a                     Testing Tool Driver 125b
                                                                                                                     1/11
                                                              140
Mobile Device 152                                                                                  Platform 170c
    OS 153                            Application                      Application
                                     Testing Tool                     Testing Tool
  Mobile Web                             140a                             140b                   Mobile Device 158
  Browser 154                        Testing Tool                     Testing Tool                     OS 159
                                     Device 141a                      Device 141b
Platforms 170a-b                                                   Platform Emulator
                                     Browsers 142                                                 Mobile App 160
                                                                          143
  Desktop 155
      OS
     156                                      Application Server 151
Desktop Browser                                 Web Application 150
      157
                                                                                              FIG. 1

                                                            <removed-apn>           <removed-date>
                          200
      201                          202                                203
  Login and View Pic               Post Comment                           Post Pic
     Platform 170a                  Platform 170b                       Platform 170c
(e.g., Desktop Browser)         (e.g., Mobile Browser)                (e.g., Mobile App)
240                             241                             242
                                Config Parameters 213 for         Config Parameters 217 for
Config Parameters 209                 Platform 170b                     Platform 170c
                                    Test Cases 214                        Test Cases 218
   Test Cases 210                 for Functionality 202                for Functionality 203
                                                                                               2/11
    Test Data 211                     Test Data 215                        Test Data 219
 for Test Cases 210                for Test Cases 214                   for Test Cases 218
  Web Objects 212                   Web Objects 216                      Web Objects 220
 for Test Cases 210                for Test Cases 214                   for Test Cases 218
                                FIG. 2A

                                                          3/11
<removed-date>
                                                          250
                                      determine test cases that are associated
                                                  with functionality
                                                          251
               add configuration
<removed-apn>
               parameters to any
              test case that does                 test cases include
                   not include                       configuration
                 configuration                       parameters?
                                        no                 252
                  parameters
                     253
                                                                 yes
                                      determine test data for test cases and
                                    generate map of key value pairs of the test
                                                      data
                                                          254
                                      determine web objects for the test cases
                                                          255
                                      determine testing tool driver for selected
                                                      platform
                                                          256
                                    interact with the testing tool driver to provide
                                       test package to application testing tool
                                                          257
                                                    FIG. 2B

                             4/11
<removed-date>
                                  260
<removed-apn>
              receives test results from application testing
                      tools via testing tool drivers
                                    261
                  identify test results associated with
                              functionalities
                                    262
                   integrate test results to generate
                 representation of a contiguous test of
                                journey
                                    263
                     generate multi-platform view
                                    264
                          FIG. 2C

                                                                  5/11
<removed-date>
                                                                       <U+2712>
                                                                       <U+2711>
                                                                       <U+270F>
                                                                       <U+276F>
                                                                       <U+2714>
                                                                   <U+2712>
                                                                       <U+2719>
                                                                   <U+2711>
<removed-apn>
                                                                       <U+2715>
                                                                   <U+270F>
                                                                       <U+2719>
                                                                       <U+2712>
                                                                   <U+276F>
                                                                       <U+2722>
                                                                   <U+2725>
                                                                       <U+2716>
                                                                   <U+2711>
                                                                       <U+2711>
                                              <U+2712>
                                                                                       <U+2736>
                                              <U+2711>
                                                                   <U+2724>   <U+2713>
                                                                                       <U+272D>
                                              <U+270F>                    <U+2723>   <U+2723>
                                                                   <U+2729>   <U+2729>
                                                                                       <U+2730>
                                              <U+276F>
                                                                   <U+2711>   <U+2711>
                                              <U+2723>
                                                                           <U+2716>
                                                                                       <U+2738>
                                                  <U+2712>                <U+2719>   <U+2719>
                                              <U+2714>
                                                                           <U+270F>
                                                                   <U+2712>   <U+2712>
                                                                                       <U+272E>
                                                  <U+2711>
                                                                           <U+2711>
                                              <U+2719>
                                                                   <U+2722>   <U+2722>
                                              <U+2715>   <U+270F>
              <U+2744>
                                                                           <U+275B>
                                                                                           |
                                          <U+2719>
                                                                   <U+2718>   <U+2718>
                                              <U+2719>
                                                  <U+276F>
                                              <U+2712>
                                                                           <U+2711>
                  <U+2741>
                                          <U+2718>                        <U+2605>   <U+2605>
                                          <U+2715>                                            <U+272E>
                                                                   <U+2723>   <U+2723>
                                              <U+2722>
                                                                           <U+2722>
                                          <U+2716>
                                                                                       <U+2736>
                                                  <U+2725>                <U+2727>   <U+2727>
                                              <U+2716>
                                                                           <U+2727>
                  <U+2740>
                                          <U+2717>
                                                  <U+2711>                <U+2711>   <U+2711>
                                              <U+2711>
                                                                           <U+2717>
                                                                                       <U+273D>
                                          <U+2712>
                                          <U+2716>
                                                                   <U+2719>   <U+2719>
                                                                                       <U+272D>
                                              <U+2713>   <U+2724>                        <U+272B>
                                          <U+270F>                                <U+2716>
                                              <U+2723>   <U+2723>                <U+2719>   <U+2719>
                                                                                       <U+272E>
                                          <U+2715>
                                              <U+2716>   <U+2716>
                                                                           <U+2717>
                                                                   <U+2717>   <U+2717>
                                          <U+2714>
                                              <U+2722>   <U+2722>
                                                                                       <U+2735>
                                                                           <U+272A>
                                                                   <U+271A>   <U+271A>
                                          <U+2711>
                                              <U+2718>   <U+2718>
                                                                                       <U+272E>
                                                                           <U+2712>
                                                                   <U+2748>   <U+2748>
                                          <U+2713>
                                              <U+271C>   <U+271C>
                                                                   <U+2715>   <U+2715>   <U+2711>
                                                              <U+2719>
                                              <U+271B>   <U+271B>
                                          <U+2712>                   <U+2715>
                                                                                           <U+25CF>
                                                                   <U+2719>   <U+2719>   <U+2714>
                                              <U+2711>   <U+2711>
                                          <U+2711>                                <U+2712>
                                                              <U+2714>
                                          <U+270F>   <U+271A>   <U+271A>                <U+2726>   <U+2726>
                                                                           <U+2722>
                                                              <U+2718>
                                          <U+276F>   <U+2748>   <U+2748>           <U+25B2>    <U+2756>   <U+2756>   <U+2747>
                                                                                       <U+2735>
                                                                                           <U+273F>
                                                                                           |
                                                      <U+2706>
                                                                               <U+2738>
                                                      <U+2706>
                                                                               <U+2738>
                                                      <U+270E>
                                                                               <U+2746>
                                                                       <U+2738>
                                                                               <U+273E>
                                                                               <U+272C>
                                                          <U+271D>
                                                                       <U+2738>
                                                      <U+270C>
                                                                               <U+2730>
                                                                       <U+2746>
                                                                               <U+272D>
                                                      <U+261E>
                                                                               <U+273E>
                                                                       <U+273B>
                                                      <U+260E>
                                                                               <U+2735>
                                                                       <U+273A>
                                                                              <U+2746>
                                                      <U+25BC>
                      <U+2740>
                      <U+2741>
                      <U+2740>
                                                                               <U+272E>
                                                                               <U+2734>
                                                      <U+261E>
                                                                               <U+2730>
                                                                               <U+272D>
                              <U+2743>
                                                                               <U+2733>
                                                                       <U+272C>
                              <U+2741>
                                                                       <U+272D>
                                                      <U+270D>
                                                                               <U+2732>
                                                                       <U+273D>
                              <U+2740>
                                                                       <U+272F>
                                                                               <U+273E>
                                                                               <U+272C>
                                                                       <U+273D>
                                                          <U+271D>
                                                      <U+270C>
                                                                               <U+2730>
                                                                       <U+273B>
                                                                               <U+272D>
                                                      <U+261E>
                                                                       <U+273C>
                                                                               <U+273E>
                                                      <U+260E>
                                                                       <U+273B>
                                                                               <U+2735>
                                                                       <U+273A>
                                                                              <U+2746>
                                                      <U+25BC>
                          <U+2742>
                          <U+2741>
                          <U+2740>
                                                                                   <U+272D>
                                                                                   <U+272E>
                                                                                   <U+272D>
                                                                                   <U+2730>
                                  <U+2701>
                                                                                   <U+2739>
                                      <U+271D>
                                                                                   <U+2738>
                                                                                   <U+2731>
                                                      <U+2706>
                                      <U+261B>
                                                                                   <U+2737>
                                                      <U+260E>
                                      <U+261B>
                                                                               <U+272E>   <U+2736>
                                                      <U+2704>
                                      <U+2721>
                                                                       <U+2731>           <U+272E>
                                                      <U+2702>
                                                                               <U+2734>
                                      <U+2720>                                <U+2730>           <U+2735>
                                                      <U+2701>
                                                                       <U+272F>
                                                                               <U+2730>   <U+272D>
                                                                               <U+272D>
                                                                       <U+272E>
                                      <U+271F>
                                                                                   <U+272E>
                                                                       <U+272D>           <U+2736>
                                                                               <U+2733>
                                                                       <U+272C>
                                  <U+2704>
                                                      <U+2749>
                                                                                   <U+2735>
                                                                       <U+274B>       <U+2732>   
                                      <U+271E>
                                      <U+271D>
                                      <U+2759>

                                                                                                                                                              6/11
<removed-date>
                                                                                  t
                                                                                          <U+2773>
                                                                                  <U+2743>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2775>
                                                                                          <U+25C6>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2663>
                                                                                  <U+2745>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2749>
                                                                                  <U+2765>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2763>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+274F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2665>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+276C>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2772>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2666>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2773>
                                                                                                                                                                                              |
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2769>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2666>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+274B>
                                                                                  <U+2745>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2768>
                                                                                          <U+276A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+276A>
                                                                                          <U+25C6>
                                                                                          <U+2773>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+274F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2769>
                                                                                  <U+2741>                                                                                                                                           <U+276D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2666>
                                                                                          P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+274B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+25CF>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2660>
                                                          <U+2743>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2767>
                                                          <U+2741>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2768>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2766>
                                                                                  s
                                                      <U+2744>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2765>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+25B2>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2763>
                                                                                  <U+2741>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+276D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+25CF>
                                                                                  <U+2747>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+274B>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+25D7>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2768>
                                                                                  r
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+276C>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+276F>
                                                                                  <U+2747>                                                                                                                       <U+2710>
                                                                                          <U+274A>
                                                                                  <U+2660>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2769>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2666>
                                                                                  <U+2747>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+274B>
                                                                                  <U+2745>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2768>
<removed-apn>
                                          <U+2740>
                                                                                  <U+2743>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+276A>
                                                                                          <U+276A>
                                          <U+273D>
                                                                                                                                                                              P
                                          <U+273F>
                                          <U+273E>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+25C6>
                                          <U+2735>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2745>
                                          <U+273D>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2744>
                                          <U+272C>
                                      <U+2714>
                                                                                      <U+2765>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+25BC>
                                          <U+273C>
                                                                                          P
                                          <U+273B>
                                                                                                                          <U+2764>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2744>
                                                                                          <U+25C6>
                                      <U+2722>                                                                                   <U+275D>
                                          <U+2730>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2775>
                                                                                      <U+2745>
                                                                                                                          <U+2762>
                                          <U+2731>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2774>
                                          <U+2735>
                                                                                      <U+2660>
                                          <U+2735>
                                                                                                                          <U+275E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2774>
                                      <U+271C>                                                                                                                                                       <U+2763>
                                                                                                                          <U+275D>
                                          <U+2731>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+274B>
                                          <U+272B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2666>
                                                                                                                          <U+275C>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2771>
                                          <U+2731>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+276B>
                                      <U+2718>
                                                                                                                          <U+275B>
                                          <U+272C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2769>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+276F>
                                                                                      <U+2660>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2666>
                                          <U+2734>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+274B>
                                                                                      <U+2741>
                                          <U+2731>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2768>
                                          <U+2731>
                                                                                      <U+2741>
                                      <U+271B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+276A>
                                                                                          <U+276B>
                                          <U+2733>
                                          <U+2732>
                                      <U+2712>
                                                                                      <U+2743>
                                          <U+2731>
                                                                                      <U+2742>
                                      <U+2712>
                                          <U+272D>
                                                                                      <U+2741>
                                          <U+2730>
                                      <U+271A>
                                                                                          <U+276A>
                                          <U+272C>
                                          <U+272C>
                                                                                      <U+2742>
                                      <U+2719>
                                          <U+272B>
                                                                                      <U+2741>
                                          <U+272F>
                                                                                      q
                                          <U+2723>
                                                                                          <U+25C6>
                                      <U+2718>
                                          <U+2727>
                                          <U+2727>
                                                                                                                                                          P
                                          <U+272B>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+25C6>
                                      <U+2713>   <U+2729>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+2745>
                                                                                      <U+2742>
                                          <U+272E>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+2744>
                                          <U+272C>
                                                                                      <U+2747>
                                      <U+2713>
                                          <U+2729>
                                                                                      <U+2745>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+25BC>
                                          <U+272B>
                                      <U+2717>
                                                                                      <U+2744>
                                          <U+272D>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+2744>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+274F>
                  <U+2701>
                                          <U+272C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+25CF>
                                                                                      <U+2743>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+276D>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+25B2>                                   <U+2759>
                  <U+260E>
                                          <U+2724>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+274A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+276C>
                                      <U+2716>
                                                                                      <U+2742>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2768>
                                          <U+2727>
                  <U+2761>                                                                                                                                       <U+2751>
                                                                                                                                                                                              |
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2769>
                                                                                      <U+2741>
                                          <U+272B>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+274F>
                                      <U+2715>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2768>
                                                                                                                                                          
                                          <U+272A>
                  <U+270F>
                                      <U+2714>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+25D7>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2773>
                                          <U+2729>                                                                                                               <U+274D>
                  <U+270E>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+25CF>
                                          <U+2727>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+274B>
                                      <U+2713>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+274A>
                  <U+270D>
                                          <U+2724>
                  <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+2749>
                                          <U+2726>
                                      <U+2712>
                                          <U+2725>
                  <U+2701>
                  <U+2701>
                                          <U+2724>
                                      <U+2711>
                                          <U+2723>
                  <U+2746>
                                                                                                      <U+2788>
                                                                                                      <U+2779>
                                                                                                      <U+2787>
                                                                                                                                              <U+2785>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2463>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+271D>
                                                                                                          <U+279D>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+2463>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+279B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2192>
                                                                                                          <U+2706>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2463>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+279B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2787>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2791>
                                                                                                                                              <U+2785>                                                                                                               <U+2789>
                                                                                                          <U+2195>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+279B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2799>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+278F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+2706>
                                                                                                          <U+2463>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2791>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2782>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                              <U+2784>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2195>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2799>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2788>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2794>
                                                                                                      <U+27A4>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2785>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+277D>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2463>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+278D>
                                                                                                      <U+2785>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+271E>
                                                  <U+2742>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2785>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2463>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+279F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+279D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+278D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2785>
                                                                                                          <U+2706>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2785>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2785>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+279B>
                                                  <U+2741>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2779>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+2792>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2785>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2463>                                                       <U+2787>
                                                                                                      <U+27A5>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+2463>
                                                                                                      <U+27A2>
                                              <U+2744>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2794>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2706>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2706>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+279B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+279C>
                                                                                                      <U+2785>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2785>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+2794>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+27A1>                                           <U+2194>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2789>
                                                                          <U+2789>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2792>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2195>
                                                                                                          <U+2463>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+2463>                                                   <U+2706>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+278D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+271F>
                                                                              <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2463>
                                                                                                                                              <U+2785>
                                                                                                          <U+2792>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+271E>                                           <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+27A1>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+278D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+279E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+278F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2780>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+271E>
                                                                                                          <U+2195>
                                                                          <U+2788>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+278E>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+2792>                                                                                                               <U+279D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2791>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2779>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2792>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2782>
                                                                                                          <U+2706>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2792>
                                                                              <U+278A>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+2463>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2195>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2463>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+27A5>
                                                                          <U+2787>
                                                                                                                                              <U+2785>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2793>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2463>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+279D>                                                                               <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2788>
                                                                                                          <U+2706>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+278D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2794>
                                                                              <U+2463>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+278D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2463>                                                                               <U+2794>
                                                                                                          <U+2195>                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2779>
                                                                              <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+278D>                                                                                       <U+2463>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+278D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2785>
                                                                              <U+278D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2787>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2463>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2792>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2785>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2785>
                                                                                                          <U+2463>
                                                                                                                                              <U+2785>                                                                                           <U+278D>                                       <U+2785>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+271F>                                                           <U+271E>
                                                                              <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2785>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+278D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+2463>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2792>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2706>
                                                                          <U+2784>
                                                                                                      <U+27A4>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+278D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2463>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2792>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+27A4>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2463>
                                                                              <U+2463>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+271D>
                                                                                                      <U+2785>                                                                                                                                                           <U+2194>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2463>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2463>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+2706>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2785>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+27A0>
                                                                                                          <U+2463>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2195>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2786>
                                                                          <U+27A6>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2706>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2785>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2786>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+2463>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2782>
                                                                                                          <U+279B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+271D>                                           <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+271F>
                                                                          <U+2785>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2791>
                                                                                                      <U+2785>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+278D>                                           <U+278D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2463>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2791>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2785>
                                                                                                                                              <U+2783>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+278D>
                                                                              <U+2463>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+271E>                                                   <U+2463>
              <U+2770>
                                                                                                          <U+2706>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2785>                                           <U+2785>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2784>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+278C>
                                                                              <U+279B>                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+278C>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+271E>                                                   <U+279E>
              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2463>                                           <U+2463>
                                                                                                          <U+27A1>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+27A2>                                                               <U+279D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+271E>
                                                                          <U+2785>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2463>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+2791>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+271D>                                           <U+271D>
              <U+2750>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2791>
                                                                              <U+2706>
                                                                                                          <U+2195>                                                                                           <U+2195>                                                           <U+2195>                                               <U+2783>
                                                                                                                                              <U+2783>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                 <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+27A3>                                           <U+27A3>               <U+2790>
                                                                              <U+27A1>
                                                                                                          <U+271F>                                                                                           <U+271F>                                                           <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2463>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+278F>                                                                                       <U+278F>                                           <U+278F>               <U+278F>
              <U+2750>
                                                                                                          <U+279C>                                                                                           <U+279C>                                                           <U+279C>
                                                                              <U+2195>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+278E>                                                                                       <U+278E>                                           <U+278E>               <U+278E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+271D>
                      <U+27B9>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+278D>                                                                                       <U+278D>                                           <U+278D>               <U+278D>
                                                                                                          <U+2794>                                                                                           <U+2794>                                                           <U+2794>
                                                                              <U+2463>
                                                              <U+27B3>
                                                                                                                                              <U+2785>                                                                                       <U+2785>                                           <U+2785>               <U+2785>
              <U+27AE>
                                                                                                          <U+278D>                                                                                           <U+278D>                                                           <U+278D>                                                   <U+271F>
                      <U+2746>
              
                                                              <U+27BB>               <U+2793>                       <U+2782>                                                                                           <U+2782>                                                           <U+2782>                                                   <U+2782>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+2463>                                                                                       <U+2463>                                           <U+2463>               <U+2463>
                      <U+27B6>
                                                              <U+27AD>
              <U+276E>
                                                                          <U+27A5>                                                                       <U+278C>                                                                                       <U+278C>                                           <U+278C>               <U+278C>
                                                                                                          <U+2748>                                                                                           <U+2748>                                                           <U+2748>                                                   <U+2748>
                      <U+27AA>                                                                                                                                           <U+2789>
                                                              <U+27BA>
                                                                          <U+2781>                           <U+2781>                                       <U+2781>                                                   <U+2781>                                   <U+2781>                       <U+2781>                   <U+2781>               <U+2781>               <U+2781>
              
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+271D>
                                                              <U+27AD>
                          <U+2756>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+2192>                                                                                                                                   <U+2192>
                                                                          <U+277D>                           <U+277E>                                                                                           <U+277D>                                       <U+278B>                   <U+277D>                                       <U+278B>           <U+277E>
              <U+2770>
                                                              <U+27A8>
                      <U+279A>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2788>
                                                                              <U+278B>                       <U+277D>                                           <U+278B>                                                   <U+278A>                                   <U+278A>                   <U+2779>                   <U+277A>                   <U+278A>           <U+277D>
                                                              <U+27B8>
                      <U+27BE>
              <U+276E>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+278A>
                                                                              <U+279F>                           <U+279F>                                                                                                                               <U+279F>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+278A>                                               <U+2780>                                                               <U+278B>               <U+277A>               <U+2779>               <U+2780>
                                                              <U+27B2>
                      <U+27BD>
                                                                          <U+277F>                           <U+277F>                                       <U+277F>                                                   <U+277F>                                   <U+277F>                       <U+277F>                   <U+277F>               <U+277F>               <U+277F>
                      <U+2701>
              <U+2752>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+279F>
                          <U+261B>
                                                              <U+27B5>
                                                                          <U+277E>                           <U+277E>                                       <U+2780>                                                       <U+278A>                                   <U+278A>                       <U+278A>               <U+277C>               <U+277C>               <U+277E>
                      <U+2702>
                                                              <U+27B3>
                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2789>                                                                           <U+2789>
              <U+27B1>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+271D>
                      <U+2761>
                                                                          <U+2779>                           <U+2779>                                           <U+278A>                                               <U+277C>                                   <U+277C>                       <U+277C>                   <U+277C>               <U+277C>               <U+277C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2789>
                                                              <U+27B2>
                                                                          <U+277B>                           <U+277B>                                       <U+277B>                                                   <U+277B>               <U+271D>                   <U+277B>                       <U+277B>                   <U+277B>           <U+271D>   <U+277B>               <U+277B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2789>
                          <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+278B>
              <U+2750>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2787>
                      <U+2761>
                                                              <U+27AF>
                                                                              <U+278B>                           <U+278B>                                   <U+277D>                                                   <U+277D>                                   <U+277D>               <U+271D>       <U+277D>                   <U+277D>               <U+277D>               <U+277D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2788>                                                                           <U+2788>
              <U+2703>                                               <U+27A9>
                      <U+27BC>
                                                                          <U+277C>                           <U+277C>                                       <U+277C>                                                   <U+277C>                                   <U+277C>                       <U+277C>                   <U+277C>               <U+277C>               <U+277C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2788>
                                                                                                                              <U+2789>                                       <U+2463>
              <U+27B1>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+279F>                               <U+2788>
                                                                          <U+277B>                           <U+277B>                                       <U+277B>                                                   <U+277B>                                   <U+277B>                       <U+277B>                   <U+277B>           <U+278A>   <U+277B>               <U+277B>
                                                              <U+27AD>
                                                                                                                                  <U+271D>                                                                                                                                                                       <U+277E>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+279B>
                                                                          <U+277A>                           <U+277A>                                       <U+277A>                                                   <U+277A>               <U+278A>                   <U+277A>           <U+277D>           <U+277A>                   <U+277A>           <U+278A>   <U+277A>               <U+277A>
              <U+27AE>                                               <U+27AB>
                                                                                                                                  <U+278B>                                   <U+2791>                                                                                                                                   <U+2780>
                                                              <U+27A9>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+279F>
                                                                          <U+2779>                           <U+2779>                                       <U+2779>                                                   <U+2779>           <U+2779>                       <U+2779>                       <U+2779>                   <U+2779>       <U+2779>       <U+2779>               <U+2779>
                      <U+27B7>
                                                                          <U+2778>                           <U+2778>                                       <U+2778>                                                   <U+2778>                                   <U+2778>                       <U+2778>                   <U+2778>               <U+2778>               <U+2778>
                                                                                                                              <U+2779>                                       <U+2793>                                       <U+2787>                                   <U+2787>                                       <U+2787>               <U+277C>
              <U+27AC>
                                                              <U+27A8>
                      <U+27B4>
                          <U+2460>                                   <U+27A7>
                      <U+2798>
                  <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                      <U+2720>
                  <U+2704>
                  <U+2701>                                                                                                                   <U+2701>
                  <U+2761>                                                                                                                   <U+2761>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+2605>                           <U+2736>                           <U+2737>                       <U+2738>           <U+2739>           <U+273A>
                  <U+275A>                                                                                                                   <U+275A>
                  <U+260E>
                                      <U+2461>
                                                                                                                                          <U+271F>
                  <U+2704>
                                                                      <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                          <U+271E>
                  <U+2702>
                                                                                                              <U+2464>
                                      <U+2460>
                                                                      <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                          <U+271D>
                  <U+2701>
                                      <U+2707>                                                       <U+2761>
                                                                                                              <U+270C>
                                                                      <U+271D>
                                                                                              <U+2464>
                                                                                                              <U+2701>
                                                                                              <U+2701>                                           <U+2706>
                                      <U+2708>
                                                                      <U+2463>                           <U+261B>
                  <U+2761>                                                                                           <U+2720>
                  <U+275A>                   <U+2709>                               <U+2462>                       <U+275A>               <U+275A>                           <U+2748>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2761>
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2702>
                                  <U+261E>
                                                                                                                  <U+2701>
                                                                  <U+2701>                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+270E>
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2720>
                              <U+2761>
                                                                                                                      <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+261B>
                                  <U+261B>                               <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2464>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2777>
                                                                                                                  <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2721>
                                  <U+2721>
                                                                  <U+2761>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2761>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+270C>
                                                                  <U+2466>
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2702>
                              <U+2761>
                                                                                                                      <U+2468>
                                                                  <U+2761>
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+270E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+270F>
                                  <U+2721>
                                                                                                                      <U+2467>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2776>                                           <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2761>
                                                                  <U+2465>
                                  <U+2756>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+275A>
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2469>

                                                                                                                                                                              7/11
<removed-date>
                                                                                              <U+25BC>
                                                                                              <U+270E>
                                                                                                  <U+278B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+271D>
                                                                                                  <U+2742>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2194>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+260E>
                                                                                                  <U+278A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2701>
                                                                                                  <U+2742>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2791>
                                                                                                  <U+2742>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2192>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2192>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+27A3>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+271D>
                                                  <U+2740>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2794>
                                                  <U+2741>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2793>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2701>
                                              <U+2744>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+260E>                                                                                                                                                                   <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+270C>
                                                                                                  <U+278C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+2789>
                                                                                                  <U+278B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2721>
                                                                                              <U+2744>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+27A3>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2792>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2791>
<removed-apn>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+260E>
                                                          <U+2740>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2192>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+260E>
                                                          <U+273D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2704>
                                                                                  <U+278D>
                                                          <U+273F>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2792>
                                                          <U+273E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+278F>
                                                          <U+2735>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2791>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2791>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+260E>
                                                          <U+273D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+27A3>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2704>
                                                          <U+272C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2704>
                                                      <U+2714>
                                                          <U+273C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2721>
                                                          <U+273B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2192>
                                                      <U+2722>
                                                          <U+2730>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+271E>
                                                          <U+2731>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2192>
                                                          <U+2735>
                                                          <U+2735>
                                                      <U+271C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2793>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2192>
                                                          <U+2731>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2721>
                                                          <U+272B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2793>
                                                          <U+2731>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2794>
                                                      <U+2718>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2704>
                                                          <U+272C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2701>
                                                          <U+2734>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+27A3>
                                                          <U+2731>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+271D>
                                                          <U+2731>
                                                      <U+271B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+271D>
                                                          <U+2733>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2721>
                                                          <U+2732>
                                                      <U+2712>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2791>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+261B>
                                                          <U+2731>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2720>
                                                      <U+2712>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2701>
                                                          <U+272D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+270C>
                                                          <U+2730>
                                                      <U+271A>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+278E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+261E>                           <U+2791>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2790>
                                                          <U+272C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2704>
                                                          <U+272C>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+2788>
                                                      <U+2719>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2194>
                                                          <U+272B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+261B>
                                                          <U+272F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2192>                           <U+2794>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2701>
                                                          <U+2723>
                                                      <U+2718>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+261B>
                                                          <U+2727>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2794>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+278F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+261B>
                                                          <U+2727>
                                                          <U+272B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2721>
                                                      <U+2713>   <U+2729>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+261E>
                                                          <U+272E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2792>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2704>
                                                          <U+272C>
                                                      <U+2713>
                                                          <U+2729>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2706>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+261B>
                                                          <U+272B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+260E>
                                                      <U+2717>
                                                          <U+272D>
                  <U+2701>                                                                                                                                   <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+278E>                               <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2721>                       <U+278F>
                                                          <U+272C>
                  <U+260E>
                                                          <U+2724>
                                                      <U+2716>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+261B>
                                                          <U+2727>
                  <U+2761>
                                                          <U+272B>
                                                      <U+2715>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+2721>
                                                          <U+272A>
                  <U+270F>
                                                      <U+2714>
                                                          <U+2729>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+2706>
                  <U+270E>
                                                          <U+2727>
                                                      <U+2713>
                  <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+2701>
                                                          <U+2724>
                  <U+270C>
                                                          <U+2726>
                                                      <U+2712>
                                                          <U+2725>
                  <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+2787>
                  <U+2701>
                                                          <U+2724>
                                                      <U+2711>
                                                          <U+2723>
                  <U+2746>
                                                                                                                  <U+276A>
                                                                                                                  <U+2751>
                                                                                                                  <U+276D>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2768>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2747>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+271D>
                                                                                                              s
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2747>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              q
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2766>
                                                                                                                  <U+2706>                                                                                                           <U+2747>
                                                                                                                                                                      q
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+276D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2763>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2768>                                                                                   <U+276B>
                                                                                                                  <U+2665>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  q
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2663>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+275E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2706>
                                                                                                              <U+2747>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2763>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2771>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2773>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2665>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2663>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+276A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2765>
                                                                                                                  <U+2462>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2768>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2747>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+275C>
                                                                                                                  <U+2768>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2768>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2747>
                                          <U+2742>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2709>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  s
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+275C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2768>
                                                                                                                  <U+2706>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2768>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  q                                           <U+2768>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2751>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2764>
                                          <U+2741>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2768>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2747>                                                       <U+276D>
                                                                                                                  <U+2463>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2747>
                                                                                                                  <U+2461>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2765>
                                      <U+2744>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2706>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+271E>                                                           <U+2706>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      q
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      r
                                                                                                                  <U+2768>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2768>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2765>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2707>                                           <U+2660>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+276B>
                                                                                          <U+276B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2764>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2665>
                                                                                                              <U+2747>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2747>                                   <U+2706>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+275C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+271D>
                                                                                          <U+271D>                                                                                                                                       <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2747>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2768>
                                                                                                              <U+2764>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+271E>                                           <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2707>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+275C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      t
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+275E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2759>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+271E>
                                                                                                                  <U+2665>
                                                                                          <U+276A>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2764>                               <U+275D>                                                   s
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2763>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2751>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2764>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2771>
                                                                                                                  <U+2706>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2764>
                                                                                      <U+2774>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2747>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2665>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2747>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2463>
                                                                                          <U+276D>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2768>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2710>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2747>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  s
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+271E>
                                                                                                                  <U+2706>                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+276A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+275C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2765>
                                                                                      <U+2747>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+275C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2747>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2765>
                                                                                                                  <U+2665>                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2751>
                                                                                          <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+275C>                                                           <U+2747>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+275C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2768>
                                                                                      <U+275C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+276D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2747>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2764>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2768>
                                                                                                              <U+2747>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2768>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+275C>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2768>                                                                                                       <U+2768>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+271F>                                                   <U+271E>
                                                                                          <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2768>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+275C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2747>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2764>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2706>
                                                                                          <U+2773>
                                                                                                                  <U+2462>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+275C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2747>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2764>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2462>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2747>
                                                                                      <U+2747>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+271D>
                                                                                                                  <U+2768>                                                                                                                                       <U+2660>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2747>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2747>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2706>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2708>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2768>
                                                                                                              <U+2747>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2665>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2769>
                                                                                      <U+2464>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2706>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2768>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2769>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2747>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2771>
                                                                                                                  q
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+271D>                                           <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+271F>
                                                                                          <U+2768>                                                                                                       <U+2763>
                                                                                                                  <U+2768>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+275C>                                           <U+275C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2747>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2763>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2768>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2772>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+275C>
                                                                                      <U+2747>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2747>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+271E>
              <U+2782>
                                                                                                                  <U+2706>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2768>                                           <U+2768>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2773>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+275B>
                                                                                          q                                                                                                       t                                                   <U+275B>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+271E>
              <U+2786>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2747>                                           <U+2747>
                                                                                                                  <U+2707>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2461>                                               s
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+271E>
                                                                                          <U+2768>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2747>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2763>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+271D>                                           <U+271D>
              <U+277F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2763>
                                                                                          <U+2706>
                                                                                                                  <U+2665>                                                                                   <U+2665>                                                   <U+2665>                                                                               <U+2772>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2772>
              <U+2785>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+271E>                                                           <U+2767>                                           <U+2767>                           <U+2762>
                                                                                          <U+2707>
                                                                                                                  <U+271F>                                                                                   <U+271F>                                                   <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2747>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+275E>                                                           <U+275E>                                           <U+275E>                               <U+275E>
              <U+277F>
                                                                                          <U+2665>                   r                                                                                   r                                                   r
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+275D>                                                           <U+275D>                                           <U+275D>                               <U+275D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+271D>
                      <U+2777>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+275C>                                                           <U+275C>                                           <U+275C>                               <U+275C>
                                                                                      <U+2747>
                                                                                                              <U+2765>                                                                                   <U+2765>                                                   <U+2765>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2768>                                                           <U+2768>                                           <U+2768>                               <U+2768>
              <U+277C>
                                                                                                              <U+275C>                                                                                   <U+275C>                                                   <U+275C>
                          <U+2746>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+271F>
              <U+2784>
                                                                                      <U+2710>                           <U+2771>                                                                                   <U+2771>                                                   <U+2771>                                                                               <U+2771>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2747>                                                           <U+2747>                                           <U+2747>                               <U+2747>
                                                                  <U+271E>
                      <U+2776>
              <U+2781>
                                                                                          <U+2463>                       <U+2748>                                               <U+275B>                                   <U+2748>                       <U+275B>                           <U+2748>               <U+275B>                               <U+275B>                               <U+2748>
                                                                  <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+276B>
                      <U+2469>
                                                              <U+2747>                           <U+276F>                       <U+276F>                                                   <U+276F>                               <U+276F>                           <U+276F>                       <U+276F>                   <U+276F>                               <U+276F>                           <U+276F>
              <U+2783>
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+271D>
                      <U+2756>
                                                              <U+2745>
                                                                                          P                                                                       <U+2766>                                   P                       <U+2775>                           P               <U+2766>                               <U+2775>
                                                                                                                  <U+25D7>                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+25D7>
              <U+2782>
                      <U+2468>
                                                              <U+2747>
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+276A>
                                                                                      <U+2775>                           P                                               <U+2775>                                                                                                           <U+25B2>                                                           P
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2774>                           <U+2774>                           <U+2751>                                               <U+2774>
              <U+2781>       <U+2467>
                                                                  <U+2706>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2774>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2775>                       <U+25B2>
                                                                                      <U+2709>                       <U+2709>                                                   <U+2774>                                   <U+2759>                       <U+2709>                                                                               <U+2751>                           <U+2759>
                                                                  <U+2771>
                      <U+2466>
                                                                                          |                       |                                                   |                               |                           |                       |                   |                               |                           |
                          <U+2701>
              <U+2780>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2709>
                                                              <U+2763>
                      <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+25C6>                               <U+25C6>
                                                                                          <U+25D7>                       <U+25D7>                                                   <U+2759>                           <U+2774>                           <U+2774>                       <U+2774>                                                                                   <U+25D7>
                          <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+276B>                                                                               <U+276B>
                                                              <U+275B>
              <U+277D>                                                                                                                                                                   <U+271D>
                          <U+2761>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+25C6>                           <U+25C6>                       <U+25C6>                   <U+25C6>                               <U+25C6>                           <U+25C6>
                                                                                          <U+2751>                       <U+2751>                                               <U+2774>
                                                                  <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+276B>
                                                                                          <U+25BC>                       <U+25BC>                                                   <U+25BC>                               <U+25BC>                           <U+25BC>                       <U+25BC>                   <U+25BC>                               <U+25BC>                           <U+25BC>
                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+271D>                                                                               <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+276B>
                      <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2775>
              <U+277F>
                                                              <U+2763>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+276D>
                          <U+2761>
                                                                                      <U+2775>                       <U+2775>                                                       P                               P                           P           <U+271D>           P                   P                               P                           P
                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+276A>                                                                               <U+276A>
                                                              <U+2762>
              <U+277E>
                      <U+2465>
                                                                                          <U+25C6>                       <U+25C6>                                                   <U+25C6>                               <U+25C6>                           <U+25C6>                       <U+25C6>                   <U+25C6>                               <U+25C6>                           <U+25C6>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+276A>
                                                                  <U+2768>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2747>
                                                                                                                                          <U+276B>
              <U+277D>
                                                                                          <U+25BC>                       <U+25BC>                                                   <U+25BC>                               <U+25BC>                           <U+25BC>                       <U+25BC>                   <U+25BC>                               <U+25BC>                           <U+25BC>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2709>                                   <U+276A>                                           <U+2774>
                                                              <U+2747>
                                                                                                                                          <U+271D>                                                                                                                                                                               <U+25D7>
                                                                                                                                                                                  q
                                                                                          <U+25B2>                       <U+25B2>                                                   <U+25B2>                               <U+25B2>                           <U+25B2>           P           <U+25B2>                   <U+25B2>                               <U+25B2>                           <U+25B2>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2774>                                                                               <U+2774>
              <U+277C>
                                                                  q
                                                                                                                                      <U+2775>                                       <U+2763>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2759>
                                                                                          <U+2751>                       <U+2751>                                                   <U+2751>                               <U+2751>       <U+2751>                   <U+2751>       <U+2709>               <U+2751>                   <U+2751>               <U+2751>               <U+2751>                           <U+2751>
                                                                  <U+2768>
                      <U+277A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+276D>                               <U+276D>                                               <U+276D>                           <U+25C6>
                                                                                          <U+276C>                       <U+276C>                       <U+2751>                           <U+276C>       <U+2710>                       <U+276C>                           <U+276C>                       <U+276C>                   <U+276C>                               <U+276C>                           <U+276C>
              <U+277B>
                                                                  <U+2706>
                      <U+2779>
                                                                  <U+2707>
                          <U+2743>
                      <U+2778>
                  <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                              <U+2720>
                  <U+2704>
                  <U+2701>                                                                                                                           <U+2701>
                  <U+2761>                                                                                                                           <U+2761>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2605>                   <U+2736>                   <U+2737>                   <U+2738>           <U+2739>           <U+273A>
                  <U+275A>                                                                                                                           <U+275A>
                  <U+260E>
                                                      <U+2744>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+271F>
                  <U+2704>
                                                                              <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+271E>
                  <U+2702>
                                                                                                                      <U+2749>
                                                      <U+2743>
                                                                              <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+271D>
                  <U+2701>
                                                                                                          <U+2761>
                                                      <U+2742>
                                                                                                                          <U+270C>
                                                                              <U+271D>
                                                                                                      <U+2749>
                                                                                                                          <U+2701>
                                                                                                          <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+2706>
                                                      <U+2666>
                                                                          <U+2747>                           <U+261B>
                  <U+2761>
                                                                                                                          <U+2720>
                  <U+275A>                                   <U+2741>                   <U+2745>                               <U+275A>               <U+275A>                                   <U+2748>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2761>
                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2702>
                              <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                  <U+2701>
                                                                      <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2720>                               <U+270E>
                                  <U+2761>
                                                                                                                              <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+261B>
                              <U+261B>                                       <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2749>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+274F>
                                                                                                                                  <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2721>
                                                                      <U+2761>
                              <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2761>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+270C>
                                                                      <U+274B>
                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+270C>
                                  <U+2761>                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                  <U+25CF>
                                                                      <U+2761>
                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+270E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+270F>
                              <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                  <U+2460>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2761>
                                                                      <U+274A>
                              <U+2756>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+275A>
                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+274D>

                                                                                                                                                                              8/11
<removed-date>
                                                                                              <U+25BC>
                                                                                              <U+270E>
                                                                                                  <U+278B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+271D>
                                                                                                  <U+2742>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2194>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+260E>
                                                                                                  <U+278A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2701>
                                                                                                  <U+2742>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2791>
                                                                                                  <U+2742>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2192>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2192>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+27A3>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+271D>
                                              <U+2744>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2794>
                                                  <U+2741>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2793>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2701>
                                              <U+2744>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+260E>                                                                                                                                                                   <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+270C>
                                                                                                  <U+278C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+2789>
                                                                                                  <U+278B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2721>
                                                                                              <U+2744>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+27A3>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2792>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2791>
<removed-apn>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+260E>
                                                          <U+2740>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2192>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+260E>
                                                          <U+273D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2704>
                                                                                  <U+278D>
                                                          <U+273F>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2792>
                                                          <U+273E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+278F>
                                                          <U+2735>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2791>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2791>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+260E>
                                                          <U+273D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+27A3>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2704>
                                                          <U+272C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2704>
                                                      <U+2714>
                                                          <U+273C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2721>
                                                          <U+273B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2192>
                                                      <U+2722>
                                                          <U+2730>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+271E>
                                                          <U+2731>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2192>
                                                          <U+2735>
                                                          <U+2735>
                                                      <U+271C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2793>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2192>
                                                          <U+2731>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2721>
                                                          <U+272B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2793>
                                                          <U+2731>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2794>
                                                      <U+2718>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2704>
                                                          <U+272C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2701>
                                                          <U+2734>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+27A3>
                                                          <U+2731>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+271D>
                                                          <U+2731>
                                                      <U+271B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+271D>
                                                          <U+2733>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2721>
                                                          <U+2732>
                                                      <U+2712>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2791>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+261B>
                                                          <U+2731>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2720>
                                                      <U+2712>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2701>
                                                          <U+272D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+270C>
                                                          <U+2730>
                                                      <U+271A>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+278E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+261E>                           <U+2791>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2790>
                                                          <U+272C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2704>
                                                          <U+272C>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+2788>
                                                      <U+2719>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2194>
                                                          <U+272B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+261B>
                                                          <U+272F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2192>                           <U+2794>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2701>
                                                          <U+2723>
                                                      <U+2718>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+261B>
                                                          <U+2727>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2794>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+278F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+261B>
                                                          <U+2727>
                                                          <U+272B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2721>
                                                      <U+2713>   <U+2729>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+261E>
                                                          <U+272E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2792>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2704>
                                                          <U+272C>
                                                      <U+2713>
                                                          <U+2729>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2706>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+261B>
                                                          <U+272B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+260E>
                                                      <U+2717>
                                                          <U+272D>
                  <U+2701>                                                                                                                                   <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+278E>                               <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2721>                       <U+278F>
                                                          <U+272C>
                  <U+260E>
                                                          <U+2724>
                                                      <U+2716>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+261B>
                                                          <U+2727>
                  <U+2761>
                                                          <U+272B>
                                                      <U+2715>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+2721>
                                                          <U+272A>
                  <U+270F>
                                                      <U+2714>
                                                          <U+2729>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+2706>
                  <U+270E>
                                                          <U+2727>
                                                      <U+2713>
                  <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+2701>
                                                          <U+2724>
                  <U+270C>
                                                          <U+2726>
                                                      <U+2712>
                                                          <U+2725>
                  <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+2787>
                  <U+2701>
                                                          <U+2724>
                                                      <U+2711>
                                                          <U+2723>
                  <U+2746>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2768>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2747>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+271D>
                                                                                                              s
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2707>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2747>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              q
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2766>
                                                                                                                  <U+2706>                                                                                                           <U+2747>
                                                                                                                                                                      q
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+276D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2763>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2462>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2768>                                                                                   <U+276B>
                                                                                                                  <U+2665>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  q
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2663>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+275E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2706>
                                                                                                              <U+2747>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2763>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2771>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2751>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2773>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2665>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2663>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+276A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2765>
                                                                                                                  <U+2462>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2751>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2768>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2747>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+275C>
                                                                                                                  <U+2768>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2768>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2747>
                                          <U+2742>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2709>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  s
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+275C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2768>
                                                                                                                  <U+2706>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2768>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  q                                           <U+2768>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2751>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2764>
                                          <U+2741>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2768>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2747>                                                       <U+276D>
                                                                                                                  <U+2463>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2747>
                                                                                                                  <U+2461>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2765>
                                      <U+2744>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2706>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+271E>                                                           <U+2706>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      q
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      r
                                                                                                                  <U+2768>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2768>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2765>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2707>                                           <U+2660>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+276B>
                                                                                          <U+276B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2764>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2665>
                                                                                                              <U+2747>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2747>                                   <U+2706>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+275C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+271D>
                                                                                          <U+271D>                                                                                                                                       <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2747>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2768>
                                                                                                              <U+2764>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+271E>                                           <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2707>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+275C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      t
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+275E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2759>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+271E>
                                                                                                                  <U+2665>
                                                                                          <U+276A>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2764>                               <U+275D>                                                   s
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2763>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2751>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2764>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2771>
                                                                                                                  <U+2706>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2764>
                                                                                      <U+2774>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2747>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2665>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2747>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2463>
                                                                                          <U+276D>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2768>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2710>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2747>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  s
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+271E>
                                                                                                                  <U+2706>                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+276A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+275C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2765>
                                                                                      <U+2747>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+275C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2747>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2765>
                                                                                                                  <U+2665>                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2751>
                                                                                          <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+275C>                                                           <U+2747>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+275C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2768>
                                                                                      <U+275C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+276D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2747>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2764>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2768>
                                                                                                              <U+2747>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2768>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+275C>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2768>                                                                                                       <U+2768>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+271F>                                                   <U+271E>
                                                                                          <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2768>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+275C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2747>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2764>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2706>
                                                                                          <U+2773>
                                                                                                                  <U+2462>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+275C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2747>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2764>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2462>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2747>
                                                                                      <U+2747>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+271D>
                                                                                                                  <U+2768>                                                                                                                                       <U+2660>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2747>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2747>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2706>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2708>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2768>
                                                                                                              <U+2747>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2665>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2769>
                                                                                      <U+2464>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2706>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2768>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2769>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2747>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2771>
                                                                                                                  q
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+271D>                                           <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+271F>
                                                                                          <U+2768>                                                                                                       <U+2763>
                                                                                                                  <U+2768>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+275C>                                           <U+275C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2747>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2763>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2768>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2772>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+275C>
                                                                                      <U+2747>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2747>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+271E>
              <U+2782>
                                                                                                                  <U+2706>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2768>                                           <U+2768>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2773>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+275B>
                                                                                                                                          <U+276B>
                                                                                          q                                                                                                       t                                                   <U+275B>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+271E>
              <U+2786>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2747>                                           <U+2747>
                                                                                                                  <U+2707>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2461>                                               s
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+271E>
                                                                                          <U+2768>                                               <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2747>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2763>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+271D>                                           <U+271D>
              <U+277F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2763>
                                                                                                                                      <U+2775>
                                                                                          <U+2706>
                                                                                                                  <U+2665>                                                                                   <U+2665>                                                   <U+2665>                                                                               <U+2772>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2772>
              <U+2785>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+271E>                                                           <U+2767>                                           <U+2767>                           <U+2762>
                                                                                                                                          <U+2751>
                                                                                          <U+2707>
                                                                                                                  <U+271F>                                                                                   <U+271F>                                                   <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2747>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+275E>                                                           <U+275E>                                           <U+275E>                               <U+275E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+271F>
              <U+277F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+275A>
                                                                                          <U+2665>                   r                                                                                   r                                                   r
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+275D>                                                           <U+275D>                                           <U+275D>                               <U+275D>
                                                                                                                                          <U+276A>                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+271D>
                      <U+2777>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+275C>                                                           <U+275C>                                           <U+275C>                               <U+275C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2772>
                                                                                      <U+2747>
                                                                                                              <U+2765>                                                                                   <U+2765>                                                   <U+2765>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2764>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2768>                                                           <U+2768>                                           <U+2768>                               <U+2768>
              <U+277C>
                                                                                                              <U+275C>                           <U+2751>                                                       <U+275C>                                                   <U+275C>
                          <U+2746>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+271F>
              <U+2784>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2747>
                                                                                      <U+2710>                           <U+2771>                                                                                   <U+2771>                                                   <U+2771>                                                                               <U+2771>
                                                                                                                                          <U+276D>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2747>                                                           <U+2747>                                           <U+2747>                               <U+2747>
                                                                  <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+271D>
                      <U+2776>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2665>
              <U+2781>
                                                                                          <U+2463>                       <U+2748>                       <U+2768>                       <U+275B>                                   <U+2748>                       <U+275B>                           <U+2748>               <U+275B>                               <U+275B>                               <U+2748>
                                                                  <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+276B>
                      <U+2469>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2747>
                                                                                                                                      <U+2747>
                                                              <U+2747>                           <U+276F>                       <U+276F>                                                   <U+276F>                               <U+276F>                           <U+276F>                       <U+276F>                   <U+276F>                               <U+276F>                           <U+276F>
              <U+2783>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2763>
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2747>
                      <U+2756>
                                                                                                                                          q
                                                              <U+2745>
                                                                                          <U+25B2>                                                                       <U+2766>                                   P                                                   P               <U+2766>                               <U+2775>
                                                                                                                  <U+25D7>                                                                                                               <U+25D7>                                                                                                       <U+25D7>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2768>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2710>
                                                                                                                                          <U+2768>
              <U+2782>
                      <U+2468>
                                                              <U+2747>
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+276A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2765>
                                                                                          <U+25B2>                       P                                                                                                           <U+2766>                                               <U+25B2>                                                           P
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2774>                               <U+2774>                                                       <U+2751>                                               <U+2774>
                                                                                                                                          <U+2706>
              <U+2781>       <U+2467>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+271D>
                                                                  <U+2706>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2774>
                                                                                          <U+25B2>                                                                       <U+2766>                               <U+2766>                                                   <U+2775>                       <U+25B2>                               <U+25C6>
                                                                                                              <U+2709>                                                                                                               <U+2709>                                                                                                           <U+2759>
                                                                  <U+2771>
                      <U+2466>
                                                                                                                                          <U+2773>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2763>
                                                                                          |                       |                                                   |                               |                           |                       |                   |                               |                           |
                          <U+2701>
              <U+2780>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2709>
                                                              <U+2763>
                      <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2766>                               <U+2766>                               <U+25C6>                                           <U+25C6>                               <U+25C6>                           <U+25C6>
                                                                                          <U+25D7>                       <U+25D7>                                                                                                                                   <U+2774>                                                                                           <U+2772>
                          <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                          <U+276A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+276B>                                                                               <U+276B>
                                                              <U+275B>
              <U+277D>                                                                                                                                                                   <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+271D>
                          <U+2761>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2766>                               <U+25C6>                   <U+2766>                       <U+25C6>                               <U+25C6>                           <U+25C6>
                                                                                          <U+2751>                       <U+2751>                                                   <U+2751>                                                                                                                                                                           <U+271E>
                                                                  <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                      <U+2763>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+276B>
                                                                                          <U+25BC>                       <U+25BC>                                                   <U+25BC>                               <U+25BC>                           <U+25BC>                       <U+25BC>                   <U+25BC>                               <U+25BC>                           <U+25BC>
                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+271D>                                                                               <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+276B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2763>
                      <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2775>
              <U+277F>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+271D>
                                                              <U+2763>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+276D>
                          <U+2761>
                                                                                      <U+2775>                       <U+2775>                           <U+2762>                           <U+25B2>                                                       <U+2766>               <U+271D>                               <U+25C6>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2751>                                               <U+2774>                                                       <U+2759>                           <U+25D7>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2747>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2663>
                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+276A>                                                                               <U+276A>
                                                              <U+2762>
              <U+277E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+271E>
                      <U+2465>
                                                                                          <U+25C6>                       <U+25C6>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2759>                               <U+2759>                           <U+2759>                       <U+2759>                   <U+2759>                               <U+2759>                           <U+2759>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2761>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+276A>
                                                                  <U+2768>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2747>
              <U+277D>
                                                                                          <U+25BC>                       <U+25BC>                                                   <U+25BC>                               <U+25BC>                           <U+25BC>                       <U+25BC>                   <U+25BC>                               <U+25BC>                           <U+25BC>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2709>                                   <U+276A>                                           <U+2774>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                          <U+276A>
                                                              <U+2747>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2747>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+25D7>
                                                                                                                                                                                  q
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+271D>
                                                                                          <U+25B2>                       <U+25B2>                                                   <U+25B2>                                                                       P
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2751>   <U+2774>                       <U+2751>                       <U+2751>                   <U+2751>           <U+2774>                   <U+2751>                           <U+2751>
              <U+277C>
                                                                                                                                          <U+271F>
                                                                  q
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2763>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2759>                       <U+2772>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2747>
                                                                                          <U+2751>                       <U+2751>                                                   <U+2751>                               <U+2751>       <U+2751>                   <U+2751>       <U+2709>               <U+2751>                   <U+2751>               <U+2751>               <U+2751>                           <U+2751>
                                                                                                                                          <U+2768>
                                                                  <U+2768>
                      <U+277A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+276D>                               <U+276D>                                               <U+276D>                           <U+25C6>                   <U+2745>       <U+2745>
                                                                                          <U+276C>                       <U+276C>                   <U+275D>                               <U+276C>       <U+2710>                       <U+276C>                           <U+276C>                       <U+276C>                   <U+276C>                               <U+276C>                           <U+276C>
              <U+277B>
                                                                  <U+2706>
                      <U+2779>
                                                                  <U+2707>
                          <U+2743>
                      <U+2778>
                  <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                              <U+2720>
                  <U+2704>
                  <U+2701>                                                                                                                           <U+2701>
                  <U+2761>                                                                                                                           <U+2761>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2605>                   <U+2736>                   <U+2737>                   <U+2738>           <U+2739>           <U+273A>
                  <U+275A>                                                                                                                           <U+275A>
                  <U+260E>
                                                      <U+2744>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+271F>
                  <U+2704>
                                                                              <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+271E>
                  <U+2702>
                                                                                                                      <U+2749>
                                                      <U+2743>
                                                                              <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+271D>
                  <U+2701>
                                                                                                          <U+2761>
                                                      <U+2742>
                                                                                                                          <U+270C>
                                                                              <U+271D>
                                                                                                      <U+2749>
                                                                                                                          <U+2701>
                                                                                                          <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+2706>
                                                      <U+2666>
                                                                          <U+2747>                           <U+261B>
                  <U+2761>
                                                                                                                          <U+2720>
                  <U+275A>                                   <U+2741>                   <U+2745>                               <U+275A>               <U+275A>                                   <U+2748>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2761>
                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2702>
                              <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                  <U+2701>
                                                                      <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2720>                               <U+270E>
                                  <U+2761>
                                                                                                                              <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+261B>
                              <U+261B>                                       <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2749>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+274F>
                                                                                                                                  <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2721>
                                                                      <U+2761>
                              <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2761>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+270C>
                                                                      <U+274B>
                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+270C>
                                  <U+2761>                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                  <U+25CF>
                                                                      <U+2761>
                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+270E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+270F>
                              <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                  <U+2460>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2761>
                                                                      <U+274A>
                              <U+2756>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+275A>
                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+274D>

                                    <removed-apn>           <removed-date>
                       Journey: Social Media Post
Desktop Browser   Mobile Browser                    Mobile App
   TC1: Pass         TC1: Fail                       TC1: Pass
   TC2: Pass         TC2: Fail                       TC2: Fail
    TC3: Fail       TC3: Pass                        TC3: Pass
                                                                       9/11
    TC4: Fail       TC4: Pass                        TC4: Pass
   TC5: Pass        TC5: Pass
                    TC6: Pass
                    TC7: Pass
                   FIG. 7

                                          <removed-apn>    <removed-date>
                       800
                                      MEMORY
                                        806
                                       system
         PROCESSOR                       100
            802
804
                                                                      10/11
   SECONDARY          NETWORK
                                           I/O     UI
  DATA STORAGE       INTERFACE
                                           810    812
       808               812
                             FIG. 8

                                 11/11
<removed-date>
                                  900
              receive testing request identifying one more
                functionalities and one or more platforms
                                   901
<removed-apn>
              determine test cases for functionalities and
                   platforms to execute test cases
                                   902
              interact with a testing tool driver to provide
               the test cases to each application testing
                   tool associated with each platform
                                   903
               receive test results from the one or more
              application testing tools executing the test
                                 cases
                                   904
              generate one or more reports based on the
                             test results
                                   905
                               FIG. 9

