ABSTRACT
The present invention provides an apparatus to assist in the removal of waste matter
during automated harvesting of berries, such as grapes. The apparatus is suitable to
be fitted to mechanical harvesting machines, and intercepts the flow of any
contaminating matter in the harvested berries, thereby improving the purity of berries
harvested and permitting increased harvesting speeds. The invention also provides
mechanical berry harvesting machines including the apparatus.

                                1/4
                            Figure 1
                                                   4
    12
                     6
                                                  .,          5
                         O0
                  OI                                     0
       -------------                     --.------------
                  7                 3
21  25                      Figure 2           22
                                               222
                                24      26
               3
                            Figure 3
     6
                                                           2
       1                                                   21
                              I I
                              .3      3
   32                332

                                            1
Title of Invention
Separator for a Berry Harvester
Technical Field
The present application is a divisional application from Australian patent application
number PCT/AU2016/050742, the entire disclosure of which is incorporated herein by
reference.
[0001]      The present invention relates to an apparatus for sorting mechanically
harvested berries to remove contaminating matter from the berries. Particularly, the
apparatus is configured to be fitted to a mechanical harvesting machine.
[0002]      The invention also relates to mechanical harvesting machines including an
apparatus for separating berries and contaminating matter during harvesting.
Background of Invention
[0003]      Traditionally, berries such as grapes were harvested by hand. However,
as technology has improved, driven by the need to increase the speed of harvesting
and decrease the cost, the process for harvesting berries has become increasingly
automated.      The most commonly used mechanical berry harvesters are grape
harvesters.    Mechanical grape harvesters are used throughout the world to rapidly
remove grapes from grape vines during vintage.               Problematically, however,
mechanical grape harvesters also remove matter other than grapes (MOG).             Such
contaminating matter is undesirable in the harvested grapes and if not removed can
lead to significant alterations in the flavour of wine produced from grapes. This is
particularly important when producing red wine whereby the grape juice is fermented
together with the skin (and any contaminating matter) for a prolonged period of time.
[0004]      Consequently, wineries typically grade all grapes that are provided from
vineyards based on the level of MOG contamination and will pay less for grapes that
have a high percent of contaminating matter. In some instances, wineries will reject
grapes that have too much contamination. As a result, mechanical grape harvesters
are operated in a manner that aims to reduce the concentration of contamination in

                                              2
harvested grapes. One such way to reduce contamination is to operate the harvester
at a slower speed. However, this is undesirable as it increases the cost of harvesting
the grapes and may offset the value added to the grapes by decreasing
contamination.
[0005]      Mechanical grape harvesting machines generally work by providing a
channel through which trained grape vines can pass as the mechanical harvesting
machine moves along a row of grape vines. The harvesters have a harvesting head
that sits either side of the vines and vibrates in a lateral direction thereby laterally
shaking the vines. As a result, grapes fall from the vines and are collected by the
mechanical harvesting machine and then fed along a conveyor system to one or more
outlets.  Typically, a mechanical grape harvesting machine will have two outlets
positioned toward either side of the harvesting machine that are provided with berries
by two independent conveyor systems.            These outlets either directly deposit the
harvested grapes into a collection bin, or the grapes are deposited on a further
conveyor system which transports the grapes to a discharge conveyor that extends to
one side of the harvesting machine, which then deposits the harvested grapes into a
"chaser" bin which is transported alongside the harvester.
[0006]      In order to allow the mechanical harvesting machine to operate at
increased speed and reduce the level of contaminating matter in the harvested
grapes, devices for the removal of contaminants and waste plant matter have been
developed.      These devices can generally be categorised into two groups; firstly,
devices that remove contaminants after harvesting and collection (and prior to
fermentation); and secondly devices that remove contaminants during harvesting,
before collection in transport bins.
[0007]      It is the second group of devices that offer the most economical outcome
as they do not introduce a further step in the process of harvesting.        Furthermore,
they also offer the ability for vineyards to increase the speed of harvesting, while not
incurring penalties for excessive MOG contamination.
[0008]     Air fans are perhaps the most primitive form of contaminating-matter
removal systems provided on mechanical berry harvesting machines (such as grape
harvesters).     Typically, multiple fans are positioned above the conveyor paths that

                                               3
transports harvested grapes to a collection bin. These fans create an updraft above
the harvested grapes as they are transported under the fans. The updraft sucks up
some of the contaminating matter, such as leaves, into the fans which then discharge
the matter from the harvester. Whilst these fans have some utility, they are not ideal
for several reasons. Firstly, these fans only remove a portion of the contaminating
matter from the harvested grapes. Some types of contamination, such as leaves, are
more easily removed by this system while other contaminants, such as stalks, canes
and petioles, are less easily removed. Furthermore, these fans typically only remove
contaminating matter that is located close to the surface, whilst the remaining
contaminating matter is held down by grapes which sit on top. Secondly, the updraft
generated by these fans also removes a large portion of juice which may be created
during the harvesting process. This is an unwanted side effect of this process as the
juice is still desired and contributes to the value of the harvested material.
[0009]        In order to overcome these limitations several attempts have been made to
provide berry separating systems that can be integrated in mechanical grape
harvesters. These include systems by Braud TM, GregoireTM and Pellenc TM, who each
provide different system for separating grapes from contaminating material. However,
these systems generally have the problem of not being compatible with a discharge
conveyor, and therefore do not allow the use of chaser bins, consequently limiting the
types of mechanical harvesting           machines which      can  utilise these systems.
 Furthermore, these systems need to be integrated into a harvester at the time of
manufacture, and generally cannot be retrofitted to existing harvesters.
[0010]        To overcome these issues, mechanisms that are fitted to the harvester
discharge conveyor itself have been developed. These systems have the advantage
of being able to be retrofitted to existing mechanical harvesting machines. However,
as they are fitted to the discharge conveyor, they require the use of a chaser bin.
One such system is described in US Patent 7166027. This system uses a conveyor
and a series of rollers fitted to the discharge conveyor of a grape harvester, whereby
the rollers act to separate the grapes from waste plant matter.          Critically, for this
system to work effectively, the series of rollers need to be maintained at an optimal
incline relative to level. However, the angle of the discharge arm of a grape harvester
will vary depending on the height of the chaser bin and if the grape harvester is
working across a slope.         Consequently, the optimum incline is rarely maintained

                                              4
during operation. Therefore, the system described in US Patent 7166027 requires a
means for automatically adjusting the angle of the incline of the rollers relative to the
discharge arm.       This allows for the incline of the rollers to be maintained at the
optimal angle relative to level. While this system is effective at removing a portion of
contamination, it is complicated by its need to automatically adjust the incline angle of
the rollers.     Furthermore, the length of the series of rollers is restricted by the
arrangement of the conveyor and its positioning on the discharge arm. This ultimately
limits the system's capacity to remove contamination. As such, the efficacy of this
system significantly declines in high yielding vineyards and when the mechanical
harvesting machine is operated a high speeds.
[0011]      In light of the above, there is a need for an apparatus for separating
harvested berries, such as grapes, from waste matter which is less complicated, has
a higher capacity, and can be retro-fitted to mechanical berry harvesters.
[0012]      It is to be understood that the discussion of documents, acts, materials,
devices, articles and the like is included in this specification solely for the purpose of
providing a context for the present invention. It is not suggested or represented that
any or all of these matters formed part of the prior art base or were common general
knowledge in the field relevant to the present invention as it existed before the priority
date of each claim of this application.
Summary of Invention
[0013]      In a first aspect, the present invention provide an apparatus for separating
harvested berries and waste matter, the apparatus including;
            a waste disposal system for the collection and disposal of the waste
matter;
            a first separating conveyor system and a second separating conveyor
system, each separating conveyor system includes a plurality of gaps that are sized
to permit harvested berries to pass through and into a berry collection system while
limiting waste matter from passing through whereby waste matter is separated from
the berries, the first and second separating conveyor systems further arranged to
convey waste matter to the waste disposal system; and

                                            5
           the first and second separating conveyor systems are positioned on
horizontally opposing sides of the waste disposal system and are inclined to deliver
waste matter to the waste disposal system.
[0014]      Preferably, the apparatus is configured to be fitted to a body of a berry
harvester such that when fitted the apparatus extends laterally across the harvester
and the first and second separating conveyor systems transport waste matter
inwardly in a direction away from the sides of the harvester.
[0015]     The separating conveyor systems allow for the harvested berries to pass
through the gaps to the berry collection system while waste matter does not pass
through and is maintained on the separating conveyor systems for transporting to the
waste disposal system. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that it is desirable for
all waste matter to be separated from the berries. However, it is inevitable that some
waste matter will pass through the gaps. It is however the intention of the present
invention to minimise the passing of waste matter through the gaps in so far as
reasonably possible.
[0016]     The Inventors of the present invention have identified that effective
separation of berries and waste matter is reduced at high harvester speeds if large
volumes of berries and waste material are delivered to the separation conveyor. This
problem has been solved by the Inventors by providing a first and a second
separation conveyor system, preferably each related to an outlet duct of the
harvester. Advantageously, this allows for improved separation of berries from waste
matter, particularly when the system is used with higher volumes of harvested berries
and at higher harvester speeds. Furthermore, the apparatus of the present invention
allows for any juice formed during the harvesting process to be collected together with
the berries as any juice can pass through the gaps to the berry collection system.
[0017]     The Inventors have also recognised that the incline of the first and second
separating conveyor systems is important for the proper working of the present
invention as it maximises the time, and travel length, of the harvested berries and
waste matter on the separator conveyor system.           In doing so, it maximises the
effective separation of the berries from the waste matter. In the absence of an incline,
a large portion of the harvested berries fail to fall through the gaps provided in the

                                             6
separating conveyor systems and are therefore transported to the waste disposal
system. Clearly this is not a desirable outcome. Therefore, the separating conveyor
systems are provided on an incline. The incline maximises the possible time that the
harvested berries are on the separating conveyor systems, as well as the attainable
length of the separating conveyor system when the system needs to be provided in a
laterally confined space. That laterally confined space effectively being the width of
the body of the mechanical harvesting machine (i.e. from one side to the other). The
incline of the separating conveyor systems, as used in accordance with an
embodiment of the invention, allows for the vast majority of the berries to fall through
the provided gaps. However, the Inventors have also recognised that if the incline is
too steep, too much waste matter may pass through the gaps provided in the
separating conveyor systems and this decreases the purity of berries passing into the
berry collection system.
[0018]       In some embodiments, the first and second separating conveyor systems
are inclined at an angle of between 10 and 30 degrees from level, preferably between
15 and 25 degrees, or between 18 and 22 degrees.               In a yet more preferred
embodiment, the first and second separating conveyor systems are inclined at an
angle of 20 degrees from level.
[0019]       In a preferred embodiment, the apparatus is configured to be fitted to the
body of a berry harvester such that when so fitted, the apparatus extends laterally
across the harvester.      In a further form of this embodiment, the first and second
separating conveyor systems transport waste matter inwardly in a direction away from
the sides of the harvester.      As the incline of the separating conveyor systems is
important to the working of the invention, there is a need to maintain this incline as
consistent as possible during operation of the apparatus of the present invention. The
Inventors of the present invention have identified that the incline can be maintained as
consistently as possible by attaching the apparatus of the present invention to the
body of a berry harvester in a lateral orientation.    Furthermore, the Inventors have
identified that such an orientation permits the apparatus to be integrated within the
body of a mechanical harvesting machine as well as permitting the apparatus to be
retro-fitted to the mechanical harvesting machine.

                                             7
[0020]       Many mechanical berry harvesters have the ability to independently alter
the ride height of each side of the mechanical harvesting machine. This allows the
berry harvester to be maintained level while working across sloped ground.        In fact,
many modern harvesters have the ability to self-level and will automatically adjust the
ride height of one side of the harvester compared to the other in order to maintain a
horizontal level orientation. Consequently, when an embodiment of the apparatus of
the present invention is fitted laterally to the body of a harvester, the incline of the
separating conveyor systems can be maintained at a consistent angle relative to the
horizontal with respect to gravity (i.e. level or water-level). This is achieved as the
mechanical harvesting device, to which the apparatus is fitted, will generally maintain
its horizontal level within a desired range and therefore will also maintain the desired
incline of the separator conveyor systems relative to level.
[0021]      When fitted to a mechanical berry harvester, the apparatus of an
embodiment of the present invention will sit below two laterally spaced outlets that are
provided with berries transported from the harvesting head.        Each of these outlets
provides harvested berries to one of the first or second separating conveyor systems.
The separating conveyors separate the berries from waste matter as previously
described and then transport the waste matter from below the laterally spaced outlets,
inwardly to a centralised waste disposal system.
[0022]      The waste disposal system can be any suitable system for disposing of, or
storing, the waste matter.      However, in some embodiments, the waste disposal
system includes a conveyor system for transporting the waste matter from the waste
separating conveyor systems.        This conveyor system can then deposit the waste
matter onto the ground, or alternatively the waste matter can be deposited into a
storage bin.     Furthermore, the waste matter being transported along the conveyor
system of the waste disposal system can be monitored to ensure that the apparatus
of the present invention is not removing excessive quantities of harvested berries.
For example an individual can monitor the waste matter on the conveyor belt of the
waste disposal system of an embodiment of the invention and can return any
remaining harvested berries to the separating conveyor system.
[0023]       Further, means can be provided to help remove some of the waste matter
that would otherwise be delivered to the waste disposal system.                 In some

                                              8
embodiments a fan is provided over the waste disposal system to assist in the
removal of waste matter. The fan creates an updraft above the waste disposal system
thereby lifting and ejecting some of the waste matter. Such fans, and systems for
driving the fans, are known in the art and are already provided on most mechanical
berry harvesters.    In some embodiments, the fan is provided at a location above
where the separating conveyor systems provide waste matter to the waste disposal
system.
[0024]      The apparatus of the first aspect of the invention is effective in separating
the majority of waste matter from the harvested berries. Generally, the apparatus can
remove approximately 97% of the berries from the harvested material leaving 3% of
the berries in the waste matter delivered to the waste disposal system. In order to
prevent the berries that are delivered to the waste disposal system from being
discarded, further separation means can be provided to separate any berries
delivered to the waste disposal system.
[0025]      In some embodiments the apparatus, includes a waste-separating system
for separating any harvested berries delivered to the waste disposal system from
waste matter delivered to the waste disposal system. In a preferred embodiment, the
waste-separating system includes a rotatable cylinder having a plurality of apertures
configured to permit berries to pass through and a coaxial shaft extending along the
cylinder, the shaft having a plurality of projecting members that radially extend toward
the periphery of the cylinder. The shaft and its projecting members rotate relative to
the cylinder and break off any berries still attached to waste matter, such as stalks.
These berries then pass through the apertures in the cylinder and can fall onto a
conveyor system (such as a conveyor belt) which transports them back to the berry
collection system. In some embodiments, the cylinder and shaft rotate in opposing
directions. In some embodiments, the plurality of projecting members are arranged
on the shaft to form a helix, such that when the shaft is rotated the projecting
members direct waste along the length of the cylinder.       In some embodiments, the
waste matter enters a first open end of the cylinder and is directed along the length of
the cylinder and exits the second open end. As the waste matter, and any berries
remaining therein, travel along the length of cylinder, berries are separated from the
waste matter and fall through the apertures in the cylinder, whereby they are collected
on the conveyor system, and returned to the berry collection system. Consequently,

                                            9
the waste-separating system further improves the collection of the harvested berries
and reduces unwanted disposal of berries.
[0026]      The berry collection system used by the apparatus of an embodiment of
the present invention can be any suitable collection system known in the art. When
the apparatus of an embodiment of the present invention is fitted to a mechanical
harvesting machine, the berry collection system is generally provided on the
mechanical harvesting machine.        In a preferred embodiment, the berry collection
system is provided by a laterally extending conveyor system, which is integrated in
the mechanical harvesting machine, and extends across the mechanical harvesting
machine. Typically, this laterally extending conveyor collects berries from the two
laterally spaced outlets that are provided with berries transported from the harvesting
head. The laterally extending conveyor then transports these berries to a discharge
conveyor that extends to one side of the harvester and deposits the harvested berries
into a "chaser bin" which is being transported alongside the harvester.
[0027]      The apparatus of an embodiment of the present invention is configured to
be positioned below the two laterally spaced outlet ducts provided on the mechanical
harvesting machine, and above the laterally extending conveyor system. As such, the
apparatus of the present invention intercepts the berries (and any other contaminating
waste matter) which is discharged from the two laterally spaced outlet ducts before
they fall onto the laterally extending conveyor system. The gaps provided in the first
and second separating conveyor systems of the apparatus permit berries to pass
through and onto the laterally extending conveyor system for transport to the
discharge conveyor that deposits the separated berries into the chaser bin.          The
waste matter is restricted from passing through the gaps in the first and second
separating conveyor systems and is transported by the separating conveyor systems
to the waste disposal system for disposal.
[0028]      As will be understood, when the apparatus of the present invention is retro
fitted to a mechanical harvesting machine, some modification may need to be made
to the harvester to permit the fitting of the apparatus.      One such modification is
repositioning of the laterally extending conveyor system.      Specifically, the laterally
extending conveyor system may need to be lowered to provide space for fitting the
apparatus of the present invention to the mechanical berry harvester.                This

                                              10
modification may also require the lowering of the discharge conveyor. Alternatively,
the laterally extending conveyor system can be lowered and oriented at an incline
toward the discharge conveyor. This will reduce or remove the need to lower the
discharge conveyor, while still permitting enough room to fit the apparatus of the
present invention to the mechanical harvesting machine.
[0029]      Alternatively, the berry collection system may be provided by one or more
collection bins positioned on the back of the harvester.      In this configuration, the
apparatus of the present invention can be positioned below the two laterally spaced
outlets provided on the mechanical harvesting machine, and above the collection
bins. When provided in this arrangement, the apparatus works in the same way as
describe in relation to the laterally extending conveyor system, however, the berries
pass through the gaps in the first and second separating conveyor systems and into
the collection bins.     These collection bins can then be periodically emptied into a
following trailer or into transport bins.
[0030]      Suitable means and systems for providing separating conveyor systems
are known in the art. However, in some embodiments the first and second separator
conveyor systems are provided by a series of shafts, each shaft provided with a
plurality of spaced apart radially-extending members, wherein a gap is provided
between the radially extending members for berries to pass through. In further forms
of this embodiment, the shafts are spaced along a plane at an orientation and
distance relative to one or more adjacent shafts such that a radially-extending
member on a shaft extends into a space provided between two adjacent radially
extending members on an adjacent shaft, thereby proving a gap for berries to pass
through.
[0031]      In some embodiments, the distance provided between adjacent radially
extending members on the same shaft is between 30mm and 60mm, preferably
between 40mm and 50mm, or more preferably the distance is approximately 45 mm.
As will be understood, the space between the radially-extending members may need
to be adjusted depending on the berries being picked.              Therefore, in some
embodiments the distance provided between adjacent radially-extending members on
the same shaft can be adjusted.           In some embodiments, the first and second

                                            11
separator conveyor systems include a mechanism for adjusting the distance provided
between adjacent radially-extending members on the same shaft.
[0032]      In some embodiments, each shaft is provided with between 3 and 9
radially-extending members, in some embodiments, each shaft is provided with
between 5 and 7 radially-extending members. In some embodiments, each shaft is
provided with 6 radially-extending members.
[0033]      In some embodiments, each shaft is positioned between 200mm and
100mm apart, preferably 180mm to 120mm apart, or 165mm to 135mm apart. In yet
a further preferred embodiment, the shafts are spaced 150mm apart.        As will be
understood the distance between the shafts may be altered when there is a need to
use smaller or larger radially-extending members. Furthermore, the distance between
the shafts maybe altered if the incline of the separating conveyors is increased or
decrease.
[0034]      In some embodiments the diameter of the shaft is between 70mm and
40mm, preferably between 60 and 50mm. In yet a further preferred embodiment, the
diameter of the shaft is 56mm.
[0035]      In some embodiments, each radially-extending member has a length of
between 200mm and 120mm, preferably 180mm to 140mm. In yet a further preferred
embodiment, the       length  of the   radially-extending members  is  160mm.      In
embodiments wherein the radially-extending members are provided by discs, the
diameter of the discs will be the length of the member.        However, as will be
understood the length of the radially-extending members can be altered to optimize
the performance of the separating conveyor systems. Such alterations may be made
in consideration of the berries to be separated.
[0036]      In some embodiments, the width of the radially-extending members is
between 16mm and 10mm, preferably between 14mm and 12mm.                  In a most
preferred embodiment the thickness of the radially-extending members is 13mm. As
will be understood the width of the radially-extending members can be altered to
optimize the performance of the separating conveyor systems, and may be altered
depending on the spacing between adjacent radially-extending members on the same
shaft.

                                            12
[0037]      In some embodiments, the radially-extending members rotate in a direction
such that waste matter is transported to the waste disposal system.              In this
embodiment, the radially-extending members of the first separating conveyor system
rotate in the opposite direction to the radially-extending members of the second
separating conveyor system.
[0038]      In some embodiments, the radially-extending members on the shafts are
provided by discs of multiple radially-extending projections, wherein the discs are
disposed perpendicular to the shaft. Preferably, the radially extending projections are
flexible. In a preferred form of this embodiment, the radially-extending projections
extend from the shaft in an arc away from the direction of rotation of the radially
extending members. Such an arrangement is referred to as a 'star wheel', and the
radially-extending members are provided by rubber projections.
[0039]      In a second aspect, the present invention provides a mechanical berry
harvester including a separating apparatus for separating harvested berries and
waste matter, the berry harvester including;
            a mechanism for harvesting berries from a plant,
            a mechanism for catching berries and transporting the berries to a first or
second outlet duct, the outlet ducts laterally spaced apart towards opposing sides of
the harvester and above the separating apparatus; and
            a berry collection system for collecting harvested berries;
the separating apparatus including;
            a waste disposal system for the collection of the waste matter;
            a first and a second separating conveyor system each provided with a
plurality of gaps that are sized to permit harvested berries to pass through and into
the berry collection system while limiting waste matter from passing through, whereby
the waste material is separated from the berries, the first and second conveyor
systems further arranged to convey waste to the waste disposal system; and
            the first separating conveyor system extends in an inclined direction from
below one of the two laterally spaced outlet ducts toward the waste disposal system

                                              13
and the second separating conveyor system extends in an inclined direction from
below the second of the two laterally spaced outlet ducts toward the waste disposal
system, and the first and second separating conveyor systems are positioned on
opposing sides of the waste disposal system.
[0040]     Preferably, in some embodiments the separating apparatus of the berry
harvester extends laterally across the berry harvester.      In some embodiments, the
berry harvester is provided with means for horizontally levelling the harvester when
operating on uneven ground thereby maintaining the incline of the first and second
separating conveyor systems within a desired range relative to level.
[0041]     The mechanical berry harvester of the second aspect of the invention may
be constructed de novo with the separating apparatus integrated into the machine.
Alternatively, the mechanical berry harvester may be provided by retro-fitting the
separating apparatus to a mechanical berry harvester having a mechanism for
harvesting berries from a plant and a mechanism for catching berries and transporting
the berries to a first or second outlet duct.
[0042]     The separating apparatus included in the berry harvester of the second
aspect of the invention, will sit below two laterally spaced outlets that are provided, in
use, with berries transported from a harvesting head. Each of these outlets provides
harvested berries to one of the first or second separating conveyor systems. The
separating conveyor systems allow the harvested berries to pass through the
provided gaps to a berry collection system while waste matter does not pass through
and is maintained on the separating conveyor systems. The separating conveyor
systems then transport the waste matter from below the laterally spaced outlets,
inwardly to a waste disposal system.
[0043]     In some embodiments of the second aspect, the berry collection system
includes a conveyor disposed laterally across the berry harvester to transport berries
to a discharge conveyor positioned on one side of the harvesting machine.
[0044]     As will be understood, it is envisaged that the separating apparatus of the
second aspect of the invention will include the embodiments and features outlined
with respect of the first aspect of the invention.

                                              14
[0045]      In preferred embodiments of the first and second aspects of the invention,
the berries are grapes and the waste matter is material other than grapes (MOG). As
would be understood MOG includes, but is not limited to: leaves, petioles, stalks,
canes, wood, non-vine plant matter (e.g. leaves from surrounding trees), pests (e.g.
snails, caterpillars, rodents) and foreign objects (e.g. irrigation parts, trellis parts and
debris).
Brief Description of Drawings
[0046]      The invention is further illustrated in the following embodiments described
with reference to the accompanying drawings. The drawings are for the purpose of
describing particular embodiments only and are not intended to be limiting with
respect to the above description.
[0047]      Figure 1 illustrates an arrangement of the first and second separating
conveyor systems relative to the waste disposal system in one embodiment of the
invention.
[0048]      Figure 2 illustrates separation of berries and waste plant matter in an
embodiment of the separating apparatus of the invention.
[0049]      Figure 3 is a top view of an embodiment of the first and second separating
conveyor systems and the waste disposal system.
[0050]      Figure 4 is a rear view of an embodiment of the apparatus of the invention
including a waste-separating system for removing berries from the waste matter.
[0051]      Figure 5 is a side view of an embodiment of the invention including a
waste-separating system for removing berries from the waste matter.
[0052]      Figure 6 is a top view of an embodiment of the first and second separating
conveyor systems and the waste disposal system in combination with a waste
separating system for removing berries from the waste matter
[0053]      Figure 7 is a rear view of a grape harvester illustrating the laterally spaced
apart ducts and a grape collection system in combination with a discharge conveyor,
prior to the inclusion of the apparatus of an embodiment of the invention.

                                             15
[0054]      Figure 8 is a rear view of a grape harvester fitted with the apparatus of an
embodiment of the invention.
[0055]      Figure 9 illustrates the ability of a grape harvester to level when working
across sloped ground.
Detailed Description
[0056]      According to an embodiment of the present invention illustrated in Figure 1,
there is provided an apparatus for separating harvested berries and waste plant
matter, the apparatus having a first separating conveyor system (1), a second
separating conveyor system (2) and waste disposal system (3) disposed in between.
The first (1) and second (2) separating conveyor systems are provided with a plurality
of gaps (31) which are sized to permit berries to pass through while limiting waste
plant matter from passing through.        The retained plant matter is then progressed
along the separating conveyor systems (1, 2) to the waste disposal system (3) for
disposal.
[0057]      The first (1) and second (2) separating conveyor systems are provided by a
series of spaced apart shafts (4) mounted on a frame (5) such that they form an
inclined plane of 20 degrees. Each shaft is provided with multiple radially extending
members (6) (see Figure 3) provided by 'star wheels'. As can be seen in Figures 1
and 2, each star wheel (6) comprises a disc of multiple radially-extending projections
which arc as they radiate from the shaft (4). The projections of the star wheels are
preferably made out of flexible material such as rubber, however other suitable
material can be used. While star wheels (6) are used in the illustrated embodiment of
the invention, any suitable projecting members can be attached to the shafts (4) to
provide the required gaps (3) through which the grapes can pass. Additional means
for providing separating conveyor systems are known in the art such as the Selectiv'
Process WineryTM table by PellencTM which provides a series of parallel rollers which
oscillate in thickness along their length such that gaps are provided between the
rollers for berries to pass through, while waste plant matter is retained and rolled off
the table.
[0058]      The separating conveyor systems (1, 2) are provided with belts, or chains
(7) connected to hydraulic motors, which drive the rotation of the shafts (4) and the

                                             16
star wheels (6) mounted thereon. This rotation transports retained matter, such as
waste plant matter, along the separating conveyor systems (1, 2) to the waste
collection system (3).
[0059]      The process by which the apparatus of the present invention separates
harvested berries and waste plant matter is illustrated in Figure 2.      First (21) and
second (22) laterally spaced outlets provide harvested berries to the first (1) and
second (2) separating conveyor systems.           The berries falls through gaps (31)
provided between the star wheels (6), as indicated by the dotted arrow (23). Waste
plant matter (indicated by the dotted and dashed arrows), however, does not pass
through the gaps (31) and is retained on the separating conveyor systems (1, 2). The
star wheels (6) rotate in the direction indicted by the arrow (24) and as such
transports the retained waste plant matter upwardly toward the centrally located
waste disposal system (3) . Berries that fall through the gaps (31) in the separating
conveyor systems (1, 2) are collected by a berry collection system provided by a
conveyor belt (26). Separated berries are then passed along the conveyor belt (26)
for collection.
[0060]        Figure 3 illustrates a top view of the first (1) and second (2) separating
conveyor systems and the waste disposal system (3). As can be seen, the first (1)
and second (2) separating conveyor systems are provided by a series of parallel
shafts (4), each shaft is provided with a plurality of spaced apart radially-extending
members (6) provided in the illustrated embodiment by star wheels. The positioning
of the shafts (4), and the orientation of the radially-extending members (6), is such
that at least one radially-extending member (6) on a shaft (4) extends into a space
provided between two adjacent radially-extending members (6) on an adjacent shaft
(4). Consequently, a gap (31) is provided by the shafts (6) and the radially-extending
members, through which berries can pass.
[0061]       Rotation of the shafts (4) is driven by hydraulic motors (32). A hydraulic
motor (32) is provided for each of the first (1) and second (2) separating conveyor
systems and is connected to one of the series of shafts (4), which in turn is connected
to the remaining shafts (4) by way of a chain or belt (7) thereby rotating the shafts (4)
in unison.

                                             17
[0062]      As is shown by the dashed and dotted arrow on Figures 2, 3, 4 and 5,
waste matter is transported toward a centrally-located waste disposal system (3). In
the embodiment illustrated in the figures, the waste disposal system (3) is provided by
a conveyor belt which will transport the waste plant matter away from the separating
conveyor systems (1, 2). This matter can then be dumped onto the ground, or into a
suitable receptacle (not shown). While the illustrated embodiment uses a conveyor
belt any appropriate means to move the plant waste matter away from the separating
conveyor systems (1, 2) can be used, for example the waste disposal system can be
provided by a downwardly-sloping chute or other transporting means.
[0063]      While the separating conveyor systems (1, 2) separate the majority of
harvested berries from the waste matter, a small minority (approximately 3%) remain.
Typically, these are berries still attached to stems or gathered in bunches such that
they are too large to fit through the gaps (31) provided in the first and second
separating conveyor systems (1, 2). Without further intervention, these berries will be
discarded by the waste disposal system (3) along with the waste matter. One option
to prevent the disposal of the berries that remain in the waste matter is to have a
person situated to survey the waste matter as it is transported along the waste
disposal system (3) and manually remove these berries so they can be returned to
the collected berries. However, this requires the intervention of a human, which can
be costly.    Furthermore, such intervention results in the berries returning to the
collected berries with any attached waste matter, such as stems.         Therefore, it is
advantageous to have an automated system for removing these berries from the
waste matter and separating them from any attached waste matter, such as stems.
[0064]      As illustrated in Figures 4, 5 and 6, the apparatus of the present invention
can include a waste-separating system (41) for separating any harvested berries
(indicated by the dotted arrows) delivered to the waste disposal system (3) from
waste matter (indicated by the dotted and dashed arrows) delivered to the waste
disposal system (3). In the illustrated embodiment, the waste-separating system (41)
essentially consists of a de-stemmer, which includes a rotatable cylinder (51) having a
plurality of apertures (52) configured to permit berries to pass through. The cylinder
has a coaxial shaft (not shown) which extends along at least a portion of the length of
the cylinder, the shaft having a plurality of projecting members (also not shown) that
radially extend toward the periphery of the cylinder (51).      When operational, the

                                             18
waste-separating system (41) is provided with waste matter (and any remaining
berries therein) by the waste disposal system (3) at one of its two open ends. The
shaft (not shown) of the waste-separating system rotates relative to the cylinder (51).
Preferably, the cylinder (51) and shaft rotate in opposing directions, such that the
plurality of projection member break any berries in the provided waste matter from
their attached stems or bunches. The berries then pass through the apertures (52) in
the cylinder (51) and fall onto a collecting system (42). In the illustrated embodiment,
the collecting system (42) is a conveyor that transports the berries back to the berry
collecting system (26), however any suitable transportation means can be used.
[0065]      Preferably, the projecting members on the shaft, located within the cylinder
(41), are arranged to form a helix, such that when the shaft is rotated the projecting
members direct waste along the length of the cylinder and will propel waste matter out
of an open end of the cylinder, opposite the end to which the waste matter was
provided. The waste matter can then be disposed of in a desired manner.
[0066]      The waste-separating system (41) described above generally also breaks
the berries while removing them from the stem. This is generally undesirable as it
releases juices from the berries and can begin uncontrolled fermentation of the juice.
This is a problem largely avoided by the separating conveyor systems (1, 2) of the
present invention. However, as only a small majority of berries (approximately 3%)
are passing into the waste-separating system (41), this problem is largely minimized.
[0067]      Figure 7 provides a view of the rear of a standard mechanical grape
harvesting machine (71). Figure 8 provides a view of the rear of a mechanical grape
harvesting machine incorporating the apparatus of an embodiment of the present
invention.    The rear housing of the mechanical grape harvesting machine (as
illustrated by the dotted lines) has been depicted as removed to show the
arrangement of the apparatus of an embodiment of the present invention when
incorporated into a mechanical grape harvesting machine (71).
[0068]      The mechanical grape harvesting machine (71)           is provided with two
harvesting heads (72) which are positioned to sit either side of a grape vine (91) to be
harvested (see Figure 9).      The heads (72) vibrate laterally, thereby shaking the
grapes of the vine. The grapes fall and are collected by a series of movable catcher

                                              19
plates (73) which are mounted such that when they come into contact with an object
(such as a grape vine or trellis pole) passing between the harvesting heads (72) they
can move to permit the passage of the object through the harvesting head (72). The
catcher plates (73) are biased to automatically return to their original positions once
the object has passed through the harvester (71). The catching plates (73) direct the
harvested grapes sideways toward two laterally-positioned conveyor systems (not
shown). These laterally-positioned conveyor systems move the harvested grapes to
a first (74) and second (75) outlet duct laterally-spaced at opposing sides of the grape
harvesting machine (71), whereby the grapes are provided to a berry collection
system (26).       The berry collection system (26) includes a lateral conveyor that
transports the harvested grapes to a discharge conveyor (76) which deposits the
grapes into chaser bins (not shown) which follow alongside of the mechanical grape
harvesting machine (71).
[0069]       As can be seen in Figure 8, a mechanical harvesting machine (71) can be
provided which incorporates the apparatus of an embodiment of the present
invention, without the need for significant modification. The first (1) and second (2)
separating conveyor systems are provided below the first (74) and second (75)
laterally-spaced outlet ducts, and extend laterally across the mechanical grape
harvesting machine (71). The separating conveyor systems (1, 2) feed waste matter
from their associated ducts (74, 75) up an incline to a centralised waste disposal
system (3). The lateral conveyor of the berry collection system (26) is oriented at an
incline to facilitate the incorporation of the separating conveyor systems (1, 2) and the
waste disposal system (3).
[0070]       As can be seen in Figure 9, mechanical grape harvesting machines have
the ability to level themselves when they are working across a slope. This is done
primarily to orient the grape harvesting heads (72) with the grape vine (91). However,
by providing the apparatus of an embodiment of the present invention laterally across
the mechanical grape harvesting machine (71), the orientation of the separating
conveyor systems (1, 2) is maintained at a suitable angle relative to level and
therefore the incline of the separating conveyor systems (1, 2) is also maintained.
This stops the incline of the separating conveyor systems (1, 2) from moving away
from its optimal range.

                                           20
[0071]     A fan (81) can be fitted above the waste disposal system (3) to assist in the
removal of some of the waste matter from the waste disposal system. The fan (81)
creates a updraft, and can assist in removing some of the waste matter. Additionally,
or alternatively, fans (77) can be located above the first and second outlet ducts (74,
75) and may assist in removing some of the waste matter from the harvested berries
before they are provided to the first and second conveyor systems (1, 2)
[0072]      It is to    be   understood that   various   alterations, additions and/or
modifications may be made to the parts specifically described, without departing from
the ambit of the present invention.

                                          21
CLAIMS
1.   An apparatus for separating harvested berries and waste matter, the apparatus
     including;
             a waste disposal system for the collection and disposal of the waste
     matter;
             a first separating conveyor system and a second separating conveyor
     system, each separating conveyor system includes a plurality of gaps sized to
     permit harvested berries to pass through and into a berry collection system
     while limiting waste matter from passing through whereby waste matter is
     separated from the berries, the first and second separating conveyor systems
     arranged to convey waste matter to the waste disposal system, wherein
             the first and second separating conveyor systems are positioned on
     horizontally opposing sides of the waste disposal system and are inclined to
     deliver waste matter to the waste disposal system.
2.   The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the apparatus is configured to be fitted to
     the body of a berry harvester such that when fitted the apparatus extends
     laterally across the harvester and the first and second separating conveyor
     systems transport waste matter inwardly in a direction away from the sides of
     the harvester.
3.   The apparatus of claim 1 or claim 2, wherein the first and second separator
     conveyor systems are provided by a series of shafts, each shaft provided with
     a plurality of spaced apart radially-extending members, wherein the shafts are
     spaced along a plane at an orientation and distance relative to one or more
     adjacent shafts such that a radially-extending member on a shaft extends into
     a space provided between two adjacent radially extending members on an
     adjacent shaft, thereby proving a gap for berries to pass through.

                                         22
4.  The apparatus of claim 3, wherein the radially-extending members rotate in a
    direction such that waste matter is transported to the waste disposal system.
5.  The apparatus of claim 3 or claim 4, wherein the radially-extending members,
    are provided by discs with multiple radially-extending projections, wherein the
    discs are disposed perpendicular to the shaft.
6.  The apparatus of claim 5, wherein the radially-extending projections extend
    from the shaft in an arc away from the direction of rotation of the radially
    extending members.
7.  The apparatus of any one of claims 1 to 6, further including a waste-separating
    system for separating any harvested berries delivered to the waste disposal
    system from waste matter delivered to the waste disposal system.
8.  The apparatus of claim 7, wherein the waste-separating system includes a
    rotatable cylinder having a plurality of apertures configured to permit berries to
    pass through and a coaxial shaft extending along the cylinder, the shaft having
    a plurality of projecting members that radially extend toward the periphery of
    the cylinder.
9.  The apparatus of claim 8, wherein the cylinder and shaft rotate in opposing
    directions.
10. The apparatus of claim 7 and claim 8, wherein the plurality of projecting
    members are arranged to form a helix, such that when the shaft is rotated the
    projecting members direct waste along the length of the cylinder.
11. The apparatus of any one of claims 1 to 10, wherein the waste disposal system
    includes a conveyor for transporting waste matter away from the separating
    conveyor systems.

                                        23
12. The apparatus of any one of claims 1 to 11, wherein a fan is provided over the
    waste disposal system to assist in the removal of waste matter.
13. The apparatus of any one of claims 1 to 12, wherein the first and second
    separating conveyor systems are inclined at an angle of between 10 and 30
    degrees from level.
14. The apparatus of any one of claims 1 to 12, wherein the first and second
    separating conveyor systems are inclined at an angle of between 15 and 25
    degrees from level.
15. The apparatus of any one of claims 1 to 12, wherein the first and second
    separating conveyor systems are inclined at an angle of between 18 and 22
    degrees from level.
16. The apparatus of any one of claims 1 to 12, wherein the first and second
    separating conveyor systems are inclined at an angle of 20 degrees from level.
17. A berry harvester including a separating apparatus for separating harvested
    berries and waste matter, the berry harvester including;
           a mechanism for harvesting berries from a plant,
           a mechanism for catching berries and transporting the berries to a first
           or second outlet duct, the outlet ducts laterally spaced apart towards
           opposing sides of the harvester and above the separating apparatus;
           and
           a berry collection system for collecting harvested berries;
    the separating apparatus including;
           a waste disposal system for the collection of the waste matter;

                                         24
            a first and a second separating conveyor system provided with a
            plurality of gaps that are sized to permit harvested berries to pass
            through and into the berry collection system while limiting waste matter
            from passing through, whereby the waste matter is separated from the
            berries, the first and second conveyor systems further arranged to
            convey waste matter to the waste disposal system; and
    the first separating conveyor system extends in an inclined direction from
    below one of the two laterally spaced outlet ducts toward the waste disposal
    system and the second separating conveyor system extends in an inclined
    direction from below the second of the two laterally spaced outlet ducts toward
    the waste disposal system, such that the first and second separating conveyor
    systems are positioned on opposing sides of the waste disposal system.
18. The berry harvester of claim 17, wherein the first and second separator
    conveyor systems are provided by a series of shafts, each shaft provided with
    a plurality of spaced apart radially-extending members, wherein the shafts are
    spaced along a plane at an orientation and distance relative to one or more
    adjacent shafts such that a radially extending member on a shaft extends into
    a space provided between two adjacent radially extending members on an
    adjacent shaft, thereby proving a gap for berries to pass through.
19. The berry harvester of claim 18, wherein the radially-extending members rotate
    in a direction such that waste matter is transported to the waste disposal
    system.
20. The berry harvester of claim 18 or claim 19, wherein the radially-extending
    members, are provided by discs of multiple radially-extending projections,
    wherein the discs are disposed perpendicular to the shaft.
21. The berry harvester of claim 20, wherein the radially-extending projections
    extend from the shaft in an arc away from the direction of rotation of the
    radially-extending members.

                                         25
22. The berry harvester of any one of claims 17 to 21, wherein the first and second
    separating conveyor systems are inclined at an angle of between 10 and 30
    degrees from level.
23. The berry harvester of any one of claims 17 to 21, wherein the first and second
    separating conveyor systems are inclined at an angle of between 15 and 25
    degrees from level.
24. The berry harvester of any one of claims 17 to 21, wherein the first and second
    separating conveyor systems are inclined at an angle of between 18 and 22
    degrees from level.
25. The berry harvester of any one of claims 17 to 21, wherein the first and second
    separating conveyor systems are inclined at an angle of 20 degrees from level.
26. The berry harvester of any one of claims 17 to 25, wherein the waste disposal
    system includes a conveyor for transporting waste matter away from the
    separating conveyor systems.
27. The apparatus of any one of claims 17 to 26, further including a waste
    separating system for separating any harvested berries delivered to the waste
    disposal system from waste matter delivered to the waste disposal system.
28. The apparatus of claim 27, wherein the waste-separating system includes a
    rotatable cylinder having a plurality of apertures configured to permit berries to
    pass through and a coaxial shaft extending along the cylinder, the shaft having
    a plurality of projecting members that radially extend toward the periphery of
    the cylinder.
29. The apparatus of claim 28, wherein the cylinder and shaft rotate in opposing
    directions.

                                         26
30. The apparatus of claim 27 and claim 28, wherein the plurality of projecting
    members are arranged to form a helix, such that when the shaft is rotated the
    projecting members direct waste along the length of the cylinder.
31. The berry harvester of any one of claims 17 to 30, wherein a fan is provided
    over the waste disposal system to assist in the removal of waste matter.
32. The berry harvester of any one of claims 17 to 31, wherein the berry collection
    system includes a conveyor disposed laterally across the berry harvester to
    transport berries to a discharge conveyor positioned on one side of the
    harvesting machine.
33. The berry harvester of claim 32, wherein the conveyor disposed laterally
    across the berry harvester is inclined toward the discharge conveyor.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
