                         \CA \!68595_ldoc11/04/2018
       E:\cg~bterove\NRortl\DC
                                                    -9
Abstract
A method for improving tongue posture, comprising actively chewing on an apparatus, the
apparatus comprised of a soft, resilient material suitable for chewing and comprising:
opposed upper and lower compartments being generally arcuate and configured to receive
an upper and lower set of a patient's teeth respectively so as to prevent thrusting of a
patients tongue between the upper and lower sets of teeth.
[Fig. 1]

                  2
           966
1
  Figure 1
               66
   Fge
   LW
  F -ig2

                     \
                  c7859115_1do-11/04:2018
              METHOD FOR IMPROVING TONGUE POSTURE
TECHNICAL FIELD
[0001]      The present invention generally relates to the use of an apparatus to improve
tongue posture and/or function.
BACKGROUND
[0002]      Aberrant tongue function may cause various issues relevant to the health and
wellbeing of an individual.               Aberrant tongue function may arise from various
circumstance, one proposed cause being the overuse of pacifiers and bottle feeding in
infants. Aberrant tongue function may also arise due to ailments such as tongue-tie.
[0003]      The reference in this specification to any prior publication (or information
derived from it), or to any matter which is known, is not, and should not be taken as, an
acknowledgement or admission or any form of suggestion that prior publication (or
information derived from it) or known matter forms part of the common general
knowledge in the field of endeavour to which this specification relates.
BRIEF SUMMARY
[0004]      The present invention seeks to provide an invention with improved features
and properties.
[0005]      According to an aspect the present invention provides a method for improving
tongue posture and/or function, comprising actively chewing on an apparatus, the
apparatus comprised of a soft, resilient material suitable for chewing and comprising:
opposed upper and lower compartments being generally arcuate and configured to receive
an upper and lower set of a patient's teeth respectively so as to prevent thrusting of a
patients tongue between the upper and lower sets of teeth.
[0006]      Preferably the apparatus comprises a plurality of flexible protrusions are
configured to extend into a space defined by the upper and lower compartments, the

                              do-11/04/2018
                   c e vnR\78591
                                                -2
protrusions configured to contact with the teeth of a patient received by the upper and
lower comparments.
[0007]       Preferably the method comprises actively chewing on an apparatus for a
predetermined period of time.
[0008]       Preferably, the predetermined period of time is approximately between about 4
to about 10 minutes per day.
[0009]       In an aspect he present invention provides a use of an apparatus formed from a
chewable material and comprising opposed upper and lower compartments being generally
arcuate and configured to receive an upper and lower set of a patient's teeth respectively
for the treatment of aberrant tongue function, for treating complications associated with
tongue-tie, for promoting drainage of Eustachian tubes, and/or to prevent tongue thrusting.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF FIGURES
[0010]       Example          embodiments   should become   apparent   from   the  following
description, which is given by way of example only, of at least one preferred but non
limiting embodiment, described in connection with the accompanying figures.
[0011]       Figure 1 is a perspective view of an embodiment of an apparatus for use with
the method as herein described;
[0012]       Figure 2 is a top view of the apparatus;
[0013]       Figure 3 is sectional view of the apparatus taken along line V-V in Figure 2
and looking in the direction of the arrows;
[0014]       Figure 4 is a sectional view taken along the line VI-VI in Figure 2 and looking
in the direction of the arrows;
[0015]       Figure 5 is a sectional view taken along the line VII-VII in Figure 2 and
looking in the direction of the arrows.
PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS

                              do-11/04/2018
                   c e vnR\78591
                                                         -3
[0016]       The following modes, given by way of example only, are described in order to
provide a more precise understanding of the subject matter of a preferred embodiment or
embodiments.
[0017]       In the Figures, incorporated to illustrate features of an example embodiment,
like reference numerals are used to identify like parts throughout the Figures.
[0018]       With reference to the Figures, disclosed is a method for improving tongue
posture of a patient comprising actively chewing on an apparatus 1. The apparatus I may
comprise two generally arcuate compartments, which may be termed the upper 2 and lower
compartments 3.       The upper compartment 2 may be adapted to receive an upper row of
teeth when the apparatus I is used according to this method in a fitted condition.               The
lower compartment 3 may be adapted to receive a lower row of teeth when the apparatus I
is used according to this method in a fitted condition.                    The upper 2 and lower 3
compartments may be generally opposed in order to receive the generally opposed upper
and lower rows of teeth of a patient as they are brought toward each other. The apparatus
1 may be formed of a chewable material, for instance, a soft yet resilient material.
[0019]       The apparatus 1 may be unitary in construction and may be configured such
that a base 4 of the upper compartment 2 forms a top 5 of the lower compartment 3. In
such an embodiment, no spaces or gaps may be present between the upper compartment 2
and the lower compartment 3.                   Rather, the upper 2 and lower 3 compartments may be
spaced from each other by a generally horizontal member 8 common to both the upper 2
and lower 3 compartments.                   As no spaces or gaps are present between the upper 2 and
lower 3 compartments, when the apparatus 1 is in the fitted condition, the patient may be
prevented from breathing through their mouth, and as such, breathing through the nose
may be promoted by use of the apparatus 1. Restriction of mouth breathing in this manner
may mitigate or avoid certain maladies related to mouth breathing, such as asthma,
anxiety, hyperventilation, snoring and sleep apnoea.                     Further, mouth breathing is
associated with the tongue seating on the floor of the mouth, which may affect facial
development and jaw alignment, as well as oral health issues such as gum disease and

                    e v RC
                   c78591_  1 1
                           d-104/2018
                                                -4
cavities. Use of the apparatus 1 may encourage and train the patient to breath through their
nose more frequently, even when the apparatus 1 is not in the fitted condition.
[0020]        In an alternative, not depicted embodiment, the upper 2 and lower 3
compartments may be joined and separated by a series of struts leaving a series of spaces
between said struts, said spaces being too small to accommodate the tongue of a patient.
Separation of the upper 2 and lower 3 compartments may promote shock absorption while
the apparatus is being actively chewed. The provision of the spaces between the struts
separating the upper 2 and lower 3 compartments may allow for a patient to breath through
their mouth when the apparatus 1 is in the fitted condition, such that this embodiment may
be suitable for use by patients who experience difficulty with breathing from their nose.
[0021]       In any case, when the apparatus I is in a fitted condition with a top row of teeth
received by the upper 2 compartment and the bottom 3 row of teeth received by the lower
compartment, the apparatus presents a barrier to the tongue moving forwardly into contact
with the teeth, and also, forms a barrier to the tongue thrusting forwardly to a position
generally between the teeth. Prevention of tongue thrusting in this manner may require the
tongue to function differently to achieve the action of swallowing, and may encourage the
posterior aspect of the tongue to activate for the action of swallowing.            Use of the
apparatus 1 to restrict tongue thrusting may also improve speech production, eating and
digestive actions.
[0022]       In an embodiment, the upper 2 and/or lower 3 compartments may be adapted
with a plurality of protrusions 6 projecting into the space 7 defined by the upper 2 and/or
lower 3 compartments.           The protrusions 6 may extend into the space 7 defined by the
compartments 2, 3 in an orientation substantially normal to the wall/surface 9 defining the
compartment to which they are attached. The protrusions 6 may be arranged to permit the
entry of a patient's teeth into the compartment 2, 3, and may further be arranged to contact
with the teeth of a patient received by the compartment. The protrusions 6 may have a
diameter of approximately 0.3-0.5mm and a length of 1-3mm and it is to be noted that the
plurality of protrusions 6 need not be of uniform size.

                    e v RC
                   c78591_  1 1
                           d-104/2018
                                              -5
[0023]      The protrusions 6 may be equi-spaced and normally dimensioned to the
wall/surface 9 to which they join, and may further be arranged in parallel rows, though
other arrangements are within the scope of the present invention.           For example, the
protrusions 6 may be adapted, along with the general shape of the apparatus I including
the compartments 2, 3 to accommodate the large nature of variability, not only between
mature adults, but also for children, for which the method of the present disclosure is
equally suited.
[0024]      The protrusions 6 may have certain benefits relevant to the method of the
present invention. For example, the protrusions 6 may aid in the stimulation of saliva,
which may assist in training correct swallowing pattern and may also promote isotonic
exercise of the relevant musculature. The protrusions 6 when present on a biting surface of
the compartment 2, 3, may also aid in absorbing and softening the force generated by
chewing, which may aid in protecting the teeth of the patient.          The sensation of the
protrusions 6 on the teeth and the gums of a patient may also encourage a patient to
actively chew, which may be particularly beneficial for infants following the method of the
present invention, as they may not actively chew the apparatus under their own volition.
[0025]      In a fitted condition, the apparatus 1 is positioned within the mouth of a patient
with the upper 2 and lower 3 teeth accommodated in the respective compartment 2, 3 and
with the protrusions 6 in contact therewith.       In this fitted condition, the patient may
actively chew on the apparatus 1.        In an embodiment, the patient may chew on the
apparatus I for a predetermined period of time. The patient may repeat actively chewing
on the apparatus 1 one or more times during a day, and may further repeat the chewing on
the apparatus 1 for one or more predetermined periods each day for one or more days. In
an embodiment, a patient may actively chew on the apparatus I for a certain time period,
for example 4 to 10 minutes each day.
[0026]      Without wishing to be bound by theory the method of this present disclosure
may have several advantages for a patient.           For example, actively chewing on the
apparatus 1 may increase saliva production within a patient's mouth, which would typically
be managed by swallowing. With the apparatus 1 in a fitted condition, a patient would be

                    e v RC
                   c78591_  1 1
                           d-104/2018
                                            -6
restricted from swallowing by thrusting their tongue forward due to the barrier presented
by the apparatus 1 as hereinbefore described. This in turn may encourage the patient to
employ a posterior aspect of the tongue in swallowing to manage the saliva production
encouraged by actively chewing on the apparatus 1 according to the present method. It
may in turn further encourage the patient to employ their throat muscles in swallowing to
manage the saliva production encouraged by actively chewing on the apparatus 1
according to the present method. In an embodiment, the use of the apparatus 1 according
to the method may prevent tongue thrusting in the management of the saliva.
[0027]       Use of the apparatus 1 according to the present method may aid in the
treatment or relief of certain conditions. For example, the method may retrain proper use
of the tongue in circumstances where improper tongue use has arisen from events such as
bottle feeding and the use of pacifiers. The method may also provide assistance to patients
having aberrant tongue function.        The method may also promote drainage of the
Eustachian tubes and ear canals, and may improve tone of the pharyngeal wall and keeping
the airway open.
[0028]       Without wishing to be bound by theory, the structure of the tongue includes
significant musculature which should have good tone and function, which may be
facilitated by using the apparatus according to the method. The method may also improve
tongue function and swallowing action. The method may also improve tongue function
and swallowing action by retraining neural pathways. The method may also have many
and varied benefits, particularly in children and infants, due to the promotion of active
chewing according to the present method, such as improved facial bone development, such
as alveolar bone quantity and quality, as well as improved facial musculature development.
The method may also stimulate the nervous system, for example, stimulating the
trigeminal (V) in plexus with facial (VII) and glossopharyngeal (IX) cranial nerves as well
as predisposing the digestive system by way of the trigeminal (V) in plexus with the vagus
(X) and the hypoglossus (XII) cranial nerves. The method may also modulate the neuro
occlusal circuit and may assist the health and function of temporomandibular joint. The
method may also long term function and stability of the stomatognathic system.         The

                             do-11/04/2018
                  cg ier!78591l
                                            -7
method may also aid in the reestablishment of optimal oral motor function for swallowing,
chewing and breathing.
[0029]      Without wishing to be bound by theory, use of the apparatus 1 according to the
method may improve the proprioceptive information coming from the structures of the
stomatognathic system. This in turn may affect tongue posture and positively influence
certain aberrant tongue functions such as tongue-tie.  It may also assist with improving
tone of the muscles of the nasopharynx, which may positively affect Eustachian tube
drainage.
[0030]      Many modifications will be apparent to those skilled in the art without
departing from the scope of the present invention.

      R~caghnerwven\R~ortl\DC\CAG\6785 15d -11/04/2018
                                           ~78~~1~
                                            I1/-       I d- 8O1
The claims defining the invention are as follows:
1.      A method for improving tongue posture and/or function, comprising actively
chewing on an apparatus, the apparatus comprised of a soft, resilient material suitable for
chewing and comprising:
opposed upper and lower compartments being generally arcuate and configured to receive
an upper and lower set of a patient's teeth respectively so as to prevent thrusting of a
patients tongue between the upper and lower sets of teeth.
2.      The method according to claim 1, wherein a plurality of flexible protrusions are
configured to extend into a space defined by the upper and lower compartments, the
protrusions configured to contact with the teeth of a patient received by the upper and
lower compartments.
3.      The method according to claim 1 or 2, comprising actively chewing on an
apparatus for a predetermined period of time.
4.      The method according to claim 3, wherein the predetermined period of time is
approximately between about 4 minute to about 10 minutes per day.
5.      A use of an apparatus formed from a chewable material and comprising opposed
upper and lower compartments being generally arcuate and configured to receive an upper
and lower set of a patient's teeth respectively for the treatment of aberrant tongue function
tongue, for treating complications associated with tongue-tie, for promoting drainage of
Eustachian tubes, and/or to prevent tongue thrusting.

                              - 1/2 -
<removed-date>
                                                2
                                                    6
                                        9               6
                  1
<removed-apn>
                           Figure 1
              1
                                            6   6
                      2
                          Figure 2

                                    - 2/2 -
              1
<removed-date>
                      2                                 2
                          9 7       4                        6
                                                9
                                                                               8
<removed-apn>
                                    5
                                                                       9
                                                        7
                           3
                                                        Figure 3
              1
                                        2
                                                                 6
                                        9                              9
                                                                           4
                                                                       8
                                            9
                                                                       5
                                        9
                                                        7     6
                                        3
                                                            Figure 4
                  1             2
                                                        7              6
                                                9                              9
                                                    9
                                                                           4
                                                                               8
                                9                                              5
                                                                           9
                                                            6 7
                                                    3
                                                              Figure 5

