                                          ABSTRACT
Novel testosterone formulations are disclosed where testosterone is incorporated into a
phospholipid/ cholesterol system to produce a proliposomal powder dispersion. The
proliposomal powder dispersions of the invention may be formulated with phamarceutically
acceptable excipients to form pharmaceutical compositions. Enterically coated oral dosage
forms are disclosed as are methods of treatment for testosterone replacement therapy.

                                             AUSTRALIA
                                           Patents Act 1990
  Western University of Health Sciences and TesoRx Pharma, LLC
     ORIGINAL COMPLETE SPECIFICATION
                            STANDARD PATENT
Invention Title:                 Proliposomal testosterone formulations
The following statement is a full description of this invention, including the best method of performing it
known to us:

                                                   1
                   PROLIPOSOMAL TESTOSTERONE FORMULATIONS
                              Cross-reference to Related Applications
10011    The present application is a divisional of Australian Patent Application No 2013259509,
which is the national phase application of International Patent Application
No PCT/US2013/040325, which claims priority from US Provisional Application
No 61/644,996 filed 9 May 2012, the disclosures of which are herein incorporated by reference in
their entirety for all purposes.
                                        Field of the Invention
10021    Disclosed herein are proliposomal pharmaceutical formulations for the delivery of
testosterone that increase testoterone's solubility and bioavailability.
                                             Background
10031    Testosterone is a BCS class II drug. Unless otherwise indicated, the term "testosterone"
means testosterone that is chemically identical to the testosterone produced by the human body,
i.e, "native," or "endogenous" testosterone. Testosterone may be isolated form natural sources or
made by commercial synthetic processes.
Summary of the Invention
10041    Disclosed herein, in certain embodiments, are proliposomal powder dispersions
comprising (a) testosterone, (b) cholesterol, and (c) at least one phospholipid. In some
embodiments, (a) and (b) are present in a weight ratio (a) : (b) ranging from 1 : 0.05 to 1 : 0.30
and (a), (b) and (c) are present in a weight ratio of (a) : ((b) + (c)) ranging from 1 : 1 and 1 : 2.5.
In some embodiments, (a) and (b) are present in a weight ratio (a) : (b) ranging from about 1 :
about 0.05 to about 1 : about 0.30 and (a), (b) and (c) are present in a weight ratio of (a) : ((b) +
(c)) ranging from about 1 : about 1 and about 1 : about 2.5.
10051    Disclosed herein, in certain embodiments, are pharmaceutical compositions comprising
(a) a proliposomal powder dispersion described herein, and (b) at least one pharmaceutically
acceptable excipient.
10061    Disclosed herein, in certain embodiments, are oral dosage forms comprising a
pharmaceutical composition. In some embodiments, the oral dosage form is a tablet or capsule
comprising (a) a proliposomal powder dispersion described herein and (b) at least one
pharmaceutically acceptable excipient. In some embodiments, the tablet or capsule is coated with

                                                   2
a delayed release coating (e.g., an enteric coating). In some embodiments, the tablet or capsule is
coated with an enteric coating.
10071   Disclosed herein, in certain embodiments, are oral testosterone dosage forms having
fasting pharmacokinetic profiles that are characterized by a mean plasma concentrations of
testosterone that range from about 350 to about 950 ng/dL of testosterone at about five hours
after ingestion of the dosage forms. The foregoing mean plasma concentration may alternatively
reported as ranging from about 4 to about 7 ng/dL/mg of testosterone at five hours after ingestion.
In some embodiments, the fasting pharmacokinetic profile is characterized by a mean plasma
concentration of testosterone that ranges from 350 to 950 ng/dL of testosterone at five hours after
ingestion of the dosage form.
10081   Disclosed herein, in certain embodiments, are methods of testosterone replacement
therapy comprising administering a proliposomal powder dispersion disclosed herein, a
pharmaceutical composition described herein, or a dosage form described herein to an individual
in need thereof. Accordingly, disclosed herein are methods of treating an individual in need of
testosterone therapy comprising the step of administering to the individual a therapeutically
effective amount of a proliposomal powder dispersion disclosed herein, a pharmaceutical
composition disclosed herein, or dosage form disclosed herein.
                                  Brief Description of the Figures
10091   Fig. 1 exemplifies the in vitro testosterone dissolution profiles of encapsulated uncoated
PLF-C2 that: (a) had not been stored; (b) stored for three months at room temperature; and (c)
stored for three months at 300 C. See Comparative Example 2.
10101   Fig. 2 exemplifies the in vitro release profiles of testosterone from uncoated capsules of
PLF-C2 and PLF-C4 (which were prepared using different ratios of DPMG to the EtOH:water
solvent solution) based on dissolution studies performed in PBS at pH 6.80. See Comparative
Example 2.
10111   Fig. 3 exemplifies the mean plasma testosterone concentrations over time following oral
administration of a suspension of PLF-C 1 and an unformulated control testosterone suspension to
non-fasted rats. See Comparative Example 3.
10121   Fig. 4 exemplifies the mean plasma testosterone concentrations over time following oral
administrations of a suspension of PLF-C2 and a suspension of PLF-C3 to fasted rats. See
Comparative Example 3.

                                                   3
10131   Fig. 5 exemplifies the in vitro testosterone dissolution profiles of: (a) PLF-C5; (b) PLF
C5 with Avicel* PH 101; (c) PLF-C5 with Avicel* PH 101 and Explotab* disintegrant;
(d) hydrated PLF-C2; (e) PLF-C6; and (f) lyophilized PLF-C5. See Comparative Example 4 and
Table 3.
10141   Fig. 6 exemplifies solubility of testosterone after 72 hours in: (a) HCl buffer pH 1.2; (b)
Acetate buffer pH 4.5; (c) Phosphate buffer pH 6.8; and (d) Phosphate buffer 7.4. See Example
1.
10151   Fig. 7 exemplifies testosterone (T) solubilities following the dissolution of the following
encapsulated formulations in PBS pH 6.80 at 37      oC: Fl (60%T, 32% DSPC, and 8% Cholesterol);
F2 (60%T, 36% DSPC, and 4% Cholesterol); F3 (60%T, 40% DSPC, and 0% Cholesterol);
F4 (50%T, 40% DSPC, and 10% Cholesterol); F5 (50%T, 45% DSPC, and 5% Cholesterol); F6
(50%T, 50% DSPC, and 0% Cholesterol); F7 (40%T, 48% DSPC, and 12% Cholesterol); F8
(40%T, 54% DSPC, and 9% Cholesterol); and F9 (40%T, 60% DSPC, and 0% Cholesterol). See
Example 1 and Table 4.
10161   Fig. 8 exemplifies testosterone solubilities following the dissolution of: (a) unformulated
testosterone in 0.5% SLS; (b) unformulated testosterone in 1% SLS; (c) unformulated
testosterone in 2% SLS; (d) PLF-2 in 0.5% SLS; (e) PLF-2 in 1% SLS; and (f) PLF-2 in 2% SLS.
See Example 3.
10171   Fig. 9 exemplifies the in vitro testosterone dissolution profiles of encapsulated and
enterically-coated PLF-1 that: (a) had not been stored; (b) stored for three months at room
temperature; or (c) stored for three months at 30' C. See Example 4.
10181   Fig. 10 exemplifies the mean plasma testosterone concentrations over time following the
oral administration of: (a) 300 mg/kg (testosterone/rat weight) of unformulated testosterone; (b)
PLF-2 comprising 300 mg/kg of testosterone; (c) PLF-2 comprising 150 mg/kg of testosterone;
and (d) PLF-4 comprising 300 mg/kg of testosterone to male fasted rats. SeeExample 5.
10191   Fig. 11 exemplifies the mean plasma testosterone concentrations over time following the
oral administration of: a) 300 mg/kg (testosterone/rat weight) of unformulated testosterone; (b)
31 mg/kg (testosterone/rat weight) of unformulated testosterone; (c) PLF-2 comprising 31 mg/kg
of testosterone; (d) PLF-2 comprising 15.5 mg/kg of testosterone; and (e) PLF-2 comprising 7.75
mg/kg of testosterone male fasted rats. See Example 5.

                                                    4
10201    Fig. 12 exemplifies the in vitro testosterone dissolution profiles of the following
formulations: (a) encapsulated PLF-5 with Avicel* PH 101 and 1% Explotab* disintegrant;
(b) tableted PLF-5 with Avicel* PH 101, SD lactose, Mg stearate; and 10% Explotab*
disintegrant; (c) tableted PLF-5 with Avicel* PH 101, Mg stearate; and 50% Explotab*
disintegrant; and (d) powdered PLF-5 with Avicel* PH 101, Mg stearate; and 5% Explotab*
disintegrant. See Example 6.
10211    Fig. 13 exemplifies the in vitro testosterone dissolution profiles of the following tableted
formulations: (a) PLF-6 with Avicel* PH 101, Mg stearate; and Explotab* disintegrant; (b) PLF
6 with 20% Pearlitol*, Avicel* PH 102, Mg stearate; and Explotab* disintegrant; (c) PLF-6 with
10% Pearlitol*, Avicel* PH 102, Mg stearate; and Explotab* disintegrant; (d) PLF-7 with
Avicel* PH 102, Mg stearate; and Explotab* disintegrant; and (e) PLF-6 with Avicel* PH 101,
Mg stearate; and Explotab* disintegrant. Dissolution in (e) was performed in a Type II apparatus
at 75 rpm, rather then 50 rpm, as was done for (a)-(d). See Example 7.
10221    Fig. 14 exemplifies the in vitro testosterone dissolution profiles of the following
formulations: (a) encapsulated PLF-2 with Avicel* PH 101; (b) tableted PLF-6 with Avicel*
PH 101, Mg stearate; and Explotab* disintegrant; and (c) PLF-8 (unformulated testosterone
control). See Example 8 and Table 9.
10231    Fig. 15 exemplifies the in vitro testosterone dissolution profiles of the following
encapsulated formulations: (a) PLF-9 with Avicel* PH 102 (1:2); (b) PLF-9 with Avicel* PH 102
(1:0.5); (c) PLF-9 with Avicel* PH 102 (1:1); (d) PLF-9 with Avicel* PH 102 (1:0.6); and (e)
PLF-9 with Avicel* PH 102 (1:0.6) and Explotab* disintegrant. See Example 9 and Table 10.
10241    Fig. 16 exemplifies the in vitro testosterone dissolution profiles of the following
encapsulated formulations and percentages of SLS in the dissolution media: (a) PLF-1 1 with
Avicel* PH 102 dissolved in 1% SLS; (b) PLF-1 1 with Avicel* PH 102 dissolved in 2% SLS; (c)
PLF-12 with Avicel* PH 102 and Explotab* disintegrant dissolved in 0.5% SLS; and (d) PLF-12
with Avicel* PH 102 and Explotab* disintegrant dissolved in 1% SLS. See Example 10 and
Table 11.
10251    Fig. 17 exemplifies the in vitro testosterone dissolution profiles of the following
encapsulated formulations: (a) PLF-16 with Avicel* PH 102 and Explotab* disintegrant;
(b) PLF- 17 with Avicel* PH 102 and Explotab* disintegrant; (c) PLF- 18 with SMCC
and Explotab* disintegrant; (d) PLF-19 with DCP and Explotab* disintegrant; (e) PLF-20 with

                                                   5
Avicel* PH 102 and Explotab* disintegrant; (f) PLF-21 with SMCC and Explotab* disintegrant;
and (g) PLF-22 with DCP and Explotab* disintegrant. See Example 12, and Table 13.
10261   Fig. 18 exemplifies the in vitro testosterone dissolution profiles of encapsulated (a) PLF
24 (placebo) enteric coated and (b) enterically coated PLF 25 containing testosterone. See
Example 13 and Table 14.
10271   Fig. 19 exemplifies the in vitro testosterone dissolution profiles of the following
encapsulated formulations: (a) enterically-coated PLF-26; (b) enterically-coated PLF-27; and
(c) uncoated PLF-29. See Example 14 and Table 18.
10281   Fig, 20 exemplifies the transport of testosterone released from the formulations listed in
Table 20 across a monolayer of Caco-2 Cells. See Example 15B and Table 20.
10291   Fig. 21 exemplifies the mean plasma concentrations of testosterone over time obtained
from human patients with hypogonadism following the oral administration of either 120 mg or
240 mg of testosterone in humans as described in the pharmacokinetics study of Example 16.
Testosterone (T) concentrations are adjusted for baseline. Plasma testosterone concentrations
were determined at the times shown after administraton of: (a) 120 mg of T under fasting
conditons; (b) 240 mg of T under fasting conditons; (c) 120 mg of T under fed conditons; and (d)
240 mg of T under fed conditons.
10301   Fig. 22 exemplifies the mean plasma concentrations of the testosterone metabolite DHT
over time obtained from human patients with hypogonadism following the oral administration of
either 120 mg or 240 mg of testosterone that has been formulated as provided in Table 20. DHT
concentrations are adjusted for baseline. Plasma DHT concentrations were determined at the
times shown after administraton of either: (a) 120 mg of formulated T under fasting conditons;
(b) 240 mg of formulated T under fasting conditons; (c) 120 mg of formulated T under fed
conditons; and (d) 240 mg of formulated T under fed conditons.
10311   Fig. 23 exemplifies mean plasma testosterone concentrations (24 h profile) in human
subjects with hypogonadism after receiving twice-daily, oral adminstrations of either 120 mg or
240 mg of formulated testosterone (T) for a period of time of one day (D1) and fifeteen days
(D15). The 120 mg dosage form used to obtain the data is described in Example 18. The 240 mg
doses were given by administering two 120 mg doses.
10321   Fig. 24 exemplifies mean plasma testosterone (T) concentrations of human subjects with
hypogonadism every two hours over the first 24 hours of a 15 day long treatment regimen of

                                                    6
being administered a 120 mg testosterone dosage form like the dosage form that is described in
Example 18, herein, twice-daily.
10331   Fig. 25 exemplifies mean plasma testosterone (T) concentrations of human subjects with
hypogonadism every two hours over the first 24 hours of a 15 day long treatment regimen of
being administered the 240 mg testosterone proliposomal dosage form that is described in
Example 18, herein, twice-daily.
10341   Fig. 26 exemplifies the mean plasma testosterone concentrations in beagle dogs over the
24 hour period of the first day of after orally administering: (a) placebo, (b) 120 mg, (c) 600 mg,
or (d) 1200 mg of testosterone that had been formulated according to the composition and method
of preparation of the proliposomal testosterone dosage form described in Example 18.
10351   Fig. 27 exemplifies the mean plasma testosterone concentrations in beagle dogs over a 24
hour period of the 5 7 th day after orally administering (a)placebo, (b) 120 mg, (c) 600 mg, or (d)
1200 mg of testosterone that had been formulated according to the composition and method of
preparation of the proliposomal testosterone dosage form described in Example 18.
10361   Fig. 28 exemplifies the mean plasma testosterone concentrations in beagle dogs over a 24
hour period of the 91st day after orally administering (a)placebo, (b) 120 mg, (c) 600 mg, or (d)
1200 mg of testosterone that had been formulated according to the composition and method of
preparation of the proliposomal testosterone dosage form described in Example 18.
Detailed Description
Testosterone and Testosterone Deficiency
10371   Disclosed herein, in certain embodiments, are compositions and methods of treating
testosterone deficiency. Further disclosed herein, in certain embodiments, are methods and
compositions for treating diseases, disorders, or conditions characterized by testosterone
deficiency. A number of situations (including aging, the use of androgen depletion therapy for
the treatment of prostate cancer, or genetic abnormalities) may result in abnormally low levels of
testosterone (i.e., testosterone deficiency). The consequences associated with testosterone
deficiency in men include, but are not limited to, increased fat mass, decreased muscle mass and
strength, sexual dysfunction, and osteoporosis. Testosterone deficiency may also be associated
with the development of a variety of metabolic and cardiovascular conditions.
10381   As a man ages, the amount of testosterone in his body gradually declines. This natural
decline starts after age 30 and continues throughout life. Other causes of low testosterone levels

                                                    7
include, but are not limited to: injury, infection, or loss of the testicles; chemotherapy or radiation
treatment for cancer; genetic abnormalities such as Klinefelter's Syndrome (extra X
chromosome); hemochromatosis (too much iron in the body); dysfunction of the pituitary gland
(a gland in the brain that produces many important hormones); inflammatory diseases such as
sarcoidosis (a condition that causes inflammation of the lungs); medications, especially hormones
used to treat prostate cancer and corticosteroid drugs; chronic illness; chronic kidney failure; liver
cirrhosis; stress; alcoholism; obesity (especially abdominal); and congenital conditions, such as
Kallman's Syndrome.
10391   Male hypogonadism, or testosterone deficiency syndrome (TDS), results from a failure of
the testes to produce adequate androgen. Patients have low circulating testosterone in
combination with clinical symptoms such as fatigue, erectile dysfunction, and body composition
changes. The cause may be primary (genetic anomaly, Klinefelter's syndrome) or secondary
(defect in hypothalamus or pituitary), but often presents with the same symptomatology. In the
older patient, androgen deficiency of the aging male (ADAM) is an important cause of secondary
hypogonadism because testosterone levels decline progressively after age 40. Hypogonadal
patients have alterations not only in sexual function and body composition, but also in cognition
and metabolism. Regardless of etiology, hypogonadal patients who are both symptomatic and
who have clinically significant alterations in laboratory values are candidates for treatment. The
goal of hormone replacement therapy in these men is to restore hormone levels to the normal
range and to alleviate symptoms suggestive of hormone deficiency. This can be accomplished in
a variety of ways, although most commonly testosterone replacement therapy (TRT) is employed.
Disclosed herein, in certain embodiments, are proliposomal powder dispersions for treating
hypogonadism comprising: (a) testosterone, (b) cholesterol, and (c) at least one phospholipid,
wherein (a) and (b) are present in a weight ratio (a):(b) ranging from 1: 0.05 to 1:0.30 and (a), (b)
and (c) are present in a weight ratio of (a):((b) + (c)) ranging from 1: 1.0 and 1:2.5. Further,
disclosed herein, in certain embodiments, are methods of treating hypogonadism in an individual
in need thereof comprising administering to the individual a proliposomal powder dispersion
comprising: (a) testosterone, (b) cholesterol, and (c) at least one phospholipid, wherein (a) and (b)
are present in a weight ratio (a):(b) ranging from 1: 0.05 to 1:0.30 and (a), (b) and (c) are present
in a weight ratio of (a):((b) + (c)) ranging from 1: 1.0 and 1:2.5.

                                                     8
10401   Klinefelter's syndrome, (47XXY, or XXY syndrome) is a condition in which human
males have an extra X chromosome. In humans, 47XXY is the most common sex chromosome
aneuploidy in males and the second most common condition caused by the presence of extra
chromosomes. The physical traits of the syndrome become more apparent after the onset of
puberty, if at all. Principal effects include hypogonadism and reduced fertility. A variety of
other physical and behavioural differences and problems are common, though severity varies and
many XXY boys have few detectable symptoms. Not all XXY boys and men develop the
symptoms of Klinefelter syndrome. The genetic variation is irreversible. Testosterone treatment
is an option for some individuals who desire a more masculine appearance and identity.
Disclosed herein, in certain embodiments, are proliposomal powder dispersions for treating
Klinefelter's syndrome comprising: (a) testosterone, (b) cholesterol, and (c) at least one
phospholipid, wherein (a) and (b) are present in a weight ratio (a):(b) ranging from 1 : 0.05 to
1: 0.30 and (a), (b) and (c) are present in a weight ratio of (a):((b) + (c)) ranging from 1 : 1 and
1 : 2.5. Further, disclosed herein, in certain embodiments, are methods of treating Klinefelter's
syndrome in an individual in need thereof comprising administering to the individual a
proliposomal powder dispersion comprising: (a) testosterone, (b) cholesterol, and (c) at least one
phospholipid, wherein (a) and (b) are present in a weight ratio (a):(b) ranging from 1 : 0.05 to
1:0.30 and (a), (b) and (c) are present in a weight ratio of (a):((b) + (c)) ranging from 1: 1.0 and
1:2.5.
10411   Other diseases or conditions where the level of endogenous testosterone is insufficient
include, but are not limited to, erectile dysfunction, idiopathic gonadotropin deficiency, pitutary
hypothalamus injury due to tumours, osteoporosis, diabetes mellitus, chronic heart failure,
chemotherapy, hemochromatosis, cirrhosis, renal failure, AIDS, sarcoidosis, Kallman's
Syndrome, androgen receptor defects, 5-alpha reductase deficiency, myotonic dystrophy,
cryptorchidism, mumps orchitis, aging, fertile eunuch syndrome, and pituitary disorders.
Disclosed herein, in certain embodiments, are proliposomal powder dispersions for treating
diseases, disorders or conditions where the level of endogenous testosterone is insufficient
comprising: (a) testosterone, (b) cholesterol, and (c) at least one phospholipid, wherein (a) and (b)
are present in a weight ratio (a):(b) ranging from 1 : 0.05 to 1 : 0.30 and (a), (b) and (c) are
present in a weight ratio of (a) : ((b) + (c)) ranging from 1 : 1 and 1 : 2.5. Further, disclosed
herein, in certain embodiments, are methods of treating diseases, disorders or conditions where

                                                   9
the level of endogenous testosterone is insufficient comprising administering to an individual in
need thereof a proliposomal powder dispersion comprising: (a) testosterone, (b) cholesterol, and
(c) at least one phospholipid, wherein (a) and (b) are present in a weight ratio (a):(b) ranging
from 1: 0.05 to 1 :0.30 and (a), (b) and (c) are present in a weight ratio of (a) : ((b) + (c)) ranging
from 1 1 and 1 : 2.5. In embodiments of any of the aforementioned, the disease, disorder or
condition where the level of endogenous testosterone is insufficient is erectile dysfunction,
idiopathic gonadotropin deficiency, pitutary hypothalamus injury due to tumours, osteoporosis,
diabetes mellitus, chronic heart failure, chemotherapy, hemochromatosis, cirrhosis, renal failure,
AIDS, sarcoidosis, Kallman's Syndrome, androgen receptor defects, 5-alpha reductase
deficiency, myotonic dystrophy, cryptorchidism, mumps orchitis, aging, fertile eunuch syndrome,
and pituitary disorders. In embodiments of any of the aforementioned, the disease, disorder or
condition where the level of endogenous testosterone is insufficient is erectile dysfunction. In
embodiments of any of the aforementioned, the disease, disorder or condition where the level of
endogenous testosterone is insufficient is diabetes mellitus. In embodiments of any of the
aforementioned, the disease, disorder or condition where the level of endogenous testosterone is
insufficient is chronic heart failure.
10421    The therapeutic effectiveness of a drug depends on its bioavailability, i.e., the measure of
the rate and extent to which the drug or active moiety is absorbed from a drug product and
becomes available at the site of action. Poor bioavailability of a drug depends on many factors,
particularly important factors include drug solubility in the gastro-intestinal fluid (GI fluid), drug
stability in the GI region (acid and enzyme stability), and systemic concentration of the drug
without significant loss to the hepatic portal system before reaching the rest of the body (the first
pass effect). If a drug fails in one of these aspects, the drug may not be sufficiently available for
biological activity.
10431    The FDA's Biopharmaceutics Classification System (BCS) provides guidance for
predicting oral drug absorption by taking into account a drug's aqueous solubility and its tissue
permeability. Specifically, the BCS divides drugs into classes I through IV based on their
aqueous solubility and permeability. Class I drugs are highly soluble and highly permeable, class
II drugs have low solubility, but are highly permeable, class III drugs are highly soluble but
poorly permeable; and class IV drugs are low soluble and poorly permeable.

                                                    10
10441    Testosterone is a BCS class II drug. Unless otherwise indicated, the term "testosterone"
means testosterone that is chemically identical to testosterone produced by the human body, .i.e,
"native," or "endogenous" testosterone, or a testosterone derivative. Testosterone may be
isolated form natural sources or made by commercial synthetic processes. In some embodiments,
the testosterone used in the proliposomal powder dispersions described herein is testosterone that
is chemically identical to testosterone produced by the human body, .i.e, "native," or
"endogenous" testosterone, or a testosterone derivative. In some embodiments, the testosterone
used in the proliposomal powder dispersions decribed herein is a testosterone derivative, wherein
the amount of a testosterone derivative in the proliposomal dispersion corresponds to a molar
amount of testosterone allowed in a proliposomal dispersion based on the range of weight :
weight ratios of testosterone to the other proliposomal dispersion components that are specified
herein. In some embodiments, the testosterone used in the proliposomal powder dispersions
described herein is a testosterone derivative selected from: testosterone undecanoate (or
testosterone undecylate), epitestosterone, fluoxymesterone, mesterolone, methyltestosterone, 19
nortestosterone, 17-alpha methyl testosterone, 7-alpha alkyl 19- nortestosterone, or testosterone
enanthate. In some embodiment, the testosterone used in the pharmaceutical compositions
decribed herein is esterified at the 17-beta hydroxyl. In some embodiments, esterification of 17
beta hydroxyl group increases hydrophobicity. In some embodiment, the testosterone used in the
proliposomal powder dispersions described herein is a salt of testosterone. Examples of
testosterone salts include, but are not limited to: testosterone acetate and testosterone propionate.
In some embodiments, a proliposomal powder dispersion described herein comprises testosterone
that is chemically identical to testosterone produced by the human body, .i.e, "native," or
"endogenous" testosterone, a testosterone derivative or testosterone salt, or individual
combinations thereof.
10451    A major obstacle to successful commercialization of testosterone is the difficulty of
enhancing not only its dissolution rate but also the extent of its dissolution. Indeed, the fact that
BCS class II drugs, like testosterone, are poorly soluble is often associated with low and highly
variable bioavailabilities of these drugs. Another drawback of administering testosterone is that
much of ingested testosterone is metabolized before it reaches its target(s). More specifically, the
hepatic portal system that carries testosterone from the intestine to the liver where it is
metabolized before reaching systemic circulation. The so-called name given to this phenomenon

                                                     11
is "the first pass effect." In addition to the fact that the metabolized drug does not provide the
same effect as that of the parent drug, the first pass effect may also cause hepato-toxicity. As
discussed below, different approaches have been developed in order to avoid the first pass effect
that is associated with administering testosterone.
10461    One approach to avoiding the first pass effect during testosterone treatment has been to
use prodrug forms of testosterone and other testosterone derivatives that are not subject to the
first pass effect. Indeed, ester prodrugs of testosterone, such as, estosterone propionate,
testosterone cypionate, testosterone enanthate, testosterone decanoate, and testosterone
undecanoate have been used as substitutes for testosterone, e.g., sold under the Restandol@ and
Andriol@ tradenames. In the United States, another testosterone derivative is currently available
in different dosage forms: testosterone enanthate for intramuscular injection (under the
Delatestryl@ tradename), topical solution (under the Axiron@ tradename), buccal patch (under
the Striant@ tradename), topical gel (under the AndroGel@ and AndroGel@ 1.62% tradenames).
10471    Another approach to testosterone treatment is based on the well-established observation
that circulating testosterone in a healthy male is metabolized to dihydrotestosterone (DHT) and to
estradiol. Typically, the ratio of testosterone to DHT is 10 : 1 and to that to estradiol is 200 : 1.
Changes in these ratios affect androgenic activity. As such, testosterone derivatives that restore
the ratio of testosterone to its metabolites have been used clinically. These types of testosterone
derivatives, such as alkylated derivatives used for oral therapy (methyltestosterone), are
metabolized slowly, thus allowing higher levels of DHT, which, in turn, change the circulating
testosterone : DHT ratios. However, prolonged use of alkylated testosterone derivatives has been
associated with development of severe hepatotoxicity.
10481    Yet another approach to testosterone treatment is the utilization of liposomes as effective
oral carrier systems for testosterone. Liposomes absorbed by the intestinal lymphatic system are
incorporated into chylomicrons (i.e., a type of lipoprotein particle formed in the absorptive cells
of the small intestine). The chylomicrons, together with remaining liposomes, bypass the liver
(portal circulation), and travel through the lymph system to the subclavian vein. In the blood
stream, these liposomes are digested by lipoprotein lipases derived from the capillary walls,
which releases the drug. However, in spite of the advantages liposome drug delivery offer, they
also face obstacles presented by the gastrointestinal digestive fluids, pH variation, bile salts and

                                                    12
lipolytic and proteolytic enzymes. For example, typical liposomes are mostly broken down by
the gastric acids, rendering the delivery system ineffective for oral administration.
10491    One approach to liposome-mediated drug delivery that offers the advantages of
liposomes, but minimizes the destructive effect of the gastrointestinal system on liposomes, is to
use a proliposomal drug delivery system. By employing this approach, a poorly-water soluble
drug such as testosterone can be incoporated into a dry, free-flowing powder that will form
liposome-encapsulated testosterone in an aqueous environment. Because proliposomal
formulation are dry powders, they, unlike liposomes, can be coated with a delayed release coating
(e.g., an enteric coating)" that will protect the formulation until it reaches the less hostile
environment of the small intestine, where liposomes can form in a dramatically less destructive
environment. A need exists to develop proliposomal pharmaceutical formulations that increase
the solubilities of testosterone and have it available at the site of action.
10501    In some embodiments, the proliposomal powder dispersions and the pharmaceutical
compositions disclosed herein are administered to an individual in need of testosterone
replacement therapy. In some embodiments, the proliposomal powder dispersions and the
pharmaceutical compositions disclosed herein are administered to an individual in need thereof to
treat erectile dysfunction, hypogonadism, idiopathic gonadotropin deficiency, pitutary
hypothalamus injury due to tumours, osteoporosis, diabetes mellitus, chronic heart failure,
chemotherapy, Klinefelter's Syndrome, hemochromatosis, cirrhosis, renal failure, AIDS,
sarcoidosis, Kallman's Syndrome, androgen receptor defects, 5-alpha reductase deficiency,
myotonic dystrophy, cryptorchidism, mumps orchitis, aging, fertile eunuch syndrome, pituitary
disorders, and other conditions where the level of endogenous testosterone is insufficient.
Accordingly, disclosed herein, in certain embodiments, are methods of treating an individual in
need of testosterone therapy comprising administering to the individual a therapeutically effective
amount of the proliposomal powder dispersion described herein. In some embodiments, the
proliposomal powder dispersion or pharmaceutical composition is administered orally and in a
dosage form described herein.
Pharmaceutical Compositions
10511    The pharmaceutical compositions described herein are formulated for delivery by any
suitable method. Exemplary forms of the pharamceutical compositions described herein, include,
a tablet, a pill, a powder, a capsule (including both soft or hard capsules made from animal-

                                                    13
derived gelatin or plant-derived HPMC), a sachet, a troche, pellets, granules, emulsions, and
solutions. These pharmaceutical compositions descirbed herein can be manufactured by
conventional techniques known in the pharmaceutical arts.
10521    Conventional techniques for preparing pharmaceutical compositions described herein
include, e.g., one or a combination of methods: (1) dry mixing, (2) direct compression,
(3) milling, (4) dry or non-aqueous granulation, (5) wet granulation, or (6) fusion. See, e.g.,
Lachman et al., The Theory and Practiceof IndustrialPharmacy (1986). Other methods include,
e.g., prilling, spray drying, pan coating, melt granulation, granulation, wurster coating, tangential
coating, top spraying, tableting, extruding, coacervation and the like.
10531    Disclosed herein, in certain embodiments, are novel testosterone formulations where a
pharmaceutically effective amount of testosterone is incorporated into a phospholipid/cholesterol
system to produce a proliposomal powder dispersion. In some embodiments, the proliposomal
powder dipsersions are contained in delayed-release capsule for oral admisitration and to
withstand the acidic environment in the stomach. In some embodiments, the proliposomal
powder dipsersions are contained in an enterically-coated capsule for oral admisitration and to
withstand the acidic environment in the stomach. Upon contact with small intestinal fluid, the
proliposomal powder dispersion is dispersed and hydrated, leading to the formation of liposomes
and uptake of the testosterone through the lymphatic system. In some embodiments, the
compositions disclosed herein reduce the first-pass side effect that is commonly associated with
oral administration of testosterone.
10541    In some embodiments, a proliposomal powder dispersion disclosed herein comprises (a)
testosterone, (b) cholesterol, and (c) at least one phospholipid. As used herein, a "proliposomal
powder dipsersion" means a mixture of at least (a) testosterone, (b) cholesterol, and (c) at least
one phospholipid, dispersed one in another, and which forms a liposome upon contact with an
aqueous environment. As shown in examples below, proliposomal powder dipsersions with low
amounts of cholesterol possess improved permeability with less standard deviation as compared
to powder dispersions with no cholesterol or powder dispersions containing relatively large
amounts of cholesterol.
10551    In some embodiments, testosterone (a) and cholsterol (b) are present in a weight ratio of
(a) : (b) that ranges from about 1 : about 0.05 to about 1 : about 0.3. In some embodiments,
testosterone (a) and cholsterol (b) are present in a weight ratio of (a) : (b) that ranges from 1

                                                      14
0.05 to 1 : 0.3. In some embodiments, testosterone (a) and cholesterol (b) are present in a weight
ratio of (a) : (b) is about 1 : about 0.05, about 1 : about 0.1, about 1 : about 0.15, about 1 : about
0.2, about 1 : about 0.25, or about 1 : about 0.3. In some embodiments, testosterone (a) and
cholesterol (b) are present in a weight ratio of (a) : (b) is 1 : 0.05, 1 : 0.1, 1 : 0.15, 1 : 0.2, 1 : 0.25,
or 1 : 0.3. In some embodiments, the ratio of testosterone to (b) and the at least one phospholipid
(c), i.e., (a) : ((b) + (c)) range from about 1 : about 1 to about 1 : about 2.5. In some
embodiments, the ratio of testosterone to (b) and the at least one phospholipid (c), i.e.,
(a) : ((b) (c)) range from 1 : 1 to 1 : 2.5. In some embodiments, the ratio of testosterone to (b)
and the at least one phospholipid (c), i.e., (a) : ((b) + (c)) is about 1: about 1, about 1 : about 1.1,
about 1 : about 1.2, about 1 : about 1.3, about 1 : about 1.4, about 1: about 1.5, about 1 : about
1.6, about 1 : about 1.7, about 1 : about 1.8, about 1 : about 1.9, about 1 : about 2.0, about 1 :
about 2.1, about 1 : about 2.2, about 1 : about 2.3, about 1 : about 2.4, or about 1 : about 2.5. In
some embodiments, the ratio of testosterone to (b) and the at least one phospholipid (c), i.e., (a)
((b) + (c)) is 1 :1, 1 : 1. 1, 1 : 1.2, 1 : 1.3, 1 : 1.4, 1 : 1.5, 1 : 1.6, 1 : 1.7, 1 : 1.8, 1 : 1.9, 1:
2.0, 1 : 2.1, 1: 2.2, 1 : 2.3, 1 : 2.4, or 1 : 2.5. The weight ratios of the components in the
powder dispersion may be varied within these ranges. In some embodiments, the weight ratios of
testosterone : cholesterol : at least one phospholipid are: about 1 : about 0.1 : about 0.9; about 1 :
about 0.2 : about 1.8; and about 1 : about 0.2 : about 1.3. In some embodiments, the weight ratios
of testosterone : cholesterol : at least one phospholipid are: 1 : 0.1 : 0.9; 1 : 0.2 : 1.8; and 1 : 0.2 :
1.3. In certain embodiments, the weight ratio of (a) : (b) ranges from about 1 : about 0.1 to about
1 : about 0.2 and (a), (b) and the at least one phospholipid (c) are present in a weight ratio of (a):
((b) + (c)) ranging from about 1 : about 1.1 and about 1 : about 2. In certain embodiments, the
weight ratio of (a) : (b) ranges from 1: 0.1 to 1 : 0.2 and (a), (b) and the at least one phospholipid
(c) are present in a weight ratio of (a): ((b) + (c)) ranging from 1 : 1.1 and 1 : 2.
10561     In some embodiments, a proliposomal powder dispersion disclosed herein comprises (a)
testosterone, (b) cholesterol, and (c) at least one phospholipid. In some embodiments, a
proliposomal powder dispersion disclosed herein comprises (a) testosterone, (b) cholesterol, and
(c) two phospholipids. The phospholipid component of a powder dispersion disclosed herein is
any pharmaceutically acceptable phospholipid and mixtures of such phospholipids. Natural as
well as synthetic phospholipids may be used. Phospholipids are molecules that have two primary
regions, a hydrophilic head region comprised of a phosphate of an organic molecule and one or

                                                    15
more hydrophobic fatty acid tails. Naturally-occurring phospholipids generally have a
hydrophilic region comprised of choline, glycerol and a phosphate and two hydrophobic regions
comprised of fatty acid. When phospholipids are placed in an aqueous environment, the
hydrophilic heads come together in a linear configuration with their hydrophobic tails aligned
essentially parallel to one another. A second line of molecules then aligns tail-to-tail with the
first line as the hydrophobic tails attempt to avoid the aqueous environment. To achieve
maximum avoidance of contact with the aqueous environment, i.e., at the edges of the bilayers,
while at the same time minimizing the surface area to volume ratio and thereby achieve a
minimal energy conformation, the two lines of phospholipids, known as a phospholipid bilayer or
a lamella, converge into a liposome. In doing so, the liposomes (or phospholipid spheres) entrap
some of the aqueous medium, and whatever may be dissolved or suspended in it, in the core of
the sphere. This includes components of a proliposomal powder dispersion disclosed herein,
such as testosterone and other components.
10571    Examples of suitable phospholipids that may be used in a proliposomal powder dispersion
disclosed herein include but are not limited to distearoyl phosphatidylcholine, dipalmitoyl
phosphatidylcholine, dimyristoyl phosphatidylcholine, egg phosphatidylcholine, soy
phosphatidylcholine, dimyrsityl phosphatidyl glycerol sodium, 1,2-dimyristoyl-phosphatidic acid,
dipalmitoylphosphatidylglycerol, dipalmitoyl phosphate, 1,2-distearoyl-sn-glycero-3-phospho
rac-glycerol, 1,2-distearoyl-sn-glycero-3-phosphatidic acid, phosphatidylserine and
sphingomyelin. The proliposomal powder dispersions disclosed herein may also comprise
individual combinations of any of the aforementioned phospholipids. In some embodiments,
phospholipids containing saturated fatty acids are employed. In certain instances, use of
phospholipids containing saturated fatty acids avoid stability (chemical) problems sometimes
associated with unsaturated fatty acids. The phospholipid, distearoyl phosphatidylcholine, has
been found to be particularly useful in the powder dispersions described herein. In some
embodiments, the phospholipid is distearoyl phosphatidylcholine.
10581    In some embodiments, a proliposomal powder dispersion disclosed herein comprises (a)
testosterone, (b) cholesterol, and (c) at least one phospholipid. In some embodiments, a
proliposomal powder dispersion disclosed herein comprises (a) testosterone, (b) a cholesterol
derivative, and (c) at least one phospholipid. In some embodiments, a proliposomal powder
dispersion disclosed herein comprises (a) testosterone, (b) cholesterol, a cholesterol derivative, or

                                                  16
a combination thereof, and (c) at least one phospholipid, wherein the amount of a cholesterol
derivative in the proliposomal dispersion corresponds to a molar amount of cholesterol allowed in
a proliposomal dispersion based on the range of weight : weight ratios of cholesterol to the other
proliposomal dispersion components that are specified herein. The cholesterol component of the
proliposomal powder dispersion disclosed herein is either cholesterol (3p-hydroxy-5-cholestene
5-cholesten-3p-ol) or a cholesterol derivative. Examples of suitable cholesterol and derivatives
include, but are not limited to: 22(R)-hydroxycholesterol; 22(S)-hydroxycholesterol; 25
hydroxycholesterol; 5-cholesten-3 p-ol-7-one; 5a-cholest-7-en-3p-ol; 5a-cholestan-3 p-ol; 5a
cholestane; 5p-cholestan-3a-ol; 7p-hydroxycholesterol; campesterol; cholesta-3,5-diene;
cholestanol; cholesterol 5a,6a-epoxide; cholesterol 5p,6p-epoxide; cholesterol-PEG 600;
cholesterol; cholesteryl 10-undecenoate; cholesteryl acetate; cholesteryl arachidonate; cholesteryl
behenate; cholesteryl butyrate; cholesteryl caprylate; cholesteryl dodecanoate; cholesteryl
elaidate; cholesteryl erucate; cholesteryl heptadecanoate; cholesteryl heptanoate; cholesteryl
hexanoate; cholesteryl linoleate; cholesteryl linolelaidate; cholesteryl myristate; cholesteryl N
(trimethylammonioethyl)carbamate chloride; cholesteryl n-decanoate; cholesteryl n-valerate;
cholesteryl nervonate; cholesteryl oleate; cholesteryl palmitate; cholesteryl palmitelaidate;
cholesteryl pelargonate; cholesteryl phenylacetate; cholesteryl stearate; glycocholic acid hydrate;
lanosterol; sodium cholesteryl sulfate; stigmastanol; SyntheChol*; Thiocholesterol. The
proliposomal powder dispersions disclosed herein may also comprise individual combinations of
any of the aforementioned cholesterol compnents.
10591    In some embodiments, a proliposomal powder dispersion disclosed herein is prepared by
first dissolving testosterone in a solvent. The solvent is any solvent in which testosterone
dissolves, but is prefarably a water-miscible solvent. Examples of such solvents include, but are
not limited to, ethanol, methanol, chloroform, dichloromethane, acetone, isopropyl alcoho, and
diethyl ether. If water is to be present in combination with a water-miscible solvent, (e.g., an
ethanol and water solvent system), the water may be added before or after the testosterone is
dissolved. Solvent-water systems are also made on a volume to volume basis, and the amount of
water should not be so much that the phospholid forms liposomes. Generally, the solvent
solution should not comprise 10% or more of water (vol/vol). Once the testosterone is dissolved,
in some embodiments cholesterol, and at least one phospholipid, as well as any other
proliposomal powder components are added to the solution and mixed to form a solution or

                                                    17
dispersion of the components in the solvent. In various embodiments, the amounts of
phospholipid and cholesterol added to the solution are such that the ratio (wt/wt) of testosterone
to phospholipid to cholesterol ranges from (0.50-3.50):(0.50-3.00):(0.05-0.50).       In various
embodiments, the amounts of phospholipid and cholesterol added to the solution are such that the
ratio (wt/wt) of testosterone to phospholipid to cholesterol range from (about 0.50-about
3.50):(about 0.50-about 3.00):(about 0.05-about 0.50). In some embodiments, the the ratio
(wt/wt) of testosterone to phospholipid to cholesterol ranges: (1.00: 0.90 : 0.10);
(1.50 :1.35 : 0.15); (1.50 : 2.70 : 0.30); (1.00 : 1.35 : 0.15); or (3.00 : 2.70: 0.30), respectively, as
well as any ratio in between these ratios. In some embodiments, the the ratio (wt/wt) of
testosterone to phospholipid to cholesterol ranges: (about 1.00 : about 0.90 : about 0.10); (about
1.50 : about 1.35 : about 0.15); (about 1.50 : about 2.70 : about 0.30); (about 1.00 : about 1.35:
about 0.15); or (about 3.00 : about 2.70 : about 0.30), respectively, as well as any ratio in between
these ratios. The dissolution of testosterone and the mixing of other components is done in one
or a series of steps and by any suitable means and preferably by stirring. In some embodiments,
after mixing, the solvent is removed to yield a powder. The solvent is removed by suitable
techinique, for example, by evaporation, by placing the solution under vacuum, by spray-drying,
or by use of a drying gas, and the like. In some embodiments, the components are mixed by
stirring at room temperature until the solvent evaporates, i.e., by stirring overnight. In some
embodiments, a method of removing the solvent further comprises use of heat. The particle size
of resulting powder dispersion may be reduced by grinding, passing the powder through screens,
or by any other suitable technique. In some embodiments, the particles within a proliposomal
powder dispersion described herein may have powder size ranging from about 10 to 200 mesh,
20 to 120 mesh or 40 to 80 mesh. If desired, the proliposomal powder disperison may undergo
further drying to remove or reduce the amount of any residual solvent still present in the powder.
Such a further drying step is performed by using one or more of the drying techniques discussed
above or by other suitable drying technique.
10601    In some embodiments, a proliposomal powder dispersion disclosed herein further
comprises other pharmaceutically acceptable excipients. When preparing a proliposomal powder
dispersion described herein, excipients are generally added to the combined, powdered mixture of
testosterone, choleseterol and phospholipid, i.e., excipients are added "externally." For example,
the free-flowing powdered formulation may be admixed with at least one pharmaceutically

                                                     18
acceptable excipient. Exemplary pharmaceutically acceptable excipients include, but are not
limited to: (a) fillers or extenders, such as, for example, starches, lactose (e.g., lactose
monohydrate), sucrose, glucose, mannitol, and silicic acid; (b) binders, such as, for example,
cellulose derivatives, including microcrystalline cellulose, e.g., the various Avicel* PH products
(FMC BioPolymer - Philadelphia, PA) (e.g., Avicel* PH-101 and PH-102), and Prosolv* SMCC
90 and Prosolv* SMCC 90 HD (JRS Pharma - Rosenberg, Germany), starch, aliginates, gelatin,
polyvinylpyrrolidone, sucrose, and gum acacia, (c) humectants, such as, for example, glycerol,
(d) disintegrating agents, such as, for example, agar-agar, calcium carbonate, potato or tapioca
starch, e.g., sodium starch glycolate (e.g., Explotab* disintegrant (JRS Pharma - Rosenberg,
Germany)), alginic acid, croscarmellose sodium, complex silicates, and sodium carbonate, (e)
solution retarders, such as, for example, paraffin, (f) absorption accelerators, such as, for
example, quaternary ammonium compounds, (g) wetting agents, such as, for example, cetyl
alcohol, and glycerol monostearate, magnesium stearate and the like, (h) adsorbents, such as, for
example, kaolin and bentonite, (i) lubricants, such as, for example, talc, calcium stearate,
magnesium stearate, solid polyethylene glycols, sodium lauryl sulfate (SLS), (j) plasticizers, and
(k) dispersants,including mannitol, e.g., Pearlitol* SD 2000 (Roguette Pharma - Lestrem,
France), or combinations thereof. In some embodiments, the pharmaceutically acceptable
excipients are used in any suitable amount for the particular excipient. Where the excipient is not
a binder, in some embodiments the excipients are present in a testosterone : excipient weight ratio
ranging from about 1 : about 0.05 to about 1 : about 0.3, and from about 1: about 0.1 to about 1 :
about 0.2. Where the excipient is not a binder, in some embodiments the excipients are present in
a testosterone : excipient weight ratio ranging from 1 : 0.05 to 1 : 0.3, and from about 1 : 0.1 to 1
: 0.2. Where the excipients are binders, in some embodiments the testosterone : excipient weight
ratio ranges from about 1 : about 0.5 to about 1 : about 4. Where the excipients are binders, in
some embodiments the testosterone : excipient weight ratio ranges from 1 : 0.5 to 1 : 4.
10611   In some embodiments, a formualtion described herein further comprises a disintegrating
agent. In various embodiments, the formulation comprises the disintegrating agent, sodium
starch glycolate, e.g., Explotab* disintegrant. Other suitable disintregating agents may also be
sued. In some embodiments, the ratio of disintegrating agent to the the combined mixture of
testosterone, phospholipid, and cholesterol ("the proliposomal powder component of the
formulation") ranges from about 1 : about 10 to about 1 : about 35 (wt/wt), which correlates to a

                                                   19
ratio of disintegrating agent to testosterone that ranges from about 1 : about 5 to about 1 : about
20. In some embodiments, the ratio of disintegrating agent to the the combined mixture of
testosterone, phospholipid, and cholesterol ("the proliposomal powder component of the
formulation") ranges from 1 : 10 to 1 : 35 (wt/wt), which correlates to a ratio of disintegrating
agent to testosterone that ranges from 1 : 5 to 1 : 20.
10621    In some embodiments, a formualtion described herein further comprises a binder.
Because binders are often classified according to particle size, the particle size of the binder
excipient that is included in the formulation is selected based on the knowledge and skill of one
of skill in the pharmaceutical formulation arts. In some embodiments, the binder is a
microcrystalline cellulose, such as Avicel@PH-101, which has a particle size of 50 pLm, or
Avicel* PH-102, which has a particle size of 100 ptm. Alternatively, in other embodiments, the
binder is Prosolv* SMCC 90 or Prosolv* SMCC 90 HD which are both microcrystalline cellulose
binders, each with a particle size of 110 pim. In still other embodiments, the binder is dibasic
calcium phosphate (DCP). In some embodiments, the ratio of microcrystalline cellulose binder to
the proliposomal powder component of the formulation ranges from from 1 : 1 to 3 : 1 (wt/wt),
which correlates to a ratio of binder to testosterone that ranges from 4 : 1 to 1.5 : 1. In some
embodiments, the ratio of microcrystalline cellulose binder to the proliposomal powder
component of the formulation ranges from from about 1 : about 1 to about 3 : about 1 (wt/wt),
which correlates to a ratio of binder to testosterone that ranges from 4 : 1 to 1.5 : 1. In some
embodiments, the binder is DCP and the ratio of binder to the proliposomal powder component
ranges from 0.25 1 to 1.6 : 1 wt/wt), which correlates to a ratio of binder to testosterone that
ranges from 0.20: 1 to 0.50 : 1. In some embodiments, the binder is DCP and the ratio of binder
to the proliposomal powder component ranges from about 0.25 : about 1 to about 1.6 : about 1
wt/wt), which correlates to a ratio of binder to testosterone that ranges from about 0.20 : about 1
to about 0.50 : about 1.
10631    In some embodiments, a formualtion described herein further comprises a lubricant. In
some embodiments, the formulation comprises the lubricant, magnesium (Mg) stearate. In some
embodiments, the ratio of lubricant to the proliposomal powder component of the formulation
ranges from 145 : I to 225 : 1 (wt/wt), which correlates to a ratio of lubricant to testosterone that
ranges from 70 : 1 to 115 : 1. In some embodiments, the ratio of lubricant to the proliposomal
powder component of the formulation ranges from about 145 : about 1 to about 225 : about 1

                                                   20
(wt/wt), which correlates to a ratio of lubricant to testosterone that ranges from about 70 : about 1
to about 115 : about 1.
10641   In some embodiments, a formualtion described herein further comprises a dispersant. In
some embodiments, the formulation comprises the dispersant, mannitol, e.g., Pearlitol* SD 200.
In some embodiments, the ratio of dispersant to the proliposomal powder component of the
formulation ranges from 0.20 : 1 to 0.60 : 1 (wt/wt), which correlates to a ratio of dispersant to
testosterone that ranges from 0.40 : 1.0 to 1.5 : 1.0. In some embodiments, the ratio of dispersant
to the proliposomal powder component of the formulation ranges from about 0.20 : about 1 to
about 0.60 : about 1 (wt/wt), which correlates to a ratio of dispersant to testosterone that ranges
from about 0.40 : about 1.0 to about 1.5 : about 1.0.
10651   Disclosed herein, in certain embodiments, is an oral dosage form comprising a
proliposomal powder dispersion or a pharmaceutcal composition described herein. Exemplary
forms of the pharamceutical compositions described herein, include, a tablet, a pill, a powder, a
capsule (including both soft or hard capsules made from animal-derived gelatin or plant-derived
HPMC), a sachet, a troche, pellets, granules, emulsions, and solutions. In some embodiments,
the oral dosage form is a tablet or a capsule. In some embodiments, the oral dosage form has a
delayed release coating (e.g., an enteric coating). In some embodiments, the oral dosage form
has an enteric coating.
10661   Tablets may be prepared by any suitable technique (e.g., compression techniques).
Conventional techniques include, e.g., one or a combination of methods: (1) dry mixing, (2)
direct compression, (3) milling, (4) dry or non-aqueous granulation, (5) wet granulation, or (6)
fusion. See, e.g., Lachman et al., The Theory and Practice of Industrial Pharmacy (1986). Other
methods include, e.g., spray drying, pan coating, melt granulation, granulation, fluidized bed
spray drying or coating (e.g., wurster coating), tangential coating, top spraying, tableting,
extruding and the like.
10671   Compressed tablets are solid dosage forms prepared by compacting the bulk blend
formulations described above. In other embodiments, the compressed tablets will include a film
surrounding the final compressed tablet. In some embodiments, the film coating aids in patient
compliance (e.g., Opadry* coatings or sugar coating). Film coatings comprising Opadry*
typically range from about 1% to about 5% of the tablet weight. In other embodiments, the
compressed tablets include one or more excipients.

                                                   21
10681    Provided herein are pharmaceutical compositions in film-coated dosage forms, which
comprise a combination of an active ingredient, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt, solvate, or
prodrug thereof; and one or more tabletting excipients to form a tablet core using conventional
tabletting processes and subsequently coating the core. The tablet cores can be produced using
conventional granulation methods, for example wet or dry granulation, with optional
comminution of the granules and with subsequent compression and coating.
10691    In some embodiments, compressed tablets are solid dosage forms prepared by compacting
the bulk blend compositions described above. In some embodiments, the compressed tablets
comprise a film surrounding the final compressed tablet.
10701    Further provided herein are pharmaceutical compositions in enteric coated dosage forms,
which comprise a combination of an active ingredient, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt,
solvate, or prodrug thereof; and one or more release controlling excipients for use in an enteric
coated dosage form. The pharmaceutical compositions also comprise non-release controlling
excipients. Enteric-coatings are coatings that resist the action of stomach acid but dissolve or
disintegrate in the intestine.
10711    Capsules include both soft and hard capsules, e.g., capsules made from animal-derived
gelatin or plant-derived HPMC. In some embodiments, the capsule is a size 5, 4, 3, 2, 1, 0, 0E,
00, 000, 13, 12, 12el, 11, 10, 7 or Su07. In various embodiments, the capsule is a size '00' Vcaps
or a hard gelatin capsule.In some embodiments, the capsules are filled with the powdered
proliposomal testosterone formulation disclosed herein, including excipients.
10721    In one embodiment, pharmaceutical compositions which are used orally include push-fit
capsules made of gelatin, as well as soft, sealed capsules made of gelatin and a plasticizer, such
as glycerol or sorbitol. In addition, in one embodiment, stabilizers are added.
10731    Capsules are filled using any suitable techniques. A capsule may be prepared by placing
the bulk blend composition, described above, inside a capsule.
10741    It should be understood that many carriers and excipients may serve several functions,
even within the same formulation.
10751    As discussed above, the filled capsules may be coated with a delayed release coating (e.g.,
an enteric coating). In some embodiments, the delayed release coating (e.g., an enteric coating)
releases the proliposomal powder dispersion in the small intestine. In various embodiments, the
delayed release coating (e.g., an enteric coating) composition comprises a polymer, such as an

                                                   22
aqueous dispersion of anionic polymers with methacrylic acid as a functional group (e.g.,
Eudragit L3OD-55 (Evonik Industries). In some embodiments, the delayed release coating (e.g.,
an enteric coating) composition comprises a plasticizer (e.g., triethyl citrate). In some
embodiments, the delayed release coating (e.g., an enteric coating) composition comprises an
anti-tacking agent (e.g., talc). In some embodiments, the delayed release coating (e.g., an enteric
coating) composition comprises a diluent such as water. In some embodiments, the coating
composition comprises about: about 42 weight % (wt %) of an aqueous dispersion of anionic
polymers with methacrylic acid as a functional group; about 1.25 wt % of a plasticizer; about
6.25 wt % of an anti-tacking agent; and about 51 wt % of a diluent. In some embodiments, the
coating composition comprises about: 42 weight % (wt %) of an aqueous dispersion of anionic
polymers with methacrylic acid as a functional group; 1.25 wt % of a plasticizer; 6.25 wt % of an
anti-tacking agent; and 51 wt % of a diluent. In some embodiments, for example when a large
scale preparations are prefererred, an appropriate amount of an anionic copolymer based on
methacrylic acid and ethyl acrylate, such as Eudragit* L100-55, is used in place of Eudragit*
L3OD-55. The coating composition is applied to the capsules by using any suitable method, such
as, but not limited to using a Procept pan coating machine and Caleva mini coater air suspension
coating machine to coat the capsules until they experience a 10% to 15% weight gain.
10761   In some embodiments, the solid dosage forms described herein can be formulated as
enteric coated delayed release oral dosage forms, i.e., as an oral dosage form of a pharmaceutical
composition as described herein which utilizes a delayed release coating (e.g., an enteric coating)
to affect release in the small intestine of the gastrointestinal tract.
10771   In some embodiments, the solid dosage forms described herein are coated. In various
embodiments contemplated herein, the coating is, for example, a gastric resistant coating such as
an delayed release coating (e.g., an enteric coating), a controlled-release coating, an enzymatic
controlled coating, a film coating, a sustained-release coating, an immediate-release coating, a
delayed-release coating, or a moisture barrier coating. See, e.g, Remington's Pharmaceutical
Sciences, 20th Edition (2000).
10781   In some embodiments a delayed release formulation is prepared by (a) spraying the
proliposomal dispersion on to nonpareil beads by top spray configuration, (b) coating the beads
with a barrier coat, and (c) coating the beads an delayed release coating (e.g., an enteric coating)
polymer. The enteric coated nonpareil beads are then formualted as tablets or capsules.

                                                    23
10791    The term "delayed release" as used herein refers to the delivery so that the release can be
accomplished at some generally predictable location in the intestinal tract more distal to that
which would have been accomplished if there had been no delayed release alterations. In some
embodiments, the pharmaceutical compositions described herein release the testosterone in the
small intestine. In some embodiments, the pharmaceutical compositions described herein release
the testosterone in the duodenum, jejunum or ileum. In some embodiments, the pharmaceutical
compositions described herein release the testosterone in the large intestine. In some
embodiments the method for delay of release is coating. Any coatings should be applied to a
sufficient thickness such that the entire coating does not dissolve in the gastrointestinal fluids at
pH below about 5, but does dissolve at pH about 5 and above. It is expected that any anionic
polymer exhibiting a pH-dependent solubility profile can be used as a delayed release coating
(e.g., an enteric coating) in the methods and compositions described herein to achieve delivery to
the lower gastrointestinal tract. In some embodiments the polymers described herein are anionic
carboxylic polymers. In other embodiments, the polymers and compatible mixtures thereof, and
some of their properties, include, but are not limited to:
10801    (a)     Shellac, also called purified lac, a refined product obtained from the resinous
secretion of an insect. This coating dissolves in media of pH >7;
10811    (b)     Acrylic polymers. The performance of acrylic polymers (primarily their solubility
in biological fluids) can vary based on the degree and type of substitution. Examples of suitable
acrylic polymers include methacrylic acid copolymers and ammonium methacrylate copolymers.
The Eudragit* series E, L, S, RL, RS and NE (Evonik industries) are available as solubilized in
organic solvent, aqueous dispersion, or dry powders. The Eudragit series RL, NE, and RS are
insoluble in the gastrointestinal tract but are permeable and are used primarily for colonic
targeting. The Eudragit* series E dissolve in the stomach. The Eudragit* series L, L-30D and S
are insoluble in stomach and dissolve in the intestine;
10821    (c)     Cellulose Derivatives. Examples of suitable cellulose derivatives are: ethyl
cellulose; reaction mixtures of partial acetate esters of cellulose with phthalic anhydride. The
performance can vary based on the degree and type of substitution. Cellulose acetate phthalate
(CAP) dissolves in pH >6. Aquateric (FMC) is an aqueous based system and is a spray dried
CAP psuedolatex with particles <1 tm. Other components in Aquateric can include pluronics,
Tweens, and acetylated monoglycerides. Other suitable cellulose derivatives include: cellulose

                                                    24
acetate trimellitate (Eastman); methylcellulose (Pharmacoat, Methocel); hydroxypropylmethyl
cellulose phthalate (HPMCP); hydroxypropylmethyl cellulose succinate (HPMCS); and
hydroxypropylmethylcellulose acetate succinate (e.g., AQOAT (Shin Etsu)). The performance
can vary based on the degree and type of substitution. For example, HPMCP such as, HP-50,
HP-55, HP-55S, HP-55F grades are suitable. The performance can vary based on the degree and
type of substitution. For example, suitable grades of hydroxypropylmethylcellulose acetate
succinate include, but are not limited to, AS-LG (LF), which dissolves at pH 5, AS-MG (MF),
which dissolves at pH 5.5, and AS-HG (HF), which dissolves at higher pH. These polymers are
offered as granules, or as fine powders for aqueous dispersions; Poly Vinyl Acetate Phthalate
(PVAP). PVAP dissolves in pH >5, and it is much less permeable to water vapor and gastric
fluids.
10831    In some embodiments, the coating may contain a plasticizer and possibly other coating
excipients such as colorants, talc, and/or magnesium stearate, which are well known in the art.
Suitable plasticizers include triethyl citrate (Citroflex 2), triacetin (glyceryl triacetate), acetyl
triethyl citrate (Citroflec A2), Carbowax 400 (polyethylene glycol 400), diethyl phthalate, tributyl
citrate, acetylated monoglycerides, glycerol, fatty acid esters, propylene glycol, and dibutyl
phthalate. In particular, anionic carboxylic acrylic polymers usually will contain 10-25% by
weight of a plasticizer, especially dibutyl phthalate, polyethylene glycol, triethyl citrate and
triacetin. Conventional coating techniques such as spray or pan coating are employed to apply
coatings. The coating thickness must be sufficient to ensure that the oral dosage form remains
intact until the desired site of topical delivery in the intestinal tract is reached.
10841    Colorants, detackifiers, surfactants, antifoaming agents, lubricants (e.g., camuba wax or
PEG) may be added to the coatings besides plasticizers to solubilize or disperse the coating
material, and to improve coating performance and the coated product.
10851    In some embodiments, a proliposomal powder dispersion disclosed herein improves the
bioavailabity of testosterone. In various embodiments, a fasting pharmacokinetic profile of mean
plasma concentration of testosterone ranges from 300 ng/dL to 1050 ng/dL (including, 400 ng/dL
to 950 ng/dL, 500 ng/dL to 950 ng/dL, and 600 ng/dL to 950 ng/dL) of testosterone five hours
after administration under fasting conditions, i.e., ingestion of an oral dosage form described
herein comprising 60 mg to 240 mg of testosterone. In some embodiments, a fasting
pharmacokinetic profile of mean plasma concentration of testosterone is from about 300 ng/dL to

                                                  25
about 1050 ng/dL of testosterone five hours after administration under fasting conditions, i.e.,
ingestion of an oral dosage form described herein comprising 60 mg to 240 mg of testosterone. In
some embodiments, a fasting pharmacokinetic profile of mean plasma concentration of
testosterone ranges from about 300 ng/dL to about 1050 ng/dL (including, about 400 ng/dL to
about 950 ng/dL, about 500 ng/dL to about 950 ng/dL, and about 600 ng/dL to about 950 ng/dL)
of testosterone five hours after administration under fasting conditions, i.e., ingestion of an oral
dosage form described herein comprising from about 60 mg to about 240 mg of testosterone. In
some embodiments, a fasting pharmacokinetic profile of mean plasma concentration of
testosterone is about 350 ng/dL of testosterone five hours after administration under fasting
conditions, i.e., ingestion of an oral dosage form described herein comprising about 100 mg to
about 260 mg of testosterone. Such results represent as much as a 130 to 150 fold improvement
in the mean plasma concentration of testosterone as compared to administration of equal dosages
of unformulated testosterone. A dosage form described herein improves the bioavailibility of
testosterone under non-fasting, i.e., "fed" condtions. When a dosage form described herein is
administered under fed conditions, the maximum plasma concentration (Cmax) is about one half as
much as the Cmax under fasting conditions five hours after administration. In some embodiments,
the Cmax of the testosterone metabolite, dihydrotestosterone (DHT) is about 70 ng/dL after five
hours. In some embodiments, the Cmax of the testosterone metabolite, dihydrotestosterone (DHT)
is 70 ng/dL after five hours for a 120 mg dose. In some embodiments, after about 24 hours under
fed condtions the plasma concentration of testosterone following the administration of a dosage
form disclosed herein is greater than about 350 ng/dL, and the testosterone metabolite, DHT, has
a Cmax of about 40 ng/dL, both of which are above a typical normal ranges of endogenous
testosterone and DHT, respectively, in a human. In some embodiments, after 24 hours under fed
condtions the plasma concentration of testosterone following the administration of a dosage form
disclosed herein is 350 ng/dL, and the testosterone metabolite, DHT5 has a Cmax of 40 ng/dL,
both of which are above a typical normal ranges of endogenous testosterone and DHT,
respectively, in a human.
Dose Amounts
10861   In certain embodiments, the amount of testosterone in the pharmaceutical compositions is
about 5mg to about 1.Og per dose, 10mg to about 1.Og per dose, about 50mg to about 500mg per
dose. In some embodiments, the amount of testosterone in the pharmaceutical compositions is

                                                  26
about 5mg per dose, 10mg per dose, about 50mg per dose, about 100mg per dose, about 120mg
per dose, about 150mg per dose, about 180mg per dose, about 210mg per dose, about 240mg per
dose, about 270mg per dose, about 300mg per dose, about 350mg per dose, about 400mg per
dose, about 450mg per dose, about 500mg per dose, or about 1000mg per dose. In some
embodiments, the amount of testosterone in the pharmaceutical compositions is about 120mg per
dose. In some other embodiments, the amount of testosterone in the pharmaceutical
compositions is about 240mg per dose
10871   In general, doses employed for adult human treatment are typically in the range of 50 mg
1000 mg per day. In one aspect, doses employed for adult human treatment are from about 100
mg to about 300 mg per day. In some embodiments, doses employed for adult human treatment
are about 120 mg per day. In some embodiments, doses employed for adult human treatment are
about 240 mg per day. In one embodiment, the desired dose is conveniently presented in a single
dose or in divided doses administered simultaneously (or over a short period of time) or at
appropriate intervals, for example as two, three, four or more sub-doses per day.
10881   In one embodiment, the daily dosages appropriate for testosterone is from about 0.01 to
about 10 mg/kg per body weight. In other embodiments, the daily dosage or the amount of active
in the dosage form are lower or higher than the ranges indicated herein.
Methods of Dosing and Treatment Regimens
10891   In some embodiments, the proliposomal powder dispersions and the pharmaceutical
compositions disclosed herein are administered to an individual in need of testosterone
replacement therapy as often as testosterone replacement therapy is needed. In one embodiment,
the pharmaceutical compositions described herein are administered for prophylactic and/or
therapeutic treatments. In therapeutic applications, the compositions are administered to an
individual already suffering from a disease or condition, in an amount sufficient to remove all
symptoms or at least partially arrest at least one of the symptoms of the disease or condition. In
certain embodiments, amounts effective for this use depend on the severity and course of the
disease or condition, previous therapy, the individual's health status, weight, and response to the
drugs, and/or the judgment of the treating physician.
10901   In prophylactic applications, compositions described herein are administered to an
individual susceptible to or otherwise at risk of a particular disease, disorder or condition. Such
an amount is defined to be a "prophylactically effective amount or dose." In this use, the precise

                                                   27
amounts also depend on the individual's state of health, weight, and the like. When used in an
individual, effective amounts for this use will depend on the severity and course of the disease,
disorder or condition, previous therapy, the patient's health status and response to the drugs, and
the judgment of the treating physician.
10911   In certain embodiments, administration of compositions or therapies as described herein
includes chronic administration. In certain embodiments, chronic administration includes
administration for an extended period of time, including, e.g., throughout the duration of the
individual's life in order to ameliorate or otherwise control or limit the symptoms of the
individual's disease or condition. In some embodiments, chronic administration includes daily
administration.
10921   In some embodiments, administration of the compositions or therapies described herein is
given continuously. In alternative embodiments, the dose of drug being administered is
temporarily reduced or temporarily suspended for a certain length of time (i.e., a "drug holiday").
In some embodiments, the length of the drug holiday varies between 2 days and 1 year, including
by way of example only, 2 days, 3 days, 4 days, 5 days, 6 days, 7 days, 10 days, 12 days, 15 days,
20 days, 28 days, 35 days, 50 days, 70 days, 100 days, 120 days, 150 days, 180 days, 200 days,
250 days, 280 days, 300 days, 320 days, 350 days, and 365 days. The dose reduction during a
drug holiday is from 10%-100%, including by way of example only 10%, 15%, 20%, 25%, 30%,
35%, 40%, 45%, 50%, 55%, 60%, 65%, 7 0%, 7 5%, 80%, 85%, 90%, 95%, and 100%.
10931   Once improvement of the individual's conditions has occurred, a maintenance dose is
administered if necessary. Subsequently, in specific embodiments, the dosage or the frequency
of administration, or both, is reduced, as a function of the symptoms, to a level at which the
improved disease, disorder or condition is retained. In certain embodiments, however, the
individual requires intermittent treatment on a long-term basis upon any recurrence of symptoms.
10941   The amount of testosterone that corresponds to such an amount varies depending upon
factors such as the particular testosterone derivative, disease or condition and its severity, the
identity (e.g., weight, sex) of the subject or host in need of treatment, but can nevertheless be
determined according to the particular circumstances surrounding the case, including, e.g., the
specific agent being administered, the route of administration, the condition being treated, and the
subject or host being treated.

                                                     28
Combination Treatments
10951    In certain instances, it is appropriate to administer the proliposomal powder dispersions
and the pharmaceutical compositions disclosed herein with another therapeutic agent.
10961    In general, the compositions described herein and, in embodiments where combinational
therapy is employed, other agents do not have to be administered in the same pharmaceutical
composition, and are, because of different physical and chemical characteristics, administered by
different routes. In one embodiment, the initial administration is made according to established
protocols, and then, based upon the observed effects, the dosage, modes of administration and
times of administration, further modified.
10971    In various embodiments, the multiple therapeutic agents are administered concurrently
(e.g., simultaneously, essentially simultaneously or within the same treatment protocol) or
sequentially, depending upon the nature of the disease, the condition of the patient, and the actual
choice of compounds used. In certain embodiments, the determination of the order of
administration, and the number of repetitions of administration of each therapeutic agent during a
treatment protocol, is based upon evaluation of the disease being treated and the condition of the
individual.
10981    For combination therapies described herein, dosages of the co-administered therapeutic
agents vary depending on the type of co-drug employed, on the specific drug employed, on the
disease or condition being treated and so forth.
10991    The individual therapeutic agents of such combinations are administered either
sequentially or simultaneously in separate or combined pharmaceutical formulations. In one
embodiment, the individual therapeutic agents will be administered simultaneously in a combined
pharmaceutical formulation. Appropriate doses of known therapeutic agents will be appreciated
by those skilled in the art.
101001           The combinations referred to herein are conveniently presented for use in the form
of a pharmaceutical compositions together with a pharmaceutically acceptable diluent(s) or
carrier(s).
101011           In some embodiments, the proliposomal powder dispersions and the
pharmaceutical compositions disclosed herein are administered in combination with other
therapeutic agents that reduce the severity of or eliminite the adverse effects associated with
testosterone supplementation. In some embodiments, adverse effects of testosterone

                                                  29
supplementation include acne and oily skin, increased hematocrit, exacerbation of sleep apnea
and acceleration of pre-existing prostate cancer growth in individuals who have undergone
androgen deprivation. Another adverse effect may be significant hair loss and/or thinning of the
hair. Exogenous testosterone also causes suppression of spermatogenesis and can lead to
infertility.
101021           In some embodiments, the proliposomal powder dispersions and the
pharmaceutical compositions disclosed herein are administered in combination with other
therapeutic agents that modulate testosterone metabolism. In some embodiments, the other
therapeutic agents reduce testosterone metabolism to dihydrotestosterone (DHT). In some
embodiments, the other therapeutic agents reduce testosterone metabolism to estrogens (e.g.
estradiol).
101031           In some embodiments, the proliposomal powder dispersions and the
pharmaceutical compositions disclosed herein are administered in combination with a synthetic
5-alpha-reductase inhibitor. 5-Alpha-reductase inhibitors locks DHT, a byproduct of testosterone
in the body. 5-Alpha-reductase inhibitors include, but are not limited to, finasteride, alfatradiol,
and dutasteride.
101041           In some embodiments, the proliposomal powder dispersions and the
pharmaceutical compositions disclosed herein are administered in combination with clomifene.
101051           Gonadotropin and testosterone therapy is available in treatment of hypogonadism
in men. The treatment strategy depends on the age of patient and the goals of therapy (restore of
fertility and/or produce and maintain of virilization). The gonadototropins and GnRH are useful
in spermetogenesis stimulation. In some embodiments, the proliposomal powder dispersions and
the pharmaceutical compositions disclosed herein are administered in combination with
gonadotropins and/or GnRH.
101061           In some embodiments, the compositions and methods described herein are also
used in conjunction with estrogen inhibitors, for example aromatase inhibitors. In some
embodiments, the proliposomal powder dispersions and the pharmaceutical compositions
disclosed herein are administered in combination with an aromatase inhibitor or combinations of
aromatase inhibitors. Exemplary aromatase inhibitors include, but are not limited to,
aminoglutethimide, testolactone, anastrozole, letrozole, exemestane, vorozole, formestan,

                                                  30
fadrozole, 4-hydroxyandrostenedione, 1,4,6-Androstatrien-3,17-dione (ATD), and 4-Androstene
3,6,17-trione ("6-OXO").
101071          In one embodiment, the compositions and methods described herein are also used
in conjunction with other therapeutic reagents that are selected for their particular usefulness
against the condition that is being treated. For example, the compositions disclosed herein may be
administered in combination with insulin where the conditions is testosterone deficiency
associated with diabetes; the composition may be administered in combination with calcium or an
osteoporosis medication where the condition to be treated is testosterone deficiency associated
with osteoporisis; the compositions may be administered in combination with an HIV/AIDS
medication where the condition to be treated is testosterone deficiency associated with
HIV/AIDS; the compositions may be administered in combination with an chemotherapy or
radiation therpary where the condition to be treated is testosterone deficiency associated with
cancer.
101081          Exemplary osteoporsis medications include calcium, calcitonin, parathyroid
hormone, recombinant parathyroid hormone (e.g., teriparatide), a RANKL inhibitor (e.g.,
denosumab), a bisphosphonate (e.g., etidronate, clodronate, tiludronate, pamidronate, neridronate,
olpadronate, alendronate, ibandronate, risedronate, zoledronate).
101091          Exemplary HIV/AIDS medications include abacavir; amprenavir; atazanavir;
darunavir; delavirdine; didanosine; edurant; efavirenz; emtricitabine; enfuvirtide; etravirine;
fosamprenavir; indinavir; lamivudine; lopinavir; maraviroc; nelfinavir; nevirapine; raltegravir;
ritonavir; saquinavir; stavudine; tenofovir disoproxil fumarate (DF); tipranavir; zalcitabine;
zidovudine.
101101          Exemplary chemotherapeutics include nitrogen mustards such as for example,
bendamustine, chlorambucil, chlormethine, cyclophosphamide, ifosfamide, melphalan,
prednimustine, trofosfamide; Alkyl Sulfonates like busulfan, mannosulfan, treosulfan; Ethylene
Imines like carboquone, thiotepa, triaziquone; Nitrosoureas like carmustine, fotemustine,
lomustine, nimustine, ranimustine, semustine, streptozocin; Epoxides such as for example,
etoglucid; Other Alkylating Agents such as for example dacarbazine, mitobronitol, pipobroman,
temozolomide; Folic Acid Analogues such as for example methotrexate, permetrexed,
pralatrexate, raltitrexed; Purine Analogs such as for example cladribine, clofarabine, fludarabine,
mercaptopurine, nelarabine, tioguanine; Pyrimidine Analogs such as for example azacitidine,

                                                   31
capecitabine, carmofur, cytarabine, decitabine, fluorouracil, gemcitabine, tegafur; Vinca
Alkaloids such as for example vinblastine, vincristine, vindesine, vinflunine, vinorelbine;
Podophyllotoxin Derivatives such as for example etoposide, teniposide; Colchicine derivatives
such as for example demecolcine; Taxanes such as for example docetaxel, paclitaxel, paclitaxel
poliglumex; Other Plant Alkaloids and Natural Products such as for example trabectedin;
Actinomycines such as for example dactinomycin; Antracyclines such as for example
aclarubicin, daunorubicin, doxorubicin, epirubicin, idarubicin, mitoxantrone, pirarubicin,
valrubicin, zorubincin; Other Cytotoxic Antibiotics such as for example bleomycin, ixabepilone,
mitomycin, plicamycin; Platinum Compounds such as for example carboplatin, cisplatin,
oxaliplatin, satraplatin; Methylhydrazines such as for example procarbazine; Sensitizers such as
for example aminolevulinic acid, efaproxiral, methyl aminolevulinate, porfimer sodium,
temoporfin; Protein Kinase Inhibitors such as for example dasatinib, erlotinib, everolimus,
gefitinib, imatinib, lapatinib, nilotinib, pazonanib, sorafenib, sunitinib, temsirolimus; Other
Antineoplastic Agents such as for example alitretinoin, altretamine, amzacrine, anagrelide,
arsenic trioxide, asparaginase, bexarotene, bortezomib, celecoxib, denileukin diftitox,
estramustine, hydroxycarbamide, irinotecan, lonidamine, masoprocol, miltefosein, mitoguazone,
mitotane, oblimersen, pegaspargase, pentostatin, romidepsin, sitimagene ceradenovec,
tiazofurine, topotecan, tretinoin, vorinostat; Estrogens such as for example diethylstilbenol,
ethinylestradiol, fosfestrol, polyestradiol phosphate; Progestogens such as for example
gestonorone, medroxyprogesterone, megestrol; Gonadotropin Releasing Hormone Analogs such
as for example buserelin, goserelin, leuprorelin, triptorelin; Anti-Estrogens such as for example
fulvestrant, tamoxifen, toremifene; Anti-Androgens such as for example bicalutamide, flutamide,
nilutamide, , Enzyme Inhibitors, aminoglutethimide, anastrozole, exemestane, formestane,
letrozole, vorozole; Other Hormone Antagonists such as for example abarelix, degarelix;
Immunostimulants such as for example histamine dihydrochloride, mifamurtide, pidotimod,
plerixafor, roquinimex, thymopentin; Immunosuppressants such as for example everolimus,
gusperimus, leflunomide, mycophenolic acid, sirolimus; Calcineurin Inhibitors such as for
example ciclosporin, tacrolimus; Other Immunosuppressants such as for example azathioprine,
lenalidomide, methotrexate, thalidomide; and Radiopharmaceuticals such as for example,
iobenguane; immunostimulants such as for example ancestim, filgrastim, lenograstim,
molgramostim, pegfilgrastim, sargramostim; interferons such as for example interferon alfa

                                                   32
natural, interferon alfa-2a, interferon alfa-2b, interferon alfacon-1, interferon alfa-n1, interferon
beta natural, interferon beta-la, interferon beta-Ib, interferon gamma, peginterferon alfa-2a,
peginterferon alfa-2b; Interleukins such as for example aldesleukin, oprelvekin; Other
immunostimulants such as for example BCG vaccine, glatiramer acetate, histamine
dihydrochloride, immunocyanin, lentinan, melanoma vaccine, mifamurtide, pegademase,
pidotimod, plerixafor, poly I:C, poly ICLC, roquinimex, tasonermin, thymopentin;
Immunosuppressants such as for example abatacept, abetimus, alefacept, antilymphocyte
immunoglobulin (horse), antithymocyte immunoglobulin (rabbit), eculizumab, efalizumab,
everolimus, gusperimus, leflunomide, muromab-CD3, mycophenolic acid, natalizumab,
sirolimus; TNF alpha Inhibitors such as for example adalimumab, afelimomab, certolizumab
pegol, etanercept, golimumab, infliximab; Interleukin Inhibitors such as for example anakinra,
basiliximab, canakinumab, daclizumab, mepolizumab, rilonacept, tocilizumab, ustekinumab;
Calcineurin Inhibitors such as for example ciclosporin, tacrolimus; immunosuppressants such as
for example azathioprine, lenalidomide, methotrexate, thalidomide; adalimumab, Alemtuzumab,
Basiliximab, Bevacizumab, Cetuximab, Certolizumab pegol, Daclizumab, Eculizumab,
Efalizumab, Gemtuzumab, Ibritumomab tiuxetan, Infliximab, Muromonab-CD3, Natalizumab,
Panitumumab, Ranibizumab, Rituximab, Tositumomab, Trastuzumab, or the like, or a
combination thereof.
Kits/Articles of Manufacture
101111          For use in the therapeutic methods of use described herein, kits/articles of
manufacture are also described herein. Such kits include a carrier, package, or container that is
optionally compartmentalized to receive one or more doses of a pharmaceutical composition of
testosterone as described herein. The kits provided herein contain packaging materials.
Packaging materials for use in packaging pharmaceutical products include, but are not limited to
those described in e.g., U.S. Patent No. 5,323,907. Examples of pharmaceutical packaging
materials include, but are not limited to, blister packs, bottles, tubes, bags, containers, bottles, and
any packaging material suitable for a selected formulation and intended mode of administration
and treatment. A wide array of formulations of the compounds and compositions provided herein
are contemplated as are a variety of treatments for any disease, disorder, or condition that would
benefit by treatment with testosterone replacement therapy.

                                                    33
101121           For example, the container(s) include the proliposomal powder dispersions and the
pharmaceutical compositions disclosed herein alone or in combination with another agent as
disclosed herein. Such kits optionally include an identifying description or label or instructions
relating to its use in the methods described herein.
101131           A kit typically includes labels listing contents and/or instructions for use, and
package inserts with instructions for use. A set of instructions will also typically be included.
101141           In one embodiment, a label is on or associated with the container. In one
embodiment, a label is on a container when letters, numbers or other characters forming the label
are attached, molded or etched into the container itself; a label is associated with a container
when it is present within a receptacle or carrier that also holds the container, e.g., as a package
insert. In one embodiment, a label is used to indicate that the contents are to be used for a
specific therapeutic application. The label also indicates directions for use of the contents, such
as in the methods described herein.
101151           In certain embodiments, the pharmaceutical compositions are presented in a pack
or dispenser device which contains one or more unit dosage forms containing a compound
provided herein. The pack, for example, contains metal or plastic foil, such as a blister pack. In
one embodiment, the pack or dispenser device is accompanied by instructions for administration.
In one embodiment, the pack or dispenser is also accompanied with a notice associated with the
container in form prescribed by a governmental agency regulating the manufacture, use, or sale
of pharmaceuticals, which notice is reflective of approval by the agency of the form of the drug
for human or veterinary administration. Such notice, for example, is the labeling approved by the
U.S. Food and Drug Administration for prescription drugs, or the approved product insert. In one
embodiment, compositions containing a compound provided herein formulated in a compatible
pharmaceutical carrier are also prepared, placed in an appropriate container, and labeled for
treatment of an indicated condition.
Examples
101161           The following ingredients, formulations, processes and procedures for practicing
the methods disclosed herein correspond to that described above. The procedures below describe
with particularity illustrative, non-limiting embodiments of formulations that include testosterone
and methods of uses thereof.

                                                  34
Comparative Example 1: Preparation of Testosterone DMPG Proliposomal Formulations
101171           Comparative Proliposomal Formulations ("PLF-C"), PLF-C1, PLF-C2, PLF-C3,
and PLF-C4 contained testosterone and dimyrsityl phosphatidyl glycerol sodium (DMPG). Table
1 lists the components and amounts of each used to make each of these formulationes. For PLF
C1, 0.5 g of testosterone was dissolved in 3 ml of a 9:1 ethanol to water mixture (v/v), and 0.5 g
of DMPG was added to this solution. The solution was then stirred at room temperature until
complete evaporation of the solvent was acheived, typically overnight. The powder formulation
obtained upon evaporation of the solvent was passed through an appropriate sieve, such as mesh
#60. The sieved powder was then transferred to a glass vial and stored at room temperature while
protected from light.
101181           The preparations of PLF-C2 and PLF-C3 were like that of PLF-C1, except that for
PLF-C2, 1.5 g of testosterone and 1.5 g of DMPG were dissolved in 20 ml of the 9:1 ethanol
water solution, and for PLF-C3, 0.5 g testosterone and 1 g DMPG were dissolved in 10 ml of the
9:1 ethanol-water solution.
101191           Formulation formulation PLF-C4 was also prepared in the same way as PLF-C1
was prepared, except that 0.5 g of testosterone, and 0.5 g of DMPG were dissolved in 12 ml of an
1 : 1 : 0.3 mixture (v/v) of chloroform, ethanol, and water, respectively.
101201           The above formulations were each filled into size "00" hard gelatin capsules, and
then tested for their dissolution. Only PLF-C1 capsules were enteric coated. Specifically, the
PLF-C1 coating material was Eudragit* L 30 D-55. Coating of PLF-C1 capsules was performed
by first preparing a dispersion of Eudragit* L 30 D-55. To this dispersion was added amount of
triethyl citrate equivalent to 10% of Eudragit polymer weight to enhance film formation. Each
capsule was dipped into the dispersion and then air dried a total of four times. Some of the
capsules from formulation PLF-C 1 were not coated. These uncoated capsules were also used in
dissolution testing along with enteric coated capsules.
Table 1
                                     PLF-C1      PLF-C2     PLF-C3      PLF-C4
            Ingredients                            Qty         Qty         Qty
Testosterone                          0.50 g      1.50 g      0.50 g     0.50 g
DMPG                                  0.50 g      1.50 g      1.00 g     0.50 g
Ethanol:Water (9:1) mixture            3 ml       20 ml       10 ml         -

                                                    35
                                     PLF-C1        PLF-C2     PLF-C3     PLF-C4
           Ingredients                               Qty         Qty        Qty
Chloroform-ethanol-water                 -              -         -        12 ml
mixture (1:1:0.3)
Drug: Lipid Ratio                       1:1            1:1       1:2        1:1
Comparative Example 2: In vitro Dissolution of Testosterone DMPG Proliposomal
Formulations
101211          In vitro dissolution profiles of testosterone from enteric-coated and uncoated PLF
C1 capsules were obtained. For these studies, three different dissolution media were used for
enteric coated capsules. The enteric coated capsules (n=3) were dissolved in 500 ml of either: 1)
0.1 N HCl (pH 1.20) for 1 h; sodium acetate buffer (pH 4.50) for 1 h; potassium phosphate buffer
(pH 6.80) for 3h. For uncoated capsules, (n=3), only 0.1N HCl (pH 1.20) was used and samples
were collected after 1, 2 and 2.5h. Dissolution was allowed to proceed in a USP type-i apparatus
at a speed of 50 rotations per minute (rpm) at 37 C for 0.5 h, 1 h, 2 h, and 3 h. At each
timepoint, 5 ml samples were collected. The amounts of testosterone that were released at each
time point were determined by using the following high pressure liquid chromatography (HPLC)
assay method to analyze each timepoint sample. For each formulation analyzed, an amount of
the formulation that contains 25 mg of testosterone was dissolved in 25 ml of ethanol. This stock
solution was further diluted suitably with a methanol : water (1:1) soulution until the
concentration of testosterone reached 10 ig/ml. A 20 pl aliquot was then injected into the
HPLC. The composition of mobile phase used in the HPLC analysis was a solution of
acetonitrile:(water with 0.2% formic acid) (75:25 v/v). Separation of the phases was achieved by
using a C18 (100 x 4.6 mm; 5p m) Kinetex, Phenomenex* column at a flow rate of 1.0 ml/min.
The total run time for each sample was 5 min and the Photo Diode Array detector (PDA) detector
was set at a wavelength of 243 nm. Both uncoated and coated capsule formulations showed a
drug release of less than 3.46% in 3 hours in PBS pH 6.80. Enteric-coated capsules remained
intact for 2 hours in acidic pH.
101221          In vitro dissolution profiles of testosterone from uncoated PLF-C2 capsules were
also obtained. For these studies, uncoated capsules were dissolved in 900 ml of potassium
phosphate buffer (pH 6.80). The dissolution and analysis parameters that were used were the
same as described above for the PLF-C1 studies. The in vitro release profiles of testosterone

                                                 36
from PLF-C2 uncoated capsules stored in screw-capped glass vials at different temperatures is
shown in Table 2 and Fig. 1. The differences between the testosterone release profiles of PLF-C2
and PLF-C4 uncoated capsules, which both comprise DMPG in different ratios, are shown in Fig.
2.
Table 2
    Formulatio      Storag    Time of    %         % Drug dissolved at each time point
    n               e         storage    Assay     (hours)
                    Temp.     (months              0.5         1           2          3
                              0, Initial 138.23    0.46        1.15        1.88       2.38
                                                    0.64        0.70        0.91        1.03
                    RT         1         123.81    -           -           -
    PLF-C2          30 0C      1         118.02    -           -           -
    (D: DMPG        RT        2          -         -           -           -
    is 1:1)         30 0 C    2          122.92    -           -           -
                    RT        3          122.80    0.30        0.76        1.39       1.88
                                                  1 0.03        0.07       0.26      0.48
                    300C      3          137.72    0.38        1.00        1.98       2.53
                                                    0.13        0.23       0.38      0.43
Comparative Example 3: In vivo testing of Testosterone DMPG Proliposomal Formulations
101231           Formulations PLF-C 1, PLF-C2, and PLF-C3 were tested for their in vivo
performance following oral administration in rats (n=3). These studies used an institutional
animal ethical committee (IACUC)-approved in vivo protocol involving male Sprague Dawley*
rats (Charles Rivers - Wilmington, MA) weighing approximately 250 grams each were canulated
in the jugular vein and were used for the study. The PLF-C 1 formulation in its free-flowing
proliposomal powder form, and a testosterone control solution (a 0.5 % (wt/vol) dispersion of
testosterone in an HPMC suspension were tested in fed rats after oral administration.
101241           The PLF-C 1 and testosterone control solutions were prepared by dispersing them
in a 0.5% (w/v) hydroxypropylmethyl cellulose (HPMC) suspension. Fed rats were administered
1 ml of pure drug solution (300 mg/Kg body weight dose) and 2.5 ml of PLF-C1 formulation
(300 mg/Kg body weight dose) by oral gavage, respectively. Blood samples were collected at 0,
1, 2, 4, 8, 12, 24 hours of dosing. The samples were stored at 4'C until centrifuged. Plasma
portions of the blood samples were separated from blood by centrifugation at 12,000 rpm and
4'C for 15 min using a Microfuge* 22R centrifuge (Beckman-Coulter). Plasma samples were
stored at -20 'C until they were analyzed.

                                                    37
[01251          In vivo studies were also performed using the PLF-C2 and PLF-C3 formulations.
These formulations were administered orally to male SD rats fasted overnight with free access to
water. The animals were divided into two groups each comprising of 3 animals each.
Formulation PLF-C2 was administered to one group while PLF-C3 was given to the other group.
[01261          To prepare PLF-C2 and PLF-C3 for administration, amounts of each sufficient to
administer the experimental dose of 300 mg/kg of body weight to five rats was weighed and
dispersed in 20 ml of water. Rats were administered 4 ml of the respective suspended
formulations. Blood samples were collected at time 0 (before dosing), as well as at 1, 2, 4, 8, 12
and 24 hours after administration. The collected samples were stored in an ice-box until
centrifuged at 12,000 rpm for 15 min. at 4' C. Plasma was separated and stored at -20'C until it
was analyzed. Detection of testosterone in the plasma samples was performed by using a
validated liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry method (LC-MS/MS) as described
below.
[01271          HPLC-eluted samples were prepared for MS analysis of testosterone and DHT
concentrations. Briefly, the HPLC system used was a Shimadzu CLASS-VP System. The
mobile phase solutions were (A) 0.2% formic acid in water, and (B) 0.2% formic acid in
acetonitrile. The column used in the analysis was a 2 x 10 mm Duragel* G C 18 guard cartridge
(Peeke Scientific - Novato, CA). The injection volume was 25 tl, the gradient was determined
by going from a 5% to a 30% solution of buffer (B) in 0.5 minutes, followed by going from a
30% to a 55% solution of (B) in 2 minutes. The flow rate was 400 tl/min.
[01281          Internal standards, i.e., calibration standards, quality control (QC) samples and
HPLC-eluted plasma samples were prepared for LC/MS/MS analysis by precipitating 50 pl of
each sample with 2x volumes of ice cold Internal Standard Solution (acetonitrile containing
50 ng/ml of testosterone 16, 16, 17 - d 3, d 3-testosterone). In addition to d 3-testosterone serving as
an internal standard, dihydrotestosterone (DHT) was used as a QC standard. The precipitated
samples were centrifuged at 6100 x g for 30 minutes (or equivalent). Following centrifugation,
100 pl of each supernatant was transferred to an auto-sampler plate and placed on a heating block
for 1 hour to partially evaporate the acetonitrile in the samples. MS analysis of the samples was
then performed according to the following parameters.
[01291          The testosterone detection step of the analysis was performed by using an Applied
Biosystems/MDS SCIEX API 3000 equipped with a TurboIonSpray* (Applied Biosystems)

                                                    38
electro spray interface (ESI) system The flow of liquid solvent from the analytical column
entered the heated nebulizer interface of the MS/MS analyzer. The above-solvent/sample
mixture was first converted to vapor in the heated tubing of the interface at 4000 C. The analytes
(testosterone, DHT, and [D3]-testosterone), contained in the nebulized solvent, were ionized and
a positive charge added by the corona discharge needle of the interface, which applies a large
voltage to the nebulized solvent/analyte mixture. The ions passed through the orifice of the
instrument and entered the first quadrapole. Quadrapoles 1 and 3 (QI and Q3) were the mass
filters, allowing selection of ions based on their mass to charge ratio (m/z). Quadrapole 2 (Q2)
was the collision cell, where ions were fragmented by collision with argon molecules.
101301           The first quadrapole of the MS/MS (QI) selected for testosterone with an m/z
value of 289.2, DHT with an m/z value of 291.2, or the internal standard, d3 -testosterone, with an
m/z value of 292.2. Ions with these m/z values passed to the collision chamber (Q2), while ions
with any other m/z collided with the sides of the quadrapole and were destroyed. Ions entering
Q2 collided with neutral gas molecules. This process is called Collision-Induced Dissociation
(CID). The CID gas used in this example was argon. The daughter ions generated were passed
into quadrapole 3 (Q3), where the daughter ions of testosterone with an m/z value of 96.9, DHT
with an m/z value of 255.2, or those of testosterone 16, 16, 17-d 3 (d3 - testosterone), the internal
standard, with an m/z value of 96.9 were selected for, while other ions were screened out. The
selected daughter ions were collected by the detector. Quantification is based on peak area ratio
of analytes, i.e., testosterone, over the internal standard acquired by selective reaction monitoring
(SRM) in positive mode. The mean plasma concentration over time profiles of the PLF-C 1
formulation and testosterone control solution under fed conditions are shown in Figure 3. The
mean plasma concentration over time profiles of the PLF-C2 and PLF-C3 formulations under
fasting conditions are shown in Figure 4.
Comparative Example 4: Dissolution of DMPG-based formulations with Avicel PH101 and
Lactose monohydrate
101311           For formulation PLF-C5, testosterone was dissolved in a mixture of ethanol:water
(9:1). To this solution dimyrsityl phosphatidyl glycerol sodium (DMPG) and lactose
monohydrate were added and stirred overnight until complete evaporation of the solvent at room

                                                  39
temperature. Lactose was added so that it helps in dispersion and avoids lump formation while
preparing the dosing solution for animal studies.
101321          Another formulation (PLF-C5+Avicel* PH101) was prepared by adding Avicel*
PH101externally to the formulation (PLF-C5) containing drug:DMPG:lactose (1:1:1). This
approach was followed to see if Avicel* PHIO helps in increasing the dispersability of the
formulation during dissolution.
101331          In yet another example, formulation (PLF-C5+Avicel PH101+Explotab*
disintegrant) was prepared by adding Avicel* and Explotab* disintegrant (1%) externally to PLF
C5. This formulation was prepared with the objective of increasing the dispersion and there by
the dissolution of the proliposomal formulation with the help of super disintegrating agent,
Explotab@ disintegrant and better dispersability of Avicel* PH101.
101341          In yet another example, formulation PLF-C2 containing testosterone : DMPG in 1
: 1 ratio was taken and dispersed in 5 ml dissolution media first and then dissolution was
performed. This was done to compare the dissolution of encapsulated PLF-C2 to dispersed PLF
C2 because, prior to animal dosing, the formulation was dispersed in water.
101351          In yet another example, formulation PLF-C6 was prepared by dissolving
testosterone in a mixture of ethanol:water (9:1). To the resulting testosterone solution, DMPG
and Avicel* PH 101 were added at a ratio of 1 : 1 : 2, and dispersed by stirring the mixture
overnight until the complete evaporation of the solvent had occured at room temperature to form
a proliposomal powder. To the dried proliposomal formulation, Explotab* disintegrant was
added externally and the powder- Explotab* disintegrant mixture was formulated as a capsule.
The objective was to see the effect of using dispersed Avicel* PH101 on dissolution of
proliposomal formulation.
101361          A testosterone proliposomal formulation was lyophilized. Specifically,
formulation PLF-C5 (500 mg) containing testosterone: DMPG : lactose (1:1:1) was taken and
dispersed in 20 ml of water. It was hydrated at 40 0C for 30 min, and then lyophilized for more
than 24 hours. The compositions of the variations of PLF-C5 that were created by adding various
excipients used are listed in Table 3.
101371          In vitro dissolution studies of PLF-C5 and PLF-C5 fomrulations comprising
additonal excipients was carried out by using apparatus type I at 50 rpm. The dissolution media
used was 900 ml of phosphate buffer (pH 6.80) that was maintained at 37 0.5' C. Samples

                                                   40
(5ml) were collected after 1, 2, 3 and 4 hours of dissolution. A type II apparatus was used for the
dissolution of all other formulations in Table 3. All other dissolution parameters were same as
that of PLF-C5, described above.
101381          Testosterone dissolution assays of the foregoing PLF-C5 formulations were tested
as per the method described in Comparative Example 2. The in vitro release profile of all the
DMPG formulations described in Comparative Example 4 are shown in Figure 5. As shown in
Figure 5, formulations containing Avicel* and Explotab* disintegrant gave higher release as
compared to others.
Table 3:
                           (a)       (b)       (c)          (d)       (e)
     Ingredients           C5                             PLF-C2      C6
                                                        hydrated             Lyophilized
Testosterone             1.0 g                          50 mg       1.0 g
DMPG (NOF Corp.                   0.10 g                50mg        1.g
Japan)      F.                    (PLF-      300 mg     5                    0.50 g
Lactose                           C5)
monohydrate              1.0 g                          -
Avicel PH 101           -         0.10 g     600 mg     -           1.0 g
Explotab                -                    9 mg       -          0.01 g
Ethanol:Water (9:1)     25 ml     20 ml      -          -          -
mixture
Dissolution media       -         -          -          5 ml
Water                   -         -          -          -          -         20 ml
Example 1: Solubility Studies in Various Buffers
101391          The solubility of testosterone in different media was tested. An amount of
testosterone (100 mg) was added to each of four glass vials containing 10 ml of either: a) HCl
buffer (pH 1.20), b) Acetate buffer (pH 4.50), c) phosphate buffer solution (PBS) pH 6.80 and d)
nano pure water. These samples were subjected for shaking in a water bath for 72h at RT. The
samples were suitably diluted and analyzed by the HPLC assay method described in Comparative
Example 2. Solubility of testosterone was high in phosphate buffer pH 6.80. See Figure 6.
101401          The solubility of testosterone was measured in the presence of lipid components at
370 C in aqueous medium (pH 6.8) under the in vitro dissolution conditions described in
Comparative Example 2. Physical mix formulations were prepared by mixng the dry components

                                                  41
as per the compositions given in Table 4 (F1-F9). Dissolution parameters used for these studies
are listed below. Samples collected at each time point were diluted suitably and analyzed by the
HPLC assay method given in Comparative Example 2.
101411          The dissolution parameters for these dissolution studies were as follows.
Formulations were dissolved using an USP Type 2 (Paddle) apparatus in a volume of 1000 ml of
potassium phosphate buffer pH 6.80 (USP 30). Dissolution occured at 37 'C, and at 75 rpm.
Samples (5 ml) were taken for analysis at 3, 5, 8 10, 12, 18 and 24 hours. The dissolution curve
is shown in Figure 7. Formulations F7 and F9 with maximum amount of DSPC in the range of
48 % to 60% (w/w) showed high solubility in PBS (pH 6.80). See Figure 7.
Table 4:
 Formulation          Testosterone                DSPC               Cholesterol
                  Wt %         mg/cap       Wt %      mg/cap      Wt%       mg/cap
       F1            60        144.00          32       76.8         8        19.20
       F2            60        144.00          36       86.4         4         9.60
       F3            60        144.00          40       96.0         0           0
       F4            50         120.0          40       96.0        10         24.0
       F5            50        120.00          45       108.0        5        12.00
       F6            50        120.00          50       120.0        0           0
       F7           40          96.00          48      115.20       12        28.80
       F8           40          96.00          54      129.60        9        21.60
       F9           40          96.00          60      144.00        0           0
Example 2: Preparation of Testosterone/Cholesterol DSPC Proliposomal Formulations
101421          Proliposomal Formulation (PLF)-1, PLF-2, PLF-3, and PLF-4 were prepared by
dissolving testosterone in a 9:1 mixture (v/v) of ethanol and water, followed by the addition of
distearoyl phosphatidylcholine (DSPC) and cholesterol at a 9:1 ratio of DSPC to cholesterol
(w/w). The resulting dispersion was stirred overnight until complete evaporation of the solvent at
room temperature. The composition of these formulations is detailed in Table 5. The powder
obtained upon removal of the solvent was passed through an appropriate sieve (mesh #60),
transferred to a glass bottle, and stored at room temperature protected from light.
Table 5

                                                   42
          Ingredients                PLF-1        PLF-2      PLF-3      PLF-4
Testosterone                       1.00 g       1.50 g      1.50 g     1.0 g
DSPC                              0.90 g        1.35 g      2.70 g     1.350 g
Cholesterol                       0.10 g       0.150 g      0.30 g     0.150 g
Ethanol:Water (9:1) mixture       20 ml        20 ml        20 ml      20 ml
Drug: Lipid ratio                  1:1          1:1         1:2        1:1.5
Lipid (DSPC+ Cholesterol)
Example 3: Solubility Studies
101431          Solubility of: a) 10 mg pure testosterone; and b) formulation PLF-2 equivalent to
10 mg testosterone in either 0.5 %, 1%, or 2% SLS following sonication for 10 min. was
determined. For these studies, 10 mg of pure testosterone was weighed and dissolved in either
100 ml of 0.5 %, 1%, or 2% (w/v) SLS, respectively, in volumetric flasks. An amount of
formulation PLF-2 that contained 10 mg of testosterone was weighed, and sample solutions were
prepared in a similar way as that described above for the testosterone control. These solutions
were subjected for sonication for 10 min in a bath sonicator. The samples were then filtered and
diluted suitably in their respective concentrations of SLS. The amounts of soluble testosterone
for each concentration of SLS was determined by using the HPLC assay method described in
Comparative Example 2. Both the testosterone control and PLF-2 were associated with high
testosterone solubility in 1% w/v SLS. See Figure 8.
Example 4: In vitro Dissolution Studies of Testosterone/Cholesterol DSPC Proliposomal
Formulations
101441          Formulation PLF-1 was filled into size "00" hard gelatin capsules. Some of these
capsules enterically coated as described in Comparative Example 2. Dissolution of both enteric
coated (n=3) and uncoated capsules (n=3) was carried out in 900 ml of potassium phosphate
buffer (pH 6.80), and dissolution conditions were maintained throughout a three hour time course
at 37 0.5'C. Samples (5ml) were collected after 0.5, 1, 2 and 3 hours of dissolution, and then
assayed according to the HPLC assay method as described above in Comparative Example 2.
The stability data of PLF-1 is summarized in Table 6 and the in vitro release profile is given in
Figure 9.
Table 6

                                                43
Formulati      Storage     Storage    %          % Drug dissolved at time points
on             Conditio    Time       Assay
stored in      n           (Month
glass vial                 s)
                                                 0.5h      1h       2h       3h
                           Initial    90.50      3.54      7.15     13.25    18.01
                                                   1.54    4.6     9.5       12.34
                                                           6        9
               RT          1          94.03      -         -        -
   PLF-1       30 0 C      1          99.17      -         -        -
 D:DSPC:C      RT          2          -          -         -        -
      H        30 0 C      2          110.33     -         -        -
 (1:0.9:0.1)   RT          3          91.40      3.86      8.92     18.27    24.58
                                                   5.39    9.6     8.2       6.11
                                                           5        9
               30 0 C      3          101.06     5.97       13.49   23.41    29.17
                                                   2.60    2.2      1.2      2.78
                                                          14        9
Example 5: In vivo testing of Testosterone/Cholesterol DSPC Proliposomal Formulations
101451          The formulations PLF-2 and PLF-4 were prepared according to the method of
their preparation described in Example 2. The formulations were then administered orally to
male Sprague Dawley@ (SD) rats after an overnight fast. Formulation PLF-2 was tested at 300
mg/kg, 150 mg/kg, 31 mg/kg, 15.5 mg/kg and 7.75 mg/kg doses of testosterone to body weight.
Formulation PLF-4 was administered orally in a dose of 300 mg/kg body weight.
101461          Male SD rats, which were canulated in the jugular vein and weighed
approximately 250 grams were used for the study. Animals were fasted overnight with free
access to water. Sampling and analysis was followed as per the method described in paragraphs
[063-067] under comparative Example 4. The mean plasma concentration vs time profiles of the
formulations that were tested are shown in Figures 10 and 11. The plasma concentrations of
testosterone following the oral administration of different test formulations and a control
testosterone dispersion were followed over time. Both 300 mg/Kg and 31 mg/Kg (testosterone
dose/body weight) control and test formulations were studied.
Example 6: Dissolution of Testosterone/Cholesterol DSPC Proliposomal Formulations that
comprise Avicel PH 101, Lactose monohydrate, Magnesium stearate.

                                                  44
101471          A base Formulation called PLF-5 was prepared by dissolving 1.5 mg of
testosterone in 20 ml of a 9:1 mixture (v/v) of ethanol and water, followed by the addition of 1.35
mg of distearoyl phosphatidylcholine (DSPC) and 0.15 mg of cholesterol, (i.e., a 9:1 ratio of
DSPC to cholesterol (w/w)). The resulting dispersion was stirred overnight until complete
evaporation of the solvent at room temperature. The powder obtained upon removal of the
solvent was passed through an appropriate sieve (mesh #60), transferred to a glass bottle, and
stored at room temperature protected from light. The PLF-5 formulation was then further
formulated into PLF-5 formulations (a-d), as shown in Table 7, and described below.
101481           PLF-5 (a) was prepared in capsule form, and was made with the objective of
determining whether Avicel* PH101 and Explotab* disintegrant would increase the dispersability
of the formulation during dissolution. PLF-5 (a) was prepared by the external addition (i.e.,
mixing the excipients and blending them with the Testosterone/Cholesterol DSPC Proliposomal
Formulations) of the following ingredients to PLF-5: Avicel* PH 101 at a ratio of 1:2 (w/w); and
Explotab* in the amount of 1% (w/w). The formulation mixture was then filled into capsules.
101491          PLF-5 (b) was prepared in tablet form, and was made with the objective of
determining whether the addition of Avicel* PH 101, Explotab*, magnesium (Mg) stearate, and
spray-dried lactose monohydrate would increase the dispersability of the formulation during
dissolution. PLF-5 (b) was prepared by the external addition of the following ingredients to PLF
5: Avicel* PH 101 at a ratio of 1:2 (w/w); Explotab* in the amount of 1% (w/w); Spray-dried
lactose monohydrate in an amount equivalent to 0.04 g per tablet; and Mg stearate in an amount
equivalent to 8.75 mg per tablet. The mixture was formulated into an 8.9 mm circular biconvex
tablet weighing 350 mg.
101501          PLF-5 (c) , which contained twice the amount of PLF-5 per dose, than PLF-5 (a)
and (b) formulations, was prepared by the external addition of the following ingredients to PLF
5: Avicel* PH 101 at a ratio of 1.5:1 (w/w); Explotab* in the amount of 5% (w/w); and
Mg stearate in an amount equivalent to 0.00875 g per tablet. The mixture was formulated into an
8.9 mm circular biconvex tablet weighing 350 mg.
101511          PLF (d) was prepared exactly as PLF (c), but it was not tableted.
101521          The in vitro testosterone dissolution profiles for the formulations PLF-5 (a-d) are
provided in Figure 12. Formulations containing Avicel* along with Explotab* disintegrant

                                                   45
showed better dissolution profiles. In addition, both 1 wt % and 5 wt % Explotab* disintegrant
containing formulations showed similar release profiles.
101531           The profiles were determined by using a type II apparatus at 50 rpm in 900 ml of
PBS (pH 6.80) to dissolve the formulations. Samples were collected after 1, 2, 3 and 4 hours of
dissolution, and were analyzed by the HPLC assay method described in Comparative Example 2.
Table 7
    Ingredients           PLF-5 (a)       PLF-5 (b)     PLF-5 (c)      PLF-5 (d)
        PLF-5              Capsule          Tablet        Tablet         Powder
1.5 g Testosterone
1.35 g DSPC              100 mg         100 mg        200 mg          200 mg
0.15 g Cholesterol
Lactose
monohydrate spray       -               45 mg         -
dried (SD)
Avicel@ PH 101          200 mg          200 mg         131 mg         131 mg
Explotab@               3 mg            3.5 mg         17.5 mg        17.5 mg
Magnesium stearate      -               8.75 mg        8.75 mg        8.75 mg
Example 7: Dissolution of Testosterone/Cholesterol DSPC Proliposomal Formulations that
comprise Avicel@ PH 101/102, Lactose monohydrate, Mg stearate, and Pearlitol* 200 SD.
101541          A base Formulation called PLF-6 was prepared by dissolving 3 mg of testosterone
in 40 ml of a 9:1 mixture (v/v) of ethanol and water, followed by the addition of 2.7 mg DSPC
and 0.30 mg of cholesterol, (i.e., a 9:1 ratio of DSPC to cholesterol (w/w)). The resulting
dispersion was stirred overnight until complete evaporation of the solvent at room temperature.
The powder obtained upon removal of the solvent was passed through an appropriate sieve (mesh
#60).
101551          A second, base formulation called PLF-7 was also prepared for these studies by
dissolving 1.2 mg of testosterone in 30 ml of a 9:1 mixture (v/v) of ethanol and water, followed
by the addition of 1.08 mg DSPC and 0.12 mg of cholesterol, (i.e., a 9:1 ratio of DSPC to
cholesterol (w/w)). The resulting dispersion was stirred overnight until complete evaporation of
the solvent at room temperature. The powder obtained upon removal of the solvent was passed
through an appropriate sieve (mesh #60).
101561          PLF-6 and PLF-7 were further formulated into PLF-6 formulations (a-c) and PLF
7 formulations (d-e), respectively, by the external addition of the respective amounts of Avicel*
PH 101 or 102, Explotab*, Mg stearate, Pearlitol* 200 SD, reported in Table 8.

                                                     46
101571          PLF-6 (a-c) and PLF-7 (d-e) were compressed into circular, biconvex 650 mg
tablets. A ten-station rotary compression machine (Riddhi Pharma machinery Ltd., Ahmedabad,
India) was used for preparing the tablets by direct compression. Avicel* PH 102 was used as an
excipient for direct compression. Mannitol (Pearlitol* SD 200) was used with the intent of
increasing tablet dispersion and thereby dissolution. The dissolution profiles of the tablets were
comapared with that of capsule formulations.
101581          The in vitro dissolutions of PLF-6 (a-c) and PLF-7 (d) were carried out using type
II apparatus at 50 rpm in 900 ml of PBS pH 6.80. However, the dissolution of PLF-7 (e) was
carried out at 75 rpm. Samples were collected at the time intervals reported in Figure 13 to
analyze the release of testosterone from the formulations. The analyses were performed
according to the HPLC assay method described in Comparative Example 2.
101591          The comparison of formulations that contained either Avicel* PH 101 or Avicel*
PH 102 showed similar results with respect to dissolution. Generally, an increase in agitation
speed resulted in an faster rate of dissolution. These studies also showed that formulations
containing 20% Pearlitol* (w/w) demonstrated improved dissolution as compared to formulations
containing 10% Pearlitol*.
Table 8
                        PLF-6      PLF-6        PLF-6     PLF-7       PLF-7
    Ingredients           (a)        (b)           (c)      (d)         (e)
                      Tablet      Tablet       Tablet    Tablet     Tablet
       PLF-6
3.0 g Testosterone    240 mg      240 mg       240 mg        _            _
2.7 g DSPC
0.3 g Cholesterol
       PLF-7
1.2 g Testosterone                           -            360 mg      240 mg
1.080 g DSPC
0.12 g Cholesterol
Pearlitol@ 200 SD           -      130 mg        65 mg       -
Avicel@ PH 101          388 mg         -            -        -        388 mg
Avicel@ PH 102        -            259 mg       323 mg   268 mg
                                  19.50        19.50     19.50       19.50
                         19.50
Explotab@3 wt %00         mg      mg           mg        mg         mg
Mg stearate              1.625    1.625        1.625     1.625       1.625
                          mg

                                                  47
                       PLF-6       PLF-6       PLF-6      PLF-7      PLF-7
   Ingredients           (a)        (b)         (c)         (d)        (e)
                      Tablet     Tablet      Tablet     Tablet     Tablet
                                 mg          mg         mg         mg
Example 8: Comparison of dissolution of formulations in the form of capsule, tablet and powder
101601          The dissolutions of a capsule form of PLF-2 and a tablet form of PLF-6 were
compared to each other and to the dissolution of unformulated testosterone (T1-175). PLF-2 and
PLF-6 were prepared as described in Examples 5 and 7, respectively, and further formulated by
the external addition of excipients as reported in Table 9. Dissolution of formulations in the form
of capsule, tablet were compared with that of pure drug in PBS (pH 6.80) with 1 % (w/v) SLS.
The addition of 1% (w/v) SLS showed complete drug release within 0.5h. The in vitro release
profiles are shown in Figure 14. Formulations a, b, and c in Table 9 correlated with lines a. b,
and c of Fig. 14.
Table 9
                                 a                   b                  c
      Ingredients
                             Capsule          650 mg tablet       Pure Drug
Testosterone               -               -                    50 mg
PLF-2                      100 mg          -
PLF-6                      -               240 mg
Avicel@ PH 101             200 mg          388 mg
Explotab@ 3 wt %           -               19.50 mg
Magnesium stearate         -               1.625 mg
Example 9: Dissolution of Testosterone/Cholesterol DSPC Proliposomal Formulations with
Avicel* PH 102 and Explotab* disintegrant.
101611          Capsule formulations PLF-9 (a-e) were prepared by the external addition of
Avicel* PH 102 and Explotab* disintegrant, as reported in Table 10, including two formulations
were prepared with a minimum amount of Avicel*, both with and without Explotab*
disintegrant. Compositions of all the formulations described in this example are listed in Table
10. Dissolution of all these formulations was carried out using a type II apparatus with a capsule
sinker in PBS (pH 6.80) medium that did not contain SLS. The objective of these studies was to

                                                   48
determine whether the increase in ratio of Avicel* to testosterone would increase the solubility of
testosterone from proliposomal formulations.
101621          The in vitro release profiles of the formulations listed in Table 10 are shown in
Figure 15. Formulations with a base formulation : Avicel* ratio of 1 : 1 correlated to greater
testosterone release. The other preparations that containined minimum amounts of Avicel*
showed less testosterone release due to poor dispersion of the formulatioins. The compositions of
PLF-9 and PLF-2 were the same, except the batch size for PLF-9 was scaled to 5 g, rather than
the 3 g batch size of PLF-2.
TablelO
                       PLF-9 (a)      PLF-9 (b)       PLF-9 (c)    PLF-9 (d)      PLF-9 (e)
                        Vcaps@       Vcaps@ size        Vcaps@      Vcaps@          Vcaps@
    Ingredients         size '00'         '00'         size '00'    Plus size      Plus size
                                                                       '0'            '00'
PLF-9                 120 mg         120 mg           120 mg      240 mg         240 mg
                      240 mg         60 mg            120 mg         40 mg       40 mg
Avicel@ PH 102
                      (1:2)          (1:0.5)          (1:1)          (1:0.6)     (1:0.6)
Explotab@                   -               -               -           -        8.5 mg
Example 10: Dissolution of Testosterone/Cholesterol DSPC Proliposomal Formulations with
minimum amounts of Avicel@ PH102, and Explotab@ disintegrant in HPMC size '0' capsules.
101631          HPMC size '0' capsule formulations PLF-1 1 (a and b) and PLF-12 (c and d) were
prepared by the external addition of Avicel* PH 102 and Explotab* disintegrant, as reported in
Table 11 to PLF-10, which was prepared according to the same protocol used to make PLF-2 as
described in Example 2. All of these formulations contained minimum amounts of Avicel*, both
with and without Explotab* disintegrant. The formulations in Table 11 were filled into Vcaps@
Plus hypromellose (HPMC) capsules (Capsugel Belgium NV) In vitro dissolution studies were
carried out using a type II apparatus at 75 rpm. The dissolution media used was: a) PBS with 1 %
(w/v) SLS; b) PBS with 2 % (w/v) SLS; c) PBS with 0.5 % (w/v) SLS; and d) PBS with 1 %
(w/v) SLS. Media containing 1 % and 2 % (w/v) SLS showed complete drug release within 2
hours. The in vitro dissolution profiles of formulations (a-d) are shown in Fig. 16.

                                                      49
Table 11
                              PLF-11 (a)         PLF-11 (b)     PLF-12 @      PLF-12 (d)
       Ingredients          Vcaps@ Plus         Vcaps@ Plus       Vcaps         Vcaps@
                                size '0'           size '0'       Plus size   Plus size '0'
PLF-10                      240 mg             240 mg           240 mg       240 mg
Avicel@ PH 102              40 mg              40 mg            40 mg        40 mg
Explotab@                   -                  -                8.5 mg        8.5 mg
Example 11: Dissolution behaviour of Testosterone/Cholesterol DSPC Proliposomal
Formulations with Avicel* PH 102 in size '0' capsules
101641           The formulations PLF-14 (a) and PLF-15 (b), which are provided in Table 12
were prepared to determine the disintegration times of formulations filled in Vcaps (HPMC) size
'0' and Vcaps@ Plus (HPMC) size '0' capsules (Capsugel Belgium NV). Formulation PLF-14
was also prepared to compare disintegration of Vcaps@ versus Vcaps@ Plus encapsulated
formulations. Size '0' capsules were used to assess each capsule type. To perform the
comparison study of Vcaps@ and Vcaps Plus, the capsules were filled with only Avicel.
101651           Formulation PLF-15, which contained the base testosterone, DSPC, and
cholesterol components of PLF-13, Avicel, and Explotab in the amounts reported in Table 12,
was used to compare disspersion times in the presence and absence of a sinker. A sinker is a
basket like device made of a few turns of platinum wire that is used to prevent capsules from
floating. These studies revealed that dispersion of capsules was more complete when a sinker
was not used because the capsules were not confined within the sinker cage, and because the
formulation were exposed to a larger surface area. See Table 12.
Table 12
                                           (a)                                (b)
                                         PLF-14                             PLF-15
          Ingredients         Vcaps size Vcaps Plus         Vcaps size '0'        Vcaps size '0'
                              '0'             size '0'      Sinker used for       Dissolved using
                                                            dissolution           a sinker
    PLF- 13
    Contains
    Testosterone, DSPC,             -                -             240 mg              240 mg
    and Cholesterol in
    ratios of 1 : 9 : 0.1
    Avicel PH 102              288 mg                              40 mg               40 mg

                                                      50
                                            (a)                                   (b)
                                         PLF-14                                PLF-15
         Ingredients           Vcaps size Vcaps Plus           Vcaps size '0'         Vcaps size '0'
                               '0'             size '0'        Sinker used for        Dissolved using
                                                               dissolution            a sinker
    Explotab@                                                         8.5 mg               8.5 mg
                               disintegrat     disintegrate    10% of the             90% of capsule
                               ed in 8 - 11    d in 11 - 13    capsule disperses      gets dispersed in
    Disintegration             min             min             in 30 min.             30 min. DT &
                                                                                      dispersion is fast
Example 12: Dissolution of Testosterone/Cholesterol DSPC Proliposomal Formulations with
Avicel* PH 102, Prosolv* SMCC 90, DCP, and Explotab* disintegrant.
101661          The base formulation, PLF-13, was further formulated to make PLF-16 (a), PLF
17 (b), PLF-18 (c), PLF-19 (d), PLF-20 (e), PLF-21 (f), and PLF (g) by the external addition of
various amounts of different diluents Avicel* PH 102, Prosolv* SMCC 90 (Silicified Micro
Crystalline Cellulose), and dibasic calcium phosphate (DCP) in combination with disintegrants.
The formulations were prepared using the ingredients described in Table 13. PLF-13 contained
testosterone, DSPC, and Cholesterol in a ratio of 1 : 0.9 : 0.1, which correlated with 60 mg, 54
mg, and 6 mg, respectively, per capsule.
PLF-13 was prepared as described in Example 2 for PLF-2, except that the preparation of PLF-13
was scaled to a 10 g batch size. The formulations in Table 13 were filled in Vcaps* size '0'
HPMC capsules (Capsugel Belgium NV). The in vitro dissolution was carried out using type II
apparatus at 75 rpm in 1000 ml of PBS pH 6.80 with 0.5% SLS. No sinker was used in these
studies. Formulations containing higher amounts of Avicel@ PH 102 and DCP showed better
release profiles (Figure 17).
Table 13
                   PLF-16      PLF-17       PLF-18      PLF-19        PLF-20    PLF-21      PLF-22
Ingredients
                     (a)           (b)         (c)         (d)            (e)       (M          (g)
PLF-13            120 mg      120 mg        120 mg      120 mg       120 mg     120 mg      120 mg
DCP               -           -            -            75 mg        -          -           30 mg

                                                  51
                   PLF-16     PLF-17     PLF-18      PLF-19     PLF-20     PLF-21     PLF-22
Ingredients
                     (a)        (b)         (c)         (d)        (e)        (f)        (g)
Avicel@ PH        75 mg      50 mg                              93.40
102
Prosolv@                                 75 mg                             30 mg
SMCC 90
Explotab@         4.25 mg    4.25 mg     4.25 mg     4.25 mg    6.6 mg     4.65       4.65 mg
                                                                           mg
Capsule type      Vcaps      Vcaps      Vcaps        Vcaps     Vcaps       Vcaps      Vcaps
& size            size '0'   size '0'    size '0'    size '0'   size '0'   size '0'   size '0'
Example 13: Dissolution of enteric coated capsules containing Testosterone/Cholesterol DSPC
Proliposomal Formulations with Avicel@ PH 102, and Explotab@ disintegrant
101671          A base proliposomal formulation was prepared according to the description of the
preparation of PLF-2 in Example 2, except that the batch size was scaled to 15 g. The base PLF-2
formulation was further formulated into PLF-25 by the external addition of excipients as reported
in Table 14, and filled into Vcap@ HPMC size '00' capsules (Capusulate Belgium NV).
Formulation PLF-24, which is also described in Table 14, served as a placebo control that did not
contain testosterone. PLF-24 and PLF-25 were prepared as part of an effort to optimize the
delayed release coating (e.g., an enteric coating) process for capsules of the invention.
101681          After the PLF-24 and PLF-25 formulations were filled into capsules, the capsules
were coated with an Eudragit* L 30D-55 polymer-based enteric coating composition. Coating of
the capsules was accomplished by using a ProCepT* pan coating machine (Zelzate, Belgium) and
a Caleva* mini coater air suspension coating machine (Dorset, UK). The Eudragit* L 30D-55
coating composition was used in accordnace with its manufacturer's instructions and the coating
process parameters are summarized in Tables 15 and 16. The capsules of the testosterone
formulation formulation were coated until the capsules experienced a 10.16% weight gain. The
placebo formulation was coated until the capsules experienced an 11.06% weight gain. Based on
these results,of the coating experiments, the percentage gain in weight for enteric coated capsules
was fixed to 12%, which provided sufficient resistance to tablet dissolution in acidic pH. For the
scale up formulationes, Eudragit* L 100 55, which is available in powder form, was used for
delayed release coating (e.g., an enteric coating).
101691          The method used for in vitro dissolution was based on a method described in the
United States Pharmacopeia (USP) 30 , <711> Dissolution procedure for delayed release dosage

                                                52
forms (method B) that was modified by adding 0.5% (w/v) SLS for the dissolutions of delayed
release dosage forms like enteric coated capsules. The method involves two stages of testing, the
Acid stage and the Buffer stage. In the Acid stage, the dissolution was carried out in 1000 ml of
0. IN HCl, and maintained at 370.51C for 2 hours. After 2 hours, a sample aliquot was
withdrawn to be used in the buffer stage. In the Buffer stage of testing, phosphate buffer that has
been previously equilibriated to 370.51C was used. The acid was drained from the vessel and
1000 ml of pH 6.8 phosphate buffer, prepared by mixing 0.1N HCl with 0.20 M tribasic sodium
phosphate (3:1) and adjusting if necessary with 2N HCL or 2N sodium hydroxide, was added to
the vessel. The apparatus ran for 4 hours, and sample aliquots were withdrawn at regular time
intervals. The samples were analyzed using a suitable analytical technique. This modified
method was used to test formulations PLF-24 and PLF-25. The dissolution medium used in the
buffer stage was 1000 ml of phosphate buffer solution (PBS) pH 6.80 with 0.5% (w/v) SLS.
PLF-24 and PLF-25 were intact in acidic pH for 2 hours. The capsules of active formulation
showed complete drug release within 2 hours in PBS with 0.5% (w/v) SLS (Figure 18).
101701          A modified and validated HPLC assay method was used for the analysis of
dissolution samples. HPLC analysis was carried out using mobile phase containing
methanol: water (60 : 40 v/v). Separation was achieved on a C18; 150 x 4.6 mm (5 pm) (Ace)
column. The mobile phase flow rate was set at 1.2 ml/min while the column temperature was
maintained at 25'C. The total run time was 15 minutes with injection volume of 3 5 pl. The drug
was detected using a UV detector at absorbance maxima of 246 nm. The retention time of
testosterone was found to be 11.5 minutes. The method was able to resolve testosterone and all
other excipients. The flow rate was kept high to reduce the run time for each sample to facilitate
faste analysis.

                                                  53
Table 14
        Ingredients                (a) PLF-24 Placebo             (b)PLF-25
                                 Enteric coated capsule     Enteric coated capsule
                               No PLF-2
PLF-2                           108 mg DSPC                240 mg
                                12 mg cholesterol
Avicel* PH 102                  152 mg                     152 mg
Explotab"                       12 mg                      12 mg
Total weight                    0.285 g                    0.405 g
Dosage form                    Vcaps" size '00'            Vcaps" size '00'
% weight gain (w/w,
increase/original total) of     11.06%                     10.16%
enteric coated capsules
using Eudragit* L 30D-55
Table 15
      Parameter                     Value
Drum speed                 12 rpm
Atomizing air              1.5 bar
pressure
Pressure drop cabinet     50.0 mBar
Inlet air temperature     40 0C
Outlet air temperature    50 0C
Dosing speed              0.6 ml/min
Pump speed                35
Table 16
Parameter                 Value
Agitation frequency       25 Hz
Air inlet temperature     40 0C
Pump Flow rate            4 rpm
Air pressure               1 bar
Fan speed                  16 m/sec
Example 14: Dissolution of enteric coated capsules containing Testosterone/Cholesterol DSPC
Proliposomal Formulations with Avicel* PH 102, Prosolv* SMCC 90/ SMCC HD 90, and
Explotab* disintegrant.
101711          Base formulations PLF-23 and PLF-28 were further formulated by the external
addition of excipients, as described in Table 17, including the manual mixing of PLF-23 with two

                                                   54
different grades of microcrystalline cellulose (Prosolv9 HD 90 and Prosolv* SMCC 90) to make
PLF-26 and PLF-27, respectively. PLF-23 and PLF-28 are compositionally identical to each
other and to PLF-2, which is described in Example 2, and contains testosterone, DSPC, and
cholesterol in the ratios of 1 : 0.9 : 0.1. The method used to prepare PLF-23 and PLF-28 was also
the same method that was used to prepare PLF-2. PLF-28 was further formulated into PLF-29 by
the external addition of excipients, excluding microcrystalline cellulose, as also described in
Table 17.
101721          PLF-26 and PLF-27 were filled into Vcaps* HPMC size '00' capsules (Capsulate
Belgium NV), and coated with the delayed release coating polymer, Eudragit* L 30D-55,
according to the coating procedure described in Example 13.
101731          PLF-29 was also filled into capsules, but unlike PLF-26 and PLF-27, it contained
Avicel* PH 102, and remained uncoated. In order to determine the effect of curing on
dissolution, PLF-29 capsules were cured by heating the capsules at 40 'C in a hot air oven for
two hours
101741          The method used for in vitro dissolution was based on a method described in the
United States Pharmacopeia (USP) 30 , <711> Dissolution procedure for delayed release dosage
forms (method B that was modified by adding 0.5% (w/v) SLS for the dissolutions of delayed
release dosage forms like enteric coated capsules. The method involves two stages of testing, the
Acid stage and the Buffer stage. In the Acid stage, the dissolution was carried out in 1000 ml of
0. IN HCl, and maintained at 370.5 0C for 2 hours. After 2 hours, a sample aliquot was
withdrawn to be used in the buffer stage. In the Buffer stage of testing, phosphate buffer that has
been previously equilibriated to 370.50 C was used. The acid was drained from the vessel and
1000 ml of pH 6.8 phosphate buffer, prepared by mixing 0.1N HCl with 0.20 M tribasic sodium
phosphate (3:1) and adjusting if necessary with 2N HCL or 2N sodium hydroxide, was added to
the vessel. The apparatus ran for 4 hours, and sample aliquots were withdrawn at regular time
intervals. The samples were analyzed using a suitable analytical technique. The dissolution
medium used in the buffer stage was 1000 ml of phosphate buffer solution (PBS) pH 6.80 with
0.5% (w/v) SLS. Testosterone release from the collected samples was determined using a UV
spectrophotometer at a wavelength of 246 nm. Figure 19 shows the in vitro dissolution profiles
of formulations (a-c).

                                                   55
Table 17
     Ingredients              PLF-26 (a)              PLF-27 (b)             PLF-29 (c)
PLF-23
PLF-28                  240 mg PLF-23            240 mg PLF-23          240 mg PLF-28
Avicel* PH 102          -                        -                       152 mg
Prosolv" SMCC 90        -                         155 mg
Prosolv* SMCC            155 mg                  -
HD 90
Explotab*                10 mg                    10 mg                  12 mg
Total capsule           405 mg                   405 mg                 405 mg
weight
Dosge fmVcaps*                    size '00'      Vcaps* size '00'       Vcaps* size '00'
Dosage form             Enteric-coated           Enteric-coated         Heat cured
101751          In vitro testosterone dissolution studies were carried out using formulation PLF
28. The dissolution medium used for these studies was PBS (pH 6.80) with 0.5% (w/v) SLS, and
the dissolution protocol followed is decribed in this Example, above. Samples were collected
after 4h of dissolution and used for particle size analysis by using a NICOMP (Santa Barbara,
CA) model 370 sub micron particle size analyzer. These samples were not quantified for percent
drug dissolution. Table 18 summarizes the results of the particle size analysis of the formulations
as physical mixes and in matrix form after being subjected to dissolution.
Table 18
Sample Details                           Mean diameter of vesicles in nm based on:
                        Sample No.       Number -          Volume -           Intensity
                                         weighted          weighted           weighted
                                         Gaussian          Gaussian            Gaussian
                                         distribution      distribution        distribution
PLF-28                   1               216.1             2061.2              932.0
                        2                445.1             1369.1              929.9
                        3                321.1             2873.5              1296.8
Physical mix             1               366.0             1961.4              1041.9
(Testosterone +         2                125.7             1999.9              736.3
DSPC +                  3                359.6             3437.4              1362.2
Cholesterol )
Example 15: Formulation and Evaluation of Testosterone Oral Delivery System
101761          A. Preparation and Optimization of Proliposomal Testosterone Formulations

                                               56
Testosterone and phospholipids (Table 19) were dissolved in ethanol and the solvent was
evaporated using nitrogen gas. The dry powder was passed through # 60 mesh screen to produce
homogenous particle size distribution. Phospholipids employed in the study are from Inactive
Ingredient Guide (FDA).
Table 19
Formulation No.      Composition                   Ratio     Amount (mg)
1                    Test:DMPC                     1:1        200:200
2                    Test:DMPG                     1:1        200:200
3                    Test:DSPC                     1:1        200:200
4                    Test:DSPG                     1:1        200:200
5                    Test: (DMPC:DMPG)             1:1        200: (100:100)
6                    Test: (DSPC:DMPG)             1:1        200: (100:100)
7                    Test: (DMPC:Chol)             1:(9:1)    200: (180:20)
8                    Test: (DMPC:DMPG:)            1:(7:3)    200: (140:60)
9                    Test: (DSPC:Chol)             1:(9:1)    200: (180:20)
10                   Test: (DSPC:DMPG:Chol)        1:(4:4:2)  200: (80:80:40)
11                   Test:(DMPC:DMPG)              1:(3:7)    200: (60:140)
12                   Test: (DSPC: DMPG)            1:(7:3)    200: (140:60)
13                   Test:(DSPC:DMPG)              1:(3:7)    200: (60:140)
14                   Test:(DSPC:Chol)              1:(6:4)    200: (120:80)
15                   Test:(DSPC:DSPG)              1:(1:1)    200: (100:100)
101771         B. Transport Study
Caco-2 Cell Culture: Monolayers of Caco-2 cells were prepared on 4 pm-pore polycarbonate
Transwell*filters by the following method. Caco-2 cells were grown in T-75 flasks at 37' C in
an atmosphere of 5% CO 2 and 95 % air using Dulbecco's Modified Eagle Medium (DMEM, pH
7.2) with the necessary growth supplements. The medium was changed at least once prior to
90% confluence. The cells were washed with Hank's Balanced Salt Solution (HBSS w/o Ca+2,
Mg+2) and trypsinized with 0.25% trypsin in 1 mM EDTA for 5 min. at 370 C. The cells were
resuspended in 10 ml of DMEM and processed to minimize aggregation of cells. Five ml of the
cell suspension were withdrawn and seeded into 4-um pore Transwell* inserts at a density of

                                                  57
7.5x10 cells/ml. Five ml of DMEM was added to the flask to make a 1:1 dilution of the cell
suspension to DMEM, and the cells were re-seeded. The cells in the Transwell' inserts were
grown for approximately five days and the resistance of the cells was measured every other day
until resistance was greater than 100 Q.
101781           C. In Vitro Transport Studies
Once the resistance of the cells reached greater than 100 Q the DMEM was carefully aspirated
and replaced with 1.5 ml HBSS w/Ca+2 , Mg+2 (which has been warmed in the 370 C water bath)
in the donor compartment and 2.5 ml in the receiver compartment using a micro pipette and
allowed to equilibrate at room temperature for 30 minutes. Then the HBSS w/Ca+2 ,Mg+2 was
carefully aspirated from the donor compartment and replaced with 0.5 mg/ml formulation which
had been resuspended in HBSS w/Ca+,Mg+2 (placed in 37'C water bath for 30 minutes) prepared
the previous day. Each formulation was tested in triplicates. The resistance was measured for
each well (to ensure the cells stay intact) and 300 pl of sample was withdrawn from the receiver
compartment and compensated with 300 pl of fresh HBSS w/Ca+2 , Mg+2 for each time. Samples
were withdrawn at times 5, 15, 30, 45, 60, 90, 120, 150, 180, 210, 240, 270, 300 minutes. The
amount of testosterone transported was determined by analysis of 100 pl of the sample by HPLC.
The experiments were performed in triplicate. Controls: 1. Unformulated testosterone control; 2.
Testosterone proliposomal formulations
101791           Transport Study Results: Transport of testosterone across Caco-2 cells after 5 hrs
is shown in Figure 20 . The transport of testosterone was greater with all fifteen proliposomal
formulations compared to control (processed and non-processed testosterone). Formulations
prepared with DMPG and DSPC:Chol (9:1) exhibited the maximum transport of testosterone
among the fifteen formulations evaluated in this study. The transport of testosterone was 2-fold
greater than control (processed and non-processed testosterone). At the end of 5 hr sampling
time, the transport had not reached plateau. This suggests the possibility of further enhancement
of transport of testosterone beyond 5 hrs.
101801           D. Conclusion
Addition of Cholesterol to DSPC facilitates improved transport of testosterone across the
intestinal membrane. The improved transport of testosterone across the membrane was surprising
positive result.

                                                  58
Example 16: Pharmacokinetics Studies
101811          A clinical study was carried out that involved ten human subjects with
hypogonadism. Medical examination was carried out prior to recruiting the patients for the
study. The study was carried out in both fed and fasted conditions using a clinical study protocol
that was approved by the Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee (IACUC). Informed
consent was otained from all the patients prior to the start of the study. Pharmacokinetics of
testosterone after oral administration of the drug in two different doses (120 & 240 mg) was
compiled. The mean plasma concentration of testosterone and its major metabolite Dihydro
testosterone (DHT) under different treatment conditions is given in Figure 21, 22. Absorption of
testosterone was delayed in presence of food. Administration of higher dose of testosterone did
not show any linear increase in the plasma concentration of testosterone. The peak plasma
concentration (Cmax) of testosterone was found after 5 hours (Cmax) of administration of the drug
for both strengths.
Example 17: Oral Dosage Form Containing Testoterone/Cholesterol DSPC Proliposomal
Formualtion
101821          An oral doage form in the form of an enteric coated capsule was prepared on pilot
scale for clinical study. The capsule contained, on a per caspule basis, a pharamceutical
composition having the ingredients listed in Table 20.
101831          The oral dosage form was prepared by the following method using the
components set out in Table 20. The method of preparing the oral dosage form is appropriate for
the ranges indicated in Table 20 for each component provided by the table. The process involved
dissolving testosterone in alcohol to get a clear solution. DSPC was added to the drug solution
followed by addition of cholesterol to form a dispersion. The solvent was removed by
evaporation using a rota evaporator under vacuum. Distillation until a dry mass was obtained.
The dried lumps were then passed through sieve# 60 and blended with microcrystalline cellulose
and sodium starch glycolate. The formulation was filled into size '00' capsules using a semi
automated capsule filling machine. The capsules were enteric coated using a methacrylic acid
copolymer C.

                                                  59
Table 20 Components/Composition of Oral Dosage Form
       Core Components (capsule):              % wt range           Function
Testosterone USP                                12.5  -   60.0  Active ingredient
Distearoylphosphatidylcholine (DSPC)           13.33    -  53.2  Phospholipid
Cholesterol                                    2.96-11.84         Neutrolipid
Microcrystalline Cellulose NF (PH-102)         9.87 -37.74        Filler/binder
Sodium Starch Glycolate NF                           1-5          Disintegrant
Alcohol USP*                                                         Solvent
Purified Water USP*                                                  Solvent
Example 18: Clinical study of the pharmacokinetics of testosterone in human subjects with
hypogonadism
101841          A clinical study was carried out in 34 human subjects with hypogonadism to
evaluate testosterone pharmacokinetics of over the course of their 15 day treatment periods with
an oral dosage form of testosterone that contained the per-capsule amounts of the components
provided in Table 21, and prepared according to the method described in Example 17. Subjects
with < 300 ng/dL serum testosterone were considered as hypogonadal. The inclusion criteria for
all men to participate in the study was to have body mass index (BMI) < 39 Kg/m2 , more than
18 years in age and the weight requirement was > 55 Kg. All the subjects understood the purpose
of the study and signed the informed consent form prior to participating in the study. The subject
group was divided into two groups of 17 that were each administered twice-daily (i.e., morning
and evening doses) dosages of either 120 mg or 240 mg (i.e., two 120 mg doses administered at
the same time) of the formulated testosterone for 15 days. Plasma samples were taken on an
hourly basis from the subjects after one full day and at 15 days after the dosing regimen began.

                                                   60
Table 21
       Core Components (capsule):             Wt per capsule         Function
Testosterone USP                              120.0 mg         Active ingredient
Distearoylphosphatidylcholine (DSPC)          108.0 mg         Phospholipid
Cholesterol                                   12.0 mg          Neutrolipid
Microcrystalline Cellulose NF (Avicel*        152.85 mg        Filler/binder
   PH-102)
Sodium Starch Glycolate NF (Explotab*) 12.15 mg                Disintegrant
Alcohol*                                     q.s
Total                                          05.0 mg
HPMC capsules size '00'                       120.0 mg
Enteric Coating composition (for capsule):
   Methacrylic Acid Copolymer C. NF,                           Enteric coating
                                                  39.5 mg        oye
                                                               polymer
   Triethyl Citrate NF                            3.95 mg      Plasticizer
   Talc NF                                        19.55 mg     Anti tacking agent
   Purified water *                                   q.s.      Diluent
   Total weight                                  588.0 mg
101851           Figure 23 shows the separate averages of the combined hourly plasma testosterone
concentrations from subjects on the 120 mg and 240 mg twice daily regimens over the course of
the first and fifeteenth days of treatment. As Fig. 23 indicates, twice-daily dministration of the
240 mg dose of testosterone did not show any linear increase in the plasma concentration of
testosterone than that of the twice-daily 120 mg regimen. On Day 1, the 120 mg and 240 mg
dosing regimens each achieved average daily plasma testosterone concentrations of greater than
300 ng/dL in 71 % of the subjects. On Day 15, the 120 mg and 240 mg dosing regimens acheived
average daily plasma testosterone concentrations of greater than 300 ng/dL in 59% and 310%of
the subjects, respectively. From day 1 to day 15 of the study, there were decreases in testosterone
exposure for the subjects that were administered the 120 mg and 240 mg dosing regimens. The
descrease associated with the 240 mg regimen was significant.
101861           The average peak plasma concentration (Cmax) of testosterone was reached four
hours after the administration of either the 120 mg or 240 mg doses, at which point it was 500
ng/dL and greater than 500 ng/dL, respectively. See Figs. 24 and 25.

                                                 61
Example 19: Evaluation of the toxicity and toxicokinetics of proliposomal dosage forms.
101871          The purpose of this study was to evaluate the toxicity and toxicokinetics of an oral
dosage form of testosterone that contained the per-capsule amounts of the components provided
in Table 21, and prepared according to the method described in Example 17. For these studies, a
placebo , and three different doses of formulated testosterone were administered once daily to
beagle dogs for a minimum of 90 consecutive days. More specifically, 16 male beagle dogs were
assigned to four treatment groups in the toxicology portion of this study. Animals were dosed
orally with capsules providing a target dose level of 0, 15, 75, or 150 mg/kg/day of formulated
testosterone for 91 consecutive days. These dose levels are equivalent to o, 120 mg, 600 mg, and
1200 mg dosage forms. On day 92, animals were euthanized and subjected to a complete gross
necropsy. Protocol-specified tissues, including testes, were collected and forwarded to
Experimental Pathology Laboratories (EPL), Inc. Tissues from all groups were processed,
embedded in paraffin, sectioned, and stained with hematoxylin and eosin (H&E). The resulting
slides were forwarded to Brett Saladino, DVM, Diplomate ACVP of Calvert Laboratories for
evaluation by light microscopy.
101881          The only pathological findings that were attributed to the pharmacologic effects of
exogenous testosterone on the testes and epididymides. Findings included hypospermatogenesis,
increased multinucleate germ cells/syncytia, increased luminal spermatogenic cells,
vacuolation/atrophy of Leydig cells, and tubular atrophy in the testes; and hypospermia and
increased luminal debris in the epididymides. The findings were most striking in animals given
75 or 150 mg/ml/day.
101891          Blood samples were also drawn at fixed time intervals and analyzed on days 1, 57
and 91 for 24 hour periods on each of those days. Blood samples were collected from all animals
prior to treatment initiation and from study animals on days 29 and 92 via jugular vein puncture.
See Figs. 26, 27, and 28, respectively.
101901          The examples and embodiments described herein are illustrative and various
modifications or changes suggested to persons skilled in the art are to be included within this
disclosure. As will be appreciated by those skilled in the art, the specific components listed in the
above examples may be replaced with other functionally equivalent components. While an
increase in plasma testosterone levels increased with increases in the amount of testosterone
dosage, the increase was not proportional. Testosterone levels increased on day 57 compared to

                                                   62
day 1. The levels increased with all three doses (120, 600 and 1200 mg). Testosterone levels
decreased on day 91 compared to day 57. In case of 120 mg dose the testosterone level was lower
than day 1.
101911          Throughout this specification, unless the context clearly requires otherwise, the
word "comprise", or variations such as "comprises" or "comprising", will be understood to imply
the inclusion of a stated element, integer or step, or group of elements, integers or steps, but not
the exclusion of any other element, integer or step, or group of elements, integers or steps.
101921          Any discussion of documents, acts, materials, devices, articles or the like which
has been included in the present specification is solely for the purpose of providing a context for
the present technology. It is not to be taken as an admission that any or all of these matters form
part of the prior art base or were common general knowledge in the field relevant to the present
technology as it existed before the priority date of each claim of this specification.
101931          Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the technology described herein is
susceptible to variations and modifications other than those specifically described. It is to be
understood that the technology includes all such variations and modifications. For the avoidance
of doubt, the technology also includes all of the steps, features, and compounds referred to or
indicated in this specification, individually or collectively, and any and all combinations of any
two or more of said steps, features and compounds.

                                                    63
The claims defining the invention are as follows:
1. A proliposomal powder dispersion comprising:
         (a)     testosterone,
         (b)     cholesterol, and
         (c)     at least one phospholipid,
wherein (a) and (b) are present in a weight ratio (a):(b) ranging from 1: 0.05 to 1:0.30 and
(a), (b) and (c) are present in a weight ratio of (a):((b) + (c)) ranging from 1: 1.0 and 1:2.5.
2. The proliposomal powder dispersion of claim 1, wherein the phospholipid is selected from
distearoyl phosphatidylcholine, dipalmitoyl phosphatidylcholine, dimyristoyl
phosphatidylcholine, egg phosphatidylcholine, soy phosphatidylcholine, dimyrsityl phosphatidyl
glycerol sodium, 1,2-dimyristoyl-phosphatidic acid, dipalmitoylphosphatidylglycerol,
dipalmitoyl phosphate, 1,2-distearoyl-sn-glycero-3-phospho-rac-glycerol, 1,2-distearoyl-sn
glycero-3-phosphatidic acid, phosphatidylserine and sphingomyelin, or a combination thereof.
3. The proliposomal powder dispersion of claim 2 wherein the phospholipid is distearoyl
phosphatidylcholine.
4. A pharmaceutical composition comprising a proliposomal powder dispersion of any one of
claims 1 to 3 and at least one pharmaceutically acceptable excipient.
5. An oral dosage form comprising the pharmaceutical compositions of claim 4, wherein the oral
dosage form is a tablet or capsule, and wherein the tablet or capsule is coated with a delayed
release coating.
6. The oral dosage form comprising the pharmaceutical compositions of claim 4, wherein the
oral dosage form is a tablet or capsule, and wherein the tablet or capsule is coated with an enteric
coating.
7. An oral dosage form comprising:
         a proliposomal powder dispersion comprising:

                                                  64
                 (a)    testosterone,
                 (b)    cholesterol, and
                 (c)    at least one phospholipid, and
        at least one pharmaceutically acceptable excipient;
wherein the testosterone is present in an amount ranging from 100 to 260 mg and having a fasting
pharmacokinetic profile of a mean plasma concentration of testosterone ranging from 350 to 950
ng/dL of testosterone at five hours after ingestion.
wherein the testosterone has a fasting pharmacokinetic profile of a mean plasma concentration of
testosterone ranging from 4 to 7 ng/dL/mg of testosterone at five hours after ingestion.
8. The oral dosage form of claim 7, wherein the oral dosage form is a capsule, and wherein the
capsule is coated with an delayed release coating (e.g., an enteric coating).
9. A method of treating an individual in need of testosterone therapy comprising administering to
said individual a therapeutically effective amount of the proliposomal powder dispersion of any
one of claims I to 3.
10. A method of treating an individual in need of testosterone therapy comprising administering
to said individual a therapeutically effective amount of the oral dosage form of claim 4 or 7.

         <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                    1/28
FIG. 1

         <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                    2/28
FIG. 2

         <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                    3/28
FIG. 3

         <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                    4/28
FIG. 4

         <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                    5/28
FIG. 5

         <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                    6/28
FIG. 6

         <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                    7/28
FIG. 7

         <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                    8/28
FIG. 8

         <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                    9/28
FIG. 9

           <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                      10/28
  G. 1 0
FIG

           <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                      11/28
  G. 1 1
FIG

           <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                      12/28
  G. 1 2
FIG

           <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                      13/28
  G. 1 3
FIG

           <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                      14/28
  G. 1 4
FIG

                                                               15/28
<removed-date>
                                 70
<removed-apn>
                                 60
                                            a       b          c          d         e
                                 50
              % Drug dissolved
                                 40
                                 30
                                 20
                                 10
                                 0
                                      0   0.5   1       1.5        2          2.5   3   3.5   4
                                                              Time in hours
                                                    FIG. 15

           <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                      16/28
  G. 1 6
FIG

           <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                      17/28
  G. 1 7
FIG

                   <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                              18/28
  G. 1 8
FIG
           b   a

           <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                      19/28
  G. 1 9
FIG

                                                                                     20/28
<removed-date>
              Cumulative Amount of Testosterone ( g)
                                                       400
                                            <U+260E>
                                                       350
                                                       300
<removed-apn>
                                                       250
                                                       200
                                                       150
                                                       100
                                                       50
                                                        0
                                                           TNP TP 1    2 3 4     5    6      7   8   9   10 11 12 13 14 15
                                                       Testosterone   Standard
                                                                                      Formulations
                                                                         FIG. 20

           <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                      21/28
  G. 2 1
FIG

               <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
           a
           b
           v
                                          22/28
  G. 222
FIG
           c
           d
           v

           <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                      23/28
  G. 2 3
FIG

                                                                       24/28
<removed-date>
                                          600.00
              Mean plasma concentration
<removed-apn>
                                          500.00
                                          400.00
                                          300.00
                       (ng/dL)
                                          200.00
                                          100.00
                                            0.00
                                                   0   2   4   6   8     10    12   14   16   18   20   22   24
                                                                       Time in hours
                                                           FIG. 24

                                                                               25/28
<removed-date>
              Mean plasma concentration (ng/dL)
<removed-apn>
                                                  600.00
                                                  500.00
                                                  400.00
                                                  300.00
                                                  200.00
                                                  100.00
                                                    0.00
                                                           0   2   4   6   8    10     12   14   16   18   20   22   24
                                                                               Time in hours
                                                                   FIG. 25

                                                                           26/28
<removed-date>
                                          1800
<removed-apn>
                                          1600
              Testosterone conc (ng/dL)
                                          1400
                                          1200
                                                                                                 Group 1 (Placebo)
                                          1000
                                                                                                 Group 2 (120 mg)
                                          800                                                    Group 3 (600 mg)
                                          600                                                    Group 4 (1200 mg)
                                          400
                                          200
                                            0
                                                 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24
                                                                         Time in hours
                                                                  FIG. 26

                                                                                    27/28
<removed-date>
                                                  5000.00
                                                  4500.00
              Mean plasma concentration (ng/dL)
<removed-apn>
                                                  4000.00
                                                  3500.00
                                                  3000.00
                                                  2500.00
                                                                                                            Group 1 (Placebo)
                                                  2000.00
                                                                                                            Group 2 (120 mg)
                                                  1500.00
                                                                                                            Group 3 (600 mg)
                                                  1000.00                                                   Group 4 (1200 mg)
                                                   500.00
                                                     0.00
                                                            0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24
                                                                                      Time in Hours
                                                                           FIG. 27

                                                                              28/28
<removed-date>
                                               3800
              Mean Testosterone conc (ng/dL)
                                               3600
                                               3400
<removed-apn>
                                               3200
                                               3000
                                               2800
                                               2600
                                               2400                                            Group 1 (Placebo)
                                               2200
                                               2000                                            Group 2 (120 mg)
                                               1800                                            Group 3 (600 mg)
                                               1600
                                               1400                                            Group 4 (1200 mg)
                                               1200
                                               1000
                                                800
                                                600
                                                400
                                                200
                                                  0
                                                      0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24
                                                                             Time in Hours
                                                                    FIG. 28

