STEM CELL CULTURES
ABSTRACT
The present invention relates compounds for stabilizing cells and methods of their use.

                                      STEM CELL CULTURES
                         CROSS-REFERENCES TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
     [0001]   This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application No. 61/200,808,
    filed December 3, 2008, which is incorporated in its entirety herein for all purposes. This
    application is a divisional of Australian Patent Application No. <removed-apn>, which was a
    divisional of Australian Patent No. 2015230747, itself a divisional of Australian Patent No.
    2009322346, a national phase entry of PCT/US2009/066554. The entire contents of the
    preceding applications and patents are incorporated herein by reference.
                                 BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
     [0002]   Embryonic stem cells (ESCs) are pluripotent cells that have the capacity to
    self-renew indefinitely and to differentiate into all cell types of the body (Thomson, J.A. et
 t0 al., Science 282 (5391):1145-1147 (1998); Thomson, J.A. & Odorico, J.S., Trends Biotechnol
     18 (2):53-57 (2000)). This ability provides hope that ESCs will one day be used to replace
    lost and damaged cells, and provide therapies beyond the reach of conventional drugs.
    However, to fully realize the clinical potentials ofhESCs, chemically-defined, feeder- and
    animal product-free, robust culture conditions have to be established. Although several
 [5 chemically-defined media have been reported (Yao, S. et al., Proc Nat! Acad Sci USA 103
    (18):6907-6912 (2006); Lu, J. et al., Proc Nat! Acad Sci USA 103 (15):5688-5693 (2006);
    Ludwig, T.E. et al., Nat Biotechnol24 (2):185-187 (2006)), they are still largely
    unsatisfactory due to the suboptimal performance of cells in them. Especially under these
    conditions, when cells are passaged by trypsin to single cells, they undergo extensive cell
20  death. A number of signaling pathways that mediate hESC self-renewal are known,
    including FGF, TGF-, Wnt, etc. (James, D. et al., Development 132 (6):1273-1282 (2005);
    Xu, R.H. et al., Nat Methods 2 (3):185-190 (2005); Beattie, G.M. et al., Stem Cells 23
    (4):489-495 (2005); Greber, B., Lehrach, H., & Adjaye, J., Stem Cells 25 (2):455-464 (2007);
    Sato, N. et al., Nat Med 10 (1):55-63 (2004)). However, none of them appears to act as a
25  survival factor in this process, the molecular mechanism of which being elusive.

                              BRIEF SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
   [0003]    The present invention provides compounds having the formula:
                         N        L1-L2         A
        B          N
                         S       RI
   wherein
 5 ring A is a substituted or unsubstituted cycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted
   heterocycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted aryl, or substituted or unsubstituted heteroaryl;
   ring B is a substituted or unsubstituted heterocycloalkyl, or substituted or unsubstituted
   heteroaryl;
   L' is -C(O)-NR2- or -C(O)-NR2_
 0 L2 is a bond, substituted or unsubstituted alkylene or substituted or unsubstituted
   heteroalkylene; and
   R I and R 2 are independently hydrogen, substituted or unsubstituted alkyl, substituted or
   unsubstituted heteroalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted cycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted
   heterocycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted aryl, or substituted or unsubstituted heteroaryl.
 5 [0004]    In some embodiments, ring A is a substituted or unsubstituted aryl.
   [0005]    In some embodiments, ring A is a substituted or unsubstituted phenyl.
   [0006]    In some embodiments, ring B is a substituted or unsubstituted heterocycloalkyl, or
   substituted or unsubstituted heteroaryl.
   [0007]    In some embodiments, ring B is a substituted or unsubstituted heteroaryl.
20 [0008]    In some embodiments, ring B is a substituted or unsubstituted pyrazolyl, substituted
   or unsubstituted furanyl, substituted or unsubstituted imidazolyl, substituted or unsubstituted
   isoxazolyl, substituted or unsubstituted oxadiazolyl, substituted or unsubstituted oxazolyl,
   substituted or unsubstituted pyrrolyl, substituted or unsubstituted pyridyl, substituted or
   unsubstituted pyrimidyl, substituted or unsubstituted pyridazinyl, substituted or unsubstituted
25 thiazolyl, substituted or unsubstituted triazolyl, substituted or unsubstituted thienyl,
                                                    2

   substituted or unsubstituted dihydrothieno-pyrazolyl, substituted or unsubstituted
   thianaphthenyl, substituted or unsubstituted carbazolyl, substituted or unsubstituted
   benzothienyl, substituted or unsubstituted benzofuranyl, substituted or unsubstituted indolyl,
   substituted or unsubstituted quinolinyl, substituted or unsubstituted benzotriazolyl,
 5 substituted or unsubstituted benzothiazolyl, substituted or unsubstituted benzooxazolyl,
   substituted or unsubstituted benzimidazolyl, substituted or unsubstituted isoquinolinyl,
   substituted or unsubstituted isoindolyl, substituted or unsubstituted acridinyl, substituted or
   unsubstituted benzoisazolyl, or substituted or unsubstituted dimethylhydantoin.
   [0009]     In some embodiments, L2 is substituted or unsubstituted C1-Cio alkyl.
 0 [0010]     In some embodiments, L2 is unsubstituted C1 -Cio alkyl.
   [0011]     In some embodiments, L2 is methylene.
   [0012]     In some embodiments, ring A is substituted or unsubstituted aryl; ring B is
   substituted or unsubstituted heteroaryl; R1 is hydrogen; and L2 is unsubstituted C1 -Cio alkyl.
   [0013]     In some embodiments, R2 is hydrogen.
 5 [0014]     In some embodiments, R1 is hydrogen or unsubstituted C1 -CIO alkyl.
   [0015]     In some embodiments, R1 is hydrogen.
   [0016]     In some embodiments, the compound has the formula:
                                        0
             N
               N   /\      H N
                           N
                                            H
                                               L2
                                                                R)
    (R4r          X
                  x                     R1z
         yRr     XS(II)
   wherein, y is an integer from 0 to 3; z is an integer from 0 to 5; X is -N=, -CH= or -CR 5 =; R3 ,
20 R and R5 are independently CN, S(O)nR6 , NR 7R', C(O)R 9, NR 10 -C(O)R11 ,
   NR -C(O)-OR         , -C(O)NR R   , -NR 16S(O)2R    , -OR", -S(O)2NR     9, substituted or
   unsubstituted alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted heteroalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted
   cycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted heterocycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted aryl, or
   substituted or unsubstituted heteroaryl, wherein n is an integer from 0 to 2, wherein if z is
25 greater than 1, two R3 moieties are optionally joined together to form a substituted or
   unsubstituted cycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted heterocycloalkyl, substituted or
                                                    3

   unsubstituted aryl, or substituted or unsubstituted heteroaryl; and R6 , R7 , R 8, R9 , R 10 , R 11 , R 12
   R 13 , R 14 , R 15 , R 16 , R 17 , R 18 and R19 are independently hydrogen, substituted or unsubstituted
   alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted heteroalkyl, unsubstituted cycloalkyl, substituted or
   unsubstituted heterocycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted aryl, or substituted or
 5 unsubstituted heteroaryl.
   [0017]        In some embodiments, L2 is substituted or unsubstituted C1-Cio alkyl.
   [0018]        In some embodiments, L2 is unsubstituted C1-Cio alkyl.
   [0019]        In some embodiments, L2 is methylene.
   [0020]        In some embodiments, X is -N= or -CH=.
 0 [0021]        In some embodiments, z is 2 and two R3 moieties at adjacent vertices are joined
   together to from a substituted or unsubstituted heterocycloalkyl.
   [0022]        In some embodiments, z is 1.
   [0023]        In some embodiments, y is 0 or 1.
   [0024]        In some embodiments, R3 is -OR 8, and R18 is hydrogen or unsubstituted C1 -Cio
 5 alkyl.
   [0025]        In some embodiments, L2 is methylene; X is -N= or -CH=; R1 is hydrogen; and y
   and z are 0.
   [0026]        In some embodiments, the compound has the formula:
                                                             0
                                               N
                                                             0
20                                                    S
                                N                               H
                                               HN               N
                                       N              S
                                                              4

                                                      0
                    NAN
                                             S                             ,or
                    N\NA
                               N            NS                                  0H
                                                                                OCH3.
    [0027]   The present invention also provides for compounds having the formula:
                                                            N
                              R20-L3          D
                                                        N         N
                                                        H                                       (III)
 5         wherein
                   Ring D is substituted or unsubstituted aryl or substituted or unsubstituted
   heteroaryl;
                   L 3 is -C(O)NH- or -S(O) 2NH-;
                   R 2 0 is substituted or unsubstituted alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted
 0 heteroalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted cycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted
   heterocycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted aryl, or substituted or unsubstituted heteroaryl;
                   R2 is -NR R2 or -OR24
                   R22 and R23 are independently hydrogen, substituted or unsubstituted alkyl,
   substituted or unsubstituted heteroalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted cycloalkyl, substituted or
15 unsubstituted heterocycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted aryl, substituted or unsubstituted
   heteroaryl, or joined together to form a substituted or unsubstituted heterocycloalkyl or
   substituted or unsubstituted heteroaryl;
                   R 2 4 is substituted or unsubstituted alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted
   heteroalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted cycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted
20 heterocycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted aryl, substituted or unsubstituted heteroaryl, or
   joined together to form a substituted or unsubstituted cycloalkyl of substituted or
   unsubstituted heterocycloalkyl.
    [0028]   In some embodiments, ring D is substituted or unsubstituted phenyl.
                                                      5

   [0029]    In some embodiments, R20 is substituted or unsubstituted alkyl or substituted or
   unsubstituted cycloalkyl.
   [0030]    In some embodiments, R 20 is substituted or unsubstituted C1 -C10 alkyl or substituted
   or unsubstituted 3 to 7 membered cycloalkyl.
 5 [0031]    In some embodiments, R20 is substituted or unsubstituted C1 -C 5 alkyl or substituted
   or unsubstituted 3 to 6 membered cycloalkyl.
   [0032]    In some embodiments, R20 is unsubstituted C1 -C 5 alkyl or unsubstituted 3 to 6
   membered cycloalkyl.
   [0033]    In some embodiments, R 2 is hydrogen; and R23 is substituted or unsubstituted
 0 cycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted heterocycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted aryl, or
   substituted or unsubstituted heteroaryl.
   [0034]    In some embodiments, R 2 is hydrogen; and R23 is substituted or unsubstituted
   substituted or unsubstituted aryl.
   [0035]    In some embodiments, R 2 and R2 3 are joined together to from a substituted or
 5 unsubstituted heterocycloalkyl, or substituted or unsubstituted heteroaryl.
   [0036]    In some embodiments, R 2 and R2 3 are joined together to from a substituted or
   unsubstituted pyrrolyl, substituted or unsubstituted isoindolinyl, substituted or unsubstituted
   piperidinyl, or substituted or unsubstituted tetrahydroquinolinyl.
   [0037]    In some embodiments, compound has the formula
                            0
                             11
                             iN                     N                   R2 5
                        HO
                                                                                  R26
                                                          H
                                                N         N
                                                H
20                                                                (
           wherein, w is an integer from 0 to 1; q is an integer from 0 to 7; R2, R26 , R  and R 28
   are independently -CN, -NR29R 30 , -C(O)R3 1, -NR-3 2 C(O)R3 3 , -NR34 -C(O)OR3 5 ,
             36  37     3839              04142
   -C(O)NR3R , -NR3S(O) 2 R        , -OR4  , -S(O) 2NR4 , -S(O),R , substituted or unsubstituted
   alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted heteroalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted cycloalkyl,
                                                     6

   substituted or unsubstituted heterocycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted aryl, or substituted
                                                                             2930  31  32    33  34
   or unsubstituted heteroaryl, wherein v is an integer from 0 to 2; R29, R , R , R , R , R
   R    , R36, R3, R38, R39, R4 , R , and R 4 2 are independently hydrogen, substituted or
   unsubstituted alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted heteroalkyl, unsubstituted cycloalkyl,
 5 substituted or unsubstituted heterocycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted aryl, or substituted
   or unsubstituted heteroaryl, wherein R       and R26 , or R26 and R2 , may be joined to form a
   substituted or unsubstituted cycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted heterocycloalkyl,
   substituted or unsubstituted aryl, or substituted or unsubstituted heteroaryl.
   [0038]       In some embodiments, R28 is -OR4 , wherein R 40 is hydrogen or unsubstituted
 0 CI-Cio alkyl.
   [0039]       In some embodiments, R 40 is hydrogen or unsubstituted C1 to C5 alkyl.
   [0040]       In some embodiments, the compound has the formula:
              0                                                       R28
     20
    RN                              N
             S
          N                         N
          H  0
                                  N       N           N
                                  H
   [0041]       In some embodiments, R20 is unsubstituted C1 to Cio alkyl.
15 [0042]       In some embodiments, R28 is -OR4 , wherein R 40 is hydrogen or unsubstituted C1 to
   CIO alkyl, or C1 to CIO alkyl substituted with substituted or unsubstituted C3 to C6 cycloalkyl.
   [0043]       In some embodiments, q is 1.
   [0044]       In some embodiments, the compound has the formula:
              0
                                                                            28
    R20       11R
          HN                              N           N
                                  H
                                                      7

[00451  In some embodiments, the compounds have the formula:
                                    0                          OH
                       NN
                       H
                                         N        N      NP
                                         H
                   0
                                11                           OH
                  H"I                  N
                                   N)-       N        N
                                   H
                      H0
                          N                  N        N
                                       H
                           0
                            11                                OH
                        Ni                   N      >
                                         NJ     'N       N
                                         H
       5
                           0
                            11                               OCH 3
                        N
                             H              N
                                             I
                                         N       N      N"
                                         H
                          0
                          11                                   OH
                             N                 NN
                             H            )H
                                                                   or

                               0
                                1                                            OCH 3
                                  ND               N
                            H 0
                                               N       N       N
                                               H
   [0046]    The present invention also provides methods of stabilizing an isolated cell in vitro.
   In some embodiments, the method comprises contacting an animal cell with a sufficient
   amount of a compound of formula I or III to stabilize the cell.
 5 [0047]    In some embodiments, the method further comprises changing the conditions or
   environment of the cell in the presence of the compound, wherein the changing step in the
   absence of the compound would result in a change in the cell's cellular programming. In
   some embodiments, the changing step comprises at least one of thawing the cells and
   dissociating the cells from other cells.
 0 [0048]    In some embodiments, the cell is adherent. In some embodiments, the cell is in
   suspension.
   [0049]    In some embodiments, the method further comprises determining a phenotype of the
   cell.
   [0050]    In some embodiments, the method comprises isolating the cells from an animal. In
 5 some embodiments, the animal is a human. In some embodiments, the animal is a
   non-human animal.
   [0051]    In some embodiments, the compound is a compound of formula I. In some
   embodiments, the compound is a compound of formula III.
   [0052]    The present invention also provides methods of ameliorating a condition in an
20 animal. In some embodiments, the method comprises administering a sufficient amount of a
   compound of formula I or III to an animal in need thereof to ameliorate the condition.
   [0053]    In some embodiments, the condition is selected from the group consisting of tissue
   damage, stroke, and cancer. In some embodiments, the tissue is selected from the group
   consisting of pancreas, liver, intestine, lung, and kidney.
25 [0054]    In some embodiments, the condition comprises at least partial rejection of a
   transplanted tissue or organ. In some embodiments, the transplantation comprises
                                                     9

   transplantation of bone marrow, cord blood, purified hematopoietic stem or progenitor cells,
   cardiac cells, neural cells, pancreatic beta cells, or liver cells.
   [0055]    In some embodiments, the compound is a compound of formula I. In some
   embodiments, the compound is a compound of formula III.
 5 [0056]    The present invention also provides methods for maintaining cell survival. In some
   embodiments, the method comprises generating isolated stem cells, progenitor cells, or
   differentiated cells; and inducing stabilization of E-cadherin in the isolated cells, thereby
   maintaining cell survival.
   [0057]    In some embodiments, the inducing step comprises contacting the isolated stem cell
 0 with an amount of a compound of formula I sufficient to improve survival of isolated stem
   cells by at least 2-fold compared to the absence of the compound.
   [0058]    In some embodiments, the inducing step comprises culturing the isolated stem cells
   on a surface, wherein a molecule comprising an E-Cadherin ectodomain is tethered to the
   surface.
 5 [0059]    The present invention also provides populations of isolated cells comprising an
   amount of a molecule that stabilizes E-cadherin in the cells sufficient to improve survival of
   isolated cells by at least 2-fold compared to the absence of the molecule.
   [0060]    In some embodiments, the molecule comprises a compound of formula I.
   [0061]    In some embodiments, the cells are selected from the group consisting of stem cells,
20 induced stem cells, pluripotent stem cells, progenitor cells, differentiated cells, beta cells and
   fibroblasts.
   [0062]    The present invention also provides for populations of isolated cells comprising an
   amount of a compound of formula I or III sufficient to improve survival of isolated cells by at
   least 2-fold compared to the absence of the compound.
25 [0063]    In some embodiments, the cells are selected from the group consisting of stem cells,
   induced stem cells, pluripotent stem cells, progenitor cells, differentiated cells, beta cells and
   fibroblasts.
   [0064]    The present invention also provides methods for maintaining stem cell survival. In
   some embodiments, the methods comprise generating isolated cells; and activating protein
30 kinase C (PKC) in the isolated cells, thereby maintaining cell survival.
                                                     10

    [0065]     In some embodiments, the activating step comprises contacting a sufficient amount
    of phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate (PMA) to the isolated cells to improve survival of the cells
    compared to the survival rate in the absence of PMA.
    [0066]     The present invention also provides populations of isolated stem cells comprising an
 5  amount of protein kinase C activator sufficient to improve survival of isolated stem cells by
    at least 2-fold compared to the absence of the PKC activator.
                                               DEFINITIONS
    [0067]     The abbreviations used herein have their conventional meaning within the chemical
 0  and biological arts.
    [0068]     The term "stabilizing a cell" refers to substantially reducing or eliminating the
    response of a cell to a change in the conditions or environment to which the cell is exposed.
    "Substantially reducing" in this context means that the response is at least 50% less than what
    would have occurred in the absence of a stabilizing component (e.g., the compounds of the
 5  invention).
    [0069]     The term "changing the conditions or environment of a cell" refers to changing the
    temperature, culture media (e.g., carbon source, salt concentration, growth factor),
    dissociating the cells into isolated cells, thawing cells, or otherwise changing a factor of a
    cell's immediate environment. As discussed herein, changing the condition or environment of
 '0 a cell will often change the cell's phenotype or cellular programming. For example, stem
    cells, as well as some other cells, when isolated will differentiate and/or die in response to
    certain changes such as isolation, thawing, etc. Thus, changing conditions can reduce or
    eliminate cell viability whereas stabilized cells as described herein do not have substantially
    reduced viability under the same changes of condition. Change in cell programming can also
25  be monitored as a cell's response to a specific stimulus that is characteristic for a certain cell
    type and/or as by expression of one or a set of characteristic genes or gene products. As a
    non-limiting example, human pluripotent stem cells are known to express at least some, and
    optionally all, of the markers from the following list: SSEA-3, SSEA-4, TRA-1-60,
    TRA-1-81, TRA-2-49/6E, ALP, Sox2, E-cadherin, UTF-1, Oct4, Rex1, and Nanog. Such
30  expression may change as a stem cell loses pluripotency or otherwise differentiates. A
                                                      11

    stabilized human pluripotent stem cell would maintain its characteristic expression pattern
    following a change in condition.
    [0070]    An "isolated" cell has been substantially separated or purified away from other cells
    of an organism.
 5  [0071]    The term "dissociating" cells refers to a process of isolating cells from other cells or
    from a surface (e.g., a culture plate surface). For example, cells can be dissociated from an
    animal or tissue by mechanical or enzymatic methods. Alternatively, cells that aggregate in
    vitro can be dissociated from each other. In yet another alternative, adherent cells are
    dissociated from a culture plate or other surface. Dissociation thus can involve breaking cell
 0  interactions with extracellular matrix (ECM) and substrates (e.g., culture surfaces) or
    breaking the ECM between cells.
    [0072]     "Determining a phenotype of a cell" refers to assessing a quality or characteristic of
    the cell. Phenotypes can include, for example, cell type-characteristic gene expression, or
    gene expression patterns, response of the cell to a stimulus or environment, ability to
 5  differentiate or de-differentiate, have a particular morphology, etc.
    [0073]    Where chemical substituent groups are specified by their conventional chemical
    formulae, written from left to right, they equally encompass the chemically identical
    substituents that would result from writing the structure from right to left, e.g., -CH 20- is
    equivalent to -OCH 2-.
 '0 [0074]    The term "alkyl," by itself or as part of another substituent, means, unless otherwise
    stated, a straight (i.e. unbranched) or branched chain, or combination thereof, which may be
    fully saturated, mono- or polyunsaturated and can include di- and multivalent radicals, having
    the number of carbon atoms designated (i.e. CI-Cio means one to ten carbons). Examples of
    saturated hydrocarbon radicals include, but are not limited to, groups such as methyl, ethyl,
25  n-propyl, isopropyl, n-butyl, t-butyl, isobutyl, sec-butyl, cyclohexyl, (cyclohexyl)methyl,
    cyclopropylmethyl, homologs and isomers of, for example, n-pentyl, n-hexyl, n-heptyl,
    n-octyl, and the like. An unsaturated alkyl group is one having one or more double bonds or
    triple bonds. Examples of unsaturated alkyl groups include, but are not limited to, vinyl,
    2-propenyl, crotyl, 2-isopentenyl, 2-(butadienyl), 2,4-pentadienyl, 3-(1,4-pentadienyl),
30  ethynyl, 1- and 3-propynyl, 3-butynyl, and the higher homologs and isomers. Preferred alkyl
    groups are C1-6 alkyl groups.
                                                     12

    [0075]    The term "alkylene" by itself or as part of another substituent means a divalent
    radical derived from an alkyl, as exemplified, but not limited, by -CH 2 CH 2CH 2CH 2 -.
    Typically, an alkyl (or alkylene) group will have from 1 to 24 carbon atoms, with those
    groups having 10 or fewer carbon atoms being exemplified in the present invention. A
 5  "lower alkyl" or "lower alkylene" is a shorter chain alkyl or alkylene group, generally having
    eight or fewer carbon atoms. Preferred alkylene groups are Ci-6 alkylene groups.
    [0076]    The term "heteroalkyl," by itself or in combination with another term, means, unless
    otherwise stated, a stable straight or branched chain, or cyclic hydrocarbon radical, or
    combinations thereof, consisting of at least one carbon atoms and at least one heteroatom
 0  selected from the group consisting of 0, N, P, Si and S, and wherein the nitrogen and sulfur
    atoms may optionally be oxidized and the nitrogen heteroatom may optionally be
    quaternized. The heteroatom(s) 0, N, P and S and Si may be placed at any interior position
    of the heteroalkyl group or at the position at which the alkyl group is attached to the
    remainder of the molecule. Examples include, but are not limited to, -CH 2-CH 2 -0-CH3,
 5  -CH 2-CH 2-NH-CH 3 , -CH 2-CH 2-N(CH 3)-CH 3, -CH 2-S-CH 2-CH 3, -CH 2-CH 2 ,-S(O)-CH 3 ,
    -CH 2 -CH 2 -S(O) 2 -CH 3 , -CH=CH-O-CH 3, -Si(CH 3) 3, -CH 2 -CH=N-OCH 3,
    CH=CH-N(CH 3)-CH 3 , O-CH 3, -O-CH 2-CH 3, and -CN. Up to two heteroatoms may be
    consecutive, such as, for example, -CH 2-NH-OCH 3 and -CH 2-0-Si(CH 3) 3 . Similarly, the
    term "heteroalkylene" by itself or as part of another substituent means a divalent radical
 '0 derived from heteroalkyl, as exemplified, but not limited by, -CH 2 -CH 2-S-CH 2 -CH 2- and
    CH 2-S-CH 2-CH 2-NH-CH 2-. For heteroalkylene groups, heteroatoms can also occupy either
    or both of the chain termini (e.g., alkyleneoxy, alkylenedioxy, alkyleneamino,
    alkylenediamino, and the like). Still further, for alkylene and heteroalkylene linking groups,
    no orientation of the linking group is implied by the direction in which the formula of the
25  linking group is written. For example, the formula -C(O) 2 R'- represents both -C(O) 2 R'- and
    -R'C(O) 2-. As described above, heteroalkyl groups, as used herein, include those groups that
    are attached to the remainder of the molecule through a heteroatom, such as -C(O)R',
    -C(O)NR', -NR'R", -OR', -SR', and/or -S0 2 R'. Where "heteroalkyl" is recited, followed by
    recitations of specific heteroalkyl groups, such as -NR'R" or the like, it will be understood that
30  the terms heteroalkyl and -NR'R" are not redundant or mutually exclusive. Rather, the
    specific heteroalkyl groups are recited to add clarity. Thus, the term "heteroalkyl" should not
    be interpreted herein as excluding specific heteroalkyl groups, such as -NR'R" or the like.
    Preferred heteroalkyl groups are Ci-6 heteroalkyl groups.
                                                    13

    [0077] As used herein, the term "heteroalkylene" refers to a heteroalkyl group, as defined
    above, linking at least two other groups. The two moieties linked to the heteroalkylene can
    be linked to the same atom or different atoms of the heteroalkylene. Preferred heteroalkylene
    groups are CI-6 heteroalkylene groups.
 5  [0078]    The terms "cycloalkyl" and "heterocycloalkyl", by themselves or in combination
    with other terms, represent, unless otherwise stated, cyclic versions of "alkyl" and
    "heteroalkyl", respectively. Additionally, for heterocycloalkyl, a heteroatom can occupy the
    position at which the heterocycle is attached to the remainder of the molecule. Examples of
    cycloalkyl include, but are not limited to, cyclopentyl, cyclohexyl, 1-cyclohexenyl,
 0  3-cyclohexenyl, cycloheptyl, and the like. Examples of heterocycloalkyl include, but are not
    limited to, 1 -(1,2,5,6-tetrahydropyridyl), 1-piperidinyl, 2-piperidinyl, 3-piperidinyl,
    4-morpholinyl, 3-morpholinyl, tetrahydrofuran-2-yl, tetrahydrofuran-3-yl,
    tetrahydrothien-2-yl, tetrahydrothien-3-yl, 1 -piperazinyl, 2-piperazinyl, and the like. A
    "cycloalkylene" and "heterocycloalkylene" refer to a divalent radical derived from cycloalkyl
 5  and heterocycloalkyl, respectively. Cycloalkyl and heterocycloalkyl groups can be C3 _s
    cycloalkyl and C3 _s heterocycloalkyl groups, or C5 -8 cycloalkyl and C5 _s heterocycloalkyl
    groups
    [0079]    The terms "halo" or "halogen," by themselves or as part of another substituent,
    mean, unless otherwise stated, a fluorine, chlorine, bromine, or iodine atom. Additionally,
 '0 terms such as "haloalkyl," are meant to include monohaloalkyl and polyhaloalkyl. For
    example, the term "halo(CI-C 4)alkyl" is mean to include, but not be limited to,
    trifluoromethyl, 2,2,2-trifluoroethyl, 4-chlorobutyl, 3-bromopropyl, and the like.
    [0080]    The term "aryl" means, unless otherwise stated, a polyunsaturated, aromatic,
    hydrocarbon substituent which can be a single ring or multiple rings (preferably from 1 to 3
25  rings) which are fused together or linked covalently. The term "heteroaryl" refers to aryl
    groups (or rings) that contain from one to four heteroatoms selected from N, 0, and S,
    wherein the nitrogen and sulfur atoms are optionally oxidized, and the nitrogen atom(s) are
    optionally quaternized. A heteroaryl group can be attached to the remainder of the molecule
    through a carbon or heteroatom. Non-limiting examples of aryl and heteroaryl groups
30  include phenyl, 1-naphthyl, 2-naphthyl, 4-biphenyl, 1-pyrrolyl, 2-pyrrolyl, 3-pyrrolyl,
    3-pyrazolyl, 2-imidazolyl, 4-imidazolyl, pyrazinyl, 2-oxazolyl, 4-oxazolyl,
    2-phenyl-4-oxazolyl, 5-oxazolyl, 3-isoxazolyl, 4-isoxazolyl, 5-isoxazolyl, 2-thiazolyl,
                                                    14

    4-thiazolyl, 5-thiazolyl, 2-furyl, 3-furyl, 2-thienyl, 3-thienyl, 2-pyridyl, 3-pyridyl, 4-pyridyl,
    2-pyrimidyl, 4-pyrimidyl, 5-benzothiazolyl, purinyl, 2-benzimidazolyl, 5-indolyl,
    1-isoquinolyl, 5-isoquinolyl, 2-quinoxalinyl, 5-quinoxalinyl, 3-quinolyl, and 6-quinolyl.
    Substituents for each of the above noted aryl and heteroaryl ring systems are selected from
 5  the group of acceptable substituents described below. "Arylene" and "heteroarylene" refers
    to a divalent radical derived from a aryl and heteroaryl, respectively. Aryl groups of the
    present invention preferably have 5-12 ring members, more preferably 6-10 ring members.
    Heteroryl groups of the present invention preferably have 5-12 ring members, more
    preferably 5-10 ring members.
 0  [0081]     For brevity, the term "aryl" when used in combination with other terms (e.g.,
    aryloxy, arylthioxy, arylalkyl) includes both aryl and heteroaryl rings as defined above.
    Thus, the term "arylalkyl" is meant to include those radicals in which an aryl group is
    attached to an alkyl group (e.g., benzyl, phenethyl, pyridylmethyl and the like) including
    those alkyl groups in which a carbon atom (e.g., a methylene group) has been replaced by, for
 5  example, an oxygen atom (e.g., phenoxymethyl, 2-pyridyloxymethyl,
    3 -(1 -naphthyloxy)propyl, and the like).
    [0082]     The term "oxo" as used herein means an oxygen that is double bonded to a carbon
    atom.
    [0083]     The term "alkylsulfonyl" as used herein means a moiety having the formula
 '0 -S(02)-R', where R' is an alkyl group as defined above. R' may have a specified number of
    carbons (e.g. "C1-C4 alkylsulfonyl").
    [0084]     Each of the above terms (e.g., "alkyl," "heteroalkyl," "aryl" and "heteroaryl") are
    meant to include both substituted and unsubstituted forms of the indicated radical.
    Exemplary substituents for each type of radical are provided below.
25  [0085]      Substituents for the alkyl and heteroalkyl radicals (including those groups often
    referred to as alkylene, alkenyl, heteroalkylene, heteroalkenyl, alkynyl, cycloalkyl,
    heterocycloalkyl, cycloalkenyl, and heterocycloalkenyl) can be one or more of a variety of
    groups selected from, but not limited to: -OR', =O, =NR', =N-OR', -NR'R", -SR', -halogen,
    -SiR'R"R"', -OC(O)R', -C(O)R', -CO 2 R', -CONR'R", -OC(O)NR'R", -NR"C(O)R',
30  -NR'-C(O)NR"R"', -NR"C(O)2 R', -NR-C(NR'R"R')=NR"", -NR-C(NR'R")=NR", -S(O)R',
    -S(O) 2 R', -S(O) 2NR'R", -NRSO 2R', -CN and -NO 2 in a number ranging from zero to (2m'+1),
    where m' is the total number of carbon atoms in such radical. R', R", R"' and R"" each
                                                      15

    preferably independently refer to hydrogen, substituted or unsubstituted heteroalkyl,
    substituted or unsubstituted cycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted heterocycloalkyl,
    substituted or unsubstituted aryl (e.g., aryl substituted with 1-3 halogens), substituted or
    unsubstituted alkyl, alkoxy or thioalkoxy groups, or arylalkyl groups. When a compound of
 5  the invention includes more than one R group, for example, each of the R groups is
    independently selected as are each R', R", R'" and R"" groups when more than one of these
    groups is present. When R' and R" are attached to the same nitrogen atom, they can be
    combined with the nitrogen atom to form a 4-, 5-, 6-, or 7-membered ring. For example,
    -NR'R" is meant to include, but not be limited to, 1-pyrrolidinyl and 4-morpholinyl. From
 0  the above discussion of substituents, one of skill in the art will understand that the term
    "alkyl" is meant to include groups including carbon atoms bound to groups other than
    hydrogen groups, such as haloalkyl (e.g., -CF 3 and -CH 2CF 3) and acyl (e.g., -C(O)CH 3,
    -C(O)CF 3, -C(O)CH 20CH3 , and the like).
    [0086]    Similar to the substituents described for the alkyl radical, substituents for the aryl
 5  and heteroaryl groups are varied and are selected from, for example: halogen, -OR', -NR'R",
    -SR', -halogen, -SiR'R"R"', -OC(O)R', -C(O)R', -CO 2 R', -CONR'R", -OC(O)NR'R",
    -NR"C(O)R', -NR'-C(O)NR"R"', -NR"C(O) 2R', -NR-C(NR'R"R'")=NR"",
    -NR-C(NR'R")=NR", -S(O)R', -S(O) 2 R', -S(O) 2NR'R", -NRSO 2R', -CN and -NO 2 , -R', -N 3 ,
    -CH(Ph) 2, fluoro(C 1 -C 4 )alkoxy, and fluoro(C 1 -C4)alkyl, in a number ranging from zero to the
 '0 total number of open valences on the aromatic ring system; and where R', R", R." and R"" are
    preferably independently selected from hydrogen, substituted or unsubstituted alkyl,
    substituted or unsubstituted heteroalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted cycloalkyl, substituted or
    unsubstituted heterocycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted aryl and substituted or
    unsubstituted heteroaryl. When a compound of the invention includes more than one R
25  group, for example, each of the R groups is independently selected as are each R', R", R"' and
    R"" groups when more than one of these groups is present.
    [0087]    Two of the substituents on adjacent atoms of the aryl or heteroaryl ring may
    optionally form a ring of the formula -T-C(O)-(CRR')q-U-, wherein T and U are
    independently -NR-, -0-, -CRR'- or a single bond, and q is an integer of from 0 to 3.
30  Alternatively, two of the substituents on adjacent atoms of the aryl or heteroaryl ring may
    optionally be replaced with a substituent of the formula -A-(CH 2)r-B-, wherein A and B are
    independently -CRR'-, -0-, -NR-, -S-, -S(O)-, -S(0) 2 -, -S(O) 2NR'- or a single bond, and r is
    an integer of from I to 4. One of the single bonds of the new ring so formed may optionally
                                                      16

    be replaced with a double bond. Alternatively, two of the substituents on adjacent atoms of
    the aryl or heteroaryl ring may optionally be replaced with a substituent of the formula
    -(CRR')s-X'-(C"R")d-, where s and d are independently integers of from 0 to 3, and X' is -0-,
    -NR'-, -S-, -S(O)-, -S(O) 2 -, or -S(O) 2NR'-. The substituents R, R', R" and R'" are preferably
 5  independently selected from hydrogen, substituted or unsubstituted alkyl, substituted or
    unsubstituted cycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted heterocycloalkyl, substituted or
    unsubstituted aryl, and substituted or unsubstituted heteroaryl.
    [0088]    As used herein, the term "heteroatom" or "ring heteroatom" is meant to include
    oxygen (0), nitrogen (N), sulfur (S), phosphorus (P), and silicon (Si).
 0  [0089]    A "substituent group," as used herein, means a group selected from the following
    moieties:
     (A)     -OH, -NH 2, -SH, -CN, -CF 3, -NO 2 , oxo, halogen, unsubstituted alkyl, unsubstituted
                    heteroalkyl, unsubstituted cycloalkyl, unsubstituted heterocycloalkyl,
                    unsubstituted aryl, unsubstituted heteroaryl, and
 5   (B)     alkyl, heteroalkyl, cycloalkyl, heterocycloalkyl, aryl, and heteroaryl, substituted with
                    at least one substituent selected from:
                    (i)      oxo, -OH, -NH 2, -SH, -CN, -CF 3, -NO 2 , halogen, unsubstituted alkyl,
                             unsubstituted heteroalkyl, unsubstituted cycloalkyl, unsubstituted
                             heterocycloalkyl, unsubstituted aryl, unsubstituted heteroaryl, and
 10                  (ii)    alkyl, heteroalkyl, cycloalkyl, heterocycloalkyl, aryl, and heteroaryl,
                             substituted with at least one substituent selected from:
                              (a)     oxo, -OH, -NH 2, -SH, -CN, -CF 3, -NO 2 , halogen, unsubstituted
                                      alkyl, unsubstituted heteroalkyl, unsubstituted cycloalkyl,
                                      unsubstituted heterocycloalkyl, unsubstituted aryl,
25                                    unsubstituted heteroaryl, and
                              (b)     alkyl, heteroalkyl, cycloalkyl, heterocycloalkyl, aryl, or
                                      heteroaryl, substituted with at least one substituent selected
                                      from oxo, -OH, -NH 2 , -SH, -CN, -CF 3 , -NO 2 , halogen,
                                      unsubstituted alkyl, unsubstituted heteroalkyl, unsubstituted
                                                       17

                                    cycloalkyl, unsubstituted heterocycloalkyl, unsubstituted aryl,
                                    and unsubstituted heteroaryl.
    [0090]     A "size-limited substituent" or " size-limited substituent group," as used herein
    means a group selected from all of the substituents described above for a "substituent group,"
 5  wherein each substituted or unsubstituted alkyl is a substituted or unsubstituted C1 -C2 0 alkyl,
    each substituted or unsubstituted heteroalkyl is a substituted or unsubstituted 2 to 20
    membered heteroalkyl, each substituted or unsubstituted cycloalkyl is a substituted or
    unsubstituted C4 -Cs cycloalkyl, and each substituted or unsubstituted heterocycloalkyl is a
    substituted or unsubstituted 4 to 8 membered heterocycloalkyl.
 0  [0091]     A "lower substituent" or "lower substituent group," as used herein means a group
    selected from all of the substituents described above for a "substituent group," wherein each
    substituted or unsubstituted alkyl is a substituted or unsubstituted C1 -Cs alkyl, each
    substituted or unsubstituted heteroalkyl is a substituted or unsubstituted 2 to 8 membered
    heteroalkyl, each substituted or unsubstituted cycloalkyl is a substituted or unsubstituted
 5  C5-C 7 cycloalkyl, and each substituted or unsubstituted heterocycloalkyl is a substituted or
    unsubstituted 5 to 7 membered heterocycloalkyl.
    [0092]     The term "pharmaceutically acceptable salts" is meant to include salts of the active
    compounds which are prepared with relatively nontoxic acids or bases, depending on the
    particular substituents found on the compounds described herein. When compounds of the
 '0 present invention contain relatively acidic functionalities, base addition salts can be obtained
    by contacting the neutral form of such compounds with a sufficient amount of the desired
    base, either neat or in a suitable inert solvent. Examples of pharmaceutically acceptable base
    addition salts include sodium, potassium, calcium, ammonium, organic amino, or magnesium
    salt, or a similar salt. When compounds of the present invention contain relatively basic
25  functionalities, acid addition salts can be obtained by contacting the neutral form of such
    compounds with a sufficient amount of the desired acid, either neat or in a suitable inert
    solvent. Examples of pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salts include those derived
    from inorganic acids like hydrochloric, hydrobromic, nitric, carbonic,
    monohydrogencarbonic, phosphoric, monohydrogenphosphoric, dihydrogenphosphoric,
30  sulfuric, monohydrogensulfuric, hydriodic, or phosphorous acids and the like, as well as the
    salts derived from relatively nontoxic organic acids like acetic, propionic, isobutyric, maleic,
    malonic, benzoic, succinic, suberic, fumaric, lactic, mandelic, phthalic, benzenesulfonic,
                                                      18

    p-tolylsulfonic, citric, tartaric, methanesulfonic, and the like. Also included are salts of
    amino acids such as arginate and the like, and salts of organic acids like glucuronic or
    galactunoric acids and the like (see, for example, Berge et al., "Pharmaceutical Salts",
    JournalofPharmaceuticalScience, 1977, 66, 1-19). Certain specific compounds of the
 5  present invention contain both basic and acidic functionalities that allow the compounds to be
    converted into either base or acid addition salts.
    [0093]    Thus, the compounds of the present invention may exist as salts with
    pharmaceutically acceptable acids. The present invention includes such salts. Examples of
    such salts include hydrochlorides, hydrobromides, sulfates, methanesulfonates, nitrates,
 0  maleates, acetates, citrates, fumarates, tartrates (eg (+)-tartrates, (-)-tartrates or mixtures
    thereof including racemic mixtures, succinates, benzoates and salts with amino acids such as
    glutamic acid. These salts may be prepared by methods known to those skilled in the art.
    [0094]    The neutral forms of the compounds are preferably regenerated by contacting the
    salt with a base or acid and isolating the parent compound in the conventional manner. The
 5  parent form of the compound differs from the various salt forms in certain physical
    properties, such as solubility in polar solvents.
    [0095]    In addition to salt forms, the present invention provides compounds, which are in a
    prodrug form. Prodrugs of the compounds described herein are those compounds that readily
    undergo chemical changes under physiological conditions to provide the compounds of the
 '0 present invention. Additionally, prodrugs can be converted to the compounds of the present
    invention by chemical or biochemical methods in an ex vivo environment. For example,
    prodrugs can be slowly converted to the compounds of the present invention when placed in a
    transdermal patch reservoir with a suitable enzyme or chemical reagent.
    [0096]    Certain compounds of the present invention can exist in unsolvated forms as well as
25  solvated forms, including hydrated forms. In general, the solvated forms are equivalent to
    unsolvated forms and are encompassed within the scope of the present invention. Certain
    compounds of the present invention may exist in multiple crystalline or amorphous forms. In
    general, all physical forms are equivalent for the uses contemplated by the present invention
    and are intended to be within the scope of the present invention.
30  [0097]    Certain compounds of the present invention possess asymmetric carbon atoms
    (optical centers) or double bonds; the racemates, diastereomers, tautomers, geometric isomers
    and individual isomers are encompassed within the scope of the present invention. The
                                                     19

    compounds of the present invention do not include those which are known in the art to be too
    unstable to synthesize and/or isolate.
    [0098]     The compounds of the present invention may also contain unnatural proportions of
    atomic isotopes at one or more of the atoms that constitute such compounds. For example,
 5  the compounds may be radiolabeled with radioactive isotopes, such as for example tritium
    (3H),  iodine-125 (mI) or carbon-14 (1C). All isotopic variations of the compounds of the
    present invention, whether radioactive or not, are encompassed within the scope of the
    present invention.
 0                            BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
    [0099]     Figure 1. Novel synthetic small molecules dramatically increase hESC survival
    after single cell dissociation without compromising their long-term self-renewal and full
    developmental potential. (a) Chemical structures of Thiazovivin/Tzv and Pyrintegrin/Ptn as
    indicated. (b) ALP staining of hESC colonies that had grown from dissociated single cells
 5  seeded in low density and treated as indicated. (c) Ratio of ALP positive colonies vs. total
    initially seeded cells. (d) Immunostaining of hESCs long-term maintained in media
    containing Ptn or Tzv as indicated. (e) Sections of 5 weeks teratomas formed from long-term
    expanded hESCs maintained in media containing Tzv (i, ii) or Ptn (iii, iv). Neuroepithelium
    (ectoderm), cartilage (mesoderm), and simple epithelium (endoderm) (i); neuroepithelium
 '0 (ectoderm), simple epithelium and hepatic-type epithelium (endoderm) (ii); neuroepithelium
    (ectoderm), cartilage (mesoderm) and tubular epithelium (endoderm) (iii); neuroepithelium
    (ectoderm), skeletal muscle (mesoderm), and tubular epithelium (endoderm) (iv). (f)
    G-banding analysis of hESCs after more than 20 passages, propagated in the presence of
    compounds Ptn or Tzv. If not specified, all the above hESCs were grown in the
25  chemically-defined medium and feeder-free on the Matrigel-coated plates.
    [0100]     Figure 2. Tzv stabilizes E-cadherins after cell dissociation to protect hESCs from
    death in suspension culture. (a) Cell death analysis of dissociated hESCs grown on Matrigel
    or in suspension treated with or without Ptn or Tzv. (b) Phase contrast images of hESCs
    grown on non-coated plates treated with the indicated molecules. (c) Western blot analysis of
30  E-cadherins in hESCs that were transfected with the specific siRNAs against E-cadherin or
    GFP. (d) Cell death analysis by TUNEL staining of and (e) ALP staining of dissociated
                                                   20

    hESCs that were transfected with the specific siRNAs against E-cadherin or GFP in the
    presence Tzv. (f) Western blot analysis of full-length E-cadherins in hESCs before and after
    trypsin. (g) A time-course Western blot analysis of full-length E-cadherin expression in
    hESCs after trypsin dissociation and treatment with DMSO, Tzv, or Ptn for indicated time.
 5  (h) Flow cytometry analysis of E-cadherin surface level in hESCs after trypsin treatment in
    the presence of Tzv. DMSO was used as a control. (i) Semiquantitative RT-PCR of
    E-cadherin in hESCs treated with or without Tzv. (j) E-cadherin endocytosis analysis in the
    absence or presence of Tzv. (k) Cell survival analysis of hESCs grown on BSA- or different
    concentrations of E-cad-Fc chimera-coated plates.
 0  [0101]     Figure 3. Ptn and Tzv protect hESCs from cell death in adherent culture after
    dissociation by maintaining and re-activating integrin activity. (a) Growth curve of hESCs
    grown on Matrigel with different time courses of Ptn and Tzv treatment. Group 1, Ptn
    treatment during the first 24 h only; Group 2, continuous Ptn treatment during the entire
    culture period; Group 3, Tzv treatment during the first 24 h only; Group 4, continuous Tzv
 5  treatment during the culture; For each condition, 10   X104 dissociated cells were plated per
    well of a 6-well plate. (b) Phase contrast images of hESCs 12 hours after seeding on the
    different matrices and treated with the indicated compounds. (c) Dissociated hESCs were
    plated on Matrigel-coated plates and allowed to adhere for 3 h in the presence of compounds
    or together with integrin P1 blocking antibody as indicated. The percentage of adhesion was
 '0 calculated as described in the Materials and Methods. (d) Western blot analysis of integrin   P1
    expressed by hESCs before and after trypsin treatment. (e) A time course western blot
    analysis of integrin expression in hESCs after trypsin dissociation and treatment with DMSO,
    Tzv, or Ptn for indicated time. (f, g) Flow cytometry (f), and immunostaining (g) analysis of
    the P1  integrins in the active conformation in trypsin-dissociated hESCs after treatment with
25  Tzv or Ptn. (h, i) Cell adhesion (h) and ALP staining (i) of hESCs treated with or without 31
    activating antibody, TS2/16. (j) Cell adhesion of hESCs treated with Tzv or Ptn in
    combination with or without a PKC inhibitor. (k) Immunostaining of P1 integrins in the
    active conformation in hESCs treated with or without PMA (10 nM). (1, m) Cell adhesion (1)
    and ALP staining (m) of hESCs treated with the indicated compounds.
30  [0102]     Figure 4. Growth factors receptors-mediated PI-3 K and ERK are the major
    surviving and anti-differentiation signaling generated from the hESC niche, respectively. (a)
    Cell death analysis of dissociated hESCs plated on Matrigel and treated as indicated. (b)
                                                    21

   Western blot showing the phosphorylation status of different growth factor receptors in
   hESCs treated with Ptn for 2 h. DMSO was used as a control. (c) Cell death analysis of
   dissociated hESCs in suspension treated with the indicated conditions. (d)
   Immunoprecipitation showing the interaction of E-cadherins with EGFR1 and Erb2. (e)
 5 Western blot showing AKT phosphorylation status in hESCs treated with Ptn for the
   indicated time periods. (f) Western blot showing AKT and ERK phosphorylation status in the
   presence of Ptn or together with integrin P1 blocking antibody. (g) Western blot showing
   AKT phosphorylation status in hESCs treated with Ptn or together with the indicated receptor
   inhibitors. (h) Cell death analysis of hESCs treated with Ptn or together with PI-3 K inhibitor,
 0 or MEK inhibitor for 24 h. (i) Percentage of SSEA4 negative cells after treatment with MEK
   inhibitor.
   [0103]     Figures 5A and 5B show compounds of the present invention, including thiazovivin
   and derivatives thereof.
   [0104]     Figures 6A, 6B, 6C, 6D, 6E, 6F, 6G, 611, 61, 6J, 6K, 6L, 6M, 6N, 60, 6P, 6Q, 6R,
 5 6S, 6T, 6U, 6V, 6W, 6X, 6Y, 6Z, 6AA, 6AB and 6AC show compounds of the present
   invention, including pyrintegrin and derivatives thereof.
                                     DETAILED DESCRIPTION
   I.       Introduction
20 [0105]     The present invention provides novel compounds as well as methods for their use.
   Two classes of small molecule chemical compounds are provided that prevent differentiation
   of cells and promote cell survival, including but not limited to, when the cells are isolated or
   are otherwise outside their normal medium or tissue milieu. The compounds work by
   somewhat different mechanisms but both are useful as prophylactic and therapeutic
25 compounds for a number of different disease indications, including but not limited to, cancer,
   tissue damage, and stroke.
                                                  22

   II.     Compounds that promote cell survival and/or anti-differentiation
   [0106]    In one aspect, compounds that promote cell survival and/or anti-differentiation are
   provided. In some embodiments, the compound has the formula:
                                                 N        Li-L2         A
                                 BN
                                                 SaRM.
 5 In Formula (I), ring A is a substituted or unsubstituted cycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted
   heterocycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted aryl, or substituted or unsubstituted heteroaryl.
   Ring B is a substituted or unsubstituted heterocycloalkyl, or substituted or unsubstituted
   heteroaryl.
   [0107]    L' is -C(O)-NR2- or -NR -C(O)-. L 2 is a bond, substituted or unsubstituted alkylene
 0 or substituted or unsubstituted heteroalkylene.
   [0108]    R 1 and R 2 are independently hydrogen, substituted or unsubstituted alkyl,
   substituted or unsubstituted heteroalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted cycloalkyl, substituted or
   unsubstituted heterocycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted aryl, or substituted or
   unsubstituted heteroaryl.
 5 [0109]    In some embodiments, ring A is a substituted or unsubstituted aryl. Ring A may
   also be a substituted or unsubstituted phenyl.
   [0110]    In other embodiments, ring B is a substituted or unsubstituted heterocycloalkyl, or
   substituted or unsubstituted heteroaryl. Ring B may also be a substituted or unsubstituted
   heteroaryl. In still other embodiments, ring B is a substituted or unsubstituted pyrazolyl,
20 substituted or unsubstituted furanyl, substituted or unsubstituted imidazolyl, substituted or
   unsubstituted isoxazolyl, substituted or unsubstituted oxadiazolyl, substituted or unsubstituted
   oxazolyl, substituted or unsubstituted pyrrolyl, substituted or unsubstituted pyridyl,
   substituted or unsubstituted pyrimidyl, substituted or unsubstituted pyridazinyl, substituted or
   unsubstituted thiazolyl, substituted or unsubstituted triazolyl, substituted or unsubstituted
25 thienyl, substituted or unsubstituted dihydrothieno-pyrazolyl, substituted or unsubstituted
   thianaphthenyl, substituted or unsubstituted carbazolyl, substituted or unsubstituted
   benzothienyl, substituted or unsubstituted benzofuranyl, substituted or unsubstituted indolyl,
                                                   23

   substituted or unsubstituted quinolinyl, substituted or unsubstituted benzotriazolyl,
   substituted or unsubstituted benzothiazolyl, substituted or unsubstituted benzooxazolyl,
   substituted or unsubstituted benzimidazolyl, substituted or unsubstituted isoquinolinyl,
   substituted or unsubstituted isoindolyl, substituted or unsubstituted acridinyl, substituted or
 5 unsubstituted benzoisazolyl, or substituted or unsubstituted dimethylhydantoin.
   [0111]    L2 may be substituted or unsubstituted CI-Cio alkyl. In some embodiments, L2 is
   unsubstituted C1-Cio alkyl. L 2 may also be substituted or unsubstituted methylene (e.g.
   unsubstituted methylene).
   [0112]    R2 may be hydrogen. R1 may be hydrogen or unsubstituted CI-Cio alkyl. In some
 0 embodiments, R1 is simply hydrogen.
   [0113]    In some embodiments of Formula (I), ring A is substituted or unsubstituted aryl,
   ring B is substituted or unsubstituted heteroaryl, R1 is hydrogen, and L2 is unsubstituted
   CI-Cio alkyl.
   [0114]    In another embodiment, the compound that promote cell survival and/or
 5 anti-differentiation has the formula:
                                                            0
                                                              NL2
                            N                                 HR
                                                    N             ~--3)
                     (R4         X                S        R1
   In Formula (II), y is an integer from 0 to 3 and z is an integer from 0 to 5. X is -N=, -CH= or
   -CR 5 =. R and L2 are as defined above in the definitions of Formula (I).
   [01151    Ri, R and R5 are independently -CN, -S(O),1 R6 , -NR 7R', -C(O)R 9, -NR10-C(O)R 11 ,
20 -NR 12 -C(O)-OR,      -C(O)NR 14 R15 , -NR 16 S(O) 2 R",
                                                         1
                                                            -OR", -S(O) 2NR 9 , substituted or
   unsubstituted alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted heteroalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted
   cycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted heterocycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted aryl, or
   substituted or unsubstituted heteroaryl, wherein n is an integer from 0 to 2, wherein if z is
   greater than 1, two R3 moieties are optionally joined together to form a substituted or
25 unsubstituted cycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted heterocycloalkyl, substituted or
   unsubstituted aryl, or substituted or unsubstituted heteroaryl.
                                                      24

                                     10 11   12    13  14   15  16 17   18
  [01161    R 6 , R 7 , R', R 9 , R , R         , R , R , R , Ri, R", R    and R 1 9 are independently
  hydrogen, substituted or unsubstituted alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted heteroalkyl,
  unsubstituted cycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted heterocycloalkyl, substituted or
  unsubstituted aryl, or substituted or unsubstituted heteroaryl.
5 [0117]    In some embodiments, L2 is substituted or unsubstituted C1 -Cio alkyl. L2 may also
  be unsubstituted C1 -Cio alkyl. Alternatively, L2 is substituted or unsubstituted methylene
  (e.g. unsubstituted methylene).
  [0118]    In other embodiments, X is -N= or -CH=. The symbol z may be 2. In still other
  embodiments, two R3 moieties at adjacent vertices are joined together to from a substituted or
0 unsubstituted heterocycloalkyl. The symbol z may also be 1. The symbol y may be 0 or 1.
  R3  may be-OR 8. R18 may be hydrogen or unsubstituted C1 -Cio alkyl.
  [0119]    In some embodiments, L2 is substituted or unsubsituted methylene (e.g. substituted
  methylene), X is -N= or -CH=, R1 is hydrogen, and y and z are 0.
  [0120]    In other embodiments, the compounds has the formula:
                                        0
                              N
5          N                  S
                       N      N
                              N         0
        N                                  H
                       HN                  N
                                        0
                                   NN
   N\N                      /                N I
                        H                  H
   Na                   N
                                                          5    or
                                                         25

                                            0
                                       NN
                            HH
    N\                      N
                 N                  S
                                                                     O CH 3.
   [0121]        In still other embodiments, the compounds of formula I are those where ring A is
   cycloalkyl, heterocycloalkyl, aryl, or heteroaryl, each optionally substituted with 1-5 R'
   groups; ring B is heterocycloalkyl or heteroaryl, each optionally substituted with 1-5 R4
 5 groups; L' is -C(O)-NR 2- or -NR2 -C(O)-; L2 is a bond, C1 _10 alkylene or C1 _10 heteroalkylene;
   R and R2 are independently hydrogen, C1 _10 alkyl, C1 _10 heteroalkyl, C3 _s cycloalkyl, C3 _s
   heterocycloalkyl, aryl, or heteroaryl; each R3 and R4 is independently -CN, -S(O),1 R6,
                       72 9                                                   13415      16                 18
   -NR7R', -C(O)R            , -NR 0 -C(O)R", -NR -C(O)-OR , -C(O)NR R , -NR 6 S(O) 2 R", -OR18,
   -S(O) 2NR       9, C1 _10 alkyl, C 1_10 heteroalkyl, cycloalkyl, heterocycloalkyl, aryl, or heteroaryl,
 0 wherein n is an integer from 0 to 2, wherein two R3 moieties are optionally joined together to
                                                                                71p         10        12,   13,
   form a cycloalkyl, heterocycloalkyl, aryl, or heteroaryl; and Ri, R , R', R9 , R , R", R , R
   R 14 , R 15 , R 16 , R 17 , R 18 and R19 are each independently hydrogen, C1_10 alkyl, C1 _10 heteroalkyl,
   cycloalkyl, heterocycloalkyl, aryl, or heteroaryl. In still yet other embodiments, the
   compounds of formula I are other than Thiazovivin.
 5 [0122]        In other embodiments, the compound that promote cell survival and/or
   anti-differentiation has the formula:
                                                                 N
                                    R20-L3         D
                                                             N          N
                                                             H                                            (III).
   In Formula (III), ring D is substituted or unsubstituted aryl or substituted or unsubstituted
   heteroaryl. L3 is -C(O)NH- or -S(O) 2NH-.
20 [0123]        R20   is substituted or unsubstituted alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted heteroalkyl,
   substituted or unsubstituted cycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted heterocycloalkyl,
   substituted or unsubstituted aryl, or substituted or unsubstituted heteroaryl. R is -NR2 R
   or -OR24
   [0124]        R2 2 and R23 are independently hydrogen, substituted or unsubstituted alkyl,
25 substituted or unsubstituted heteroalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted cycloalkyl, substituted or
                                                           26

    unsubstituted heterocycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted aryl, substituted or unsubstituted
    heteroaryl, or joined together to form a substituted or unsubstituted heterocycloalkyl or
    substituted or unsubstituted heteroaryl.
    [0125]    R24 is substituted or unsubstituted alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted heteroalkyl,
  5 substituted or unsubstituted cycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted heterocycloalkyl,
    substituted or unsubstituted aryl, substituted or unsubstituted heteroaryl, or joined together to
    form a substituted or unsubstituted cycloalkyl of substituted or unsubstituted
    heterocycloalkyl.
    [0126]    In other embodiments, L3 is a bond, -0-, -C(O)NH- or -S(O) 2 NH-, R 20 is hydrogen,
  0 substituted or unsubstituted alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted heteroalkyl, substituted or
    unsubstituted cycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted heterocycloalkyl, substituted or
    unsubstituted aryl, or substituted or unsubstituted heteroaryl, and Ring D and R2 1 are as
    defined above. In some other embodiments, L3 is a bond, -0- or -S(O) 2NH-, and Ring D, R 2 0
    and R2 are as defined above, such that when L3 is -S(O) 2NH-, R 2 0 is hydrogen. In still other
  5 embodiments, L3 is a bond or -0-, and Ring D, R 20 and R21 are as defined above.
    [0127]    In some embodiments, ring D is substituted or unsubstituted phenyl.
    [0128]    In other embodiments, R 20 is substituted or unsubstituted alkyl or substituted or
    unsubstituted cycloalkyl. R20 may be substituted or unsubstituted C1-Cio alkyl or substituted
    or unsubstituted 3 to 7 membered cycloalkyl. R20 may also be substituted or unsubstituted
 '0 C1-C5 alkyl or substituted or unsubstituted 3 to 6 membered cycloalkyl. In some
    embodiments, R20 is unsubstituted C1-C5 alkyl or unsubstituted 3 to 6 membered cycloalkyl.
    [0129]    In still other embodiments, R2 2 is hydrogen, and R23 is substituted or unsubstituted
    cycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted heterocycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted aryl, or
    substituted or unsubstituted heteroaryl. Alternatively, R22 is hydrogen; and R23 is substituted
25  or unsubstituted substituted or unsubstituted aryl. Or R2 2 and R23 are joined together to from
    a substituted or unsubstituted heterocycloalkyl, or substituted or unsubstituted heteroaryl. R22
    and R23 may also be joined together to from a substituted or unsubstituted pyrrolyl,
    substituted or unsubstituted isoindolinyl, substituted or unsubstituted piperidinyl, or
    substituted or unsubstituted tetrahydroquinolinyl.
30  [0130]    In some embodiments, the compound has the formula:
                                                    27

                    0
                     I'
                  2N                              N1                      R25
                H 0
                                                                                    R 26
                                           N           N
                                           H
                                                             H    (R~(      W(IV).
                                                                                     R27
                                                                            w
                                                                   (R28
    In Formula (IV), w is an integer from 0 to 1 and q is an integer from 0 to 7. R20 is as defined
    above in the definition of the compound of Formula (III). R2 1, R 2 6 , R27 and R 28 are
    independently -CN, -NR29R' , -C(O)R,             -NR3 2 -C(O)R      , -NR   4-C(O)-OR    , -C(O)NR36 R,
  5 -NR38 S(O) 2R3 9 , -OR 40 , -S(O) 2 NR 41 , -S(O)vR 42 , substituted or unsubstituted alkyl, substituted
    or unsubstituted heteroalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted cycloalkyl, substituted or
    unsubstituted heterocycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted aryl, or substituted or
    unsubstituted heteroaryl, wherein v is an integer from 0 to 2.
    [0131]    R29, R,      R3, R,   3,R   R34, R35, R36, R,      R3 ,  R39, R40, R41, and R42  are
  0 independently hydrogen, substituted or unsubstituted alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted
    heteroalkyl, unsubstituted cycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted heterocycloalkyl,
    substituted or unsubstituted aryl, or substituted or unsubstituted heteroaryl.
    [0132]    R2 5 and R 2 6 , or R2 6 and R27 , may be joined to form a substituted or unsubstituted
    cycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted heterocycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted aryl, or
,5  substituted or unsubstituted heteroaryl.
    [0133]    In some embodiments, R28 is -OR4           .  R 40 is hydrogen or unsubstituted C1 -Cio alkyl
    R4 may also be hydrogen or unsubstituted C1 to C5 alkyl.
    [0134]    The compound may also have the formula:
                                0                                                          ,(R28
                        20      11N
                      R     N                              N
                                                      H
                                                                                                          (V).
                                                           28

    In Formula (V), R 20, R2, and q are as defined above in the definitions of Formula (IV). In
    some embodiments, R20 is unsubstituted C1 to Cio alkyl. R2 8 may be -OR 40 . R40 is hydrogen
    or unsubstituted C1 to Cio alkyl, or C1 to Cio alkyl substituted with substituted or
    unsubstituted C3 to C6 cycloalkyl. The symbol q may be 1.
5   [0135]     In another embodiment, the compound has the formula:
                     0
              20R                                                               R28
                  HN                             N          N
                                       H
                                                                                              (VI).
    In Formula (VI), R20, R28, and q are as defined above in the definitions of Formula (IV) or
    Formula (VI).
    [0136]     In another embodiment, the compound has the formula:
                   0
                                                             X-      OH
                 N                    NO
                 H                N        N         N
                            0H
  00
           1N
                                                       9N          OH
              H 0N
                                 L    N        N
                            H
                                                          ~-       OH
            H   0
                               N        N        N
                               H
                                                   4
                                                      29

                   0
                    11                                              OH
                       "N            N               N
                                                                         (sometimes called Pyrintegrin
   or "Ptn"),
                   0
                   N11                   NN                        OCH 3
               HN                          N       N
                                    H
                 0
                            11                                      OH
                                   N       N       N
                              Hor
                                                             P            or
                 0
                                   H
              "S
            N 11                       N                          OH
            H   0
                                  NJ"N            N
   [0137]     In other embodiments, the compounds of formula III are those where Ring D is aryl
   or heteroaryl, each optionally substituted with 1-5 R groups; L3 is -C(O)NH- or -S(O) 2NH-;
   R20 is C 1_10 alkyl, C 1_10 heteroalkyl, cycloalkyl, heterocycloalkyl, aryl, or heteroaryl, each
   optionally substituted with 1-5 R groups; R         is -NR R2 or -OR 2 4 ; R22 and R2 are
10 independently hydrogen, C1 _10 alkyl, C1 _10 heteroalkyl, cycloalkyl, heterocycloalkyl, aryl,
   heteroaryl, or are joined together to form a heterocycloalkyl or heteroaryl, each optionally
   substituted with 1-5 R groups; R24 is C1 _10 alkyl, C1 _10 heteroalkyl, cycloalkyl,
   heterocycloalkyl, aryl, heteroaryl, each optionally substituted with 1-5 R groups; and each R
   group is independently selected from the group consisting of C 1_10 alkyl, C1 _10 heteroalkyl,
15 -OR', =0, =NR', =N-OR', -NR'R", -SR', -halogen, -SiR'R"R"', -OC(O)R', -C(O)R', -CO 2 R',
                                                       30

    -CONR'R", -OC(O)NR'R", -NR"C(O)R', -NR'-C(O)NR"R"', -NR"C(O) 2R',
    -NR-C(NR'R"R'")=NR"", -NR-C(NR'R")=NR.', -S(O)R', -S(O) 2 R', -S(O) 2NR'R", -NRSO 2R',
    -CN, -NO 2 , cycloalkyl, heterocycloalkyl, aryl, and heteroaryl, wherein each R', R", R"' and
    R"" is independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen, C1 _10 alkyl, C1_10
 5  heteroalkyl, cycloalkyl, heterocycloalkyl, aryl, and arylalkyl groups.
    [0138]    In some embodiments, each substituted group described above in the compounds of
    Formulae (I)-(VI) is substituted with at least one substituent group. More specifically, in
    some embodiments, each substituted alkyl, substituted heteroalkyl, substituted cycloalkyl,
    substituted heterocycloalkyl, substituted aryl, substituted heteroaryl, substituted alkylene,
 0  and/or substituted heteroalkylene described above in the compounds of Formulae (I)-(VI) are
    substituted with at least one substituent group. In other embodiments, at least one or all of
    these groups are substituted with at least one size-limited substituent group. Alternatively, at
    least one or all of these groups are substituted with at least one lower substituent group.
    [0139]    In other embodiments of the compounds of Formulae (I)-(VI), each substituted or
 5  unsubstituted alkyl is a substituted or unsubstituted C1-C 2 0 alkyl, each substituted or
    unsubstituted heteroalkyl is a substituted or unsubstituted 2 to 20 membered heteroalkyl, each
    substituted or unsubstituted cycloalkyl is a substituted or unsubstituted C3 -Cs cycloalkyl, each
    substituted or unsubstituted heterocycloalkyl is a substituted or unsubstituted 3 to 8
    membered heterocycloalkyl, each substituted or unsubstituted alkylene is a substituted or
 '0 unsubstituted C1-C 2 0 alkylene, and/or each substituted or unsubstituted heteroalkylene is a
    substituted or unsubstituted 2 to 20 membered heteroalkylene.
    [0140]    In some embodiments, each substituted or unsubstituted alkyl is a substituted or
    unsubstituted C1-Cs alkyl, each substituted or unsubstituted heteroalkyl is a substituted or
    unsubstituted 2 to 8 membered heteroalkyl, each substituted or unsubstituted cycloalkyl is a
25  substituted or unsubstituted C5 -C7 cycloalkyl, each substituted or unsubstituted
    heterocycloalkyl is a substituted or unsubstituted 5 to 7 membered heterocycloalkyl, and/or
    each substituted or unsubstituted alkylene is a substituted or unsubstituted C1 -Cs alkylene,
    and/or each substituted or unsubstituted heteroalkylene is a substituted or unsubstituted 2 to 8
    membered heteroalkylene.
30  [0141] In some other embodiments, the compounds of formula (I) - (VI) can be substituted
    with C1_10 alkyl, C1_10 heteroalkyl, -OR', =0, =NR', =N-OR', -NR'R", -SR', -halogen,
    -SiR'R"R"', -OC(O)R', -C(O)R', -CO 2 R, -CONR'R", -OC(O)NR'R", -NR"C(O)R,
                                                    31

    -NR'-C(O)NR"R"', -NR"C(O) 2 R', -NR-C(NR'R"R.')=NR."", -NR-C(NR'R")=NR.', -S(O)R',
    -S(O) 2 R', -S(O) 2NR'R", -NRSO 2R', -CN, -NO 2 , cycloalkyl, heterocycloalkyl, aryl, or
    heteroaryl, wherein each R', R", R"' and R"" hydrogen, C1 _1 0 alkyl, C1 _10 heteroalkyl,
    cycloalkyl, heterocycloalkyl, aryl, or arylalkyl groups.
 5  III.     Methods of use
    [0142]     The compounds of the present invention are useful for a wide variety of purposes.
    For example, the compounds promote survival in situations (e.g., for isolated cells) where the
    cells would otherwise go through apoptosis or otherwise die. In some embodiments, the cells
    are stabilized for at least a particular period of time, e.g., 10 minutes, 30 minutes, or 1, 2, 4, 6,
 0  8, 10, 24, 48, or 96 hours. Further, the compounds are useful in maintaining the current state
    of differentiation of cells in conditions where the cells would otherwise differentiate or
    otherwise change their programming. These effects lead to a large number of uses for the
    compounds either in vitro or in vivo.
             A.      In vivo uses
 5  [0143]     The compounds of the invention are useful for reducing tissue damage and thus can
    be administered to treat, ameliorate, or prevent tissue damage. In some embodiments, a
    compound of the invention is administered to an individual having, or at risk of having tissue
    damage to an internal organ. Internal organs include, but are not limited to, brain, pancreas,
    liver, intestine, lung, kidney, or heart, wounding, e.g., by burn or cut. For example, in some
 '0 embodiments, the compounds of the invention are effective in reducing infarction size in
    reperfusion following ischemia. Thus, a compound of the invention can be administered to
    individuals at risk of having, having, or who have had, a stroke. Similarly, a compound of
    the invention can be administered to individuals at risk of having, having, or who have had, a
    heart attack or cardiac damage.
25  [0144]     The inventors have found that the compounds of the invention can prevent cell
    death, for example in epithelial cells. For example, the inventors dispersed primary human
    pancreatic islets/beta cells plated as single cells onto a tissue culture plate that was coated
    with matrigel or laminin. In regular cell culture media for beta cells without Tzv resulted in
    substantial cell death. However, when Tzv was added to the media (1-2 mM), cell death was
30  inhibited. The same effect was observed for other epithelial primary cells, such as neural
    cells. Accordingly, in some embodiments, a compound of the present invention is
                                                     32

    administered to an individual in need of pancreatic beta and/or islet cells, wherein
    administration of the compound results in an increase in the number of beta or islet cells in
    the individual.
    [0145]     Further, the compounds of the invention (e.g., those of Formulae I or III) are
 5  effective in increasing blood flow and inhibiting inflammatory responses. For example,
    compounds of Formula I enhance adhesion and migration of monocytes across monolayers of
    endothelial cells and can thus relieve inflammatory responses (data not shown). Thus, in
    some embodiments, a compound of the invention is administered to an individual (e.g.,
    having cerebral ischemia) in need of increased blood flow and/or decreased inflammation.
 0  Those in need of reduced inflammation include individuals with inflammatory disease or with
    a disease mediated by an inflammatory condition. Exemplary inflammatory diseases include,
    but are not limited to, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, osteoarthritis, tendinitis or
    bursitis, gouty arthritis, polymyalgia rheumatica, fibromyalgia, pelvic inflammatory disease
    and arthritis, including rheumatoid arthritis
 5  [0146]     In some embodiments, the compounds of the present invention are used to treat or
    ameliorate cancer. In some cases, a compound of the present invention is administered to
    treat cancer, e.g., carcinomas, gliomas, mesotheliomas, melanomas, lymphomas, leukemias,
    adenocarcinomas, breast cancer, ovarian cancer, cervical cancer, glioblastoma, leukemia,
    lymphoma, prostate cancer, and Burkitt's lymphoma, head and neck cancer, colon cancer,
 '0 colorectal cancer, non-small cell lung cancer, small cell lung cancer, cancer of the esophagus,
    stomach cancer, pancreatic cancer, hepatobiliary cancer, cancer of the gallbladder, cancer of
    the small intestine, rectal cancer, kidney cancer, bladder cancer, prostate cancer, penile
    cancer, urethral cancer, testicular cancer, cervical cancer, vaginal cancer, uterine cancer,
    ovarian cancer, thyroid cancer, parathyroid cancer, adrenal cancer, pancreatic endocrine
25  cancer, carcinoid cancer, bone cancer, skin cancer, retinoblastomas, Hodgkin's lymphoma,
    non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (see, CANCER:PRINCIPLES AND PRACTICE (DeVita, V.T. et al. eds
    1997) for additional cancers).
    [0147]     Cancer cell metastasis is typically a process involving epithelial to mesenchymal
    transition/EMT (e.g. from epithelial-type cells to fibroblast-type cells). The inventors have
30  found that the compounds of the invention (i.e., Tvz and Ptn) can induce MET (the reverse of
    EMT) and inhibit EMT, indicating that compounds are effective at reducing or preventing
    cancer metastasis. Accordingly, in some embodiments, a compound of the present invention
                                                     33

    is administered to an individual having or at risk of having cancer metastasis. For example,
    the inventors have found that compounds of formula I and III inhibit metastasis of epithelial
    cancers including but not limited to breast cancer and hepatocellular carcinoma.
    [0148]    In some embodiments, a compound of the present invention is administered to an
 5  individual having, or at risk of having, hypertension and/or atherosclerosis.
    [0149]    Compounds of formula I and III (i.e., Tvz and Ptn) are effective at promoting axonal
    regeneration and functional recovery in injured central nervous system. For example, the
    inventors have found that Tvz can promote neurite outgrowth from primary neuronal cells
    from mice. Tzv (3 iM) was tested on mouse P1 cortical explants, with axon outgrowth as an
 0  outcome read-out. Tzv was added to the medium 20 minutes after plating, with DMSO as a
    control. The explants were observed for 4 days in culture. Tzv showed a dramatic effect in
    promoting axon outgrowth, which was notable from 1div. Accordingly, in some
    embodiments, a compound of the present invention is administered to an individual having a
    central nervous system injury or who is in need or would otherwise benefit from axonal
 5  regeneration.
    [0150]    In some embodiments, a compound of the present invention is administered to an
    individual having diabetes, insulin resistance, or otherwise in need to promotion of beta cell
    survival, or at risk of having loss of beta cell function.
    [0151]    The compounds of the invention also find use in ameliorating negative symptoms
 '0 of, or otherwise improving, organ, cell, or tissue transplantation. As explained herein, the
    compounds of the invention are effective in stabilizing and maintaining contextual
    programming of cells. Thus, in some embodiments, a compound of the invention is
    administered during and after transplantation of cells, tissue or an organ to an individual.
    Examples of transplantation include, but are not limited to, transplantation of bone marrow,
25  umbilical cord blood, purified hematopoietic stem/progenitor cells, cardiac cells, neural cells,
    pancreatic beta cells, and liver cells.
            B.       In vitro uses
    [0152]    The compounds of the present invention are effective at stabilizing cells exposed to
    a wide variety of conditions. Many animal cells, when isolated (in suspension or
30  alternatively, when adherent) lose viability, go through apoptosis, and/or change
    programming (for example, stem cells when isolated, will often die or differentiate). The
                                                      34

    compounds of the present invention, when mixed with such cells, are effective in preventing
    such cellular responses to environmental changes. In some embodiments, cells are isolated
    from an animal and contacted with a compound of the invention in a sufficient amount to
    prevent loss of cell viability and/or changes in cellular programming. In some embodiments,
 5  such isolated cells are useful for diagnostics as the cells isolated retain phenotypes that would
    otherwise be lost due to the cell's response to the isolation process and isolation itself.
    Exemplary retained phenotypes can include, for example, gene expression patterns, cell
    responsiveness to a stimulus, ligand, or drug, cell viability.
    [0153]     Stability of a cell population can be monitored, for example, by monitoring
 0  expression of gene products. For example, certain gene products are tissue or cell
    type-specific and can be monitored before and after a change in condition or environment (for
    example, changing of cell media, thawing of cell, isolation of cell from other cells, etc.) to
    determine whether the change affects cellular programming. In some embodiments, cells
    about to be submitted to a change of condition or environment, or relatively soon after (e.g.,
 5  within 1 minute, 5 minutes, one hour, etc., depending on circumstances) the change, are
    contacted with a compound of the invention in a sufficient amount such that one or more
    cellular expression markers remain substantially the same. "Substantially the same" will
    depend upon context and will be understood in the art. In some embodiments, "substantially
    the same" means that expression of a gene product associated with a specific cell type does
 '0 not change more than about 10%, 20% or 30% following a particular treatment to the cell
    (e.g., compared to expression prior to the treatment).
    [0154]    In some embodiments, the invention provides methods of promoting survival and
    anti-differentiation in stem cells ex-vivo. For example, the inventors have found that
    compounds of Formulae I or III (i.e., Tzv and Ptn) are effective in promoting survival and
25  anti-differentiation in human embryonic stem cell, mouse embryonic stem cell, multiple
    neural stem cells, skin stem cells, mesenchymal stem cells, hematopoietic stem cells, stromal
    stem cells and epithelial stem cells by contacting the cells with a compound of Formula I or
    III immediately after the isolation of the cells
    [0155]    Accordingly, the present invention provides populations of cells and/or tissue in
30  contact with a sufficient amount of a compound of the invention (e.g., a compound of
    Formula I or III) to stabilize the cells, e.g., to prevent or reduce cellular responses to changes
    in conditions (e.g., isolation from a tissue, thawing of the cells, etc.). In some embodiments,
                                                       35

    for example, the cells or tissues in contact with a compound of the invention are in a frozen
    or a liquid states. In some embodiments, the cells/tissues are thawed from a frozen state
    while in contact with a sufficient amount of a compound of the invention to prevent or reduce
    cellular damage or differentiation.
 5  [0156]    In some embodiments, a compound of the invention is contacted to a population of
    stem cells, progenitor cells or differentiated cells. Exemplary stem cells include pluripotent
    stem cells, embryonic stem cells, induced stem cells (iPS cells). Exemplary stem cells also
    include human embryonic stem cells, mouse embryonic stem cells, multiple neural stem cells,
    skin stem cells, mesenchymal stem cells, hematopoietic stem cells, stromal stem cells, and
 0  epithelial stem cells. Any type of progenitor cells can be used, including but not limited to,
    endoderm progenitor cells, mesoderm progenitor cells (e.g., muscle progenitor cells, bone
    progenitor cells, blood progenitor cells), and ectoderm progenitor cells (e.g., epidermal tissue
    progenitor cells and neural progenitor cells). There are a wide variety of differentiated cells
    known. Differentiated cells include, but are not limited to, fibroblasts, cardiac cells, neural
 5  cells, pancreatic beta cells, liver cells, epithelial cells, and intestinal cells. The cells described
    herein can be human cells or non-human cells. In some embodiments, the cells are human
    cells. In some embodiments, the cells are mouse, dog, cow, pig, rat or non-human primate
    cells.
    [0157]    The ability to maintain cell viability and cellular programming allow for improved
 '0 methods of drug screening and diagnostics. For example, in some embodiments, a cell is
    screened for a response in the presence of at least one compound of the invention (e.g., a
    compound of formula I or III), thereby maintaining viability of the cell, and further contacted
    with at least one of a plurality of agents (e.g., a chemical library) and then monitored for a
    response. A wide range of screening methods are known. This method finds particular
25  benefit for use with cells that would otherwise have a poor viability in the conditions of the
    screening method (for example, where it is convenient to use isolated cells, cells in
    suspension, adhesive cells, etc.). The cells can be, for example, stem cells, progenitor cells or
    differentiated cells, as described herein. The cellular response can be any response desired.
    Some responses in cell-based screening assays include, but are not limited to, expression of a
30  gene (e.g., based on expression of a reporter gene or quantified by PCR or other detection
    technology), cell viability or loss thereof, induction of apoptosis, etc.
                                                       36

    [0158]     Agents used in the screening methods can be, for example, small organic
    compounds (e.g., molecular weight less than 10,000 daltons, for example, less than 8000,
    6000, 4000, 2000 daltons), lipids, sugars, polypeptides, antibodies, nucleic acids (e.g.,
    oligonucleotides, DNA, RNA, ribozymes, short inhibitory RNA (siRNA), micro RNA
 5  (miRNA), etc.).
    [0159]     In some embodiments, the assays are designed to screen large combinatorial
    libraries by automating the assay steps and providing compounds from any convenient source
    to assays, which are typically run in parallel (e.g., in microtiter formats or in microwell plates
    in robotic assays). The combinatorial libraries can be completely random, or comprise
 0  members that contain a core structure based on one or more promising lead compounds. The
    combinatorial libraries can be completely synthetic or can include some or all members that
    are derived from naturally occurring sources, including, for example, bacteria, fungi, plants,
    insects and vertebrate (e.g., Xenopus (frog) or Anguilla (eel)) and non-vertebrate animals
    (e.g., Strongylocentrotus (sea urchin) or mollusks). See also, Boldi, CombinatorialSynthesis
 5  of NaturalProductBased Libraries, 2006, CRC Press.
    [0160]     In one embodiment, high throughput screening methods involve providing a
    combinatorial chemical or peptide library containing a large number of potential therapeutic
    compounds (potential modulator or ligand compounds). Such "combinatorial chemical
    libraries" or "ligand libraries" are then screened in one or more assays, as described herein, to
 '0 identify those library members (particular chemical species or subclasses) that display a
    desired characteristic activity. The compounds thus identified can serve as conventional
    "lead compounds" or can themselves be used as potential or actual therapeutics.
    [0161]     A combinatorial chemical library is a collection of diverse chemical compounds
    generated by either chemical synthesis or biological synthesis, by combining a number of
25  chemical "building blocks" such as reagents. For example, a linear combinatorial chemical
    library such as a polypeptide library is formed by combining a set of chemical building
    blocks (amino acids) in every possible way for a given compound length (i.e., the number of
    amino acids in a polypeptide compound). Millions of chemical compounds can be
    synthesized through such combinatorial mixing of chemical building blocks.
30  [0162]     Preparation and screening of combinatorial chemical libraries is well known to
    those of skill in the art. See,for example, U.S. Patent Nos. 5,663,046; 5,958,792; 6,185,506;
    6,541,211; 6,721,665, the disclosures of which are hereby incorporated herein by reference.
                                                    37

    Such combinatorial chemical libraries include, but are not limited to, peptide libraries (see,
    e.g., U.S. Pat. No. 5,010,175; Furka, Int. J. Pept. Prot.Res. 37:487-493 (1991); Houghton,
    et al., Nature 354:84-88 (1991); and CombinatorialPeptideLibrary Protocols, Cabilly, ed.,
    1997, Humana Press. Other chemistries for generating chemical diversity libraries can also
 5  be used. Such chemistries include, but are not limited to: peptoids (e.g., PCT Publication No.
    WO 91/19735), encoded peptides (e.g., PCT Publication WO 93/20242), random
    bio-oligomers (e.g., PCT Publication No. WO 92/00091), benzodiazepines (e.g., U.S. Pat.
    No. 5,288,514), diversomers such as hydantoins, benzodiazepines and dipeptides (Hobbs et
    al., Proc. Nat. Acad. Sci. USA 90:6909-6913 (1993)), vinylogous polypeptides (Hagihara et
 0  al, J. Amer. Chem. Soc. 114:6568 (1992)), nonpeptidal peptidomimetics with glucose
    scaffolding (Hirschmann et al., J. Amer. Chem. Soc. 114:9217-9218 (1992)), analogous
    organic syntheses of small compound libraries (Chen et al., J. Amer. Chem. Soc. 116:2661
    (1994); CombinatorialLibraries:Synthesis, Screening and Application Potential,Cortese,
    ed., 1995, Walter De Gruyter Inc; and Obrecht and Villalgordo, Solid-Supported
 5  Combinatorialand ParallelSynthesis of Small-Molecular-Weight Compound Libraries,
    1998, Elsevier Science Ltd), oligocarbamates (Cho et al., Science 261:1303 (1993)), and/or
    peptidyl phosphonates (Campbell et al., J. Org. Chem. 59:658 (1994)), nucleic acid libraries
    (see Ausubel, infra, Sambrook and Russell, infra and U.S. Patent Nos. 6,955,879; 6,841,347;
    6,830,890; 6,828,098; 6,573,098; and 6,399,334), peptide nucleic acid libraries (see, e.g.,
 '0 U.S. Pat. Nos. 5,539,083; 5,864,010 and 6,756,199), antibody libraries (see, e.g., Vaughn et
    al., Nature Biotechnology, 14(3):309-314 (1996) and PCT/US96/10287), carbohydrate
    libraries (see, e.g., Liang et al., Science, 274:1520-1522 (1996); U.S. Pat. No. 5,593,853; and
    Solid Support OligosaccharideSynthesis and CombinatorialCarbohydrateLibraries,
    Seeberger, ed., 2004, John Wiley & Sons (E-book)), small organic molecule libraries (see,
25  e.g., benzodiazepines, Baum C&EN, January 18, page 33 (1993) and U.S. Pat. No.
    5,288,514; isoprenoids, U.S. Pat. No. 5,569,588; thiazolidinones and metathiazanones, U.S.
    Pat. No. 5,549,974; pyrrolidines, U.S. Pat. Nos. 5,525,735 and 5,519,134; morpholino
    compounds, U.S. Pat. No. 5,506,337, and the like). See also, CombinatorialLibrary Design
    and Evaluation:Principles,Software Tools, and Applications in DrugDiscovery, Ghose, et
30  al., eds., 2001, Marcel Dekker; Molecular Diversity and CombinatorialChemistry: Libraries
    and DrugDiscovery, Chaiken and Janda, eds., 1996, Oxford Univ Pr.; and Combinatorial
    LibraryMethods and Protocols,English, ed., 2002, Humana Press.
                                                      38

    [0163]     Devices for the preparation of combinatorial libraries are commercially available
    (see, e.g., Advanced Chem Tech, Louisville KY., Symphony, Rainin, Woburn, MA., Applied
    Biosystems, Foster City, CA., Millipore, Bedford, MA and Caliper Life Sciences, Hopkinton,
    MA).
 5  [0164]     In some embodiments, the screening assays can be conveniently carried out in
    multiwell plates (e.g., 96-well, 384-well, etc.) wherein each agent to be screened is
    individually tested in a single well. In some embodiments, two or more candidate agents are
    tested in a single reaction mixture.
            C.      Alternative targets for obtaining similar effects
 0  [0165]     As described in detail in the examples below, the inventors have learned about the
    role of several gene products in the cellular response to the compounds of the invention and
    this has lead to the discovery that cells can also be stabilized by manipulating the gene
    products as explained below.
                     1.      E-cadherin
 5  [0166]     The inventors have found that increasing expression of E-cadherin enhances stem
    cell survival. Thus, the present invention provides for methods of stabilizing and/or
    increasing expression of E-cadherin in a cell, thereby stabilizing the cell from a change of
    conditions that would otherwise be detrimental to viability of the cell. Stabilizing E-cadherin
    can include, for example, contacting the cells with a compound that increases expression of
 '0 E-cadherin or in some way protects E-cadherin from proteolytic cleavage.
    [0167]     In some embodiments, the invention provides for methods of culturing stem cells
    (including but not limited to, human or mouse embryonic stem cells) in a container having a
    surface coated with a protein comprising at least an ectodomain of E-cadherin, optionally
    linked to another component such as a fusion protein, thereby stabilizing the cells (e.g.,
25  maintaining or increasing viability of the cells and/or maintaining cellular programming). An
    ectodomain is the part of a membrane protein that extends into the extracellular space (the
    space outside a cell). In some embodiments, ectodomains are the part of a protein that initiate
    contact with surface which leads to signal transduction. The ectodomain of E-cadherin is
    described in, e.g., Ito et al., Oncogene 18(50):7080-90 (1999) In some embodiments, at least
30  the ectodomain of E-cadherin is fused to a dimerizing polypeptide sequence, thereby
    allowing for stabilized dimers of the ectodomain. A "dimerizing polypeptide" refers to an
                                                     39

    amino acid sequence that forms homo-dimers, thereby allowing two polypeptides to
    dimerize. Exemplary dimerizing polypeptides include, but are not limited to, an IgG Fc
    fragment. In some embodiments, in some embodiments, stem cells (including but not limited
    to human or mouse embryonic stem cells, pluripotent stem cells, iPS cells) are dissociated
 5  from each other and cultured in a container having a surface coated with a protein comprising
    at least an ectodomain of E-cadherin, optionally linked to another component such as a fusion
    protein, thereby stabilizing the cells in improving the survival rate of the cells compared to
    the survival rate of similarly treated cells cultured in a container lacking the polypeptide
    coating.
 0                   2.      Protein Kinase C
    [0168]     The present invention also provides for stabilizing cells by contacting the cells with
    a protein kinase C activator. As explained herein, treatment of dissociated hESCs with a
    protein kinase C activator grown in the presence of a matrigel matrix resulted in significantly
    improved cell adhesion and colony formation, thereby improving cell viability. Accordingly,
 5  the invention provides for improving cell viability by culturing cells in the presence of a
    protein kinase C activator, thereby improving cell viability, growth, and/or adhesion. In
    some embodiments, a protein kinase C activator is contacted to a populations of stem cells,
    progenitor cells or differentiated cells in an amount sufficient to improve cell viability and/or
    survival and/or adhesion. Exemplary stem cells include pluripotent stem cells, embryonic
 '0 stem cells, induced stem cells (iPS cells) or as otherwise described herein. Exemplary protein
    kinase C activators include, but are not limited to, phorbol esters (e.g., phorbol 12-myristate
    13-acetate (PMA) or phorbol esters as described in US Patent Publication No. 20080226589)
    or peptide agonists (e.g., as described in US Patent No. 6,165,977).
                     3.      Integrin 1
25  [0169]     The present invention also provides for stabilizing cells by contacting the cells with
    an integrin  P1 activator. As explained herein, treatment of dissociated hESCs with an
    integrin  P1 activator, where the cells are grown on lamin resulted in significantly improved
    cell adhesion and colony formation, thereby improving cell viability. Accordingly, the
    invention provides for improving cell viability by culturing cells in the presence of an
30  integrin  P1 activator, thereby improving cell viability, growth, and/or adhesion. In some
    embodiments, an integrin P1 activator is contacted to a populations of stem cells, progenitor
                                                     40

    cells or differentiated cells in an amount sufficient to improve cell viability and/or survival
    and/or adhesion. Exemplary stem cells include pluripotent stem cells, embryonic stem cells,
    induced stem cells (iPS cells) or as otherwise described herein. Exemplary an integrin         P1
    activators include, but are not limited to, an integrin   P1 activating  antibody such as, e.g.,
 5  TS2/16 (commercially available from, e.g., Thermo Scientific, Rockfield, Ill.).
    IV.      Cell populations
    [0170]     As discussed herein, the present invention provides for cells in a mixture (e.g., a cell
    culture) with one or more compound as described herein (e.g., a compound of formula I or III
    - including but not limited to Tzv and Pt - or a protein kinase C activator or an integrin P1
 0  activator). In some embodiments, the compound is in the mixture at a concentration
    sufficient to maintain viability or cellular programming in response to a change of cellular
    environment or condition (e.g., thawing). For example, in some embodiments, the
    compounds are in a concentration of at least 0.1 nM, e.g., at least 1, 10, 100, 1000, 10000, or
    100000 nM, e.g., between 0.1 nM and 100000 nM, e.g., between 1 nM and 10000 nM, e.g.,
 5  between 10 nM and 10000 nM, e.g., between 1-10 iM. In some embodiments, the mixtures
    are in a synthetic vessel (e.g., a test tube, Petri dish, etc.). Thus, in some embodiments, the
    cells are isolated cells (not part of an animal). In some embodiments, the cells are adherent
    cells or cells in suspension. In some embodiments, the cells are isolated or dissociated from a
    tissue sample (e.g., a biopsy) from an animal (human or non-human), placed into a vessel,
 '0 and contacted with one or more compound as described herein (e.g., a compound of Formula
    I or III). The cells can be subsequently cultured and optionally, inserted back into the same
    or a different animal, optionally after the cells have been stimulated to differentiate into a
    particular cell type or lineage, or following introduction of a recombinant expression cassette
    into the cells.
25  V.       Culturing of cells
    [0171]     Cells can be cultured according to any method known in the art. Cells can be
    cultured in suspension or as adherent cells as appropriate.
    [0172]     In some embodiments, the cells (e.g., stem cells) are cultured in contact with feeder
    cells. Exemplary feeder cells include, but are not limited to fibroblast cells, e.g., mouse
30  embryonic fibroblast (MEF) cells. Methods of culturing cells on feeder cells are known in
    the art.
                                                       41

    [0173]     In some embodiments, the cells are cultured in the absence of feeder cells. Cells,
    for example, can be attached directly to a solid culture surface (e.g., a culture plate), e.g., via
    a molecular tether. Exemplary molecular tethers include, but are not limited to, matrigel, an
    extracellular matrix (ECM), ECM analogs, laminin, fibronectin, or collagen. Those of skill in
 5  the art however will recognize that this is a non-limiting list and that other molecules can be
    used to attach cells to a solid surface. Methods for initial attachment of the tethers to the
    solid surface are known in the art.
    VI.      Formulations and Methods of Administration
    [0174]     Formulations (e.g., comprising a compound of the present invention, including but
 0  not limited to suitable for administration include aqueous and non-aqueous solutions, isotonic
    sterile solutions, which can contain antioxidants, buffers, bacteriostats, and solutes that render
    the formulation isotonic, and aqueous and non-aqueous sterile suspensions that can include
    suspending agents, solubilizers, thickening agents, stabilizers, and preservatives. In the
    practice of this invention, compositions can be administered, for example, orally, nasally,
 5  topically, intravenously, intraperitoneally, or intrathecally. The formulations of compounds
    can be presented in unit-dose or multi-dose sealed containers, such as ampoules and vials.
    Solutions and suspensions can be prepared from sterile powders, granules, and tablets of the
    kind previously described. The modulators can also be administered as part of a prepared
    food or drug.
 '0 [0175]     The dose administered to a patient, in the context of the present invention, should be
    sufficient to induce a beneficial response in the subject over time. The optimal dose level for
    any patient will depend on a variety of factors including the efficacy of the specific
    modulator employed, the age, body weight, physical activity, and diet of the patient, on a
    possible combination with other drugs, and on the severity of the disease or condition in
25  question. The size of the dose also will be determined by the existence, nature, and extent of
    any adverse side-effects that accompany the administration of a particular compound or
    vector in a particular subject.
    [0176]     In determining the effective amount of an active ingredient to be administered a
    physician may evaluate circulating plasma levels of the compound or agent, compound or
30  agent toxicity, and the production of anti- compound or agent antibodies. In general, the dose
    equivalent of a compound or agent is from about 1 ng/kg to 10 mg/kg for a typical subject.
                                                     42

  VII.    Examples
  [0177]    The following examples are offered to illustrate, but not to limit the claimed
  invention.
  Example 1:
5 [0178]    To improve chemically-defined medium conditions and uncover the molecular
  mechanism of hESC death after single cell dissociation, we performed a high throughput
  phenotypic screen of 50,000 synthetic compounds to identify small molecules that promote
  hESC survival after trypsin dissociation. From the screen, two chemical classes were
  identified that significantly increased the cell survival after dissociation and also maintained
0 hESC colony morphology and alkaline phosphatase (ALP) expression. Further chemical
  optimizations and activity analysis resulted in the discovery of two lead molecules, a
  2,4-disubstituted thiazole (named as Thiazovivin/Tzv) and a 2,4-disubstituted pyrimidine
  (named as Pyrintegin/Ptn) (Fig. 1a), for further functional and mechanistic characterizations.
  Table 1. Activity Data
                                                                           Activity
                       Compound                           (% ALP positive colony formation by
                                                                           hESCs)1
                             0
                N
                    HN4
                         S
                                    1724.1
                                  HN-~qX           r~                          4
                N/
                             0
                    HN                                                        4.5
                         S
                    OsO
                             0
                    HN-I       H                                              5.2
                             0
                 -N
                         S
                    HN
                                                   43

                                                                     Activity
             Compound                                   (% ALP positive colony formation by
                                                                     hESCs) 1
                   0
                  N
                         H "         OMe                                 5
N
           0
                     IIM
                                                OH0                    23.5
                  SON        N    N5
         0
       N'    -       ~    N              OH
  VHO                                     10  1)     N                 23.2
              9-aN           N   N5
                       H
       0
                         N Is          OH
                     N     N    N5
                     H
         0
 ~K N        -     N                     0 . OH
                                                   1 ~                  2.9
               'j      N    NN
                       H
   0
   11
       Is                               OH
                  Na~     N    N5
         011
         S
    HO0                                          1    l                 3.1
                    aN            N    Nq
                            H
    0
H'O                                    1                                6.2
                         NN          N
                         H NL
       0
       11
  N"
      Is     11N                     ~
   HO0                                                                  6.1
                  aN             N INg
                          H
                                                   44

                                                            Activity
                   Compound                    (% ALP positive colony formation by
                                                            hESCs)1
            0
            11
                         N    N    N
                         H
                                       b
      0
      11
       H z O~I                                                 3.6
                      N    N    N
                      H
            0
             11
            S
        N" 11               N  ~
        H Oa                                                   3.2
                          N    N    N
                          H
        0
         11
   HN                                                           3
                   aN       N    N
                       H
               0
                11
               S
           HO0                                                 3.4
                      aN        N    N
                           H
           0
      HO0t~                                                    3.1
                    aN        N    N
                         H         6
            0
             11
           HO                                                  5.2
                          N    N    N
                          H          C
  011
                       N                OMe
HO0                                                            3.1
                    N    N    N
                                            45

                                                                           Activity
                       Compound                            (% ALP positive colony formation by
                                                                           hESCs)1
                 0
                 11
                            N          N          OMe
               HN                        N3.3
                            N     N    N
                            H
                    0
                    11
                  Is
                              N'lN IN
                              H          H
               HO11K                                                         3.1
                 'S          N    N     N
                             H
                  0
     Ratio of ALP positive colonies vs. total initially seeded cells.
   [0179]     Compound Tzv or Ptn enhances the survival of single hESCs more than 20-fold on
   Matrigel-coated plate after enzymatic dissociation (Fig. 1b, c). hESCs had been serially
 5 passaged in Tzv or Ptn-containing chemically-defined medium for more than 20 generations.
   Under such conditions, the cells homogenously maintained the characteristic morphology of
   hESCs, the expression of typical pluripotency markers, and normal karyotype (Fig. I d, e).
   When these cells were injected into nude mice, they generated complex teratomas consisting
   of all three primary germ layer tissues (Fig. 1f). These results, confirmed with several
 0 independent hESC lines, collectively and convincingly demonstrated that both compounds
   could substantially promote hESC survival without compromise to self-renewal and full
   developmental potency.
   [0180]     hESCs are known to be difficult in forming embryoid bodies (EBs) in suspension
   culture after single cell dissociation due to extensive cell death. Thus, we also tested whether
15 Tzv or Ptn could promote survival of dissociated hESCs in suspension. Interestingly, Tzv
   greatly improved survival of hESCs in both adherent and suspension cultures. In contrast,
   Ptn only promoted survival of hESCs in adherent culture (e.g. on Matrigel-coated plate), but
   had no effect on suspension culture (Fig. 2a). These observations suggest that at least two
   distinct mechanisms are involved in these two types of cell death under ECM/Matrigel or
20 suspension conditions, and that Tzv and Ptn function differently. hESCs formed nice cell
   aggregates when grown in suspension and in the presence of Tzv (Fig.2b), and could
                                                    46

    differentiate into various lineages (data not shown). Because cell aggregation is most often
    mediated through cell-cell adhesions and E-cadherin is the primary cell-cell adhesion
    molecule, as well as highly expressed in hESCs (Eastham, A.M. et al., Cancer Res 67
    (23):11254-11262 (2007)), we tested the effect of a specific E-cadherin blocking antibody on
 5  multicellular aggregate formation. When the cells were cultured in the presence of the
    antibody, the cell survival and formation of large, compact aggregates induced by Tzv
    treatment was severely inhibited, indicating that the cell survival and assembly of
    multicellular aggregates induced by Tzv involve functional E-cadherin (Fig. 2b). In addition,
    knock-down of E-cadherin by specific siRNAs in hESCs dramatically reduced cell survival
 0  induced by Tzv treatment, and significantly decreased the number of ALP positive colonies
    (Fig. 2c,d,e). These results suggest that Tzv enhances hESC survival in suspension,
    presumably acting through E-cadherin-mediated cell-cell adhesion.
    [0181]    We then examined E-cadherin expression in hESCs after trypsin dissociation. We
    found that most of the full length E-cadherin had been cleaved after trypsin dissociation (Fig.
 5  2f). This observation was consistent with the report that the extracellular region of
    E-cadherin has an endoproteolytic cleavage site near the transmembrane domain (Damsky,
    C.H. et al., Cell 34 (2):455-466 (1983)). In Tzv-untreated cells, newly synthesized
    full-length E-cadherin appeared 1 h after enzyme treatment and disappeared after 4 h,
    suggesting that newly synthesized E-cadherins in dissociated hESCs were not stable.
 '0 However, in Tzv-treated cells, E-cadherin expression was significantly increased (Fig. 2g).
    Furthermore, flow cytometry analysis revealed that cell surface E-cadherins in hESCs were
    significantly increased by Tzv (Fig. 2h). Therefore, Tzv is likely to affect cell adhesion by
    modulating cell surface level of E-cadherins. Semiquantitative RT-PCR revealed comparable
    amounts of E-cadherin transcripts in mock controls and Tzv-treated cells (Fig. 2i), suggesting
25  the difference in E-cadherin protein levels was not due to altered transcription levels. It is
    likely that Tzv exerts its effect through stabilization of E-cadherin on the cell surface.
    Finally, endocytosis assay revealed that internalization of E-cadherins was significantly
    blocked by Tzv. These results indicate that Tzv regulates E-cadherin activities through
    inhibition of endocytosis of E-cadherins (Fig. 2j).
30  [0182]     Cell-cell dissociation by trypsin leads to rapid cleavage and subsequent
    destabilization of E-cadherins. We hypothesized that E-cadherin stability might also be
    mediated by its homophilic-interaction between the cells. Thus homophilic ligation of
    E-cadherins with recombinant ligands may stabilize E-cadherins and affect hESC survival.
                                                     47

    To test this hypothesis, we coated plates with a dimeric E-cadherin-Fc chimera protein
    containing the E-cadherin ectodomain fused to the IgG Fc fragment (Ecad-Fc). Remarkably,
    dissociated hESCs attached to the coated surface and their survival rate was significantly
    increased in a dose dependent manner (Fig. 2k), confirming that cell-cell adhesion mediated
 5  by E-cadherin is an important regulator for hESC survival.
    [0183]    Both Tzv and Ptn have dramatic effect on survival of hESCs grown on
    Matrigel-coated plates. Such survival promoting effect seems unlikely due to influence on
    cell growth and may be largely attributed to the increase in cell adhesion ability following
    cell dissociation and seeding processes (Fig. 3a,b). Indeed, dissociated hESCs that were
 0  treated with Tzv or Ptn displayed a dramatically increased adhesion to Matrigel or laminin.
    In contrast, hESCs' adhesion to gelatin or poly-lysine (Fig. 3b and data not shown), which
    does not involve integrins, was not affected by Ptn or Tzv treatment. The main component of
    Matrigel is laminin, and it was reported that laminin receptor 01 integrin is highly expressed
    in hESCs (Xu, C. et al., Nat Biotechnol 19 (10):971-974 (2001)). To test whether Ptn or Tzv
 5  acts through 0 1 integrin, we pretreated cells with a blocking antibody against 0 1 integrin, and
    observed that the increased cell attachment induced by compound treatment was completely
    abolished. This suggests that Tzv and Ptn mediate cell adhesion to ECM substrates through
    01 integrin (Fig. 3c).
    [0184]    To gain insights into the mechanism of 01 integrin regulation by Tzv and Ptn, we
 '0 investigated whether the compounds' effect is due to changes of integrin expression. In
    contrast to E-cadherin, 01 integrin was not cleaved by trypsin. Western blot analysis revealed
    that the compounds' effect was unlikely due to increased expressions of 01 integrin. Thus,
    Tzv and Ptn are likely to affect cell adhesion by modulating integrin activity (Fig. 3 d,e). To
    examine the effects of compound treatment on the activity of 01 integrin, we used the
25  monoclonal antibody HUTS-21, which specifically binds to the activated form of the 01
    integrin (Luque, A. et al., JBiol Chem 271 (19):11067-11075 (1996)). Notably, compounds
    treatment increased the level of HUTS-21 binding (Fig. 3fg). These results collectively
    suggest that Tzv and Ptn increase cell adhesion by the inside-out modulation of integrin
    activity.
30  [0185]    If both chemicals did enhance cell adhesion by converting integrins into an active
    conformation, treatment of cells with the integrin-activating antibody, which locks integrins
    in an active conformation, should have a similar effect as compounds. Indeed, when
                                                    48

    dissociated hESCs were plated on laminin in the presence of TS2/16, an activating antibody
    to 0 1 integrin (van de Wiel-van Kemenade, E. et al., J Cell Biol 117 (2):461-470 (1992)), cell
    adhesion was significantly increased and cells formed an increased number of colony as
    compared to control (Fig. 3h,i). These results suggest that the increased adhesion, which
 5  occurs when cells are treated with these compounds, involves a mechanism that induces
    integrin activation.
    [0186]     To further dissect the molecular mechanism by which Tzv and Ptn regulate integrin
    activity, we examined the effects of several pathway inhibitors. We found that
    bisindolylmaleimide I , a specific inhibitor of PKC, could antagonize the increased cell
 0  adhesion induced by Ptn, but had no effect on cell adhesion induced by Tzv. This suggests
    that PKC may mediate the action of Ptn but not Tzv (Fig. 3j). To further confirm the role of
    PKC on hESC survival, dissociated hESCs were treated with PKC agonist phorbol
    12-myristate 13-acetate (PMA). Treatment of PMA caused integrin activation, as well as a
    substantial increase in cell adhesion and colony formation (Fig. 3k,l,m).
 5  [0187]     Stem cell fate is influenced by its cellular niche, which consists of growth factors,
    cell-ECM interaction, and cell-cell interaction. The fact that hESC survival is highly
    dependent on cell-cell interaction and/or cell-ECM interaction, revealed the importance of
    such previously unrecognized in vitro niche for hESCs. More importantly, cell intrinsic
    protein expressions (e.g. E-cadherins and integrins) and regulatory mechanisms (e.g. protein
 '0 stabilization and activation), not only respond to, but also are essential niche components,
    suggesting stem cells possess intrinsic ability to construct their own niche in the absence of
    other extrinsic factors or cell types, which however can participate and enhance cells'
    auto-regulatory niche mechanism.
    [0188]     Interplay between physical/structural environment and growth factor plays a very
25  important role in cell fate regulation (Comoglio, P.M., Boccaccio, C., & Trusolino, L., Curr
    Opin Cell Biol 15 (5):565-571 (2003)). To examine whether growth factors are involved in
    integrin-mediated hESC survival, we treated dissociated hESCs with Tzv or Ptn together with
    individual highly specific growth factor receptor inhibitors. We found that chemical
    inhibition of FGFR, IGFR, EGFR1 or Erb2 greatly diminished survival promoting effect
30  induced by Tzv or Ptn treatment (Fig. 4a). In addition, Ptn significantly increased the
    phosphorylation of growth factor receptor, suggesting that engagement of growth factor
    receptors is required for integrin-mediated cell survival (Fig. 4b). Similarly inhibition of
                                                      49

    FGFR, IGFR, EGFR1 or Erb2 also greatly abolished Tzv-induced hESC survival in
    suspension culture. Furthermore, Tzv induced binding of E-cadherins to EGFR1 and ERB2,
    indicating the important role of growth factor receptors in E-cadherin-mediated cell survival
    (Fig. 4c, d).
 5  [0189]    Phosphatidylinositol-3-kinase (PI-3K) signaling and MAPK/ERK are major
    regulators for hESC self-renewal (Armstrong, L. et al., Hum Mol Genet 15 (11):1894-1913
    (2006); Paling, N.R. et al., JBiol Chem 279 (46):48063-48070 (2004); Pyle, A.D., Lock,
    L.F., & Donovan, P.J., Nat Biotechnol 24 (3):344-350 (2006); Li, J. et al., Differentiation 75
    (4):299-307 (2007)). Phosphorylation of ERK and AKT, a downstream effector of PI-3K,
 0  were increased upon treatment of dissociated hESCs with Ptn, and this increase was
    abolished by integrin blocking antibody (Fig. 4e,f). Moreover, activation of AKT and ERK
    by Ptn was blocked by inhibitors of FGFR, IGFR, EGFR or Erb2 (Fig. 4g and data not
    shown). Chemical inhibition of PI-3K action significantly antagonized survival effect
    induced by Ptn (Fig. 4h). Inhibition of ERK did not have a dramatic effect on survival
 5  induced by Ptn but induced hESC differentiation (Fig. 4i). These results demonstrated that
    activation of PI-3K is a major survival signaling and activation of ERK is an
    anti-differentiation signaling generated by the niche through activation of growth factor
    receptors.
    [0190]    In summary, we identified two novel synthetic small molecules with distinct
 '0 mechanisms of action from a high throughput phenotypic screen that greatly enhance hESC
    survival after single cell dissociation. Such chemical tools and newly identified biological
    tools through mechanistic characterizations (e.g. defined recombinant Ecad-Fc for hESC
    attachment in adherent culture; activating antibodies for enhanced cell survival and
    attachment) would enable more robust hESC culture and significantly facilitate applications
25  of hESCs such as gene targeting or drug discovery. More importantly, in-depth mechanistic
    characterizations uncovered previously unrecognized niche mechanisms that are required to
    sustain hESC survival and proliferation. Such niche consists of E-cadherin-mediated
    interaction between hESC themselves, integrin-mediated cell-ECM interaction, and growth
    factors. Earlier studies have pointed to an important role of growth factors on hESC
30  self-renewal. However, full activation of growth factor signaling requires not only the
    presence of the growth factors and receptors but also an interaction with a particular
    microenvironment. When this physical/structural environment is destroyed, growth factors
    alone are not sufficient for self-renewal of ESCs.
                                                   50

    [0191]     Recently, it was reported that differentiated fibroblasts generated from hESCs in
    self-renewal culture created an in vitro niche for hESCs (Bendall, S.C. et al., Nature 448
    (7157):1015-1021 (2007)). Under our and others' chemically defined medium conditions, we
    very rarely observe such differentiated cells in long-term culture, suggesting that such
 5  artificial niche might be created due to the media differences. Nevertheless, our studies
    reveal unique cell-autonomous (i.e. cell-cell interaction) and non cell-autonomous (i.e.
    cell-ECM and -growth factor) niche mechanisms for hESC survival and self-renewal, which
    may likely play important roles in controlling adult stem cell fate in vivo.
    [0192]     Cell-cell dissociation by trypsin led to not only de-stabilization of E-cadherins but
 0  also inactivation of integrins, indicating that signaling which maintains integrin activity is
    sensitive to enzymatic treatment. Feeder cell-conditioned media (with growth factor-rich
    serum) didn't provide much protection against cell death after single cell dissociation. In
    addition, the fact that high density cell seeding also induces an increase in cell
    adhesion/survival suggests that signaling required to maintain integrin activity may not come
 5  from secreted factors but instead from physical cell-cell interactions. Tzv inhibits
    endocytosis of E-cadherin, and thus protects cells from death in suspension. Similarly, by
    inhibiting endocytosis, Tzv may maintain integrin activity by stabilizing signaling from the
    cell surface. On the other hand, Ptn may mimic the downstream signaling from physical
    cell-cell interaction to activate PKC. Future target identification of Ptn may shed new light
 '0 on the mechanism by which cell-cell adhesion regulates cell-ECM interaction. Our research
    also exemplified the feasibility and advance of high throughput chemical screening in stem
    cell studies. Further development and application of such chemical approach in stem cells
    will undoubtedly lead to the identification of additional novel small molecules and
    mechanistic insight for precisely controlling cell fate in vitro and in vivo.
25  Methods
    Cell culture
    [0193]     Human ESC lines HI, HUES7 and HUES9 were cultured on irradiated MEF feeder
    cells in DMEM-F12 supplemented with 2 mM L-glutamine, 1x nonessential amino acids,
    20% serum replacement (Invitrogen) and 10 ng/ml basic Fibroblast growth factor
30  (Invitrogen). Chemically-defined and feeder-free hESC culture was described previously
    (Yao, S. et al., Proc Natl Acad Sci USA 103 (18):6907-6912 (2006)). Briefly, hESCs were
    grown on Matrigel-coated tissue culture plates in N2B27-CDM (DMEM-F12 supplemented
                                                     51

    with 1x N2 supplements, 1x B27 supplements, 2 mM L-glutamine, 0.11 mM
    2-mercaptoethanol, 1x nonessential amino acids, and 0.5 mg/ml BSA (fraction V)) and 20
    ng/ml bFGF. Human ESCs were passaged every 5-6 days with 0.05% trypsin.
    [0194]    For clonal survival assays, single hESCs were diluted to clonal density and plated
 5  onto 96-well Matrigel-coated plate. For low-density survival assays, 500 cells were plated
    onto 96-well Matrigel-coated plate. To visualize hESC colonies, cultures were fixed in 4%
    paraformaldehyde in PBS for 5 min, washed once in PBS, then stained for alkaline
    phosphatase activity as described in manufacturer's instructions. ALP positive colonies were
    counted on an inverted microscope.
 0  Reagents
    [0195]    ALP detection kit and integrin antibodies were from Chemicon. AG825 (Erb2
    inhibitor), AG1478 (EGFR inhibitor), PPP (IGFR1 inhibitor) were purchased from
    Calbiochem. Antibodies raised against the intracytoplasmic tail of E-cadherins (Transduction
    Laboratories, Lexington, KY) were used for immunoprecipitation. The antibody TS2/16 was
 5  from Pierce. Antibodies to the extracellular domain of E-cadherin molecule were from
    Zymed (Carlsbad). Antibodies against extracellular signal-regulated kinase/MAPK, EGFR1,
    ERB2, GADPH and phosphorylated form of AKT were from Cell Signaling. Mouse
    monoclonal anti-phosphotyrosine (4G-10 clone) was from Upstate Biotechnology. Ptn and
    Tzv were added to culture medium at 2 tM.
 '0 High-throughput chemical screen.
    [0196]    The trypsinable hESC lines HUES7 or HUES9 were used for the screen. hESCs
    were cultured in chemically-defined media on the Matrigel-coated plate as described above.
    Then cells were harvested by trypsin. hESCs were plated at 4,000 cells per well onto
    Matrigel-coated 384-well plates. After 1 h when cells settled down, compounds from a
25  library of 50,000 discrete heterocycles were added to each well (2 piM final concentration).
    After an additional 6 days of incubation, in which media and compounds were changed at day
    3, cells were stained for ALP expression and examined for compact colony morphology.
    Immunostaining analysis.
    [0197]    Immunostaining was performed as described previously (Yao, S. et al., Proc Natl
30  Acad Sci USA 103 (18):6907-6912 (2006)). Briefly, cells were fixed with 4%
    paraformaldehyde at room temperature (RT) for 15 min. The cells were then incubated at RT
                                                   52

    in blocking buffer for 1 hour. Primary antibody incubation was carried overnight at 4 'C.
    The following commercially available antibodies were used at a concentration of 1:100 in
    blocking buffer: anti-SSEA4, anti-Oct4 (Chemicon??) anti-Nanog (Chemicon). The staining
    was visualized using secondary antibodies conjugated to FITC, cy3 or cy5 (Jackson
 5  ImmunoResearch).
    Teratoma formation and karyotyping.
    [0198]    Teratoma formation experiments were performed by injecting 3-5 million hESCs
    (maintained in the presence of compounds Tvz or Ptn) under the kidney capsule of nude
    mice. After 4-5 weeks, all mice developed teratomas, which were removed and then
 0  immunohistologically analyzed by The Scripps Research Institute Research Histology
    Service and Animal Resources. Compounds treated cells were karyotyped by standard
    G-banding at the Children's Hospital Oakland, Cytogenetics Laboratory. No chromosomal
    abnormality was found in the 10 randomly picked nuclei.
    TUNEL assay
 5  [0199]    The hESCs under different treatments were dissociated by trypsin and fixed by 4%
    paraformaldehyde. And the staining was carried out according to the manufacturer's
    instructions (MBL Laboratories, Watertown, MA). After staining, samples were analysed by
    flow cytometry using a FACS Calibur flow cytometer (BD).
    Flow cytometry analysis
 '0 [0200]    To assess the expression of E-cadherin, activated integrin and SSEA4, dissociated
    cells (3x 105) were washed with PBS and resuspended in PBS containing 2% goat serum.
    Cells were then incubated with the appropriate antibody for 1 h at 4 'C, washed with the
    blocking solution, and labeled with FITC-conjugated secondary antibody for 30 min at 4 'C.
    Cells were then washed and analyzed on a FACS Calibur flow cytometer.
25  Cell adhesion assay
    [0201]     Cell adhesion assays were performed in 96-well microtiter plates coated with
    Matrigel. After trypsin, hESCs were resuspended in the chemically-defined media containing
    the desired compounds . Cells were then added to the microtiter wells and incubated for 3 h
    at 37 'C. Unbound and loosely bound cells were removed by shaking and washing, and the
30  remaining cells were then fixed immediately. The wells were washed 3 times with 200 gl of
                                                  53

    H 20, and attached cells were stained with Crystal Violet (Sigma). The absorbance of each
    well at 570 nm was then measured. For experiments with blocking antibodies, cells were
    pre-incubated with antibodies on ice for 30 min, and adhesion assays were performed in the
    presence of antibodies. Each sample was assayed independently for three times.
 5  Endocytosis assay
    [0202]    hESCs were incubated with 1.5 mg/ml sulfosuccinimidyl 2-(biotinamido)
    ethyl-dithioproprionate (sulfo-NHS-SS-biotin) (Pierce Chemical Co.) on ice, followed by
    washing and quenching. Endocytosis of E-cadherin was initiated by Ca2 depletion and 37
    'C incubation. Cells were then incubated in two 20-min washes of glutathione solution (60
 0  mM glutathione, 0.83 M NaCl, with 0.83 M NaOH and 1% BSA added before use) at 0 'C
    which removed all cell surface biotin groups. Remaining biotinylated proteins were
    sequestered inside cells by endocytosis and were therefore protected from glutathione
    stripping. Biotinylated proteins were recovered on streptavidin beads and analyzed by
    SDS-PAGE. E-Cadherins were detected by immunoblotting. Total level of surface
 5  E-cadherin before endocytosis was used as reference.
    Example 2: Synthesis of N-benzyl-2-(pyrimidin-4-ylamino)thiazole-4-carboxamide
    (Thiazovivin)
    Chemical Synthesis
    [0203]    Using the chemical synthesis examples presented below and chemical synthesis
 '0 methods generally known in the art, one of skill is capable of making the compounds
    disclosed herein (e.g. the compounds of Formulae (I) to (VI)).
    [0204]    All chemicals obtained commercially were used without further purification. NMR
    spectra were recorded on a Bruker (400 MHz) instrument. Chemical shifts (b) were measured
    in ppm and coupling constants (J) are reported in Hz. LCMS was performed by reverse-phase
25  liquid chromatography-mass spectrometer Agilent 1100 LCMS system with API-ES
    ionization source. High pressure liquid chromatography was performed with C 18 column
    with a linear gradient from 10% solvent A (acetonitrile with 0.035% trifluoroacetic acid) in
    solvent B (water with 0.05% trifluoroacetic acid) to 90% A in seven and half minutes,
    followed by two and half minutes elution with 90% A.
                                                  54

   Synthesis of N-benzyl-2-(pyrimidin-4-ylamino)thiazole-4-carboxamide            (Thiazovivin)
   [0205]    Benzyl amine was loaded to 4-formyl-3,5-dimethoxyphenoxymethyl functionalized
   polystyrene resin (PAL) via reductive amination to give PAL-benzyl amine resin. See, Ding,
   S.; Grey, N. S. Wu, X.; Ding,    Q.; Schultz, P. G. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2002, 124, 1594-1596.   A
 5 reaction flask containing PAL-benzyl amine resin (200 mg, 0.2 mmol),
   2-bromothiazole-4-carboxylic acid (83 mg, 0.4 mmol), bis(2-oxo-3-oxazolidinyl)phosphinic
   chloride (BOP-Cl) (153 mg, 0.6 mmol) and diisopropylethylamine (0.17 mL, 1 mmol) in
   DMF (3 mL) was shaken for 24 hr at room temperature. The resin was washed with
   methanol, dichloromethane and dried in vacuo to give PAL
 0 resin-N-benzyl-2-bromothiazole-4-carboxamide, which was then added to a flame-dried
   reaction vial, followed by 4-aminopyrimidine (95 mg, 1 mmol), Pd 2(dba) 3 (46 mg, 0.05
   mmol), Xantphos (87 mg, 0.15 mmol) and NaO'Bu (192 mg, 2 mmol). The vial was sure safe
   capped and degassed, then charged with argon and anhydrous dioxane (1.5 mL). The reaction
   was shaken for 24 hours at 90 'C. The resin was washed with sodium diethyldithiocarbamate
 5 solution (0.05 M in DMF), methanol and dichloromethane and dried in vacuo. The resin was
   subsequently cleaved with cleavage cocktail TFA:CH2 Cl 2 :H20 (45:55:5) (2 mL) for 2 hr. The
   resin was filtered, the filtrate was collected and evaporated in vacuo to give the crude which
   was then purified by HPLC to give the title compound (30 mg, 48%).
        HN
       N-N-         ON
    N               0
   N-Benzyl-2-(pyrimidin-4-ylamino)thiazole-4-carboxamide
   [0206]    Exact mass calculated for C15 H 13 N 5 0S: 311.1, found LCMS m/z    = 334.1 (M+Na').
   [02071     HNMR (400 MHz, d6-DMSO) 4.49 (d, J= 6.3 Hz, 2H), 5.76 (s, 1H), 7.21-7.27
   (m, 2H), 7.30-7.34 (m, 4H), 7.85 (s, 1H), 8.45 (t, J= 6.3 Hz, 1H), 8.51 (d, J= 6.1 Hz, 1H),
25 8.94 (s, 1H).
                                                    55

  Example 3: Synthesis of Thiazovivin Derivatives
                 O    Pal-Amine, BOPCI,         O     1
                                                         1) R2NH2, Pd2(dba) 3,              O
                                                          Xantphos, NaOtBu,
           N   -    OH DIEA, DMF, rt        N        R    Dioxane, 90 IC, 24h         N-'N      N'
      Br-A                           ' Br-/                                     -  HN-//        H
           S                                s            2) TFA:CH 2CI2:H20       R2
                                                           = 45:55:5, rt, 2h
           1                                2                                           3
  [0208]     Appropriate amines R1 NH 2 were pre-loaded to 4-formyl-3,5
  dimethoxyphenoxymethyl functionalized polystyrene resin (PAL) via reductive amination to
5 give PAL-benzyl amine resin. A mixture of PAL-benzyl amine resin (200 mg, 0.2 mmol, 1.0
  eq.), 2-bromothiazole carboxylic acid 1 (0.4 mmol, 2. 0 eq.), bis(2-oxo-3
  oxazolidinyl)phosphinic chloride (BOP-Cl) (0.6 mmol, 3. 0 eq.) and diisopropylethylamine (1
  mmol, 5.0 eq.) in anhydrous DMF (3 mL) was shaken for 24 hr at ambient temperature. The
  resin was washed with methanol, dichloromethane and dried in vacuo, which was then added
0 to a flame-dried reaction vial, followed by corresponding R2NH 2 (1 mmol, 5.0 eq.), Pd 2(dba) 3
  (0.05 mmol), Xantphos (0.15 mmol) and NaO'Bu (2 mmol, 10.0 eq.). The vial was sure safe
  capped and degassed, then charged with argon and anhydrous dioxane (1.5 mL). The reaction
  was shaken for 24 hours at 90 'C. The resin was washed with sodium diethyldithiocarbamate
  solution (0.05 M in DMF), methanol and dichloromethane and dried in vacuo. The resin was
5 subsequently cleaved with cleavage cocktail: TFA:CH 2Cl 2 :H20        =  45:55:5 (2 mL) for 2 hr.
  The resin was filtered and the filtrate was collected and evaporated in vacuo to give the crude
  which was then purified by HPLC to give the desired title compound 3.
                   Structure                             Name                             Data
                  0                         N-benzyl-2-(pyrimidin-4-               LC/MS Rt    =   1.49
       HNN          N                       ylamino)thiazole-4-carboxamide         mi    [MW] 312,
             SjI    HMNa-']                                                                334.
    N
                  0                         N-benzyl-2-(6-                         LC/MS Rt    =  2.12
       HN    N      N                       methoxypyrimidin-4-                    min, [MH] 342.
    N        S                              ylamino)thiazole-4-carboxamide
    N
        OMe
                  0                         N-benzyl-2-                            LC/MS Rt    =  2.45
       HN   /N      N                       (phenylamino)thiazole-4-               min, [MH] 310.
             S                              carboxamide
                                                  56

                 Structure                                  Name                      Data
                0                            N-benzyl-2-(pyridin-2-             LC/MS Rt = 1.69
          N-      [N                         ylamino)thiazole-4-carboxamide     min, [MH*] 311.
          S
      N
                0                            N-benzyl-2-(pyridin-4-             LC/MS Rt  =  1.57
          N        N                         ylamino)thiazole-4-carboxamide     min, [MH*] 311.
      N-  S
                0                            N-benzyl-2-(pyrazin-2-             LC/MS Rt = 2.02
           N       N                         ylamino)thiazole-4-carboxamide     min, [MH*] 312.
N      N
                0 NN-benzyl-5-isopropyl-2-                                      LC/MS Rt  =  1.90
   HN-             N                          (pyrimidin-4-ylamino)thiazole-    min, [MH*] 354.
                                              4-carboxamide
    _     s
                0                            N-(pyridill-3-ylmethyl)-2-         LC/MS      [MW-']
      N
   HN-~            N     N                    (pyrimidinl-4-ylaminlo)thiazole-  312.
  _       s              N                    4-carboxamide
  N
                0                             2-(pyrimidin-4-ylamino)-N-(3-     LC/MS [M'] 379.
          N-       N                          (trifluoromethyl)benzyl)thiazole
    -     s                                   4-carboxamide
                          CF 3
      N                   c3
                0                            N-(4-methoxyphenethyl)-2-          LC/MS [M'] 355.
   HN-N            N                          (pyrimidin-4-ylamino)thiazole
  _       s                                   4-carboxamide
  _//N
                       OMe
                                             N-(benzo[d][1,3]dioxol-5-          LC/MS      [MH]
         N- ],N   N --           )ylmethyl)-2-(pyrimidin-4-                     356.
    -     s                                  ylamino)thiazole-4-carboxamide
  N
                0                            methyl         4-((2-(pyrimidin-4- LC/MS      [MH]
          HN-N     N                         ylamino)thiazole-4-                370.
   HN-_       I                 Co 2Me        carboxamido)methyl)benzoate
          S_
      N
    /N
                0                             4-((2-(pyrimidin-4-               LC/MS      [MH]
             HN
             I                               ylamino)thiazole-4-                356.
   _      s   I                 co 2 H        carboxamido)methyl)benzoic
      N                                       acid
                                                     57

                    Structure                           Name                        Data
                  0                        N-(4-(butylcarbamoyl)benzyl)-      LC/MS      [MH]
                                           2-(pyrimidin-4-                    411.
        HNN
             s                             ylamino)thiazole-4-carboxamide
                                  0
     N-/
                   0                       N-(4-                              LC/MS      [MH]
                     N                     (dimethylcarbamoyl)benzyl)-2-      383.
        HN      I
         -   s                             (pyrimidin-4-ylamino)thiazole
           N                      O        4-carboxamide
                   0                       N-(4-methoxybenzyl)-2-             LC/MS      [MH]
                                           (pyrimidin-4-ylamino)thiazole-     342.
               H     N'
         -     J                  OMe      4-carboxamide
       N
                   0                       N-(3-methoxybenzyl)-2-             LC/MS      [MH]
                     N                     (pyrimidin-4-ylamino)thiazole-     342.
        HN
         -   s                             4-carboxamide
           N                  OMe
                                           N-(4-morpholinophenyl)-2-          LC/MS      [MH]
        N         s        NH              (quinolin-8-ylamino)thiazole-5-    432.
                  N     0                  carboxamide
                          (N)
   Example 4: Synthesis of N-(cyclopropylmethyl)-4-(4-(6-hydroxy-3,4-dihydroq        uinolin
   1(2H)-Yl)pyrimidin-2-ylamino)benzenesulfonamide         (Pyrintegrin)
   [0209]    The reaction flask containing 2,4-dichloropyrimidine (372 mg, 2.5 mmol),
 5 6-methoxy-1,2,3,4-tetrahydroquinoline (489 mg, 3 mmol) and diisopropylethylamine (0.52
   mL, 3 mmol) in n-butanol (10 mL) was heated at 40 0C overnight. The solvent was
   evaporated, and the residue was purified by flash column chromatography to give
   2-Chloro-4-(6-methoxy-3,4-dihydroquinolin-1(2H)-yl)pyrimidine      (551 mg, 80%). This
   intermediate (250 mg, 0.91 mmol) was then dissolved in dichloromethane and treated with
10 BBr 3 (1 M in dichloromethane) (1 mL, 1 mmol) at -78 0C.The reaction mixture was slowly
   warmed up to room temperature and stirred for 1 hr, poured into water, extracted with
   dichloromethane. The combined organics were dried over anhydrous Na 2 SO 4 and
   concentrated. The residue was purified by flash column chromatography to give
   2-Chloro-4-(6-hydroxy-3,4-dihydroquinolin-1(2H)-yl)pyrimidine     (154 mg, 65%). To a stirred
15 solution of 2-chloro-4-(6-hydroxy-3,4-dihydroquinolin- 1(2H)-yl)pyrimidine (29 mg, 0.11
                                                  58

   mmol) and 4-amino-N-(cyclopropylmethyl)benzenesulfonamide (27 mg, 0.12 mmol) in DMF
   (0.5 mL) was added p-toluenesulfonic acid (2 M in dioxane) (55 gL, 0.11 mmol) . The
   reaction mixture was stirred at 90 0C overnight, then purified by HPLC to give the title
   compound (27 mg, 56%).
            N
              Is                 N
                                                O
                                                O
                             N     N   N
                             H
 5
   N-(Cyclopropylmethyl)-4-(4-(6-hydroxy-3,4-dihydroquinolin-1(2H)-yl)pyrimidin-2-yla
   mino)benzenesulfonamide
   [0210]    Exact mass calculated for C2 3 H 2 5N 5 0 3 S: 451.2, found LCMS m/z =  452.3 (M+H*).
 0 [0211]     1H NMR (400 MHz, d6-DMSO) 0.05-0.09 (m, 2H), 0.32-0.36 (m, 2H), 0.75-0.81
   (m, 1H), 1.90-1.95 (m, 2H), 2.64 (t, J= 6.4 Hz, 4H), 3.93 (t, J= 6.5 Hz, 2H), 6.59 (d, J= 7.1
   Hz, 1H), 6.66-6.70 (m, 2H), 7.25-7.28 (m, 1H), 7.64 (t, J= 5.9 Hz, 1H), 7.74 (d, J       8.8 Hz,
   2H), 7.82 (d, J= 8.8 Hz, 2H), 8.01 (d, J= 7.1 Hz, 1H), 10.79 (s, 1H).
   Example 5: Synthesis of Pyrintegrin Derivatives
          N       C           R1 NH2           N         NR          R2 NH2       2N          N
      C1    N     CI                        C1    N      N                          N'   N    N
                        /Pr 2NEt, n-BuOH,                H       DMF, p-TsOH,       H         H
 5          4                80 C, 12h            10               90 C, 12h             11
   [0212]    To a mixture of 2,4-dichloropyrimidine 4 (1.0 eq.), R1 NH 2 (1.2 eq.) and
   diisopropylethylamine (1.2 eq.) in n-butanol was heated at 80 C overnight. The solvent was
   evaporated, and the residue was purified by flash column chromatography to intermediate 10
   in excellent yield (> 80%), which was then treated with R 2NH 2 (1.2 eq.) in DMF was added
20 p-toluenesulfonic acid (2 M in dioxane) (1.2 eq.). The reaction mixture was stirred at 90 C
   overnight, and then purified directly by preparative HPLC to give Pyrintegrin derivatives 11
   in excellent yields.
                Structure                                  Name                       Data
                       N                  N-(cyclopropylmethyl)-4-(4-(6-       LC/MS      [MH]
               IN                     OH  hydroxy-3,4-dihydroquinolin-         452.
                     N    N    N          1(2H)-yl)pyrimidin-2
                                          ylamino)benzenesulfonamide
                                                     59

              Structure                                     Name                     Data
        0~N~                           OH  N-(cyclopropylmethyl)-4-(4-(6-       LC/MS    [MW-']
             N  ~                          hydroxy-3,4-dihydroquinolin-         416.
                     H    N    N5          1 (2H)-yl)pyrimidin-2
                                           ylamino)benzamide
                     ~N                OHN-cyclopropyl-4-(4-(6-hydroxy-         LC/MS    [MW]
   HO11                N~-                 3,4-dihydroquinolin-1I(2H)-          438.
         H'- N           N     N5          yl)pyrimidin-2
                   H                       ylamino)benzenesulfonamide
     0K                                OH  N-cyclopropyl-4-(4-(6-hydroxy-       LC/MS    [MW-']
      N    '        N                      3,4-dihydroquinolin-1I(2H)-          402.
              -    HN!         5           yl)pyrimidin-2
                           H               ylamino)benzamide
                         N0             OH 4-(4-(6-hydroxy-3,4-                 LC/MS    [MW-]
       H0       ~                          dihydroquinolin-1I(2H)-              468.
                       H                   yl)pyrimidin-2-ylamino)-N
                                           isobutylbenzenesulfonamide
 N11                            ~      O   4-(4-(6-hydroxy-3,4-                  CM      [H-]
HO
 '                  N                  OH  dihydroquinolin- 1 (2H)-             412.
         a      N         N N5             yl)pyrimidin-2-ylamino)-N
                H                          methylbenzenesulfonamide
       N0        ~                      OH 4-(4-(6-hydroxy-3,4-                 LC/MS    [MW-']
                  HI                       dihydroquinolin-1I(2H)-              432.
                       H                   yl)pyrimidin-2-ylamino)-N
                                           isopentylbenzamide
      0N                       F       OH  4-(4-(6-hydroxy-3,4-                  CM      [H-]
HN                                         dihydroquinolin-1I(2H)-              376.
   H~                        N             yl)pyrimidin-2-ylamino)-N
                N       N    NN
                H                          methylbenzamide
   11                                      4-(4-(6-hydroxy-3,4-                 LC/MS    [MW-']
       s                               OH
             I2-l                          dihydroquinolin-1I(2H)-              398.
         a       N      N    N5            yl)pyrimidin-2
                 H                         ylamino)benzenesulfonamide
                  -   N                OH  1-(2-(4-                             LC/MS    [MW-']
          0"
             ~    NIN
                     A        N5
                                    I      phenoxyphenylamino)pyrimidin-        411.
                  H                        4-yl)-l ,2,3 ,4-tetrahydroquinolin-6
                                           ol
              N   ~            OH          1-(2-(phenylamino)pyrimidin-4-       LC/MS    [MW-']
     N     N        N5                     yl)- 1,2,3,4-tetrahydroquinolin-6-ol 319.
     H
          0                       ~    O   4-(4-(6-hydroxy-3,4-                 LC/MS    [MW]
                  0 N                      dihydroquinolin-1I(2H)-              442.
                     H
                      'Ta   N N5     '     yl)pyrimidin-2-ylamino)-N-(2
                                           hydroxyethyl)benzenesulfonamide
                                                        60

            Structure                                      Name                         Data
                     0
                     N                    N-isopentyl-4-(4-(6-methoxy-3,4-        LC/MS      [MH]
                  N          N            dihydroquinolin-1(2H)-                  482.
                  N
                  H
                       N     Ni           yl)pyrimidin-2
                                          ylamino)benzenesulfonamide
   ON 0                                 0 N-isopentyl-4-(4-(6-methoxy-3,4-
                                          dihydroquinolin-1(2H)-                  LC/MS
                                                                                  446.       [MH]
     H
       H          N
                  H
                       N     N            yl)pyrimidin-2
                                          yHamino)benzamide
   O                                      4-(4-(6-methoxy-3,4-                    LC/MS      [MH]
N                N                     O  dihydroquinolin-1(2H)-                  390.
H                         N               yl)pyrimidin-2-ylamino)-N
             H                            methylbenzamide
 N               N                              o
                                          4-(4-(6-methoxy-3,4-
                                          dihydroquinolin-         o    rd(2H)-   LC/MS
                                                                                  423.       [MH]
       H-O    N     N     N               yl)pyrimidin-2-ylamino)-N
             H                            methylbenzenesulfonamide
                                          isopropyl                      2-(2-(4- LC/MS      [MH]
         >                                isopentysulfamoylphenylamino)pyrimidin- 48.
                       N  1     OC O      4-ylamino)benzoate
              H           H
                             00
        N                                 isopropyl                  2-(2-(4-(N-  LC/MS      [M   ]
           N H 0 IN        ,        I     isopentylsulfamoyl)phenylamino)p
                                          mopoioprmdn--46                         498.
           N     N           H            yrimidin-4-ylamino)benzoate
          H00                                                                     LC/MS      [MH]
          N                               N-isopentyl-4-(4-
                                          morpholinopyrimidin-2-                  388.
                      N                   ylamino)benzenesulfonamide
                      H               '
     ON                                   4-(3,4-dihydroisoquinolin-2(1H)-        LC/MS      Rt   =
O         N      N      N                 yl)-N-phenylpyrimidin-2-amine           2.03 mi , [MW]
     H     K     1 NIN !N
                                          amin                                    303.
                                              -4-(3,4-dihydroisoquinolin-2(1H)- LC/MS        Rt  =
KN              N                         yl)-N-(4-                               1.84 min, [MH]
               N N        N               morpholinophenyl)pyrimidin-2-           388.
                H                         amine
                                          4-(3,4-dihydroisoquinolin-2(1H)-        LC/MS      Rt
       lMe
     MeO
                 N     N                  yl)-N-(3,4,5-                           1.95 min, [MH]
                  N
                 HN                       trimethoxyphenyl)pyrimidin-2-           393.
            H            Lamine
          NNNI                                -(4-(3 ,4-dihydroisoquinolin-       LC/MS Rt
           IN                             2(1H)-yl)pyrimidin-2-yl)-N4,N4-         1.49 mill, [MW+]
       N H       IN    INC        D       dimethylbenzene- 1,4-diamine            346.
                    I~N                   4-(3,4-dihydroisoquinolin-2(1H)-        LC/MS      Rt
               0N      N          ~       yl)-N-(3-                               2.36 minl, [MW+]
                 H                        phenoxyphenyl)pyrimidin-2-amine         395.
                                                       61

             Structure                           Name                    Data
N -              N                N-(4-(3,4-dihydroisoquinolin-     LC/MS Rt       =
              N        NN   j     2(1H)-yl)pyrimidin-2-             1.51 min, [MH]
              H                   yl)isoquinolin-6-amine            354.
 H                                N-(4-(3,4-dihydroisoquinolin-     LC/MS Rt       =
            NIN N'                2(1H)-yl)pyrimidin-2-yl)-1H-      1.96 min, [MH]
             N     N    N         indol-5-amine                     342.
 o                 N              N-(3-(4-(3,4-dihydroisoquinolin-  LC/MS Rt       =
AN ~           N     N    N     N 2(1H)-yl)pyrimidin-2-             1.80 min, [MH]
     H         H                  ylamino)phenyl)acetamide          360.
          N                       4-(3,4-dihydroisoquinolin-2(1H)-  LC/MS Rt       =
  N     N    N     N              yl)-N-(pyridin-2-yl)pyrimidin-2-  1.95 min, [MH]
        H                         amine                             304.
           N                      4-(3,4-dihydroisoquinolin-2(1H)-  LC/MS Rt       =
N        N    N      N            yl)-N-(pyridin-3-yl)pyrimidin-2-  1.42 min, [MH]
         H                        amine                             304.
                                  4-(3,4-dihydroisoquinolin-2(1H)-  LC/MS Rt       =
         N    N     N             yl)-N-(pyridin-4-yl)pyrimidin-2-  1.40 min, [MH]
         H                        amine                             304.
        N     N   ~N-(4-(3,4-dihydroisoquinolin-                    LC/MS     Rt   =
           N      N    N          2(1H)-yl)pyrimidin-2-             2.20 min, [MH]
           H                      yl)isoquinolin-1-amine            354.
     1N    N                      4-(3,4-dihydroisoquinolin-2(1H)-  LC/MS Rt       =
   N    N     N     N             yl)-N-(pyrimidin-2-yl)pyrimidin-  1.70 min, [MH]
        H                         2-amine                           305.
      N    N                      4-(3,4-dihydroisoquinolin-2(1H)-  LC/MS Rt       =
N_N           N      N            yl)-N-(pyrazin-2-yl)pyrimidin-2-  1.56 min, [MH]
         H                        amine                             305.
           N                      4-(3,4-dihydroisoquinolin-2(1H)-  LC/MS Rt       =
NN      N     N     N             yl)-N-(1-methyl-1H-pyrazol-5-     1.64 min, [MH]
                   KH             yl)pyrimidin-2-amine              307.
          N                       4-(4-morpholinopiperidin-1-yl)-N- LC/MS Rt       =
        N    N     N              phenylpyrimidin-2-amine           0.97 min, [MH]
        H                                                           340.
        OMe                       4-(4-morpholinopiperidin-1-yl)-N- LC/MS Rt       =
MeO(3,4,5-                                                          1.11 min, [MH]
MeO           N     N    N        trimethoxyphenyl)pyrimidin-2-     430.
              H               N   amine
                                             62

                                                    63
                 Structure                                Name                          Data
                                           N1,Nl-dimethyl-N4-(4-(4-               LC/MS [MH 4 ]
                                           morpholinopiperidin-1-                 383
                       N N                 yl)pyrimidin-2-yl)benzene- 1,4
                 H                N        diamine
                                           4-(4-morpholinopiperidin-1 -yl)-N-     LC/MS     [MH4 ]
                     N   N  N              (3-phenoxyphenyl)pyrimidin-2-          379
                     H                     amine
                                           N-(4-(4-morpholinopiperidin-1 -        LC/MS     [MH 4 ]
                 N'    N   N               yl)pyrimidin-2-yl)isoquinolin-6-       391
                 H           a    N        amfine
                                           N-(4-(4-morpholinopiperidin- 1-        LC/MS     (MH']
      ]I         NN,                       yl)pyrimidin-2-yl)-1H-indol-5-         379
                 N     N                   amine
  [0213]     It is understood that the examples and embodiments described herein are for
 illustrative purposes only and that various modifications or changes in light thereof will be
 suggested to persons skilled in the art and are to be included within the spirit and purview of
 this application and scope of the appended claims. All publications, patents, and patent
 applications cited herein are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety for all
 purposes.
FORMS OF THE INVENTION
[0214] Forms of the invention include:
                    1.      A compound having the formula:
                                                   N        L'L2         A
                                  B         N
                                                   S        R                                       (I)
         wherein
                    ring A is a substituted or unsubstituted cycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted
heterocycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted aryl, or substituted or unsubstituted heteroaryl;
(12508833 1):MBS

                                                 64
                 ring B is a substituted or unsubstituted heterocycloalkyl, or substituted or
unsubstituted heteroaryl;
                 L' is -C(O)-NR2- or -NR2-C(O)-;
                 L2 is a bond, substituted or unsubstituted alkylene or substituted or
unsubstituted heteroalkylene; and
                 RI and R2 are independently hydrogen, substituted or unsubstituted alkyl,
substituted or unsubstituted heteroalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted cycloalkyl, substituted or
unsubstituted heterocycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted aryl, or substituted or
unsubstituted heteroaryl.
                 2.      The compound of form 1, wherein ring A is a substituted or
unsubstituted aryl.
                 3.      The compound of form 1, wherein ring A is a substituted or
unsubstituted phenyl.
                 4.      The compound of form 1, wherein ring B is a substituted or
unsubstituted heterocycloalkyl, or substituted or unsubstituted heteroaryl.
                 5.      The compound of form 1, wherein ring B is a substituted or
unsubstituted heteroaryl.
                 6.      The compound of from 1, wherein ring B is a substituted or
unsubstituted pyrazolyl, substituted or unsubstituted furanyl, substituted or unsubstituted
imidazolyl, substituted or unsubstituted isoxazolyl, substituted or unsubstituted oxadiazolyl,
substituted or unsubstituted oxazolyl, substituted or unsubstituted pyrrolyl, substituted or
unsubstituted pyridyl, substituted or unsubstituted pyrimidyl, substituted or unsubstituted
pyridazinyl, substituted or unsubstituted thiazolyl, substituted or unsubstituted triazolyl,
substituted or unsubstituted thienyl, substituted or unsubstituted dihydrothieno-pyrazolyl,
substituted or unsubstituted thianaphthenyl, substituted or unsubstituted carbazolyl,
substituted or unsubstituted benzothienyl, substituted or unsubstituted benzofuranyl,
substituted or unsubstituted indolyl, substituted or unsubstituted quinolinyl, substituted or
unsubstituted benzotriazolyl, substituted or unsubstituted benzothiazolyl, substituted or
unsubstituted benzooxazolyl, substituted or unsubstituted benzimidazolyl, substituted or
(12508833 1):MBS

                                                  65
unsubstituted isoquinolinyl, substituted or unsubstituted isoindolyl, substituted or
unsubstituted acridinyl, substituted or unsubstituted benzoisazolyl, or substituted or
unsubstituted dimethylhydantoin.
                  7.       The compound of form 1, wherein L 2 is substituted or unsubstituted
CI-C 10 alkyl.
                  8.       The compound of form 1, wherein L2 is unsubstituted C1 -Cio alkyl.
                  9.       The compound of form 1, wherein L 2 is methylene.
                  10.      The compound of form 1, wherein
                  ring A is substituted or unsubstituted aryl;
                  ring B is substituted or unsubstituted heteroaryl;
                  R' is hydrogen; and
                  L2 is unsubstituted CI-Cio alkyl.
                  11.      The compound of form 1, wherein R 2 is hydrogen.
                  12.      The compound of form 1, wherein R' is hydrogen or unsubstituted
CI-C 10 alkyl.
                  13.      The compound of form 1, wherein R' is hydrogen.
                  14.      The compound of form 1 having the formula:
                                               0
                                                   N NL2              3)
          (R4r--y       x              S       R1
                                       S                                              (II)
         wherein,
                  y is an integer from 0 to 3;
                  z is an integer from 0 to 5;
                                           5
                  X is -N=, -CH= or -CR =;
(12508833 1):MBS

                                                66
R3, R4 and R are independently CN, -S(O),R6, -NR R', -C(O)R , -NRI -C(O)R", -NR1
C(O)-OR , -C(O)NR 14R , -NR 1S(O) 2 R17 , -OR", -S(O) 2 NR", substituted or unsubstituted
alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted heteroalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted cycloalkyl,
substituted or unsubstituted heterocycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted aryl, or substituted
or unsubstituted heteroaryl, wherein n is an integer from 0 to 2, wherein if z is greater than 1,
two R3 moieties are optionally joined together to form a substituted or unsubstituted
cycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted heterocycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted aryl, or
substituted or unsubstituted heteroaryl; and
                     6 7  8   9   1   11   12   13   14  15   16   17   18      19
                 R6,R,R',R',R ,R",R ,R ,R ,R                  ,R,R    R    andR are
independently hydrogen, substituted or unsubstituted alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted
heteroalkyl, unsubstituted cycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted heterocycloalkyl,
substituted or unsubstituted aryl, or substituted or unsubstituted heteroaryl.
                 15.     The compound of form 14, wherein L2 is substituted or unsubstituted
C1-Cio alkyl.
                 16.     The compound of form 14, wherein L2 is unsubstituted C1 -Cio alkyl.
                 17.     The compound of form 14, wherein L2 is methylene.
                 18.     The compound of form 14, wherein X is -N= or -CH=.
                 19.    The compound of form 14, wherein z is 2 and two R3 moieties at
adjacent vertices are joined together to from a substituted or unsubstituted heterocycloalkyl.
                 20.     The compound of form 14, wherein z is 1.
                 21.     The compound of form 14, wherein y is 0 or 1.
                 22.     The compound of form 14, wherein R3 is -OR'8, and R' 8 is hydrogen
or unsubstituted C1 -C10 alkyl.
                 23.     The compound of form 14, wherein
                 L2 is methylene;
(12508833 1):MBS

                                                67
                 X is -N= or -CH=;
                 R' is hydrogen; and
                 y and z are 0.
                 24.      The compound of form 1 having the formula:
                                                0
                           N            S
                                                0
                        NN
                        _         N
                        N         ~N                                    O    HH
                                                0
                                  L     S
                                                0
                                                   H                                         (III)
         wherein
                 Ring D is substituted or unsubstituted aryl or substituted or unsubstituted
heteroaryl;
                 L3 is -C(O)NH- or -S(O) 2 NH-;
(12508833 1):MBS

                                                 68
                 R20 is substituted or unsubstituted alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted
heteroalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted cycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted
heterocycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted aryl, or substituted or unsubstituted heteroaryl;
                 R2' is -NR22R23 or -OR24
                 R22 and R23 are independently hydrogen, substituted or unsubstituted alkyl,
substituted or unsubstituted heteroalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted cycloalkyl, substituted or
unsubstituted heterocycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted aryl, substituted or unsubstituted
heteroaryl, or joined together to form a substituted or unsubstituted heterocycloalkyl or
substituted or unsubstituted heteroaryl; and
                 R24 is substituted or unsubstituted alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted
heteroalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted cycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted
heterocycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted aryl, substituted or unsubstituted heteroaryl, or
joined together to form a substituted or unsubstituted cycloalkyl of substituted or
unsubstituted heterocycloalkyl.
                 26.     The compound of form 25, wherein ring D is substituted or
unsubstituted phenyl.
                 27.     The compound of form 25, wherein R20 is substituted or unsubstituted
alkyl or substituted or unsubstituted cycloalkyl.
                 28.     The compound of form 25, wherein R20 is substituted or unsubstituted
C1-C10 alkyl or substituted or unsubstituted 3 to 7 membered cycloalkyl.
                 29.     The compound of form 25, wherein R20 is substituted or unsubstituted
C1-C5 alkyl or substituted or unsubstituted 3 to 6 membered cycloalkyl.
                 30.     The compound of form 25, wherein R20 is unsubstituted C1 -C5 alkyl or
unsubstituted 3 to 6 membered cycloalkyl.
                 31.     The compound of form 25, wherein
                 R22 is hydrogen; and
                 R23 is substituted or unsubstituted cycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted
heterocycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted aryl, or substituted or unsubstituted heteroaryl.
(12508833 1):MBS

                                                   69
                 32.      The compound of form 25, wherein
                 R22 is hydrogen; and
                 R23 is substituted or unsubstituted substituted or unsubstituted aryl.
                 33.      The compound of form 25, wherein R22 and R23 are joined together to
from a substituted or unsubstituted heterocycloalkyl, or substituted or unsubstituted
heteroaryl.
                 34.      The compound of form 25, wherein R22 and R23 are joined together to
from a substituted or unsubstituted pyrrolyl, substituted or unsubstituted isoindolinyl,
substituted or unsubstituted piperidinyl, or substituted or unsubstituted tetrahydroquinolinyl.
                 35.      The compound of form 25 having the formula
                           0
                  R2  N                            N                   R25
                      H   0
                                                        )1,
                                                        :                       R26
                                               N        N          N
                                               H
                                                                  (R28           R27
         wherein,
                 w is an integer from 0 to 1;
                 q is an integer from 0 to 7;
                 R25, R26, R27 and R     e28
independently -CN, -NR29R3', -C(O)R         , -NR32-C(O)R    , -NR34-C(O)-OR     , -C(O)NR36R,
NR3 S(O) 2 R39, -OR4, -S(O) 2 NR4 1 , -S(O)vR , substituted or unsubstituted alkyl, substituted
or unsubstituted heteroalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted cycloalkyl, substituted or
unsubstituted heterocycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted aryl, or substituted or
unsubstituted heteroaryl, wherein v is an integer from 0 to 2;
                   29   30   31   32  3     4    3    6   37   38   39 40   412
                 R2, R , R ,R32, R3, R34, R3, R36, R , R ,R39, R4, R41, and R42 are
independently hydrogen, substituted or unsubstituted alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted
heteroalkyl, unsubstituted cycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted heterocycloalkyl,
substituted or unsubstituted aryl, or substituted or unsubstituted heteroaryl,
(12508833 1):MBS

                                                70
                          25       26     26       27
                 wherein R   and R , or R     and R , may be joined to form a substituted or
unsubstituted cycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted heterocycloalkyl, substituted or
unsubstituted aryl, or substituted or unsubstituted heteroaryl.
                 36.    The compound of form 35, wherein R2 8 is -OR 40 , wherein R 40 is
hydrogen or unsubstituted C1 -C10 alkyl.
                 37.    The compound of form 35, wherein R        is hydrogen or unsubstituted
CI to C5 alkyl.
                 38.    The compound of form 35 having the formula:
                        0                                                         8
                  R NN
                     HN                               N         N
                                            H
                 39.    The compound of form 35, wherein R20 is unsubstituted Ci to Cio
alkyl.
                 40.    The compound of form 35, wherein R2 8 is -OR 40 , wherein R 40 is
hydrogen or unsubstituted C1 to C10 alkyl, or C1 to Cio alkyl substituted with substituted or
unsubstituted C3 to C6 cycloalkyl.
                 41.    The compound of form 35, wherein q is 1.
                 42.    The compound of form 35, having the formula:
                        0
                  R   N                          N1                                 R2
                     H 0U
                                             N        N         N
                                             H
(12508833 1):MBS

                                                71
                 43.     The compound of form 25 having the formula:
                                0
                                       N                                 OH
                            H
                                              N      a,,NN
                                              H
                       0
                                    11                                OH
                     H 0
                                        N          N       N
                                        H
                          H0
                               NN1N                          N
                                          H
                               0
                                                                       OH
                                11
                           H   0
                                            N           N     N
                                            H
                               0
                               11                                    OCH 3
                           N 11                 N
                           H 0
                                           N)      "N       N
                                           H
                             0
                                          1OHN
                         H   0
                                           N      a,,NN
                                                                            or
(12508833 1):MBS

                                                72
                            0
                          N                    N                              OCH3
                          H 0
                                            N       N        N
                                            H
                 44.     A method of stabilizing an isolated cell in vitro, the method comprising
                 contacting an animal cell with a sufficient amount of a compound of formula I
or III (e.g., any of the compounds of forms 1-24) to stabilize the cell.
                 45.     The method of form 44, wherein further comprising changing the
conditions or environment of the cell in the presence of the compound, wherein the changing
step in the absence of the compound would result in a change in the cell's cellular
programming.
                 46.     The method of form 44, wherein the changing step comprises at least
one of thawing the cells and dissociating the cells from other cells.
                 47.     The method of form 44, wherein the cell is adherent.
                 48.     The method of form 44, wherein the cell is in suspension.
                 49.     The method of form 44, further comprising determining a phenotype of
the cell.
                 50.     The method of form 44, comprising isolating the cells from an animal.
                 51.     The method of form 50, wherein the animal is a human.
                 52.     The method of form 50, wherein the animal is a non-human animal.
                 53.     The method of form 50, wherein the compound is a compound of
formula I.
(12508833 1):MBS

                                                 73
                 54.     The method of form 50, wherein the compound is a compound of
formula III.
                 55.     A method of ameliorating a condition in an animal, the method
comprising
                 administering a sufficient amount of a compound of formula I or III (e.g., any
of the compounds of forms 1-24) to an animal in need thereof to ameliorate the condition.
                 56.     The method of form 55, wherein the condition is selected from the
group consisting of tissue damage, stroke, and cancer.
                 57.     The method of form 55, wherein the tissue is selected from the group
consisting of pancreas, liver, intestine, lung, and kidney.
                 58.     The method of form 55, wherein the condition comprises at least
partial rejection of a transplanted tissue or organ.
                 59.     The method of form 55, wherein the transplantation comprises
transplantation of bone marrow, cord blood, purified hematopoietic stem or progenitor cells,
cardiac cells, neural cells, pancreatic beta cells, or liver cells.
                 60.     The method of form 55, wherein the compound is a compound of
formula I.
                 61.     The method of form 55, wherein the compound is a compound of
formula III.
                 62.     A method for maintaining cell survival, the method comprising,
                 generating isolated stem cells, progenitor cells, or differentiated cells; and
                 inducing stabilization of E-cadherin in the isolated cells, thereby maintaining
cell survival.
                 63.     The method of form 62, wherein the inducing step comprises
contacting the isolated stem cell with an amount of a compound of formula I (e.g., any of the
(12508833 1):MBS

                                                  74
compounds of claims 1-24) sufficient to improve survival of isolated stem cells by at least
2-fold compared to the absence of the compound.
                 64.     The method of form 63, wherein the inducing step comprises culturing
the isolated stem cells on a surface, wherein a molecule comprising an E-Cadherin
ectodomain is tethered to the surface.
                 65.     A population of isolated cells comprising an amount of a molecule that
stabilizes E-cadherin in the cells sufficient to improve survival of isolated cells by at least
2-fold compared to the absence of the molecule.
                 66.     The population of cells of form 65, wherein the molecule comprises a
compound of formula I (e.g., any of the compounds of forms 1-24).
                 67.     The population of cells of form 66, wherein the cells are selected from
the group consisting of stem cells, induced stem cells, pluripotent stem cells, progenitor cells,
differentiated cells, beta cells and fibroblasts.
                 68.     A population of isolated cells comprising an amount of a compound of
formula I or III (e.g., any of the compounds of forms 1-24) sufficient to improve survival of
isolated cells by at least 2-fold compared to the absence of the compound.
                 69.     The population of form 65, wherein the cells are selected from the
group consisting of stem cells, induced stem cells, pluripotent stem cells, progenitor cells,
differentiated cells, beta cells and fibroblasts.
                 70.     A method for maintaining stem cell survival, the method comprising,
generating isolated cells; and activating protein kinase C (PKC) in the isolated cells, thereby
maintaining cell survival.
                 71.     The method of form 70, wherein the activating step comprises
contacting a sufficient amount of phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate (PMA) to the isolated cells
to improve survival of the cells compared to the survival rate in the absence of PMA.
(12508833 1):MBS

                                                  75
                 72.      A population of isolated stem cells comprising an amount of protein
kinase C activator sufficient to improve survival of isolated stem cells by at least 2-fold
compared to the absence of the PKC activator.
                 73.      The compound of form 25, wherein each substituent is independently
selected from the group consisting of C1 io alkyl, C 1io heteroalkyl, -OR', =0, =NR',
=N-OR', -NR'R", -SR', -halogen, -SiR'R"R"', -OC(O)R', -C(O)R', -CO 2 R', -CONR'R", -OC(O
)NR'R", -NR"C(O)R', -NR'-C(O)NR"R"', -NR"C(O) 2R', -NR-C(NR'R"R.')=NR"", -NR-C(N
R'R")=NR', -S(O)R', -S(O) 2 R', -S(O) 2NR'R", -NRSO 2R', -CN, -NO 2, cycloalkyl,
heterocycloalkyl, aryl, and heteroaryl, wherein each R', R", R"' and R"" is independently
selected from the group consisting of hydrogen, C1i10 alkyl, C1 i10 heteroalkyl, cycloalkyl,
heterocycloalkyl, aryl, and arylalkyl groups.
                 74.      The compound of form 25, wherein
                 ring A is cycloalkyl, heterocycloalkyl, aryl, or heteroaryl, each optionally
substituted with 1-5 R3 groups;
                 ring B is heterocycloalkyl or heteroaryl, each optionally substituted with 1-5
R groups;
                 L is -C(O)-NR2- or -NR -C(O)-;
                 L2 is a bond, C1i10 alkylene or C1i10 heteroalkylene;
                 RI and R2 are independently hydrogen, C1 io alkyl, C 1io heteroalkyl, C3 .8
cycloalkyl, C3 .8 heterocycloalkyl, aryl, or heteroaryl;
                 each R3 and R 4 i
independently -CN, -S(O),R 6 , -NR7 R, -C(O)R', -NR O-C(O)R", -NR 12-C(O)-OR                  , -C(O)N
R 14R    , -NR 6S(O) 2 R 7 , -OR'8, -S(O) 2 NR", C 1 .io alkyl, C1 io heteroalkyl, cycloalkyl,
heterocycloalkyl, aryl, or heteroaryl, wherein n is an integer from 0 to 2, wherein two R3
moieties are optionally joined together to form a cycloalkyl, heterocycloalkyl, aryl, or
heteroaryl; and
                     6 7     8  9    1   11   12  13     14   15    16   17  18       19
                 R6, R , R8, R, R'O, R",R1, R ,R4,R ,R ,R",R                    and R    are each
independently hydrogen, C1 i10 alkyl, C1i10 heteroalkyl, cycloalkyl, heterocycloalkyl, aryl, or
heteroaryl.
                 75.      The compound of form 25, wherein each substituent is independently
selected from the group consisting of C 1 io alkyl, C 1io heteroalkyl, -OR', =0, =NR',
(12508833 1):MBS

                                                     76
=N-OR', -NR'R", -SR', -halogen, -SiR'R"R"', -OC(O)R', -C(O)R', -CO 2 R', -CONR'R", -OC(O
)NR'R", -NR"C(O)R', -NR'-C(O)NR"R"', -NR"C(O) 2R', -NR-C(NR'R"R.')=NR"", -NR-C(N
R'R")=NR', -S(O)R', -S(O) 2R', -S(O) 2NR'R", -NRSO 2R', -CN, -NO 2, cycloalkyl,
heterocycloalkyl, aryl, and heteroaryl, wherein each R', R", R"' and R"" is independently
selected from the group consisting of hydrogen, C1 i10 alkyl, C1 i10 heteroalkyl, cycloalkyl,
heterocycloalkyl, aryl, and arylalkyl groups.
                   76.      The compound of form 25, wherein
                   Ring D is aryl or heteroaryl, each optionally substituted with 1-5 R groups;
                   L3 is -C(O)NH- or -S(O) 2 NH-;
                   R20 is C1i10 alkyl, C1i10 heteroalkyl, cycloalkyl, heterocycloalkyl, aryl, or
heteroaryl, each optionally substituted with 1-5 R groups;
                   R21 is -NR22R23 or -OR24
                   R22 and R23 are independently hydrogen, C1 i10 alkyl, C1i10 heteroalkyl,
cycloalkyl, heterocycloalkyl, aryl, heteroaryl, or are joined together to form a
heterocycloalkyl or heteroaryl, each optionally substituted with 1-5 R groups;
                   R24 is C1i10 alkyl, C1i10 heteroalkyl, cycloalkyl, heterocycloalkyl, aryl,
heteroaryl, each optionally substituted with 1-5 R groups; and
                    each R group is independently selected from the group consisting of C1 .
10  alkyl, C1 i10 heteroalkyl, -OR', =0, =NR',
=N-OR', -NR'R", -SR', -halogen, -SiR'R"R"', -OC(O)R', -C(O)R', -CO 2 R', -CONR'R", -OC(O
)NR'R", -NR"C(O)R', -NR'-C(O)NR"R"', -NR"C(O) 2R', -NR-C(NR'R"R.')=NR"", -NR-C(N
R'R")=NR"', -S(O)R', -S(O) 2R', -S(O) 2NR'R", -NRSO 2R', -CN, -NO 2, cycloalkyl,
heterocycloalkyl, aryl, and heteroaryl, wherein each R', R", R"' and R"" is independently
selected from the group consisting of hydrogen, C1 i10 alkyl, C1 i10 heteroalkyl, cycloalkyl,
heterocycloalkyl, aryl, and arylalkyl groups.
(12508833 1):MBS

                                                    77
CLAIMS
1.      A method for preventing or reducing cell differentiation in vitro, the method comprising:
        (a)       obtaining cells comprising stem cells or progenitor cells; and
        (b)       contacting the cells with an amount of a compound having formula (II) sufficient
to prevent or reducing the cells from differentiation as compared to cells in the absence of the
compound, wherein the compound of formula (II) is as follows:
                                         0
                                  N          N * L2
    N                                        H                R
 (R4r   --     ys              S         R 1z
            YS
                         y                                                      (II)
wherein,
        L2 is unsubstituted C 1-C6 alkylene; and
        y is an integer from 0 to 3;
        z is an integer from 0 to 5;
                                    5
        X is -N=, -CH= or -CR =;
        R1 is hydrogen, substituted or unsubstituted alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted
heteroalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted cycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted
heterocycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted aryl, or substituted or unsubstituted heteroaryl;
        R3 is OR 8 , and R"8 is hydrogen or unsubstituted CI-C 10 alkyl;
        R4 and R are independently -CN, -S(O),R 6 , -NR7 R, -C(O)R', -NR0-C(O)R", -NR 12_
C(O)-OR", -C(O)NR 14R         , -NR 1S(O) 2 R17 , -OR", -S(O) 2N(R")2, substituted or unsubstituted
alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted heteroalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted cycloalkyl,
substituted or unsubstituted heterocycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted aryl, or substituted or
unsubstituted heteroaryl, wherein n is an integer from 0 to 2; and
           6   7   8   9   10    11   12    13   14 15  16  17       19
        R , R , R , R, R , R", R2, R , R4, R , R , R           and R    are independently hydrogen,
substituted or unsubstituted alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted heteroalkyl, unsubstituted
cycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted heterocycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted aryl, or
substituted or unsubstituted heteroaryl;
        or a racemate, diastereomer, tautomer, or a geometric isomer thereof, or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
2.      The method of claim 1, wherein the cells are

                                                  78
        (a)     in adherent cultures;
        (b)     in suspension cultures;
        (c)     single dissociated cells; or
        (d)     aggregated cells.
3.      The method of claim 1, wherein the contacting step further comprises:
        passaging the cells in cultures comprising the compound having formula (II).
4.      The method of claim 3, wherein the cells in cultures comprising the compound having
formula (II) are passaged for at least 20 generations.
5.      The method of claim 3, wherein the cultures are:
        (a)     chemically-defined;
        (b)     feeder-free or non-feeder cell conditioned; and/or
        (c)     animal product-free.
6.      The method of claim 1 or 3, wherein the cells:
        (a)     remain homogenous;
        (b)     maintain their state of pluripotency;
        (c)     express pluripotency markers;
        (e)     maintain normal karyotype;
        (f)     are capable of self-renewal;
        (g)     have reduced cell death;
        (h)     are capable of forming teratomas;
        (i)     have reduced cell differentiation;
        (j)     are capable of differentiating into three primary germ layers;
        (k)     are capable of lineage-specific differentiation;
        (1)     have enhanced survival and/or proliferation;
        (m)     are capable of forming embryoid bodies after single cell dissociation; and/or
        (n)     have increased cell adhesion ability after single cell dissociation.
7.      The method of claim 1, wherein the contacting step further comprising:
        (a)     modulating cell surface level of E-cadherins comprising (i) stabilizing E-cadherin
on cell surface; and/or (ii) inhibiting endocytosis of E-cadherins; or

                                                       79
         (b)      modulating integrin activity comprising (i) increasing integrin expression; and/or
(ii) converting integrin into an active conformation.
8.       Isolated cells obtained using the method of any one of claims I to 7, wherein the isolated
cells have reduced differentiation during passaging, enhanced survival and/or enhanced
proliferation.
9.       A composition comprising the isolated cells of claim 8.
10.      The composition of claim 9, further comprising the compound having formula (II):
                                            0
                                N               N *,L2
                       H                        H                R
 (R4r--y                        S           Rz
     y                                                                            (II)
wherein,
         L2 is unsubstituted C1 -C6 alkylene; and
         y is an integer from 0 to 3;
         z is an integer from 0 to 5;
                                     5
         X is -N=, -CH= or -CR         =;
         R1 is hydrogen, substituted or unsubstituted alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted
heteroalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted cycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted
heterocycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted aryl, or substituted or unsubstituted heteroaryl;
         R3 is OR 8 , and R1" is hydrogen or unsubstituted CI-C 10 alkyl;
         R4 and R are independently -CN, -S(O),R 6 , -NR7 R, -C(O)R9, -NR O-C(O)R", -NR 12_
C(O)-OR", -C(O)NR 14R          , -NR 1S(O) 2 R17 , -OR", -S(O) 2N(R 9)2, substituted or unsubstituted
alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted heteroalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted cycloalkyl,
substituted or unsubstituted heterocycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted aryl, or substituted or
unsubstituted heteroaryl, wherein n is an integer from 0 to 2; and
           6   7   8   9    10    11     12    13   14 15 16  17       19
         R , R , R , R9, R , R", R2, R , R4, R , R , R           and R    are independently hydrogen,
substituted or unsubstituted alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted heteroalkyl, unsubstituted
cycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted heterocycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted aryl, or
substituted or unsubstituted heteroaryl;

                                                   80
          or a racemate, diastereomer, tautomer, or a geometric isomer thereof, or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
11.       The composition of claim 9 or 10 for improving, organ, cell, or tissue transplantation.
12.       The composition of claim 9 or 10 for promoting axonal regeneration and/or functional
recovery in injured central nervous system.
13.       A method for preparing a cell having reduced differentiation in vitro, the method
comprising:
(a)       obtaining cells comprising stem cells or progenitor cells; and
(b)       contacting the cells with an amount of a compound having formula (II) sufficient to
prevent or reducing the cells from differentiation as compared to cells in the absence of the
compound, wherein the compound of formula (II) is as follows:
                                       0
                               N           N
                                           HL
                                           N   2
          N                                HR
                            N
 (R4r\--y                      S       R1z
                          y                                                     (II)
wherein,
          L2 is unsubstituted C1 -C6 alkylene; and
          y is an integer from 0 to 3;
          z is an integer from 0 to 5;
          X is -N=, -CH= or -CR 5=;
          R1 is hydrogen, substituted or unsubstituted alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted
heteroalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted cycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted
heterocycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted aryl, or substituted or unsubstituted heteroaryl;
          R3 is OR 8 , and R"8 is hydrogen or unsubstituted CI-C 10 alkyl;
          R4 and R are independently -CN, -S(O),R 6 , -NR'R', -C(O)R9, -NR O-C(O)R", -NR 12_
C(O)-OR", -C(O)NR 14R         , -NR 1S(O) 2 R", -OR", -S(O) 2N(R 9)2, substituted or unsubstituted
alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted heteroalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted cycloalkyl,
substituted or unsubstituted heterocycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted aryl, or substituted or
unsubstituted heteroaryl, wherein n is an integer from 0 to 2; and

                                                  81
          6   7  8   9   10   11   12  13    14  15   16   17       19
        R , R , R , R, Ro, R", R2, R , R4, R , R , R          and R    are independently hydrogen,
substituted or unsubstituted alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted heteroalkyl, unsubstituted
cycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted heterocycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted aryl, or
substituted or unsubstituted heteroaryl;
        or a racemate, diastereomer, tautomer, or a geometric isomer thereof, or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
                                 The Scripps Research Institute
                     Patent Attorneys for the Applicant/Nominated Person
                                    SPRUSON & FERGUSON

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
