                                     ABSTRACT
The invention belongs to the public safety field and provides a method of
feedback of monitoring data when the elevator is abnormally used and an
elevator. The method includes recording the longest time threshold for opening
the elevator door and the alarm apparatus; when the door is opened, detecting
the time for opening the elevator door; when the opening time is longer than the
longest time threshold, it will send alarm to the alarm apparatus and send the
technical usage data to the data collecting apparatus pre-installed by the
manufacturer.     The invention can instantly detect the abnormal occupation or
failure of the elevator by monitoring the opening status of the elevator door in real
time, and can also facilitate the manufacturer timely and effective acquisition of
the related technology.

                                      1/1
                                                      S100
Recording the longest time threshold for opening
the elevator door and the alarm apparatus
               When the door is opened,           S101
             detecting the time for opening
                    the elevator door
      when the opening time is longer than the          S102
    longest time threshold, it will send alarm to
    the alarm apparatus and send the technical
     usage data to the data collecting apparatus
         pre-installed by the manufacturer
                                      Figure 1
                               21
                                                             22
                       Rcring unit          Detecting unit
                                                  /    23
                                   Alarm unit
                                      Figure 2

                                               1
                A METHOD OF FEEDBACK OF MONITORING DATA WHEN THE
                ELEVATOR IS ABNORMALLY USED AND AN ELEVATOR
   TECHNOLOGY FIELD
 5          The invention belongs to the public safety field and provides a method of
   feedback of monitoring data when the elevator is abnormally used and an
   elevator.
   BACKGROUNDTECHNOLOGY
10          Nowadays more and more patent applications have been filed and these
   patents have been used in the market and products more and more frequently.
            According to the national intellectual property data published by the China
    Intellectual Property Office, in 2014 OPPO has filed 938 invention patent
   applications and Tencent has filed 1447 invention patent applications. Among
15 these applications, around 80% of the applications are related to user experience
   and direct operation.       Similar patent applications filed by other companies
   focused on user experience, such as Xiaomi Company.
            Considering that when using the technology, the human resource and
   financial cost during patent applications and maintenance of the patents would be
20 large. The costs involved in essential technology (CDMA technology for instance)
   and the technology enjoyed high market recognition (technology of sliding to
   unlock for instance)are very slim and the relevant companies are willing to invest
   money on these patents. However these kinds of technology are very slim. Most
   technologies cannot meet the users' needs after putting into market and therefore
25 investment on these technologies would result in the waste of cost.
            Therefore, there is a need for a way to assess the market acceptance or
   value of related technologies in real time through real data. In the meantime, in
   order to make the related technologies in the previous application timely
   evaluated, we propose to collect / send data on technology usage methods.
30
   CONTENTS OF INVENTION
            In the embodiment of the present invention, when the elevator door is
   abnormally opened, the elevator maintenance side or the property owner may
   often fail to detect the abnormality in time, resulting in slow processing and an

                                               2
   impact on the elevator usage efficiency. Therefore, it is necessary to provide a
   monitoring data feedback method when the elevator is abnormally used .
           The invention is realized as the following: A method of feedback of
   monitoring data when the elevator is abnormally used, comprising the following
 5 steps:
           recording the longest time threshold for opening the elevator door and the
   alarm apparatus;
           when the door is opened, detecting the time for opening the elevator door;
           when the opening time is longer than the longest time threshold, it will
10 send alarm to the alarm apparatus and send the technical usage data to the data
   collecting apparatus pre-installed by the manufacturer.
           the embodiment of the invention further provides an elevator, which
   comprises:
           a recording unit, a detecting unit and an alarming unit, wherein:
15         the recording unit is used for recording the longest time threshold for
   opening the elevator door and the alarm apparatus;
           the detecting unit is used for detecting the time for opening the elevator
   door when the door is opened;
           the alarm unit whose input unit is connected with the detecting unit, is used
20 for sending alarm to the alarm apparatus and sending the technical usage data to
   the data collecting apparatus pre-installed by the manufacturer when the opening
   time is longer than the longest time threshold.
           The invention can instantly detect the abnormal occupation or failure of the
   elevator by monitoring the opening status of the elevator door in real time, and
25 can also facilitate the manufacturer timely and effective acquisition of the related
   technology.
   BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
           FIG.1 is a process diagram of the method of feedback of monitoring data
30 when the elevator is abnormally used provided in this invention;
           FIG.2 is the structure diagram of the elevator provided in the embodiment.

                                               3
   EMBODIMENTS
           In order to illustrate the purpose, technical scheme and advantages of the
   invention clearly, the invention is further described in details in combination with
   the drawings and embodiments. It should be understood that the specific
 5 embodiment described here is used for explaining the invention only instead of
   limiting the invention.
           FIG.1 is a process diagram of the method of feedback of monitoring data
   when the elevator is abnormally used provided in this invention. For explaining
   conveniently, the part related to the embodiment of the invention is shown only.
10         In step S100, recording the longest time threshold for opening the elevator
   door and the alarm apparatus.
           As an embodiment of the invention, setting the longest time threshold for
   opening the elevator door as five minutes and setting the alarm apparatus as the
   alarms and monitors in the property management office.
15         In step S101, when elevator is operating, it will detect the opening time of
   the elevator.
           In step S102, when the opening time is longer than the longest time
   threshold, it will send alarm to the alarm apparatus and send the technical usage
   data to the data collecting apparatus pre-installed by the manufacturer.
20         As a embodiment of the invention, when the opening time is more than 5
   minutes, The system determines that is is the abnormal situation, this time, the
   system will send alarm to the alarms and monitors of the property management
   office.
           The said technology usage data is the data that the users use the said
25 technologies, i.e., the data that the said method has finished the above steps,
   which include the number of times that the user uses the technology (e.g., how
   often the user uses the technology within a certain period of time), the specific
   time at which the technology is used, the user's related operations using the
   technology, and the like, which may help the technology provider better evaluate
30 the market value of the technology and, based on the feedback, better improve
   the technical data.
           The invention can instantly detect the abnormal occupation or failure of the
   elevator by monitoring the opening status of the elevator door in real time, and

                                             4
   can also facilitate the manufacturer timely and effective acquisition of the related
   technology
           FIG.2 is the structure diagram of the elevator provided in the embodiment;
   and the elevator comprises:
 5         a recording unit 21, a detecting unit 22 and a corresponding unit 23,
   wherein
           the recording unit 21 is used for recording the longest time threshold for
   opening the elevator door and the alarm apparatus;
           the detecting unit 22 is used for detecting the opening time when the
10 elevator is opened;
           the alarm unit 23 whose input unit is connected with the detecting unit, is
   used for sending alarm to the alarm apparatus and sending the technical usage
   data to the data collecting apparatus pre-installed by the manufacturer when the
   opening time is longer than the longest time threshold.
15         Its working principles are as follows: the recording unit 21 records he
   longest time threshold for opening the elevator door and the alarm apparatus;
   when the elevator is opening, the detecting unit 22 detects the opening time;
   when the opening time is longer than the longest time threshold, the alarm unit 23
   will send alarm to the alarm apparatus and send the technical usage data to the
20 data collecting apparatus pre-installed by the manufacturer.
           The invention can instantly detect the abnormal occupation or failure of the
   elevator by monitoring the opening status of the elevator door in real time, and
   can also facilitate the manufacturer timely and effective acquisition of the related
   technology.
25         The above is the better embodiment of the invention, not for limiting the
   invention. Any alteration, equivalent replacement and improvement without
   departing from the spirit and principle of the invention should be in the protection
   scope of the invention.

                                               5
   CLAIMS:
    1.     A method of feedback of monitoring data when the elevator is abnormally
   used, comprising the following steps:
           recording the longest time threshold for opening the elevator door and the
 5 alarm apparatus;
           when the door is opened, detecting the time for opening the elevator door;
           when the opening time is longer than the longest time threshold, it will
   send alarm to the alarm apparatus and send the technical usage data to the data
   collecting apparatus pre-installed by the manufacturer.
10 2.      An elevator, comprising:
           a recording unit, a detecting unit and an alarm unit, wherein:
           the recording unit is used for recording the longest time threshold for
   opening the elevator door and the alarm apparatus;
           the detecting unit is used for detecting the time for opening the elevator
15 door when the door is opened;
           the alarm unit whose input unit is connected with the detecting unit, is used
   for sending alarm to the alarm apparatus and sending the technical usage data to
   the data collecting apparatus pre-installed by the manufacturer when the opening
   time is longer than the longest time threshold.

                                                  1/1
<removed-date>                                                         S100
              Recording the longest time threshold for opening
              the elevator door and the alarm apparatus
<removed-apn>
                            When the door is opened,             S101
                          detecting the time for opening
                                the elevator door
                  when the opening time is longer than the              S102
                 longest time threshold, it will send alarm to
                 the alarm apparatus and send the technical
                 usage data to the data collecting apparatus
                      pre-installed by the manufacturer
                                                 Figure 1
                                            21
                                                                               22
                               Recording unit           Detecting unit
                                                                        23
                                              Alarm unit
                                                 Figure 2

