                                          ABSTRACT
   A method to improve the effectiveness of a computerized control system for controlling
   a plant when the specifications governing the plant are not available is disclosed. The
 5 method first constructs a preliminary supervisor. If the preliminary supervisor is found
   to be non-blocking, then it is designated as the supremal nonblocking supervisor.
   Otherwise, the preliminary supervisor is designated as a new plant, the non-blocking
   property as the specification and a method from the supervisory control theory is used
   to synthesize a supremal nonblocking supervisor. A computerized control system can
10 then use the supremal nonblocking supervisor as a controller to issue control commands
   to the plant in response to discrete events generated from the plant.
                                               52

                                            TITLE
   Methods and Systems for Constructing a Supervisory Controller for Discrete Event
   Systems
                                FIELD OF THE INVENTION
 5
   The present invention relates to methods and systems for constructing a supervisory
   controller for discrete-event systems such as those operating in a manufacturing facility.
                                       BACKGROUND
10
   Many practical applications can be considered as discrete event systems (DES) whereby
   one or more upstream events trigger some downstream events. Many manufacturing
   systems, traffic systems, computer networks, and process control plants can be regarded
   as DESs. In a manufacturing plant, an event can be a completion of an assembling part,
15 a movement of certain parts from one work cell to another by an automatic guided
   vehicle (AGV), or a welding job by a robot, ... , etc. The productivity of the
   manufacturing plant depends heavily on the smooth transitions of these events in a
   predictable and permissible manner. Hence, there is a need to have a supervisory control
   system to monitor the events and issue control instructions to ensure that the plant is
20 operating within its permissible specification. However, some events such as equipment
   breakdowns are unavoidable and often un-controllable. Furthermore, the specifications
   on what event is allowable or permissible may not always be available.
   Therefore, new method and system which can monitor and supervise the DES even
   when the specifications are not fully available is highly desirable to meet the demanding
25 needs of complex manufacturing, logistics and other industrial operations.
                                                1

                            SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
   One example embodiment is a method to improve the effectiveness of a computerized
   control system for controlling a plant when at least one specification governing the
 5 plant is not available. The method constructs a supremal nonblocking supervisor as a
   controller that runs on the computerized control system which is capable of issuing
   control commands to the plant in response to discrete events generated from the plant.
   The method first creates a preliminary supervisor. If the preliminary supervisor is
   determined to be non-blocking, then it is designated as the supremal nonblocking
10 supervisor. Otherwise, the preliminary supervisor is used as a new plant, the non
   blocking property as the specification and a supervisory control theory (SCT) is
   employed     to synthesize    a supremal nonblocking        supervisory controller. The
   computerized control system can then execute the supremal nonblocking supervisor to
   control the plant, allowing the plant to operate at a high degree of freedom while
15 steering the plant away from entering into a blocking state.
   In a further embodiment, the prellimiary supervisor is constructed by (a) establishing
   an initial observation table (SE,T); (b) ensuring the observation table (S,ET) is
   both S-consistent and S-closed; (c) constructing a conjecture M based on the
20 observation table (S, E, T) ; (d) performing an equivalence query that creates a plurality
   of test strings and compares the responses of conjecture M against the responses
   obtained via the supervisor membership query on said plurality of test strings; and
   designates a test string as a counterexample if the responses are different; (e) if a
   counterexample is found then absorbing the test string to the observation table (S, E, T)
25 and repeating steps (b) to (e); otherwise, outputting it as the preliminary supervisor.
   One example embodiment is a computerized control system which comprises a
   supremal nonblocking supervisor to control a plant when the specification governing
   the plant is not available by issuing control commands to the plant in response to
30 discrete events generated from the plant. The supremal nonblocking supervisor is
   realized by the computerized control system using the method mentioned above.
                                                2

   There are many advantages in the present disclosure. Firstly, the disclosed method
   learns the supervisor directly with the plant model and the teacher of the specification
   while completely avoiding automaton computations. Secondly, existing method needs
   to learn the automaton model of the specifications first and then compute the supremal
 5 nonblocking supervisor from the two automata using SCT. However, the disclosed
   method solves the problem by constructing the supervisor for controlling the system
   when the specification model cannot be learned, but the supervisor model can.
   Thirdly, the disclosed method requires less average computational cost in memory. The
10 computation of SCT requires the synchronous product of the plant and specification
   models. Usually the supervisor has less states than the synchronous product of the plant
   and specifications. Therefore, the space complexity of the proposed method is usually
   less than that of the specification learning method, although the worst-case space
   complexity is the same.
15
   Other example embodiments are discussed herein.
                                               3

                      BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
   FIG. 1 shows a method executed by a computerized control system to construct a
   supremal nonblocking supervisor to a plant in accordance with an example
   embodiment.
 5
   FIG. 2 shows a plant model with a marker state in accordance with an example
   embodiment.
   FIG. 3 shows an equivalence query algorithm to verify whether a conjecture is
10 tentatively correct in accordance with an example embodiment.
   FIG. 4 shows the S* algorithm to construct a tentatively correct supervisor in accordance
   with an example embodiment.
15 FIG. 5A shows an initial observation table of a plant in accordance with an example
   embodiment.
   FIG. 5B shows the conjecture M 1 constructed according to the observation table in FIG.
   5A in accordance with an example embodiment.
20
   FIG. 5C shows an observation table after a counterexample is added in accordance with
   an example embodiment.
   FIG. 5D shows the conjecture M 2 constructed according to the observation table in FIG.
25 5C in accordance with an example embodiment.
   FIG. 5E shows an observation table after another counterexample is added in
   accordance with an example embodiment.
30 FIG. 5F shows the conjecture M 3 constructed according to the observation table in FIG.
   5E in accordance with an example embodiment.
   FIG. 5G shows an observation table after a new counterexamples are added in
   accordance with an example embodiment.
                                               4

   FIG. 5H shows the conjecture M4 constructed according to the observation table in FIG.
   5G in accordance with an example embodiment.
 5 FIG. 5I shows an observation table after yet another counterexample is added in
   accordance with an example embodiment.
   FIG. 5J shows the conjecture M5 constructed according to the observation table in FIG.
   51 in accordance with an example embodiment.
10
   FIG. 5K shows the constructed supremal nonblocking supervisor M 6 in accordance with
   an example embodiment.
   FIG. 6A shows a manufacturing system involving automated guided vehicle in
15 accordance with an example embodiment.
   FIG. 6B shows the logical model of some automated guided vehicles in accordance
   with an example embodiment.
20 FIG. 6C shows the logical model of other automated guided vehicles in accordance with
   an example embodiment.
   FIG. 6D shows the interpretations of events in automated guided vehicles in accordance
   with an example embodiment.
25
   FIG. 6E shows the learning results about supervisors in accordance with an example
   embodiment.
   FIG. 7A shows a small factory plant model in accordance with an example embodiment.
30
   FIG. 7B shows mean value and standard deviation of the length of middle strings in the
   small factory experiment in accordance with an example embodiment.
                                              5

   FIG 7C shows the numbers of specification membership queries required to contruct
   the supremal nonblocking supervisor without using the two Simplification methods in
   accordance with an example embodiment.
 5 FIG 7D shows the numbers of specification membership queries required to contruct
   the supremal nonblocking supervisor using the two Simplification methods in
   accordance with an example embodiment.
   FIG. 8 shows a flow diagram of constructing a preliminary supervisor in accordance
10 with an example embodiment.
   FIG. 9 shows a computerized control system that executes the disclosed method in
   accordance with an example embodiment.
15
                                             6

                                DETAILED DESCRIPTION
   Example embodiments relate to methods and system to construct a supremal
   nonblocking supervisor to build an automaton model for a discrete-event systems
 5 (DES) to improve control of complex manufacturing plants and other machine
   production lines.
   As used herein and in the claims, "comprising" means including the following
   elements but not excluding others.
10
   As used herein, a plant is the combination of process and actuator. A plant can be a
   manufacturing system, a traffic system, a computer network, a communication
   protocol, a process control system and etc. The plant can be considered as a discrete
   event system (DES) whereby one or more upstream events trigger some downstream
15 events. As such, DES can be modelled as a finite state machine or finite automaton
   having a plurality of states and transition links from one state to another. The state
   evolution depends entirely on the occurrence of discrete events over time, such as
   "button press", "threshold exceeded", etc.
20 As used herein, specifications are the properties that the plant must hold, such as safety
   property and liveness proterty. In an embodiment, specifications are formulated by
   deterministic finite automata in supervisory control theory.
   As used herein, a supervisory control theory (SCT) is a method for automatically
25 synthesizing supervisor controllers that restrict the behavior of a plant such that given
   specifications can be fulfilled as much as possible. The plant is assumed to
   spontaneously generate events which are either controllable or uncontrollable. The
   supervisor observes the string of events generated by the plant and can disable
   controllable events.
30
   As used herein, a controllable event means the event can be disabled by the supervisor.
   For example, in a machine, the events "start" and "pause" are controllable. An
   uncontrollable event means the event cannot be disabled. For example, in a machine,
   the events "done" and "broken" are uncontrollable.
                                               7

   As used herein, some states in an automaton of a plant is referred to as marked states
   while others are unmarked states. The marked states represent the completion of tasks.
 5 As used herein, blocking means the plant enters into an unmarked state but there is no
   event that can transit it out of this state or the plant loops through a set of unmarked
   states with no transition out of this set. Conversely, nonblocking means the plant does
   not move to a blocking scenario. A mathematical definition of nonblocking is given in
   paragraphs below.
10
   As used herein, a supremal nonblocking supervisor is a synthesized supervisory
   controller which restrict the behavior of a plant to fulfill a set of specifications
   simultaneously. A large manufacturing plant may have a plurality of work modules and
   each module may have its own specifications or constraints. Hence it is necessary to
15 have an overall supervisory controller -- the coordinator to oversee the entire operations
   of the plant to steer the plant away from going to conflicting situation.
   There are many practical situations which a supremal nonblocking supervisor              is
   employed to control a plant. An illustrative embodiment is shown in FIG. 6A. In this
20 embodiment, automatic guided vehicles (AGVs) are used to transport unfinished goods
   from one work-stations to another, and to move the finished product to the completed
   product station 626. There are three zones that various AGVs need to cross and one of
   the specifications is that at most one AGV can occupy a shared zone at any one time
   for safety reason. Other specifications are related to the constraints that work stations
25 622, 620 and 624 may only hold a limited number of parts within stations. A full
   discussion of this manufacturing embodiment and the associated specifications are
   present in paragraphs below. Here we highlight that even in such a simplistic
   manufacturing setting, there is a requirement to coordinate all the activities on the
   movements and assembling of unfinished parts between various work stations so that it
30 can produce the finished product in the most efficient and effective manner. A supremal
   supervisory controller can be employed to enable the plant to operate in a maximally
   permissive nonblocking state. The method of constructing such a controller is discussed
   below also.
                                                 8

   As used herein, a "TCT" refers to a computation tool for supervisory control synthesis
   software designed by Lei Feng and W. M. Wonham. The software can be downloaded
   from http://www.control.toronto.edu/DES
 5
   In the SCT of discrete-event systems, a plant and its specifications are usually modeled
   as finite automata. SCT synthesizes a maximally permissive nonblocking supervisor
   that governs the plant to meet the specifications. In real applications, however,
   specifications are not given directly as automata, but may be defined by, e.g., structured
10 natural language, unified modeling language (UML), logical formulas, data/log files,
   or even executable code. The task of building an appropriate automaton model for the
   specification is non-trivial. The developer cannot directly apply SCT to ensure the
   system to satisfy the specifications.
15 Example embodiments employ regular language inference (also known as automata
   learning) technologies to synthesize a supremal nonblocking supervisor (i.e. the closed
   loop system) for the plant in the case that the automaton model of specifications is
   unknown.
20 Automata learning is a procedure of learning the canonical deterministic finite
   automaton (DFA) that recognizes an unknown regular language with the minimal
   information of whether any finite string belongs to the language. The learning
   algorithms are commonly divided into two categories: passive and active learning
   algorithms. Passive learning algorithms assume that sufficient negative and positive
25 samples for the target are available. However, it is unrealistic to provide all the
   execution traces of target systems in practice. Active learning algorithms construct
   models incrementally by actively querying the target system rather than relying
   passively on given traces. Among the active learning algorithms, the L* algorithm is
   one of the most popular approaches. Various adaptations of the L* algorithm have also
30 been proposed for improving efficiency and enlarging its application domain.
   If the automaton model of a plant or a specification is unknown, existing learning based
   supervision methods assume that a computer program, known as a teacher or an oracle,
                                                9

   has the minimal knowledge of whether any finite string is acceptable by the plant or the
   specification.
   The present disclosure fills the gap by introducing a learning-based approach to the
 5 synthesis of a supremal nonblocking supervisor for the problem where the plant model
   is available but the specification model is not. The obtained supervisor contains both
   state-transition relationship of the plant and the supervision logic.
   Example embodiments present an S* algorithm to synthesize a supremal nonblocking
10 supervisor when the automaton model of the specifications is unavailable. The S*
   algorithm includes three query in order to synthesize the supremal nonblocking
   supervisor. They are a specification membership query, a supervisor membership
   query, and an equivalence query.
15 In an embodiment, the main framework of the method is stated in the following. Given
   a DES plant and control specifications, the S* algorithm computes a tentatively correct
   supervisor with respect to the plant and specifications. The computation neither requires
   the automaton model of the specifications nor applies automaton computation
   algorithms. It builds the automaton model from a larger number of membership queries
20 on the plant behavior and specifications. If the preliminary supervisor is nonblocking,
   it is indeed the supremal nonblocking supervisor with respect to the plant and
   specifications. Otherwise, When the preliminary supervisor is blocking, it is not a
   supervisor. The learned automaton is considered as a new plant model, and the language
   1* as the nonblocking specification to synthesize a supremal nonblocking supervisor
25 using SCT. The language I*is modeled by a one-state DFA with self-loops of all events.
   In an example embodiment, to reduce computation cost, two Simplification methods
   are designed in the S* algorithm to decrease the number of membership queries on the
   specifications by evaluating the value of the supervisor menmbership query function
30 tc(s).
   FIG. I shows a method executed by a computerized control system to construct a
   supremal nonblocking supervisor in accordance with one embodiment.
                                                10

   The main framework of the proposed method is stated in the blocks 110, 120, 130, 140
   and 150 in FIG. 1.
   Block 110 shows that the computerized control system constructs a preliminary
 5 supervisor for a plant when specifications for a plant are not available as an automaton.
   By way of example, the preliminary supervisor is constructed by the S* algorithm.
   Block 120 shows that the computerized control system determinines whether the
   constructed preliminary supervisor is blocking or nonblocking.
10
   Block 130 shows that if the preliminary supervisor is nonblocking, then the
   computerized control system designates the preliminary supervisor as the supremal
   nonblocking supervisor.
15 Block 140 shows that if the preliminary supervisor is determined to be blocking, then
   the preliminary supervisor is designated as a new plant, the non-blocking property is
   used as the specification and a SCT is employed to synthesize a supremal nonblocking
   supervisor.
20 Block 150 shows the supremal nonblocking supervisor thus obtained can be executed
   by the computerized control system to control the plant and steer the plant away from
   entering into a blocking state.
   Basics of Automaton
25 In automaton theory, an alphabet Y is a non-empty and finite set of symbols. A word
   (or string) w defined on the alphabet E is a sequence of symbols in Y . The set Y*
   consists of all finite strings defined on     , including the empty string c. A language L
   on alphabet Y is a subset of E*, i.e., L c Y*. The catenation of the strings w1 ,1w2 E    Y
   is a new string w = wim     2 E Y*. The dot for the string catenation operation is neglected
30 in the paper for brevity. Let L, and 4 be two languages. Their catenation is defined as
    LI.L 2 = 11112 |11 e Ll & 12 e L 2 1
   A deterministic finite automaton (DFA), denoted by G , is a quintuple
                                                  11

                                       G =     ,   , qOQ)
   where
         - Q is the set of states,
         - E is an alphabet,
 5       - 3: Q x Y -> Q is the transition function: 3(q, a) = q' representing that there is
   a transition labeled by event a E Y from state q e Q to state q'ce      Q,
         e q E Q is the initial state,
         - Q, c Q is the set of marker states.
10 The 3 is considered as a partial function, i.e., 6(q, a) is not always defined. Function 3
   is extended from domain QxYI to domain QXX * in the following recursive way:
    6(q, c) = q ; 6(q, sa) is defined if 6(q,s) is defined and reaches state q' and 6(q', a)
   is also defined, for q, q'e Q, s e E* and a E Y. In this case 6(q, sa) = 6(q', a), where
    q'=3 (q,s). If string s e E* is defined at state qe Q , we denote this as 3(q,s)e Q
15 otherwise, 6(q, s) e Q . The word automaton refers to a DFA in this disclosure.
   The generated language of an automaton A is L(A) = { E           * |I(q, s) is defined), and
   the marked language of A is L,(A) = {s E L(A) I (q0 , s) E QmI . We write t-ds to
   denote that string t is a prefix of the string s . L={s E           |(tE   Y )St EEL} is the
20 prefix closure of a language L. L is prefix-closed if and only if L = L. Similarly, the
   suffix closure of a language L consists of all the suffixes of all the words in L. A
   language L is suffix-closed if and only if all the suffixes of every string in L are also
   elements of L. An automaton A is nonblocking if and only if L,, (A) = L(A).
25 Supervisory Control Theory
   SCT is a branch of systems control theory concerning the logical behavior of DES. A
   discrete event system, namely a plant, is modeled by an automaton G with an event
   set Y . The set Y is partitioned into two disjoint subsets: a controllable event set Y-.
   and an uncontrollable event set Y, . The specifications are specified as another
30 automaton that has the same event set as G . The premise is that the behavior of G
                                                 12

   may not satisfy the specifications and thus needs to be modified through feedback
   control. Aiming at altering the behavior of the plant G , a supervisor is introduced,
   which implements the control function V : L(G) -+ F . Here F = {y e 21 I Y, c y g I}
   is the set of control patterns. VIG denotes the plant G under the supervision of the
 5 supervisor V .
   Definition 1. A language K c Y* is controllablewith respect to a prefix-closed
   language L c Y* and an uncontrollable event subset Y_,, c         if
                         (Vs e    *,-ae Y,) s E K & so-e L => so-e K.
10 Given a language H c L, the set of all sub-languages of H that are controllable with
   respect to L is C(H, L) = {K c H I K is controllable with respect to L} . The
   supremal element of C(H,L) is supC(H,L)= UKEC(H,L)K . If L is clear from the
   context, we simply write supC(H).
15 Theorem 1. Let H c Y* and K = supC(L,, (G) n H). If K # 0, there exists a
   marking nonblocking supervisory controller V for K and G such that
    L,, (V) n L,,(G) = K and L(V) n L(G) = K.
   An Essential Description of the L* Algorithm
20 Let U be an unknown regular language over an alphabet E         .  The L* algorithm infers
   the language U by constructing a canonical DFA that accepts U . It assumes a
   minimally adequate teacher (MAT) to answer two kinds of queries from the learner.
   The first type is the membership query for answering whether a string s in Y* is
   accepted by U . The second type is the equivalence query for answering whether the
25 accepted language of the learned DFA M and the target language U are identical. The
   learned DFA M is also called the conjecture. The answer is yes, if L,, (M) equals to
    U . Otherwise, a counterexample t coming from the symmetric difference of the two
   languages L, (M) and U is used to refine the conjecture M . The symmetric
   difference of two sets is the set of elements belonging to exactly one of the two.
30
                                                13

   The L* algorithm iteratively constructs the observation table (S, E,T), where S and
    E are nonempty prefix-closed and suffix-closed sets of strings in Y*, and T is a
   function mapping from (S u S.E).E to 10,1}. The observation table has rows labeled
   by elements of (S u S.E) and columns labeled by elements of E , with the entry for
 5 row s in (S u S.Y) and column e in E equal to T(se), whose value is answered by
   the teacher through the membership query. By the definition of the teacher, T (se) = I
   if and only if se E U . Let row(s) denote the row of the observation table
   corresponding to a string s in (S u S.E) .An observation table (S, E, T) is closed if for
   each t e S.X , there exists s e S such that row(t) = row(s) . It is consistent if for any
10  s., s 2 e S , row(s) = row(s, ) implies row(sp) = row(s20-) for all o-e      .
   The first step of the L* algorithm is to refine the observation table (S, E, T) until it
   becomes both closed and consistent. Then, a conjecture M (S, E, T) = (Q,,,qO,Q")
   is defined as follows, where
15         - Q =row(s)|s c S),
             g = row(e),
           e 6(row(s), u-) = row(s-) ,
           * Q,, = row(s) I s e S and T(s) = 1}.
20 After a conjecture M is constructed, the second step is that the teacher performs
   equivalence queries for checking whether L, (M) equals to U . If they are identical,
   then the L* algorithm terminates; otherwise, a counterexample is identified. All prefixes
   of the counterexample are added to the set S of the observation table (S, E, T) and the
    L* algorithm iterates to the first step to refine the new observation table.
25
   Theorem 2. Let m be the number of states of the canonical DFA that accepts U and
    n the upper bound on the length of any counterexample provided by the MAT. The
   total running time of the L* algorithm is bounded by a polynomial with respect to i
   and n.
30
   The disclosed method
                                                  14

   In an example embodiment, a plant is given and described as an automaton and a teacher
   that answers membership queries of specifications of the plant is also available, the
   disclosed method constructs a supremal nonblocking supervisor that governs the plant
   to satisfy the specifications and permits it maximal freedom of operations. The teacher
 5 answers the membership queries of the specifications based on the characterization of
   accepted strings or a provided computer program. Since the DFA model of the
   specification is unknown, answering the equivalence query is unrealistic for the teacher.
   An approach known as the W-method is utilized to approximate the equivalence query
   and verifies its correctness.
10
   The disclosed procedure for synthesizing a supremal nonblocking supervisor consists
   of two parts. First, a novel learning algorithm called S* is proposed to construct a
   tentatively correct conjecture for the target supervisor. If the conjecture is nonblocking,
   it is indeed the target supervisor. However, if the conjecture is blocking, it is not the
15 target supervisor. Then, we use the classical design algorithm of SCT to derive a
   supremal nonblocking supervisor from the conjecture generated in the S* algorithm.
   We conclude by formally stating the assumptions below, on which the disclosed method
   is based.
20
   Definition 2. Let I    be the uncontrollable event set of an automaton G . The
   function skid with respect to G is
                         skid: L(G) -+ 2 LG) : s  |-+ {su e L(G) Iu e  *}
     For a string s e L(G) , skid(s) returns all the strings in L(G) that are reachable from
25  s via uncontrollable event strings.
   Definition 3. A DFA G is free of Y,, -cycles if for any string s in L(G), I skid(s) I is
   finite.
       The new approach is effective when the following assumptions hold:
       * The plant G is a DFA free of 1, -cycles;
30    - The specification H is a prefix-closed language, whose model is unknown;
       - A minimally adequate teacher can correctly answer membership queries of the
   specification H;
                                                 15

      e The marked language of the supremal nonblocking supervisor is regular.
   Membership query functions
   In the L* algorithm, an MAT is assumed to answer correctly the membership queries
 5 whether a string is accepted by the target language. In an embodiment, the target
   language is the marked language of the supervisor to be synthesized. Thus, an MAT
   that can answer membership queries according to the target is not available.
   Recall the assumption that the teacher can answer membership queries of the
10 specification language. By Definition 1 on the controllable language and the plant
   model, one can further check whether a string belongs to a controllable sublanguage of
   specification language. Therefore, there are two kinds of membership queries in the S*
   algorthm. The queries about the satisfaction of the specification is presented as the
   specification membership queries and The queries about the tentative supervisor is
15 presented as the supervisor membership queries. The specification membership queries
   are answered by the teacher and the supervisor membership queries are answered by
   the S* algorithm.
   Definition 4. The specification membership query function for answering whether a
20 string belongs to the specification is defined as r : _*   {0, 1}, where
                   r1   s is accepted by the specification
                    o               otherwise..
   To elaborate the supervisor membership query function, definitions of tentatively
   accepted and tentatively marked strings are given.
25 Definition 5. Let s e L(G) be a string. It is tentatively accepted by the supremal
   supervisor with respect to G and the given specifications, if the following condition
   holds: (Vs',w e    *) s'-<s & w e skid (s') -> r(w) = 1. Moreover, if s e L,,(G), s
   is defined as a tentatively marked string.
30 If s e L(G) or s e L(G) but there exist strings s'--s and we skid (s') such that
    r(w) = 0 , then s is excluded from the prefix-closed language of the supremal
   supervisor.
                                                16

   Definition 6. The supervisor membership query function with respect to G and the
   specification is defined as tc: * -+ {0,1,2}, where
                                      2           s is tentativdy marked
                             tc(s)= 1 s is tentatively accepted but not marked
                                      0                  otherwise.
 5 Assume that I s 1= k , IY, 1= m , and the longest length of all strings in the set
    {t e Y* Ist E skid(s), s E L(G) } is 1, where k, in and I are integers. The complexity of
   computing skid(s) is 0(ml). Thus, the computational complexity of computing tc(s)
   is 0((k +1)m').
10 The language of all tentatively accepted strings with respect to G and the given
   specifications is denoted as
            TA = {s E-    Itc(s) > 0}.
   The language of all tentatively marked strings with respect to G and the given
15 specifications is denoted as
            TM ={s e Y* Itc(s) = 2}.
   If a string belongs to the marked language of the tentative supremal nonblocking
   supervisor, it is necessarily tentatively marked. A formal statement is given as
20 Proposition 1. In order to prove this proposition, Lemma 1 is introduced.
   Lemma 1. Given an automaton G on alphabet Y and a language H ; YX assume
    K = supC(L,(G) n H). If s cK , then (Vwe Y* ) swe L(G) -> sw e K.
25 Proposition 1. Assume that K = supC(L, (G) n H) is the supremal controllable sub
   language of the specification H with respect to the plant G . If scE K, then ic(s) = 2;
   if s e K -K,    then tc(s) = 1.
                                                 17

   Proof. According to Lemma 1, if se          , ( Vs'-s, we    )  s'w E L(G) -> s'w e K .
   Since K c L (G) n H g H , and H is prefix-closed, K c H . That is, s'o E H
   holds. s'we L(G) implies s'we skid(s') . Thus, if se K , ic(s) > 0 and if sE K,
    tc(s) = 2 by Definitions 5 and 6.
 5
   Proposition 2. Assume that K = supC(L, (G) n H) is the supremal controllable sub
   language of the specification H with respect to the plant G . Then,
    supC(LL(G) n H) c TM is true.
10 Proof. To show the statement, let se supC(L (G) n H). We should show s e TM
   Suppose the contrary that s e TM . By Definition 5, there necessarily exists a string
    s'-s and a string we skid (s') such that we L(G) - H . On the other hand, since
    sE sup C(     (G) n H) and sup C(L, (G)n H) is controllable with respect to L(G),
   Lemma 1 ensures we supC(L, (G) n H). Consequently, w e L,,(G) n H C L(G) n H
15 . Conflict arises. Therefore, we have s e TM and supC(L,, (G)n H) ( TM holds.
   By        Proposition      2,      supC(L (G)nH,L(G))gTM cL,,(G) nH                   and
    sup C(L,, (G) n H, L(G)) c TM c TA c L(G) n H . The relationships of TM ( TA and
    supC(L,,(G)nH,L(G))cTM can be strict in some cases.
20
   FIG. 2 shows a plant model with a marker state in accordance with an example
   embodiment. In plant model 200, the circles 210, 220, 230, 240, 250, and 260 represent
   the states of the plant model. In particular, the circle 210 represents the initial state,
   while the state with double circle 240 represents the marker state. The controllable
25 event sets are Y_ = {a, b, c} , and the uncontrollable event sets are Y, = {u} . The
   specification H is that the event u can occur at most once. Meanwhile, the TM can be
   computed as TM = {ac, abc} , and TA can be computed as TA = {e, a, ab, ac, abc, abu}
   and supC(L, (G 1 ) n H, L(G,)) = {ac}. In this example, the following relationships are
   obtained: sup C(L,,(GI) n H, L(G)) c TM and TM c TA .
30
                                              18

   If supC(L,, (G) n H, L(G)) is a proper subset of TM , TM can be reduced to the
   supremal controllable sublanguage by the following method.
   Proposition 3. TA = supC(L(G) n H, L(G)).
 5 Proof. Definitions 5 and 6 ensure TA c L(G) n H . The next step is to prove that TA is
   controllable with respect to L(G).     For any s E TA and U E6       ,   if sa e L(G), then
    skid(sa) c skid(s) holds. Thus, tc(sa) > 0 according to Definitions 5 and 6. That is,
   for any se TA and a e Y, , if so e L(G), su E TA. Since TA is prefix-closed, TA is
   controllable      with   respect      to     G       by    Definition       1.     Therefore,
10  TA c supC(L(G) n H, L(G)).
   Let s e supC(L(G) n H, L(G)) . Since supC (L (G) n H, L (G)) is prefix closed,
   Lemma 1 ensures that tc(s) > 0. Then, s e TA.
   Therefore, TA= supQ(L(G)n H,L(G)) holds.
15
   Definitions 5 and 6 ensure the identity TM = TA n L,, (G). It is a well-known fact in
   SCT that the intersection of two controllable languages may not be controllable. Hence
    TM may not be controllable with respect to L(G). In this case, we reduce TM into a
   controllable sublanguage by the following theorem.
20
   Theorem      3.   Let  H   be   the    specification.   The   following      identity  holds:
    supC(TM,TA) = supC(L, (G) n H, L(G)).
   Proof. To establish this inequality, it is necessary to show that supC(TM,TA) is a
   sublanguage     of L,,(G)n H      and    controllable   with respect     to    L(G) . Since
25  supC(TM ,TA) c TM , the first statement is straightforward from the definition of
    supC(TM,TA). Owing to the definition of TM and Defs. 5 and 6, it is true that
    TM c L,,(G)n H.
   To   show     that  supC(TM,TA)      is    controllable  with    respect    to   L(G)   , let
30  se supC(TM,TA) , aE E, , and             su EL(G) . It is      necessary to show        that
                                                19

    sa e supC(TM,TA) . Since supC(TM,TA) c TA, we have s e TA . Proposition 3
   ensures that TA is controllable with respect to G . Then we have so-e TA . Since
    supC(TM,TA) is controllable with respect to TA, we have sa E supC(TM,TA). This
   completes the proof that supC(TM,TA) is controllable with respect to L(G).
 5
   To this end, we need show that sup C(Ln (G) n H, L(G)) C TM and it is controllable
   with    respect   to  TA    . The    second    statement   is   readily provable.       Since
    sup C(Lr (G) n H, L(G)) is controllable with respect to L(G) and L(G) ; TA , it is
   also controllable with respect to TA . Proposition 2 ensures the first statement.
10 Therefore, we have supC(TM,TA) = supC(L, (G) n H, L(G)).
   Corollary 1. If TM = TA, then TM = sup C(Lm(G) n H, L(G)).
   Proof. Since TM = TA , TM is controllable with respect to TA . Consequently,
    TM = supC (TM ,TA). Them. 3 further ensures that TM = supC(L, (G) n H, L(G)).
15 A trivial sufficient condition for TM = TA is that L, (G) = L(G). In this condition,
    TM = TA holds.
   Observation table
   In an embodiment, the S* learning algorithm maintains the information about a finite
20 subset of the strings in E* and classifies them in an observation table (S, E,T), where
    S and E are nonempty prefix-closed and suffix-closed sets of strings in E* ,
   respectively, and T is a function mapping from (S u S.X).E to {0,1,21. The rows of
   the observation table (S,E,T) are labeled by elements of S u S.X and the columns
   labeled by elements of E . T(se) is the entry of row s e (S u S.Y) and column eC E,
25 where T(se) = tc(se).
   For s e (S u S.I), row (s) is a row vector of length I E I, i.e., row(s) E ( 0 ,1 ,2 )El . For
   any strings s, t e S u S.I, if T(se) = T(1e) for all ee E , then we have row (s) = row(t)
                                                20

   Definition 7. An observation table (S, E,T) is called S-closed if for each s e S.1
   with T(s) > 0, there exists a string t e S such that row(s) = row(I) .
   Definition 8. An observation table (S, E,T) is called S-consistent if (Vs ,s 2 e S)
 5 row(s,) = row(s2)   A T(s,) = T(s2) > 0   -    (Va e I) row (su) = row (s 2 )
   Definition 9. Suppose that the observation table (S,E,T) is both S-closed and S
   consistent. A conjecture M (S, E, T) is defined as a quintuple M = (Q, ,3, q      ,Q,),
   where
10    - Q ={row(s)   IT(s)> 0,se S},
      e g0 = row(e) if T(e) > 0,
      e 6(row(s),a) = row(sa) if T(so) > 0; otherwise, 5(row (s), a) is not defined,
      e Q, ={row(s)l se S and T(s)= 2}.
   Note that M is partially defined here, whereas the L* algorithm generates fully defined
15 DFAs. If T(e) = 0, then tc(e) = 0 and ic(s) = 0 for all Ss Y'*. In this case, the state set
   Q is empty. Then the conjecture is empty. When T(e) > 0 , the initial state qO is
   defined.
   Proposition 4. The state transition function 3 defined in Definition 9 is closed in Q
20 and deterministic.
   Proof. We first show that 3 is closed in Q . In the definition of 3 in Definition 9, if
   sa    S and T(sa) > 0, then row(sa)e     Q and 3(row(s),a)E Q. If sa E S.X- S , the S
   closed property in Definition 7 ensures the existence of a string s'e S such that
25 row (so) = row (s) . Consequently, we still have row (sa) e   Q.
   To show the determinism of 6, let us consider two different strings s, t E S . If
   row(s) = row(t) and both T(s) and T(t) are positive, the definition of Q                 in
   Definition 9 implies that the two rows represent the same state q e    Q . For any a E Y
30 such that T(sa) > 0 or T(ta) > 0, the S-consistent property in Definition 8 ensures that
                                               21

   both T(so) and T(ta) are positive and row(sa) = row(to) . Previously we have proved
   that 3 is closed in Q . Therefore both row(so) and row(ta) belong to Q and are the
   identical state.
 5 Definition 10. A DFA M = (Q,1,6,qO,Q)           is said to be consistent with the function
    T of an observation table (S, E, T) , if for all s e S u S.X and e E E , 3(q, se) E   Q   if
   and only if T(se) > 0 and 6(qo, se) e Q,, if and only if T(se) = 2.
   In order to prove that the conjecture M (S, E, T) obtained by Definition 9, when
10  (S, E, T) is S-closed and S-consistent, is consistent with the function T , Lemma 2 is
   introduced first.
   Lemma 2. Suppose that the observation table (S. E, T) is S-closed and S-consistent
   and M (S, E, T) is the conjecture. For any s e S u S.X, if T(s) > 0, then
15  3(q, s) = row(s); otherwise, 3(q,s) is undefined in M.
   Proof. This lemma is proved by induction on the length of s. When I s 1= 0, s = C. In
   this case, if T(e) > 0, then qO = row(c) is defined; otherwise, qO is not defined, M is
   an empty automaton, and T(s) = 0 for all se 1*. Suppose that for any s e S u S.X of
20 length at most k (k > 0) , the two statements hold. Let t E S u S.X be a string of length
    k+1. String t can be written as t = SU where s is of length k and u-E X. If T (t) > 0 ,
   then T(s) > 0 and the induction hypothesis ensures that 3(q,s) is defined and equal
   to row(s).
   Consequently,      6(qIt) = 6(q,sa) = 6(6(q,s),a) = 6(row(s),a) = row(sa) = row(t).
25 If T(t) = 0, either T(s) = 0 or T(s) > 0 . In the former case, 3(q,s) is undefined and
   hence 3(q, so-) also undefined. In the latter case, 3(q0 , s) = row(s) is defined but
    6(row(s), a) undefined. This completes the induction and the proof of this lemma.
   Proposition 5 If (S, E,T) is an S-closed and S-consistent observation table, then the
30 conjecture M (S. E, T) obtained by Definition 9 is consistent with the function T
                                                22

   Proof. This proposition is proved by induction on the length of ee E. The basis is
    Ie = 0, namely e is the empty string e. In this case, Lemma 2 and Definition 9 yield
   that   (qo, se) E Q iff T (s) > 0 and      (qo, se) E Q,, iff T (s) = 2 .
 5 Suppose that the result holds for all ee E of length at most k (k > 0) . We will show
   that the conclusion also holds for e( E, whose length is k+l. Since the set E is
   suffix-closed, e = ae' for a E Y and e' E E . Evidently the length of e'                  is k .
   Consequently, se =sue'. The proof is organized as two cases. (1) If s e S , then
    sueE S uS.X . Let t = SO. Then se=te', where te S.X , e'                 E, and Ie'I= k . The
10 conclusion follows immediately from the induction hypothesis. (2) If s e S.X - S, the
   proof is dependent on the value of T(se). If T (se) = 0 , the definition of 3 in Definition
   9 and Proposition 4 imply that string se is not defined at qO for M. If T (se) > 0 , then
    T(s) > 0 and s E S.1. Since the observation table is S-closed as in Definition 7, there
   necessarily      exists a string    s'e S    such that      row (s') = row (s) . Consequently,
15  T(s') = T(s) > 0 and T(s'o-e') = T(so-e') > 0 . The proof is reduced to case (1). The
   induction and proposition are proved.
   The next proposition proves that M (S. E, T) obtained by Definition 9 is the minimal
   state conjecture.
20
   Proposition 6. Let (S, E. T) be an S-closed and S-consistent observation table. The
   conjecture M(S, E,T)= (Q,1, 6, g,Q,,,) obtained by Definition 9 has n states. Any
   minimal state DFA M'= (Q',1,6',qo-,Q,,)           consistent with T has at least n1states.
   Moreover, if M' has n states, it is isomorphic to M (S, E, T) .
25
   Proof. We first prove the statement that any minimal state DFA M'= (Q',               ', -, Q 1)
   consistent with T must have at least n states.
   Define          a        mapping         : Q -+ 2         .       For       any      qe Q
30  qg(q)= {31 '(qo, s) I s e S, row(s)= q and 3 '(q   ,s)is defined} . Since      there  may    be
                                                    23

   multiple strings in S that have identical row in the observation table, there may exist
   multiple states in the set y(q). Any s e S that determines the state q has the property
    T (s) > 0 by Definition 9. Since M' is consistent with T , 6'(q.,s) is defined.
   Consequently, for all q e Q , y(q) s 0.
 5
   For two different states qj, q 2 E Q ,if q1 # q2 , then T(q,) n T(q2)    =   0. We prove this
   by contradiction. Suppose that T(q 1 ) n T(q 2 ) # 0. There exist two strings s,, S2 E S
   such that row(s,) = q, # q 2   = row(s2) and 3'(qe, sj) = 3'(q0 ,s 2 ). Since s, and s., are
   both defined in M' and reach the identical state, for any string t e E, 6'(q0,, srt) EQ
10 iff 6'(q-,s 2't)e  Q'  and 6'(q.,s1 t)E Q,',, iff  0 -,s2 t)   Q'.
                                                                  Q'(q Since M'        is consistent
   with T      ,  Definition 10 implies that (Vte E)            T(sit)  T(s 2 t)  .   Consequently
    row(s) = row(s 2 ), which is contradictory to the definition of si and s, .Combining the
   two results above, we assert that the number of states in Q' is at least n.
15 Subsequently, we prove the second statement: if M' has n states, it is isomorphic to
    M (S, E. T) . If the number is exactly n, p(q) becomes a singleton set for all qe             Q.
   We then redefine p as p: Q -> Q' . p(q) = 3 '(qe, s) , where q = row(s) , s e S and
    T(S) # 0. The previous proof ensures that p is an injection and surjection. Therefore,
   it is a bijection. In what follows, we prove that p carries q0 to q' and Q,, to          Q, , and
20 preserves the transition function.
   Since p(q 0 ) = p(row(e)) = 6'(qcy,e) = qy, p carries the initial state q0 to q0*.
   When 6(q, a) is defined for any q e Q and a e Y, there exists a string s e S such that
25  T(s) > 0      and     row(s) = q        Define     q = p(q) = 6'(q,, s)         .     Therefore,
    p(6(q, a)) = op(6(row(s), a)) = (p(row(su))= 3'(q, so) = 6'(q',a) . On the other hand,
   when 5'(q',a) is defined for any q'( Q' and aE X, there exists a string s E S such
   that    q' = 3'(qe, s)  ,   T(s) > 0  ,  row (s) = q    and     p(q) = q' .       Consequently,
                                                  24

    6'(q',a) = '(',s),      a) = 6'(q,,, sa) =  (row(so)) = (6(q, so)) = 9(6(q, ))      . Thus,
   the mapping p preserves the transition function.
   If q e Q,,, there exists a string s E S such that T(s) = 2 and row (s) = q . Since M' is
 5 consistent    with   T    ,   #(q)  = #(row(s)) =  6 '(q-, s) =q'   Q    .  Conversely,   if
    p(q) = p(row(s))= 6'(q,., s) = q'e    Q,,  for s e S and row(s) = q      , T(s) = 2 . Thus,
    q e Q, holds. As a result, the mapping p carries          Q,  to Q, . In conclusion, M' is
   isomorphic to M (S, E, T) .
10 Corollary 2 M (S, E, T) is the minimal state conjecture consistent with T
   Proposition 6 shows that any other automaton consistent with T either is isomorphic
   to M (S. E, T) or contains more states than M.             Thus M (S, E, T) is the minimal
   automaton consistent with T
15 Equivalence query
   In an embodiment, the automaton constructed by the S* algorithm is a tentatively correct
   supervisor.
   Definition 11. A conjecture M constructed from an S-closed and S-consistent
20 observation table (SE,T)          is tentatively correct with respect to G          and the
   specification H if L,, (M) = TM and L(M) = TA.
   In the S* algorithm, equivalence queries are used to answer whether the tentative
   conjecture is tentatively correct as defined in Definition 11. It is unrealistic to assume
25 an MAT to precisely answer equivalence queries. In one embodiment, the W-method
   is applied to approximate equivalence queries.
   Assume that the learned conjecture is M and the real tentatively correct one is M,.
   The procedure using the W-method for finding counterexamples between M and M,
30 consists of three steps: estimating the number of states of the target automaton M.,
   generating test strings and verifying whether a test string is a counterexample.
                                                 25

   Firstly, it is necessary to know the correct number of states of the tentatively correct
   automaton M, when using the W-method for equivalence queries. In one embodiment,
   this is estimated based on human insight.
 5
   Secondly, a set of test strings that may contain counterexamples of the conjecture and
   the tentatively correct supervisor is generated by the W-method, which requires the
   construction of two sets P and Z. P is a subset of L(G) that achieves full transition
   coverage of the conjecture M . For any transition (q,-,q') in M , there necessarily
10 exists a string s e P such that  3 (q0 , s) = q and sce P. The construction of the set Z
   also relies on another set W, which is a minimal set of strings in E* that distinguish all
   pairs of states in M . The W set has the following property. For any pair of distinct
   states q, q'( Q , there exists a string s in W such that (1) either 6(q,s) or 6(q',s) is
   defined but not both, or (2) if both are defined then o(q, s) # o(q', s) . Let n and ni be
15 the numbers of states in M,, and M , respectively. We will show later in Proposition 7
   that n > m and the number of states in M increases monotonically up to n as the S*
   algorithm runs. The set Z is defined as
                                      Z     (yOUy       2U...  U    - ).W.
   The set of test strings is P.Z . When m = n, conjectures M, and M are isomorphic if
20 there are no counterexamples in the set P.Z .
   Thirdly, the equivalence between M and M, is checked. A function               , indicating
   the relationship between a conjecture M and a string s is defined.
25 Definition 12. Function    dM  with respect to the conjecture M is defined as
        :    -* {0,1,2}, where
                                                L2       seL(M)
                                        ((s)= Il     s EL(M ) -L,,(M)
                                                  0      otherwise.
   The answer for whether s is a counterexample is obtained by comparing the results of
    tc(s) and dm (s) . If the answers for d, (s) and tc(s) are equivalent, s is not a
                                                  26

   counterexample. Otherwise, s is a counterexample. The equivalence query algorithm
   used in the S* algorithm is described as pseudocode 300 in FIG. 3.
   FIG. 3 shows the Alg. I for an equivalence query algorithm to verify whether a tentative
 5 conjecture is tentatively correct in accordance with an example embodiment. The Alg.
   I is represented as a pseudocode 300.
   In an embodiment, the equivalence query algorithm first constructs the sets P and W
   according to the conventional algorithms. Test strings are formed at line 6 of the
10 psedocode 300. Then, 6M (s) and tc(s) are computed and compared at lines 7 and 8 of
   the psedocode 300. If they are not equivalent, s is a counterexample and the algorithm
   terminates. Otherwise, more test strings are constructed and compared. If the output of
   the pseudocode 300 is not null, ce is a counterexample. Otherwise, there is no
   counterexample in the set of test strings P.Z between the learned conjecture M and
15 the tentatively correct supervisor M,
   In an embodiment, for a minimal state input conjecture with n states and k events, the
   complexity of constructing the sets P and W is proportional to in 2 -k . If no
   counterexample is found, all iterations are executed. The computational complexity is
20  (i - m)(      IPY- "  - W I)    .    Thus,    the    complexity      of   Alg.  3.1.3     is
    O(m 2 - k +(i - in)(      Y-I"
                             IP       -I 1)).
   In another embodiment, let the state size of the current conjecture M be m , the state
   size of the tentatively correct supervisor M, be n , and the estimated state size of M,
25 be   n. The correctness and performance of pseudocode 300 rely on the estimate in of
   the state size of MtC . Since the estimate   n  is an input to the pseudocode 300, its value
   should be larger than mn, i.e., m<n.
   In     one   embodiment,       a    function    C: Z    -   21    is   defined  such    that
30  C(n) = P.(X0 u y u          ... uY    -').W. The function is obviously monotonic. The
   equivalence query algorithm in pseudocode 300 searches for a counterexample in the
                                                 27

   set C(n) . The correctness of the W-method ensures that M and MU are not
   isomorphic if and only if there exists a counterexample in C (n)
   In an embodiment, if h <n, then C(h) g C(n). The counterexample, if exists, may
 5 belong to C(n) - C(h). The pseudocode 300 then fails to find the counterexample and
   returns the false statement that M and M, are isomorphic. An underestimate of the
   state size of M, may result in an erroneous learning result of M,    .
   In yet another embodiment, if h > n, then C(i) ; C(n). If a counterexample between
    M and Mtc exists, it belongs to C(n) and hence to C(n) . Since the pseudocode 300
10 iteratively searches for a counterexample with increasing lengths, it can always find the
   counterexample in C (n) and terminates. The additional strings in C (h) - C (n) are
   irrelevant. The overestimate of the state size of M, does not influence the correctness
   of pseudocode 300. On the other hand, if M and M, are isomorphic, all strings in
    C(i) have identical membership query results at line 8 of pseudocode 300 and hence
15 the pseudocode 300 cannot find any counterexample after examining all strings in
    C(i) . An overestimate of the state size of M, increases the computational time of
   pseudocode 300 and the largest increase is proportional to IY -         where I Y I is the
   cardinality of the event set    .
20 The S* algorithm
   In accordance with an illustrative embodiment, and based on the results of membership
   queries, the construction of observation tables and conjectures, and equivalence queries,
   the S* algorithm is presented as Alg. 2 in the form of pseudocode 400 shown in FIG. 4.
   Assume the M,C is the tentatively correct automaton.
25
   Let S =  = {e} initially. To determine the observation table (S, E,T), the algorithm
   performs the supervisor membership query function tc (c) and tc-(a) for all u-e Y, and
   fills the answers in the corresponding entries at line 2. From lines 4 to 14 of the
   pseudocode 400 in FIG. 4, the S* algorithm tests whether the observation table is S
30 closed and S-consistent. If the observation table (S,E,T) is not S-consistent, the
                                               28

   algorithm finds s, and s in S ,          E I and eE E with T(s,) = T(s 2 ) > 0 such that
    row(s,)  =  row(s 2 ) and T(suae) # T(s 2 ae). Add ae to E and extend T to (S u S.I).E
   using the supervisor membership query function for the missing elements in the
   observation table. If the observation table (S,E,T) is not S-closed, find s, e s and
 5  a E Y such that row(sga) with T(su) > o is different from row(s) for all s E S . Add
    s,,   to S and extend T to (S u S.I).E using the supervisor membership query
   function. The two operations are repeated as long as the observation table is not S
   closed or not S-consistent. At line 15 of the pseudocode 400, a conjecture is constructed
   according to Definition 9. An equivalence query is implemented at line 16 of the
10 pseudocode 400 to check whether L (M) = TM and L(M) = TA. At lines 17 to 20 of
   the pseudocode 400, if ce is a counterexample, all the prefixes of ce are added to S
   in (S,E,T) . Extend T         to (S u S.I).E using the supervisor membership query
   function. If there is no counterexample, the tentaative conjecture M is tentatively
   correct. Then, the algorithm terminates.
15
   In an example embodiment, suppose that the canonical model of the tentatively correct
   supervisor is M, with n states, whose state set is denoted as Q . The S* algorithm
   produces a sequence of conjectures, M 1, M,, -- -, at line 15 of the pseudocode 400.
   Lemma 3 shows that all these conjectures have no more states than n.
20
   Lemma 3. Let the conjecture produced by the i-th iteration of of the pseudocode 400
   which represents the S* algorithm as shown in FIG. 4 be Mi (i = 1,2,-- ) with n,
   states, whose state set is Qi (i = 1,2, --- ). For all i, ni n.
   Proof. Suppose that the conjecture A             is generated from the observation table
25  (Si, E, T.), which is S-closed and S-consistent. The construction of the observation
   table (Si, E,7) ensures that for all s         SEu S,.X and e E E , Ti (se) = tc(se) . Recall
   that ic(se) > 0 iff see TA and tc(se) = 2 iff see TM. Then the tentatively correct
   supervisor M, is consistent with T'. Proposition 6 then ensures that n,         n.
30 Proposition 7. The S* algorithm terminates.
                                                   29

   Proof At the end of the i-th iteration, the pseudocode 400 performs the equivalence
   query at line 16. If ce =null, the pseudocode 400 terminates. If ce # null , the
   counterexample ce and all its prefixes are added into the observation table. The
   counterexample does not belong to the observation table, i.e., ce t (S u S.Y)
 5 Therefore, adding ce and its prefixes to the set S and the operations at lines 18 and
   19 of the pseudocode 400 increase the number of rows in S . The pseudocode 400
   starts the (i+1)-th iteration to further enlarge the observation table to satisfy the S-closed
   and S-consistent properties.
10 If the observation table is not S-consistent, there are two distinct rows s, s2      S and an
   event -E I such that row(s 1 )= row(s2), T(s1 ) = T(s 2 ) > 0, and row(sua) # row(s2 a)
   . The last inequality means that there exists a string eE E such that T(suae) # T(s 2ae)
   . Then, the string ae is added to the set E and row(s) # row(s 2 ) in the new
   observation table. Enlarging the observation table for S-consistency increases the
15 number of states of the tentative conjecture.
   If the observation table is not S-closed, there are a string s e S and an event a E Y such
   that (Vt e S ) row (t) # row (sa). The new string sa is added into the set S and this
   increases the number of states of the tentative conjecture.
20
   At the end of the (i+l)-th iteration, line 15 of the pseudocode 400 constructs the
   conjecture     Mi+1 . The      argument    above    guarantees   n, <n1l . The       sequence
    {ni Ii = 1,2,- -.} is monotonically increasing. Lemma 3 shows that all elements in the
   sequence are bounded by a finite number. Consequently, the sequence must have finite
25 elements. Then, the pseudocode 400 terminates.
   FIG. 8 further illustrates the flow diagram of constructing the conjecture M based on
   the S* algorithm according to one embodiment. The flow diagram 500 first establishes
   an initial observation table (S, E, T) of the plant in step 510. It then checks if this table
30 is both S-consistent and S-closed. If not, the table is amended to satisfy these two
   properties. Afterwards, this observation table is used to contruct a conjecture M in step
   530. In step 540, a pluarity of test strings are generated. For each test string, step 550
                                                  30

   checks if the response from the conjecture M on this test string is the same as the
   response obtained from the supervisor membership query. If they are not, the test string
   is a counterexample and step 570 is entered. The counterexample is appended to the
   observation table and program control is returned to step 520 again to check for S-close
 5 and S-consistent. If for all the test strings, conjecture M produces the same responses
   as that of the supervisor membership query, then this algorithm terminates and
   conjecture M is the tentatively correct conjecture and is also designed as the preliminary
   supervisor in step 560.
10 Proposition 8. If the estimated number of the states of the canonical tentatively correct
   supervisor is not smaller than the correct value, the S* algorithm is correct.
   Proof. Proposition 7 ensures that the S* algorithm terminates in finite iterations. In the
   last iteration of the Alg. 2 in FIG. 4, the equivalence query performed by the Alg. 1 in
15 FIG. 3 cannot find any counterexample. Alg. 1 is correct if the estimated number of the
   states of the canonical tentatively correct supervisor is not smaller than the correct
   number. Therefore, when the Alg. 1 terminates, the final conjecture is isomorphic to
   the canonical tentatively correct supervisor.
20 According to Theorem 2, if n is the number of states of the tentatively correct
   supervisor and I is an upper bound of the length of any counterexample, the total
   running time of Alg. 2 is bounded by a polynomial with respect to I and. n.
   Proposition 9 If M, is nonblocking, it is the supremal supervisor with respect to the
25 plant G and the specification H.
   Proof. If M,, is nonblocking, L, (M,,) = L(M, ). That is, TM = TA holds. According
   to Corollary 1, TM = supC(L,(G) nH,L(G)) . As a result, M,                 is exactly the
   supremal nonblocking supervisor by Theorem 1.
30 If M, is nonblocking, a canonical supremal nonblocking supervisor is obtained by the
   S* algorithm in the case that the logical model of the specification is unavailable. The
                                                 31

   whole procedure terminates. When M,          is blocking, SCT is used to compute a
   supremal nonblocking supervisor for the plant as follows.
   Computing supervisors using SCT
 5 In an example, when the output conjecture M of the pseudocode 400 is blocking, it is
   not a supervisor. The tentative conjecture M is considered as a new plant model, and
   the language E* as the nonblocking specification to synthesize a supremal nonblocking
   supervisor using SCT. The language E* is modeled by a one-state DFA with self-loops
   of all events. Proposition 10 shows that the supremal nonblocking supervisor with
10 respect to M is indeed the one with respect to the plant G .
   Proposition 10. Assume that H is the specification language that the plant G shall
   satisfy M is the conjecture obtained by the pseudocode 400 which represents the S*
   algorithm. The following identity always holds:
15  sup C(Lm (G) n H,L(G)) = supC(L (M),L(M)).
   As we have Lm(M) = TM and L(M) = TA , this proposition is true according to
   Theorem 3.
   In one embodiment, when the S* algorithm obtains a nonblocking conjecture, the
20 conjecture is exactly the desired supervisor. If the conjecture is blocking, SCT is used
   to compute a supremal nonblocking supervisor in a further step. In conclusion, a
   supremal nonblocking supervisor is constructed based on the proposed approach, when
   the plant model is available and the specification model is unknown.
25 Simplifications of specification membership queries
   In an example embodiment, when computing the supervisor membership query
   function tc (s) for s e Y, it is necessary to compute the specification membership
   query function T first, which is time-consuming in practice. Two simplification rules
   based on prefix-closed and tentatively accepted properties are used to decrease the
30 number of the specification membership queries according to the accumulated
   knowledge of the observation table (S, E,T). When the pseudocode Alg. 2 in FIG. 4
   performs the supervisor membership queries at lines 13 and 19, the following two
                                              32

   simplification rules can be used before computing tc. If the answer cannot be obtained
   by the simplifications, then the function tc is evaluated.
   Simplification 1. Let s'e L(G). If there exists a string se S uS.1 such that s- s'
 5 and T(s) = 0, then ic(s') = 0 .
   Proposition 11. Simplification 1 is correct.
   Proof. According to Definition 6, T(s) = 0 means that s is not tentatively accepted by
   the supervisor. There must exist a string t-s and a string w e skid (t) such that w is
10 not accepted by the specification. Since t-ds' is also true, tc (s') = 0 holds.
   Simplification 2. Let s'E L(G) . If there exists a string sE S uS.X such that
    s'E skid (s) and T(s) > 0 , then ic(s') = 1 if s's L,,(G) or tc(s') = 2 if s'e L,.(G).
15
   Proposition 12. Simplification 2 is correct.
   Proof. For s'( skid(s), s' can be written as sw for we -* . The set skid(sw) is a
   subset of skid(s). That is, (Vt,we        *) t--s' & we skid (t) , w is accepted by the
   specification. By Definition 6, if s'e L(G)-L,(G) , tc(s') =1, and if s'E L, (G),
20  tc(s') = 2.
   In an example embodiment, when either simplification method is applicable, the
   supervisor membership query for s' can be directly derived from the observation table
   rather than computed by Definition 6.
25
   Assume that I s'!= k, I skid (s) 1=    and IS u S.   1= n , where k, 1 and ni are integers.
   In Simplification 1, it is necessary to check every prefix of s' to see whether it belongs
   to S u S.X for n times at most. Therefore, (k + 1)n times of comparisons are made at
   most. In Simplification 2, 1 - n times of comparisons are performed at most.
30
   Illustrative Examples
                                                 33

   In an illustrative embodiment, the plant model 200 which is shown in FIG 2. is used to
   illustrate the disclosed method. FIG. 5A to 5K illustrate the process for amending the
   observation table and to generate tentative conjectures using the amended table. In these
   figures, the circles marked with So, Si, S2, S3. S4 , and the arrows a, b, c, and u represent
 5 the same items.
   Initially, S = E = {e} and S.E = {a, b, c,u     . The S* algorithm performs supervisor
   membership query function tc for the strings in S U S.X. Because of b, c,u e L(G),
    T(b) = T(c)= T(u) = 0      holds  by    Definition     6.  Note   that  skid(e) = {e}    and
10  skid(a)    {a}, skid(e) g L(G) n H and skid(a) c L(G) n H , we have T(e) = I and
    T(a) = 1. String s is excluded from constructing supervisors if T(s) = 0. Thus, if a
   string s belongs to S.X - S and T(s) = 0, it is omitted in the observation table.
   Since observation table 510 is S-closed and S-consistent, a conjecture M, 512 is
15 constructed as shown in FIG. 5B. The S* algorithm executes an equivalence query for
   the conjecture M, according to Alg. 1 shown in FIG. 3. Since                  mI (aa) =I but
    tc(aa) = 0, string aa is a counterexample, which is used to refine the conjecture M,
   512.
20 In an embodiment to process the counterexample aa, the prefix strings of aa are added
   to the set S in observation table 520, which is shown in FIG. 5C. Currently, in the
   observation table 520, S = {e, a, aa} and E = {e, a}. All the empty entries are filled by
   performing       supervisor   membership       queries.     Since    row(e) = row(a)      but
    T(e.a) # T(a.a), The observation table 520 is not S-consistent. Then string       a is added
25 to the set E by the pseudocode 400. The entries are filled in by performing supervisor
   membership queries. The observation table 520 which is shown in FIG. 5C is S-closed
   and S-consistent. According to the observation table 520, the conjecture M2 522 is
   constructed and shown in FIG. 5D.
30 Since    m   (ac) = 0 but tc(ac) = 2, string ac is a counterexample. The prefixes of ac
   are added to the observation table 530, which is shown in FIG. 5E. At this stage, in the
                                                34

   observation table 530, S = {e, a, aa,ac} and E = {e, a}. The empty entries are filled by
   performing supervisor membership queries. The observation table 530 is S-closed and
   S-consistent. A new conjecture M      3 532 is constructed according to the observation
   table 530 and shown in FIG. 5F.
 5
   By continuing executing the S* algorithm, m3 (abb) = 1 but tc(abb) = 0 . Thus string
    abb is a counterexample. The prefix strings of abb are added to the observation table
   540 which is shown in FIG. 5G. Currently,                in the obsercation table 540,
    S = {e,a,aa,ac,ab,abb} and E = {e,a,b} . The Set S.X is enlarged and the empty
10 entries are filled in by using supervisor membership queries. Since row(a) = row(ab)
   but T(ab) # T(abb), the obsercation table 540 is not S-consistent. String b is added to
   the set E according to Alg. 2 as shown in FIG. 4. The obsercation table 540 is S-closed
   and S-consistent. Then a new conjecture M      4 542 is built as shown in FIG. 5H.
15 By continuing executing the S* algorithm, since          m4  (abuc) = 2 but tc(abuc)=0 ,
   string abuc is a counterexample. All the prefixes of abuc are added to set S in
   observation table 550, which is shown in FIG 5I. Since row(ab) = row(abu) but
    T(abc) # T(abuc), the observation table is not S-consistent. String c is added to the
   obervation       table   550.    Currently,    S = {e.a, aa,ac, ab, abb, abu, abuc}  and
20  E = {e, a, b, c} . Then the observation table 550 is S-closed and S-consistent. The
   conjecture M 5 552 is constructed and shown in FIG. 5J.
   By continuing executing the S* algorithm, the computer system cannot find a
   counterexample any more by Alg. l as shown in FIG. 3. L,, (Mi ) = {ac, abc} = TM and
25  L(M 5 ) = {e,a,ab,ac,abc,abu} = TA. The Conjecture M5 552 is tentatively correct. It
   is the final output of Alg. 2 as shown in FIG. 4. Then the pseudocode 400 terminates.
   However, since the conjecture M 5 552 is blocking, it is not the supremal nonblocking
   supervisor. In this case, the conjecture M5 552 is regarded as a new plant model and
30 the language Y* as the nonblocking specification to synthesize a supremal nonblocking
                                               35

   supervisor using SCT. The language X* is modeled by a one-state DFA with self-loops
   of all events. By way of example, the supremal nonblocking supervisor is constructed
   by TCT. The constructed supremal nonblocking supervisor M 6 560 is shown in FIG.
   5K.
 5
   To verify the correctness of the the learning-based approach, an the automaton model
   of the specification is built and the supremal nonblocking supervisor is computed
   directly using TCT. The final result M6 constructed by the disclosed method is indeed
   isomorphic to the supremal nonblocking supervisor with respect to the plant G
10 computed in TCT. Thus, a supremal nonblocking supervisor for the plant is built
   successfully when the logical model of specifications is unavailable using the proposed
   approach.
   Experiment Study
15 In the following embodiments, experiments are carried out on a laptop computer with
   an Intel Core i7 4712MQ CPU @2.30GHz and 8.0G RAM running Windows 10. The
   Alg. 1 in FIG. 3 and Alg. 2 in FIG 4 are both implemented in Java in the Learnlib
   framework, which is an open-source Java library for active automata learning. In the
   program, the plant model is described as a DFA. The minimally adequate teacher
20 answering the specification membership queries is implemented as a different program,
   which is independent of the learning algorithm. The W-method is adopted to generate
   strings for searching counterexamples.
   Example Embodiment: Controlling A Manufacturing System Using AGV
25 1) Descriptions of models
   In an embodiment as shown in FIG. 6A, the disclosed method is applied to construct
   the supremal nonblocking supervisor on AGV serving a manufacturing work cell. This
   case is chosen as there exists conflicting control logic among the decentralized modular
   supervisors. A coordinator needs to be designed to resolve the conflict. The control
30 logic of the coordinator is complicated.
   In this embodiment, the manufacturing system 610 includes two input stations (IPS),
   IPS1 612, IPS2 614 for loading parts of type I and type II onto the AGV1 616 and
                                                36

   AGV2 618; three workstations, WS1 620, WS2 622, WS3 624, one completed product
   station CPS 626, to unload the completed products, and five AGVs -- AGV1 616,
   AGV2 618, AGV3 628, AGV4 630, AGV5 632. The AGVs travel on fixed circular
   routes to transfer parts. The AGVs cross one another in three shared zones: AGV1 616
 5 and AGV2 618 at share Zonel; AGV2 618 and AGV3 628 at share Zone2 636; AGV4
   630 and AGV5 632 at share Zone3 638. The circular routes of AGVs are as follows:
                        AGV1 616: WS2 622-* IPS1 612-+ WS2 622;
                        AGV2 618: WS3 624-+ IPS2 614-          WS3 624;
10                      AGV3 628: WS1 620-+ WS2 622-+ WS1 620;
                        AGV4 630: WS1 620-+ WS3 624-> WS1 620;
                        AGV5 632: CPS 626-+ WS1 620 -+ CPS 626.
   As used herein, the arrow -- indicate travel directions of the AGVs, respectively. Input
15 parts of types I and II traverse the routes as follows:
                IPS1 612 -> AGV1 616 -> WS2 622 -> AGV3 628 -> WS1 620;
                IPS2 614 -+ AGV2 618 -> WS3 624 -> AGV4 630 -> WS1 620.
20 In one embodiment, a processed part of type I and one of type II are assembled into a
   complete product at WS1 620 and the product is transported to CPS 626 by AGV5 632.
   Logical models of AGVs are shown in the diagram 640 in FIG. 6B and the diagram 650
   in FIG. 6C. The cricle 642, 644, 646, and 648 in FIG. 6B represent the different
25 operating states of the AGV1 616, AGV3 628, AGV4 630, and AVG5 632,
   when operating in the system. The cricle 652, 654, 656, 658, 660, and 662 in FIG. 6C
   represent the different operating state of the AGV2 622. The physical interpretations of
   events in AGVs are illustrated in Table 670 in FIG. 6D. The aj, bi, ci, di, et, and fi
   represents the events of the AGVs in the system. Both a, and b, are controllable events
30 for i = 1, ..-,5 , while all the others are uncontrollable. The same number reference
   represents the same items as stated in FIG. 6A to FIG. 6D.
   2) Descriptions of specifications
                                                37

   In one embodiment, the specifications on the AGV system which correspond to the
   FIG. 6A are described as follows.
   e   for safety reasons, at most one AGV can occupy a shared zone at one time. For
       example, AGV1 616 and AGV2 618 cannot both enter Zonel together. We denote
 5     the specifications on the three shared zones Zonel 634, Zone2 636, and Zone 3 638
       as ZISPEC, Z2SPEC and Z3SPEC in column 2 of Table 680 in FIG 6E. Let u-E X
       and s e Y . The expression #a(s) indicates the occurrence number of a in s . A
       formal        description       for      the      specification      ZISPEC      is
        {se Y-* I(#a,(s)-#c(s)) + (#b,(s)-#d,(s)) + (#c2(s)-#d2(s))+(#b2 (s)-#e2(s)) 1}
10
   Formal descriptions for other specifications can be described similarly.
   e   The workstation WSI 620 assembles a part of type I and a part of type II into a
       complete product, and can contain only one part of each type before the complete
       product is transferred to CPS 626. The two parts may arrive at WS1 620 in an
15     arbitrary order. The constraint is described by two specifications, WSISPEC35 and
       WSISPEC45 in column 2 of Table 680 illustrated in FIG. 6E.
   *   The workstation WS2 622 is loaded with parts of type I by AGV1 616 and unloaded
       by AGV3 628, and can contain at most one part. The specification is denoted
       WS2SPEC in column 2 of table 680 illustrated in FIG. 6E.
20 e   The workstation WS3 624 is loaded with parts of type II by AGV2 618 and
       unloaded by AGV4 630, and can contain at most one part. The specification is
       denoted WS3SPEC in column 2 of table 680 illustrated in FIG. 6E.
   *   IPS1 612 and IPS2 614 share a common work area. AGVI 616 and AGV2 618
       cannot occupy the shared work area simultaneously. The specification is denoted
25     IPSPEC in column 2 of table 680 illustrated in FIG. 6E.
   3) Supervisors obtained by the S* algorithm
   In one embodiment, all the eight modular supervisors are computed using the Alg. 2 in
   FIG. 4.
30
   The results after the executing the Alg. 2 in FIG. 4 are shown in table 680 in FIG. 6E.
   The names for modular supervisors and corresponding specifications are listed in
   column one and column two of table 680. The AGVs listed in the third column of table
                                                38

   680 are relevant for the specification at column two to obtain modular plants. The
   numbers of the states and transitions of each modular plant are listed in column four of
   table 680. The sizes of modular supervisor are highlighted in bold in the column five
   of table 680. The numbers of iterations and the total computation times of the A1g. 2 in
 5 FIG. 4 are listed in columns six and seven of table 680. The numbers of specification
   membership queries used for filling observation tables and finding counterexamples are
   listed in the last two columns of table 680, respectively.
       All the learned modular supervisors are compared with the ones computed in TCT,
10 and they are isomorphic. The eight modular supervisors are checked whether they
   achieve a nonblocking controlled system. Unfortunately, they have conflict and bring
   about a blocking system. A coordinating modular supervisor with 165 states and 338
   transitions is designed to eliminate the blocking state by the SCT method.
15
   Small Factory
   In an embodiment, the disclosed method is applied to construct the supremal
   nonblocking supervisor on a small factory expreiment, which is shown in FIG. 7A. The
   Small Factory system consists of two machines MACH, 712, MACH2 714 and a
20 buffer BUF 716.
    MACH      712, MACH, 714 both has three states, labeled by II Wi,        D (i=l, 2) for
   'idle', 'working' and 'broken down', respectively. The controllable and uncontrollable
   event sets are 1, = {w,, r} and 1, = {cib,} (i=1, 2), respectively. Event w1 represents
25 that the MACHi starts to work, and the event     q means that the work completes. Event
    b. indicates that MACH, breaks down, and event . represents the repairing operation.
   If event wy occurs, the machine enters the working state from the idle state. Once the
   work is done, event c occurs and MACHI returns to the initial state. The machine may
   break down when it is working. Event b leads MACH, to the broken state from the
30 working state. If event ; happens, MACH         is repaired and reset to the normal idle
   state.
                                               39

   The plant model for Small Factory is the synchronization of MACH, 712 and MACH               2
   714. The specifications for admissible operation are the following.
 5 e    The buffer should neither overflow nor underflow, which means that MACH               712
        cannot put a part into BUF 716 when the buffer is full and MACH 2 714 cannot take
        a part from BUF 716 when the buffer is empty.
   *    If both machines are broken down, then MACH 2 714 must be repaired before
10      MACH 1 712.
   In one enbodiment, experiments are excuted by increasing the buffer size from 2 to 22.
   The first column of table 740 with entries S 2, S4, S6, Ss, SiO, S1 2, S14, S16, S1s, S20, S22,
   denotes tentatively correct supervisors with different buffer size (2 to 22). The
15 tentatively correct supervisors obtained by the S* algorithm are always nonblocking for
   all experiments. From the experiment results we can conclude that the number of states
   of the tentative supervisor increases by 18 when the buffer sizes increases by 2. FIG.
   7B shows mean value and standard deviation of the length of middle strings in small
   factory experiment.
20
   The estimated state sizes for equivalence queries are also determined via experiments.
   The same property about the lengths of the strings p , u, and w is observed for this
   example. The maximal length of the middle string u is also relatively stable and always
25 less than 5. Table 740 lists the mean values and standard deviations of the lengths of
   the middle string u during the iterations of Alg. 2 for all supervisors. The table 740
   shows that / = 5 is sufficient for identifying counterexamples by the equivalence
   queries.
30 FIG 7C shows the numbers of specification membership queries used for filling the
   observation table and finding counterexamples in the entire learning process without
   using the Simplification 1 and Simplification 2 in accordance with an example
   embodiment.      The    number   of specification   membership        queries    for finding
                                              40

   counterexamples increases exponentially with the number of the states in the
   supervisor, while that of the specification membership queries for filling the
   observation table increases relatively more slowly.
 5 By way of example and to reduce the complexity of finding counterexamples, the
   numbers of the specification membership queries using different combinations of
   SimplificationsI and 2 are shown in FIG 7D. About 10% specification membership
   queries are reduced using Simplification 1, as shown in the dash line 762 in FIG. 7D,
   while about 55% specification membership queries are reduced using Simplification 2,
10 as shown in dash line 764 in FIG 7D. Since Simplifications 1 and 2 are independent of
   each other, if both are used, more than 60% specification membership queries are
   reduced, which is shown in dash line 766 in FIG. 7D. The reduction of the specification
   membership when executing the S* algorithm will directly reduce the computation costs
   in memory of the computerized control system to compute a supremal nonblocking
15 supervisor to build an automaton model for a plant.
   The system and method of the present disclosure may be implemented in the form of a
   software application running on a computer system. FIG. 9 shows an illustrative data
   processing device 800 consisting of both the hardware 801 and software components
20 802 that can be employed as the computerized control system for the present disclosure.
   The hardware components in the present embodiment comprises the processor 810,
   memory 811, storage 812, and multiple interfaces such as the peripheral interface 813,
   network interface 814, input interface 815 and output interface 816. In another
   embodiment, the present disclosure may also be deployed in a distributed computing
25 environment that includes more than one data processing devices 800 connected
   together through one or more networks via the network interface 814.
   Processor   810 can     be a central processing     unit (CPU),    a microprocessor,
   microcontrollers, a digital signal processor (DSP), field programmable gate arrays
   (FPGA), or application-specific integrated circuits (ASIC).. One or more processors
30 can communicate with each other and memory and perform operations and tasks that
   implement one or more blocks of the flow diagrams discussed herein.
                                              41

   Memory 811 can include dynamic or static random-access memory (DRAM or SRAM)
   or read-only memory such as Erasable and Programmable Read-Only Memories
   (EPROMs),       Electrically  Erasable    and  Programmable        Read-Only    Memories
   (EEPROMs) and flash memories, as well as other memory technologies, singly or
 5 jointly combined. The memory, for example, stores applications, data, programs,
   algorithms (including software to implement or assist in implementing example
   embodiments) and other data.
   Storage 812 includes persistence storage such as magnetic disks such as fixed and
   removable disks; other magnetic media including tape; optical media such as Compact
10 Disks (CDs) or Digital Versatile Disks (DVDs), and semiconductor storage devices
   such as flash memory cards, solid-state drive, EPROMs, EEPROMS or other storage
   technologies, singly or in combination. Note that the instructions of the software 802
   can be provided on computer-readable or machine-readable storage medium, or
   alternatively, can be provided on multiple computer-readable or machine-readable
15 storage media distributed in a large system having possibly plural nodes. Such
   computer-readable or machine-readable medium or media is (are) considered to be part
   of an article (or article of manufacture). An article or articles of manufacture can refer
   to any manufactured single component or multiple components.
   Input interface 815 is the interfacing components that connect the data processing
20 device 800 to data inputting devices such as keyboard, or other point devices, voice
   input apparatus, scanner or other input technologies. Output interface 816 is the
   interfacing components for the data processing device 800 to send data to outputting
   devices such as CRT or flat panel display monitor, printer or other output technologies.
   Peripheral interface 813 may typically include the serial or parallel interface and the
25 USB (Universal Serial Bus) interfaces, and other interfacing technologies. Network
   interface 814 enables the data processing device 800 to exchange information with
   external data-processing devices via a data communication network such as the
   Personal Area Network (PAN), the Local Area Network (LAN), the Wide Area
   Network (WAN), metropolitan area network (MAN), the Internet, an intranet, an
30 extranet, a cellular network,and other public or private data communication network
   architectures. The network interface 814 can include the Ethernet interface, the
                                               42

   Wireless LAN interface device, the Bluetooth interfacing device and other networking
   devices, singly or in combination.
   Software 802 further includes the operating system 850, and the supremal non-blocking
   supervisor 852. Operating system 850 is to manage all the hardware resources, and
 5 schedule executing priorities for all tasks and processes so that the supremal non
   blocking supervisor 852 can all be executed in an orderly manner.
   Blocks and/or methods discussed herein can be executed and/or made by a user, a user
   agent (including machine learning agents and intelligent user agents), a software
   application, an electronic device, a computer, firmware, hardware, a process, a
10 computer system, and/or an intelligent personal assistant. Furthermore, blocks and/or
   methods discussed herein can be executed automatically with or without instruction
   from a user.
   It should be understood for those skilled in the art that the division between hardware
   and software is a conceptual division for ease of understanding and is somewhat
15 arbitrary. Moreover, it will be appreciated that peripheral devices in one computer
   installation may be integrated to the host computer in another. Furthermore, the
   application software systems may be executed in a distributed computing environment.
   The software program and its related databases can be stored in a separate file server or
   database server and is transferred to the local host for execution. The data processing
20 device 800 as shown in FIG. 9 is therefore an exemplary embodiment of how the present
   invention can be implemented. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that alternative
   embodiments can be adopted to implement the present invention.
   The preferred embodiments of the present invention are thus fully described. Although
   the description referred to particular embodiments, it will be clear to one skilled in the
25 art that the present invention may be practiced with variation of these specific details.
   Hence this invention should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth
   herein.
   For example, embodiments, are not limited to manufacturing system or a particular type
30 of industrial system. Various industrial automated systems, communication systems
   and computer-based systems, such as production lines with buffers, machine shops,
                                              43

   automated assembly lines, multi-robot assembly system, multiprocessor system,
   parallel computer architectures, chemical processes, etc., that have properties of process
   synchronization, asynchronous events, concurrent operations, and conflicts or resource
   sharing can all be recognized as DESs. The system and method presented in this
 5 disclosure can be applied to all these industrial applications.
   The methods in accordance with example embodiments are provided as examples, and
   examples from one method should not be construed to limit examples from another
   method. Further, methods discussed within different figures can be added to or
10 exchanged with methods in other figures. Further yet, specific numerical data values
   (such as specific quantities, numbers, categories, etc.) or other specific information
   should be interpreted as illustrative for discussing example embodiments. Such specific
   information is not provided to limit example embodiments. For example, the
   applications of DES are not limited to the manufacturing system using AGVs and the
15 small factory system which were illustrated as the examples. Manufacturing systems,
   traffic systems, computer networks, communication protocols, process control plants
   are examples of DES.
                                                44

                                         CLAIMS
What is claimed is:
1. A method to improve the effectiveness of a computerized control system for
controlling a plant when at least one specification governing the plant is not available
comprising:
       constructing a supremal nonblocking supervisor as a controller that issues control
         commands to the plant in response to discrete events generated from the plant
         comprising:
              creating, by the computerized control system, a preliminary supervisor;
              if the preliminary supervisor is determined, by the computerized control
                 system, to be non-blocking, designating the preliminary supervisor as
                 the supremal nonblocking supervisor;
              if the preliminary supervisor is determined, by the computerized control
                 system, to be blocking, designating the preliminary supervisor as a new
                 plant, the non-blocking property as the specification and employing a
                 supervisory control theory (SCT) to synthesize a supremal nonblocking
                 supervisor; and
       executing, by the computerized control system, the supremal nonblocking
         supervisor thus obtained to allow the plant to operate at a high degree of
         freedom and steer the plant away from entering into a blocking state.
2. The method according to claim 1, comprising:
     a) establishing, by the computerized control system, an initial observation table
      (S, E, T) of the plant;
     b) checking and modifying, by the computerized control system, the observation
     table (S, E, T) to ensure the observation table is both S-consistent and S-closed;
     c) constructing, by the computerized control system, a conjecture M based on the
     observation table (S, E, T) ;
     d) generating, by the computerized control system, a plurality of test strings;
     e) for each test string generated, if the response from the conjecture M on this test
     string is determined, by the computerized control system, to be different from the
                                             45

      response obtained from a supervisor membership query on said test string, then
      declaring the test string as a counterexample;
      f) if a counterexample is found by the computerized control system, then
      appending the test string to the observation table and repeating steps (b) to (f);
      g) if no counterexamples is found by the computerized control system, then
      designating conjecture M as the preliminary supervisor.
3. The method of claim 2 wherein for each test string s, the computerized control system
further executes all of the following steps:
      computing (M(s) for conjecture M, where (M(s) is mapped to a first value when
          (s E Lm(M)), mapped to a second value when (s E (L(M) - Lm(M)) and
         mapped to a third value otherwise;
      determining tc(s) using the supervisor membership query function where tc(s)
         is mapped to the same first value when s is tentatively marked, mapped to the
          same second value when s is tentatively accepted but not marked and to the
          same third value otherwise;
      if (M(s) # tc(s) then test string s is a counterexample.
4. The method of claim 2 wherein the S and the E in the observation table (S, E, T)
are nonempty prefix-closed and suffix-closed sets of strings in E* respectively, and T
is a function mapping from (S u S.I).E to a plurality of distinct values; the observation
table (S, E, T) is constructed according to the following steps:
      labeling, by the computerized control system, each row by elements of
          SE (S u S.I);
      labeling, by the computerized control system, each column by elements of E; and
      assigning, by the computerized control system, T(se) to be equal to tc(se), where
          T(se) is the entry of row s e (S u S.Y) and column e e E and tc(se) is the value
         of the supervisor membership query function for string se.
5. The method of claim 4 further comprising the following steps to ensure whether the
observation table (S, E, T) is S-consistent:
     a) if the observation table (S, E, T)    is not S-consistent, then finding s, and S2 in
                                               46

         S , a    I and ee E with T(s,) = T(s,) > 0 such that row(s,) = row(s2 ) and
         T(siae) # T(seue);
    b) adding ae to E          and extend T       to (S u S.Y).E   using the supervisor
        membership query function for the missing elements; and
    c) repeating steps (a) and (b) until the observation table (S, E, T) is S-consistent;
     wherein all these steps are executed by the computerized control system.
6. The method of claim 4 further comprising the following steps to ensure whether the
observation table (S, E,T) is S-closed:
    a) if the observation table (S,E,T) is not S-closed, then finding s, E S and a E I
        such that row(sta) with T(sta) > 0 is different from row(s) for all s e S ;
    b) adding s a      to S    and extend T        to (S u S.I).E using the supervisor
        membership query function; and
    c) repeating steps (a) and (b) until the observation table (S, E, T) is S-closed
        wherein all these steps are executed by the computerized control system.
7. The method of claim 4 wherein the steps of constructing the conjecture M further
comprises    the   steps   of creating a     quintuple deterministic    finite automaton
 M = (Q,X,    ,q0 ,Qn)  by the computerized control system using information from the
observation table (S,E,T) as follows:
     - Q = {row (s) IT(s) > 0, s e S} is a set of states,
     e  E is an alphabet,
     eq   = row(e) if T(e) > 0 is the initial state,
     - 6: Q x Y -> Q is the transition function where 6(row(s), a) = row(sa) if
      T(sa) > 0; otherwise, 6(row(s), a) is not defined,
     - Q,, = {row(s) I s E S and T(s) = 2} is the set of marker states.
8. The method of claim 4 wherein the computation time of the computerized control
system can be reduced by evaluating the value of the supervisor membership query
function tc (s) using a first simplification rule in the computer system wherein the first
                                             47

simplification rule is a function defined as: Let s' ( L(G) . If there exists a string
 s E S u S.1 such that s- s' and T (s) = 0 , then tc (s') = 0 .
9. The method of claim 4 wherein the computation time of the computerized control
system can be reduced by evaluating the value of the supervise membership query
function ic (s) using a second simplification rule in the computer system, wherein the
second simplification rule is a function defined as: Let s'e L(G)     . If there exists a
string se S uS.X such that s'E skid(s) and T(s) > 0 , then tc(s') = I if s'     L,(G) or
 tc(s') = 2 if s'e L,(G).
 10. A computerized control system comprises a supremal nonblocking supervisor to
control a plant when at least one specification governing the plant is not available by
issuing control commands to the plant in response to discrete events generated from the
plant wherein the supremal nonblocking supervisor is realized comprising:
      creating a preliminary conjecture by the computerized control system;
      if the preliminary supervisor is determined, by the computerized control system,
         to be non-blocking, then designating the preliminary supervisor as the supremal
         nonblocking supervisor;
      if the preliminary supervisor is determined, by the computerized control system,
         to be blocking, then designating the preliminary supervisor as a new plant, the
         non-blocking property as the specification and employing a supervisory control
         theory (SCT) to synthesize a supremal nonblocking supervisor
      wherein the supremal nonblocking supervisor thus obtained can be executed by
the computerized control system to allow the plant to operate at a high degree of
freedom and steer the plant away from entering into a blocking state.
11. The computerized control system of claim 10, wherein the supremal nonblocking
supervisor comprises a quintuple deterministic finite automaton M = (Q, 1, 6, q0 , Qm)
12. The computerized control system of claim 10, wherein the observation table
 (S,E,T) further comprises the S , E and the T components wherein S and E are
nonempty prefix-closed and suffix-closed sets of strings in in E* respectively, and T
                                            48

is a function mapping from (S u S.I).E to a plurality of distinct values; the function
mapping being obtained by conducting supervisor membership queries running on the
computerized control system.
13. The computerized control system of claim 12. wherein the preliminary conjecture
M comprises a quintuple M = (Q , 6, qO, Q,) created based on the information of the
observation table (S, E,T) , where
         Q = {row(s)I T (s) > 0. s e S} is a set of states,
      e  E is an alphabet,
      eq    = row(e) if T(e) > 0 is the initial state,
      - 6: Q x I -> Q is the transition function where 6(row(s), a) = row(sa) if
       T(sa) > 0; otherwise, 6(row(s), a) is not defined,
      -  Q,  = {row(s) I s e S and T(s) = 2} is the set of marker states tc(s)
wherein the observation table (S, E,T) is S-closed and S-consistent.
14. The computerized control system of claim 12, wherein the computation time of
computerized control system can be reduced by evaluating the value of the supervise
membership query function tc (s) by a first simplification rule in the computer system,
wherein the first simplification rule is a function defined as: Let s'E L(G) . If there
exists a string s E S u S.X such that s - s' and T (s) = 0 , then tc (s') = 0 ..
15. The computerized control system of claim 12, wherein the computation time of
computerized control system can be reduced by evaluating the value of the supervise
membership query function tc (s) by a second simplification rule in the computer
system, wherein the second simplification rule is a function defined as: Let s'  E L(G).
If there exists a string s e S u S.X such that s'e skid(s) and T(s) > 0, then tc(s') = 1
if s'e L,,(G) or tc(s') = 2 if s'e L,,(G).
16. A method to improve the effectiveness of a computerized control system for
controlling a plant when at least one specification governing the plant is not available
comprising:
                                               49

constructing a supremal nonblocking supervisor running on the computerized
control system that issues control commands to the plant in response to discrete
events generated from the plant further comprising:
     a) establishing, by the computerized control system, an initial observation
     table (SE,T) ;
     b) ensuring, by the computerized control system, the observation table
      (S,E,T)    is both S-consistent and S-closed;
     c) constructing, by the computerized control system, a conjecture M
     based on the observation table (S, E,T) ;
     d) performing, by the computerized control system, an equivalence query
     that creates a plurality of test strings and compares the responses of
     conjecture     M against    the   responses obtained   via the   supervisor
     membership query on said plurality of test strings; and designates a test
     string as a counterexample if the responses are different;
     e) if a counterexample is found, by the computerized control system, then
     absorbing the test string to the observation table (S,E,T)   and repeating
     steps (b) to (e);
     f) if no counterexamples is found, then checking, by the computerized
     control system whether the conjecture M is blocking or nonblocking;
     g) if the conjecture M is determined, by the computerized control system,
     to be non-blocking, designating the conjecture M as the supremal
     nonblocking supervisor; and
     h) if the conjecture M is determined, by the computerized control system,
     to be blocking, designating the conjecture M as a new plant, the language
      E* as the nonblocking specification to synthesize, and employing a
     supervisory control theory (SCT) to synthesize a supremal nonblocking
     supervisor
executing, by the computerized control system the supremal nonblocking
supervisor thus obtained to allow the plant to operate at a high degree of
freedom and steer the plant away from entering into a blocking state.
                                     50

17. The method of claim 16 wherein the conjecture M is constructed, by the
computerized control system, as a quintuple M = (Q, , , qO, Q,,)  using the information
of the observation table (S, E, T) , wherein,
      SQ  = {row(s) IT(s)> 0,s e S} is a set of states,
     - E is an alphabet,
     -q   = row(e) if T(e) > 0 is the initial state,
     e 3: Q x Y -+ Q is the transition function where 6(row(s), a) = row(sa) if
      T(sa) > 0; otherwise, 6(row(s), a) is not defined.,
     - Q, = {row(s) I s e S and T(s) = 2} is the set of marker states tc(s)
     wherein the observation table (S, E,T) is S-closed and S-complete.
18. The method of claim 16 wherein the equivalence query is performed, by the
computerized control system, according to Alg. 1 in FIG. 3.
19. The method of claim 18 further comprising computing the function      M(s) for string
s when executing Alg. 1 in FIG. 3 by the computerized control system,, wherein
                 L2       seL,(M)
          d(s) =. l   se L(M) - L.(M)
                   0      otherwise.
20. The method of claim 18 further comprising determining the function tc(s) for string
s when executing Alg. 1 in FIG. 3 by the computerized control system, wherein
                 2           s is tentatively marked
        tc(s)= 1 s is tentatively accepted but not marked
                 0                  otherwise.
                                             51

<removed-date>
                                          <U+2736> <U+2736><U+2701>
              <U+2702><U+2735><U+2735>
                    <U+2748><U+2666><U+2665>str<U+2709><U+275D>t<U+2710><U+2665><U+2763> <U+275B> <U+2663>r<U+2761><U+2767><U+2710><U+2660><U+2710><U+2665><U+275B>r<U+2461> s<U+2709><U+2663><U+2761>r<U+2708><U+2710>s<U+2666>r
                                    <U+2704><U+2704><U+260E>
<removed-apn>
                          <U+2749><U+2761>t<U+2761>r<U+2660><U+2710><U+2665><U+2710><U+2665><U+2763> <U+2707><U+2764><U+2761>t<U+2764><U+2761>r t<U+2764><U+2761>
                          <U+2663>r<U+2761><U+2767><U+2710><U+2660><U+2710><U+2665><U+275B>r<U+2461> s<U+2709><U+2663><U+2761>r<U+2708><U+2710>s<U+2666>r <U+2710>s
                                                                <U+2747><U+2767><U+2666><U+275D><U+2766><U+2710><U+2665><U+2763>
                       <U+275C><U+2767><U+2666><U+275D><U+2766><U+2710><U+2665><U+2763> <U+2666>r <U+2665><U+2666><U+2665><U+275C><U+2767><U+2666><U+275D><U+2766><U+2710><U+2665><U+2763> <U+275C><U+2461> t<U+2764><U+2761>
                        <U+275D><U+2666><U+2660><U+2663><U+2709>t<U+2761>r<U+2710><U+2462><U+2761><U+275E> <U+275D><U+2666><U+2665>tr<U+2666><U+2767> s<U+2461>st<U+2761><U+2660>
                                    <U+2704><U+2737><U+260E>
                         <U+25C6><U+2666><U+2665><U+275C><U+2767><U+2666><U+275D><U+2766><U+2710><U+2665><U+2763>
                                                 <U+2749><U+2761>s<U+2710><U+2763><U+2665><U+275B>t<U+2710><U+2665><U+2763> t<U+2764><U+2761> <U+2663>r<U+2761><U+2767><U+2710><U+2660><U+2710><U+2665><U+275B>r<U+2461>
                                                 s<U+2709><U+2663><U+2761>r<U+2708><U+2710>s<U+2666>r <U+275B>s <U+275B> <U+2665><U+2761><U+2707> <U+2663><U+2767><U+275B><U+2665>t<U+2740>
               <U+2749><U+2761>s<U+2710><U+2763><U+2665><U+275B>t<U+2710><U+2665><U+2763> t<U+2764><U+2761> <U+2663>r<U+2761><U+2767><U+2710><U+2660><U+2710><U+2665><U+275B>r<U+2461>
                                                   <U+2761><U+2660><U+2663><U+2767><U+2666><U+2461><U+2710><U+2665><U+2763> s<U+2709><U+2663><U+2761>r<U+2708><U+2710>s<U+2666>r<U+2461>
               s<U+2709><U+2663><U+2761>r<U+2708><U+2710>s<U+2666>r <U+275B>s t<U+2764><U+2761> s<U+2709><U+2663>r<U+2761><U+2660><U+275B><U+2767>
                                                 <U+275D><U+2666><U+2665>tr<U+2666><U+2767> t<U+2764><U+2761><U+2666>r<U+2461> t<U+2666> s<U+2461><U+2665>t<U+2764><U+2761>s<U+2710><U+2462><U+2761>
                 <U+2665><U+2666><U+2665><U+275C><U+2767><U+2666><U+275D><U+2766><U+2710><U+2665><U+2763> s<U+2709><U+2663><U+2761>r<U+2708><U+2710>s<U+2666>r
                                                  <U+275B> s<U+2709><U+2663>r<U+2761><U+2660><U+275B><U+2767> <U+2665><U+2666><U+2665><U+275C><U+2767><U+2666><U+275D><U+2766><U+2710><U+2665><U+2763>
                           <U+2704><U+2738><U+260E>
                                                         s<U+2709><U+2663><U+2761>r<U+2708><U+2710>s<U+2666>r
                                                             <U+2704><U+2739><U+260E>
                          <U+274A><U+2460><U+2761><U+275D><U+2709>t<U+2710><U+2665><U+2763> t<U+2764><U+2761> s<U+2709><U+2663>r<U+2761><U+2660><U+275B><U+2767> <U+2665><U+2666><U+2665><U+275C><U+2767><U+2666><U+275D><U+2766><U+2710><U+2665><U+2763>
                              s<U+2709><U+2663><U+2761>r<U+2708><U+2710>s<U+2666>r t<U+2666> <U+275D><U+2666><U+2665>tr<U+2666><U+2767> t<U+2764><U+2761> <U+2663><U+2767><U+275B><U+2665>t
                                           <U+2704><U+273A><U+260E>
                                        <U+274B><U+25CF><U+2733> <U+2702>

                             <U+2737> <U+2736><U+2701>
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2735><U+2735>
                   <U+2702><U+2735>                         <U+2739><U+2735>
                               <U+2738><U+2735>
                        <U+2735>
                                    <U+273A><U+2735>   <U+273B><U+2735>
                            <U+274B><U+25CF><U+2733>

       <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                     <U+2738><U+2735><U+2735>
<U+274B><U+25CF><U+2733>
                            <U+2738> <U+2736><U+2701>
<U+2738>

       <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2739><U+2735><U+2735>
<U+274B><U+25CF><U+2733>
                            <U+2739> <U+2736><U+2701>
<U+2739>

                         <U+273A> <U+2736><U+2701>
<removed-date>
              <U+273A><U+2702><U+2735>
<removed-apn>
                    <U+2756><U+275C>s r<U+2708><U+2701>t<U+2710><U+2666><U+2665> <U+275A><U+2701><U+275C><U+2767>
                       <U+274B><U+25CF><U+2733>   <U+273A><U+2746>
              <U+273A><U+2702>
                       <U+274B><U+25CF><U+2733>   <U+273A><U+2747>

<removed-date>
                           <U+273B> <U+2736><U+2701>
              <U+273A>   <U+2735>
<removed-apn>
                      <U+2756><U+275C>s r<U+2708><U+2701>t<U+2710><U+2666><U+2665> <U+275A><U+2701><U+275C><U+2767>
                         <U+274B><U+25CF><U+2733>   <U+273A><U+2748>
              <U+273A>
                         <U+274B><U+25CF><U+2733>   <U+273A><U+2749>

<removed-date>
                       <U+273C> <U+2736><U+2701>
              <U+273A><U+2738><U+2735>
<removed-apn>
                    <U+2756><U+275C>s r<U+2708><U+2701>t<U+2710><U+2666><U+2665> <U+275A><U+2701><U+275C><U+2767>
                      <U+274B><U+25CF><U+2733>   <U+273A><U+274A>
              <U+273A><U+2738>
                      <U+274B><U+25CF><U+2733>   <U+273A><U+274B>

<removed-date>
                       <U+2701> <U+2736><U+2701>
              <U+273A><U+2739><U+2735>
<removed-apn>
                    <U+2756><U+275C>s r<U+2708><U+2701>t<U+2710><U+2666><U+2665> <U+275A><U+2701><U+275C><U+2767>
                     <U+274B><U+25CF><U+2733>   <U+273A><U+25CF>
               <U+273A><U+2739>
                      <U+274B><U+25CF><U+2733>   <U+273A><U+274D>

<removed-date>
                       <U+273E> <U+2736><U+2701>
              <U+273A><U+273A><U+2735>
<removed-apn>
                    <U+2756><U+275C>s r<U+2708><U+2701>t<U+2710><U+2666><U+2665> <U+275A><U+2701><U+275C><U+2767>
                      <U+274B><U+25CF><U+2733>   <U+273A>
               <U+273A><U+273A>
                      <U+274B><U+25CF><U+2733>   <U+273A><U+274F>

             <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
       <U+273A><U+273B><U+2735>
                                  <U+2736>
<U+274B><U+25CF><U+2733>
                                  <U+2736> <U+2736><U+2701>
<U+273A><U+2751>

<removed-date>
                                 <U+2736><U+2736> <U+2736><U+2701>
                      <U+273B><U+2702>                          <U+273B>
              <U+273B><U+2702><U+2735>                           <U+273B><U+2702><U+273B>
<removed-apn>
              <U+273B><U+2702><U+2739>
                                  <U+273B><U+2702><U+273D>
                       <U+273B><U+2738><U+2739>
                           <U+273B> <U+273D>
              <U+273B>   <U+2735>
                                  <U+273B><U+2738><U+273B>                 <U+273B> <U+2739>
                                 <U+273B><U+2738><U+2735>
                                                      <U+273B> <U+273B>
                           <U+273B><U+2738>    <U+273B><U+2738><U+273D>
                                <U+274B><U+25CF><U+2733>   <U+273B><U+2746>

                                 <U+2737> <U+2736><U+2701>
<removed-date>
                                <U+2736>
              <U+273B><U+2739><U+2735>                           <U+273B><U+2739><U+2739>
                                    <U+273B><U+2739>
<removed-apn>
                         <U+273B><U+2739><U+273B>       <U+273B><U+2739><U+273D>
                               <U+274B><U+25CF><U+2733> <U+273B><U+2747>
              <U+273B><U+273A><U+2735>         <U+273B><U+273A>          <U+273B><U+273A><U+2739>         <U+273B><U+273A><U+273B>
                    <U+273B><U+273B>         <U+273B><U+273B><U+2735>          <U+273B><U+273A><U+273D>
                               <U+274B><U+25CF><U+2733>   <U+273B><U+2748>

       <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                          <U+273B><U+273C><U+2735>
                            <U+2736>
<U+274B><U+25CF><U+2733>
                            <U+2738> <U+2736><U+2701>
<U+273B><U+2749>

                                    <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
<U+273B>   <U+273D>   <U+2735>
                                                         <U+2736>
                                                         <U+2739> <U+2736><U+2701>
            <U+274B>      <U+25CF>   <U+2733>   <U+273B>   <U+274A>

<removed-date>
                          <U+2736><U+273A> <U+2736><U+2701>
                    <U+273C><U+2702>           <U+273C><U+2702><U+273B>   <U+273C><U+2702><U+2739>
              <U+273C><U+2702><U+2735>
<removed-apn>
                         <U+274B><U+25CF><U+2733>   <U+273C><U+2746>
              <U+273C><U+2739><U+2735>
                         <U+274B><U+25CF><U+2733>   <U+273C><U+2747>

<removed-date>
                      <U+2736><U+273B> <U+2736><U+2701>
              <U+273C><U+273A><U+2735>
<removed-apn>
                    <U+274B><U+25CF><U+2733>   <U+273C><U+2748>
              <U+273C><U+273B><U+2735>
                                <U+273C><U+273B>
                                <U+273C><U+273B><U+2739>
                                <U+273C><U+273B><U+273B>
                    <U+274B><U+25CF><U+2733>   <U+273C><U+2749>

<removed-date>
                                                     <U+2736> <U+273C> <U+2736><U+2701>
              <U+273A><U+2735><U+2735>
               <U+274A>st<U+275B><U+275C><U+2767><U+2710>s<U+2764> <U+275B><U+2665> <U+2710><U+2665><U+2710>t<U+2710><U+275B><U+2767> <U+2666><U+275C>s<U+2761>r<U+2708><U+275B>t<U+2710><U+2666><U+2665> t<U+275B><U+275C><U+2767><U+2761>              <U+272D><U+2759><U+2731> <U+274A><U+2731> <U+275A><U+272E> <U+2666><U+2762> t<U+2764><U+2761> <U+2663><U+2767><U+275B><U+2665>t
                                                     <U+273A><U+2704><U+260E>
              <U+2748><U+2764><U+2761><U+275D><U+2766> <U+275B><U+2665><U+275E> <U+2761><U+2665>s<U+2709>r<U+2761> t<U+2764><U+275B>t t<U+2764><U+2761> <U+2666><U+275C>s<U+2761>r<U+2708><U+275B>t<U+2710><U+2666><U+2665> t<U+275B><U+275C><U+2767><U+2761>                 <U+272D><U+2759><U+2731> <U+274A><U+2731>
<removed-apn>
                     <U+275A><U+272E> <U+2710>s <U+275C><U+2666>t<U+2764> <U+2732><U+275D><U+2666><U+2665>s<U+2710>st<U+2761><U+2665>t <U+275B><U+2665><U+275E> <U+2732><U+275D><U+2767><U+2666>s<U+2761><U+275E>
                                             <U+273A><U+2737><U+260E>
                     <U+2748><U+2666><U+2665>str<U+2709><U+275D>t <U+275B> <U+275D><U+2666><U+2665> <U+2761><U+275D>t<U+2709>r<U+2761>  <U+25BC> <U+275C><U+275B>s<U+2761><U+275E> <U+2666><U+2665>
                                             <U+2765>
                        t<U+2764><U+2761> <U+2666><U+275C>s<U+2761>r<U+2708><U+275B>t<U+2710><U+2666><U+2665> t<U+275B><U+275C><U+2767><U+2761> <U+272D><U+2759><U+2731> <U+274A><U+2731> <U+275A><U+272E>
                                             <U+273A><U+2738><U+260E>
                      <U+25CF><U+2761><U+2665><U+2761>r<U+275B>t<U+2761> <U+275B> <U+2663><U+2767><U+2709>r<U+275B><U+2767><U+2710>t<U+2461> <U+2666><U+2762> t<U+2761>st str<U+2710><U+2665><U+2763>s
                                             <U+273A><U+2739><U+260E>
                                   r<U+2761>s<U+2663><U+2666><U+2665>s<U+2761>s <U+2666>           <U+2762>
                               <U+2765>
                           <U+275D><U+2666><U+2665> <U+2761><U+275D>t<U+2709>r<U+2761>            <U+25BC> t<U+2666> <U+275B><U+2767><U+2767> t<U+2761>st
                             str<U+2710><U+2665><U+2763>s t<U+2764><U+2761> s<U+275B><U+2660><U+2761> <U+275B>s
                                         <U+2762>
                         r<U+2761>s<U+2663><U+2666><U+2665>s<U+2761>s r<U+2666><U+2660> s<U+2709><U+2663><U+2761>r<U+2708><U+2710>s<U+2666>r                                <U+25C6><U+2666>
                            <U+2660><U+2761><U+2660><U+275C><U+2761>rs<U+2764><U+2710><U+2663>              q<U+2709><U+2761>r<U+2461> <U+2744>
                                         <U+273A><U+273A><U+2735>
                                                                  <U+2746><U+2663><U+2663><U+2761><U+2665><U+275E> t<U+2764><U+2761> t<U+2761>st str<U+2710><U+2665><U+2763>
                                   <U+2768><U+2761>s                            <U+2707><U+2764><U+2761>r<U+2761> r<U+2761>s<U+2663><U+2666><U+2665>s<U+2761> <U+2666><U+2762> <U+25BC>
                                                                  <U+275E><U+2710><U+2762><U+2762><U+2761>rs <U+2762>r<U+2666><U+2660> s<U+2709><U+2663><U+2761>r<U+2708><U+2710>s<U+2666>r
                                                                 <U+2660><U+2761><U+2660><U+275C><U+2761>rs<U+2764><U+2710><U+2663> q<U+2709><U+2761>r<U+2461> t<U+2666> t<U+2764><U+2761>
                                                                    <U+2666><U+275C>s<U+2761>r<U+2708><U+275B>t<U+2710><U+2666><U+2665> t<U+275B><U+275C><U+2767><U+2761>
                                                                            <U+273C>
                                                                           <U+273A> <U+260E>
                               <U+2765>
                <U+2749><U+2761>s<U+2710><U+2763><U+2665><U+275B>t<U+2761> <U+275D><U+2666><U+2665> <U+2761><U+275D>t<U+2709>r<U+2761>             <U+25BC> <U+275B>s t<U+2764><U+2761> <U+2663>r<U+2761><U+2767><U+2710><U+2660><U+2710><U+2665><U+275B>r<U+2461> s<U+2709><U+2663><U+2761>r<U+2708><U+2710>s<U+2666>r
                                                   <U+273A><U+273B><U+260E>
                                                    <U+274B><U+25CF><U+2733>     <U+273D>

<removed-date>
                                   <U+2736><U+2701> <U+2736><U+2701>
                 <U+2759><U+2666><U+2762>t<U+2707><U+275B>r <U+273D><U+2735><U+2737>
<removed-apn>
               <U+2756><U+2663> r<U+275B>t<U+2701><U+2665><U+2763> <U+2759><U+2461>st <U+2660>
                                  <U+273D><U+273A><U+2735>
                                  <U+273D><U+273A><U+2737>
                 Pr<U+2666><U+275D> ss<U+2666>r <U+273D><U+2736><U+2735>               P r<U+2701><U+2663><U+2764> r<U+275B><U+2767>
                                           <U+2702><U+2665>t r<U+2762><U+275B><U+275D> <U+273D><U+2736><U+2738>
                  <U+25BC> <U+2660><U+2666>r<U+2461> <U+273D><U+2736><U+2736>                  <U+25C6> t<U+2707><U+2666>r<U+2766>
                                           <U+2702><U+2665>t r<U+2762><U+275B><U+275D> <U+273D><U+2736><U+2739>
                                               <U+2702><U+2665><U+2663><U+2709>t
                  <U+2759>t<U+2666>r<U+275B><U+2763> <U+273D><U+2736><U+2737>
                                           <U+2702><U+2665>t r<U+2762><U+275B><U+275D> <U+273D><U+2736><U+273A>
                                               <U+2756><U+2709>t<U+2663><U+2709>t
                                           <U+2702><U+2665>t r<U+2762><U+275B><U+275D> <U+273D><U+2736><U+273B>
              <U+274D><U+275B>r<U+275E><U+2707><U+275B>r
              <U+273D><U+2735><U+2736>
                        <U+2749><U+275B>t<U+275B> Pr<U+2666><U+275D> ss<U+2701><U+2665><U+2763> <U+2749> <U+2708><U+2701><U+275D> <U+273D><U+2735><U+2735>
                                  <U+274B><U+25CF><U+2733> <U+273E>

