                                          ABSTRACT
          A screen assembly (100) comprising a mesh screen (110) mounted in a surrounding
frame assembly which includes a frame member (10) defining a channel (12) having an end
wall (18) and opposed side walls (14, 16), the opposed side walls defining first engaging
formations (20, 22). The assembly further includes a generally U-shaped seat (30) defining a
channel (40) and first (34) and second (32) side arms and sandwiching a marginal edge
section of the screen therebetween and the external faces of the first and second side arms
define second and third engaging formations (35, 33) respectively. The second engaging
formations (33) of the seat engage the first engaging formations (33) of one of the opposed
end walls. A wedge element (50) is provided for compressing the U-shaped seat (30) and is
disposed between the generally U-shaped seat (30) and one end wall of the channel. The
sides of the wedge element (50) define fourth engaging formations engaging with the first
engaging formations of the frame member and the third engaging formations of the U-shaped
seat and compress the generally U-shaped seat against one side wall of the channel, with the
engaged formations inhibiting removal of the screen from the frame.

             10
                         10 4
                 ~vv#-v-i7R           iG2
       40     N+NG                IbZ
7cv-5                                        5
   ISO2
          40                  1bO         lb

                                                     1
                                  "Improvements in screen doors"
Technical Field
[0001]     This invention relates to a security screen assembly, and in particular to a frame for a
security door, insect screen, security window grille or the like.
Background
[0002]     In warm climates, such as Australia, it not uncommon for homeowners to leave their
front or back doors open, to allow fresh air, cooling breezes etc., into their homes to cool the
interior and prevent the interior becoming stuffy. However, leaving doors open presents a
security risk, with the result that it is now quite common for residences to have an additional
security door fitted in front of their main front and/or back doors. Typically the security door
will be fitted with a security mesh, often stainless steel, sometimes an expanded mesh and in
some cases a perforated sheet of steel or aluminium. The function of the security door is to
allow light and air to pass through the screen and also to act a personal safety barrier for the
occupant and provide resistance to forced entry.
[0003]     Typically security screens comprise a hollow extruded frame having a channel in which
an edge of the screen is secured. There are a large number of different solutions for securing the
screen in the channel, including the use of fasteners, clamps, ratchet arrangements and
combinations of the above. The various solutions have differing degrees of complexity,
reliability, and cost.
[0004]     The present invention aims to provide am arrangement which meets the current
standards including as detailed in AS 5039-2008 'Security Screen Doors and Security Window
Grilles", and is simple and cost effective in terms of manufacture and assembly and is at least a
useful alternative to prior art screens.
[0005]     Any discussion of documents, acts, materials, devices, articles or the like which has
been included in the present specification is not to be taken as an admission that any or all of
these matters form part of the prior art base or were common general knowledge in the field
relevant to the present disclosure as it existed before the priority date of each of the appended
claims.

                                                       2
Summary
[0006]     Thus according to the present invention, there is provided a screen assembly comprising
a screen mounted in a surrounding frame assembly wherein:
           the frame assembly includes a frame member defining a channel having end walls and
opposed side walls, the opposed side walls defining first engaging formations; wherein
           the screen assembly further includes:
           a generally U-shaped seat defining a channel and first and second side arms and
sandwiching a marginal edge section of the screen therebetween and wherein external faces of
the first and second side arms define second and third engaging formations respectively and
wherein the second engaging formations of the seat engage the first engaging formations of one
of the opposed end walls; and
           a wedge element for compressing the U-shaped seat disposed between the generally U
shaped seat and one end wall of the channel, the sides of the wedge element defining fourth
engaging formations engaging with the first engaging formations of the frame member and the
third engaging formations of the U-shaped seat and compressing the generally U-shaped seat
against one side wall of the channel, with the engaged formations inhibiting removal of the
screen from the frame.
[0007]     In a preferred embodiment, the first side arm of the seat is made of a softer material than
the second side arm of the seat.
[0008]     The first side arm of the seat is preferably made of a softer material than the wedge
element.
[0009]     It is preferred that the first side arm of the seat is made of a rubber material and the
second side arm of the seat and the wedge are made of a harder plastics material, such as PVC.
[0010]     The screen assembly may comprise a screen door or a screen window.
[0011]     Throughout this specification the word "comprise", or variations such as "comprises" or
"comprising", will be understood to imply the inclusion of a stated element, integer or step, or

                                                  3
group of elements, integers or steps, but not the exclusion of any other element, integer or step,
or group of elements, integers or steps.
Brief Description of Drawings
[0012]   Specific embodiments of the present invention will now be described, by way of
example only, and with reference to the accompanying drawings, in which:
Figure 1 shows a section through an extrusion for use in forming a frame of screen assembly for
a screen door;
Figure 2 shows a plan view of a sheet of mesh for insertion into the frame;
Figure 3 shows a section through a seat for receiving the mesh;
Figure 4 shows a section through a wedge for insertion into the frame;
Figure 5 is s photographic side view of part of the assembled screen assembly;
Figure 6 is a front view of a complete screen door assembly.
Figure 7 shows a section through an extrusion for use in forming a frame of a screen assembly
for a window; and
Figure 8 shows a section through an extrusion for use in forming a mid-rail of a screen assembly;
Description of Embodiments
[0013]   Referring to the drawings, Figure 1 shows a section through an extruded frame member
10 for use in forming a frame assembly for forming a screen door. A side view of an edge of the
assembled screen assembly 100 is shown in Figure 5. The complete screen door 100 is shown in
front view in Figure 6.
[0014]   Turning to Figure 1, the frame member 10, which is typically made from extruded
aluminium, defines a channel 12 defined by opposed side walls 14 and 16 and an end wall or
base 18. The opposed side walls 14 and 16 both define a series of first engaging formations in

                                                    4
the form of teeth 20, 22 which extend/are inclined towards the end wall 18, defining a pair of
jaws for receiving components of the screen assembly.
 [0015]   Figure 3 shows a U-shaped seat 30 including first and second arms 34 and 32. The
second arm 32 of the seat is made from a hard plastic compound, such as a hard PVC. The
opposed or first arm 34 is made of a softer material such as rubber, or a softer plastics/PVC
material. The arms 32, 34 are joined at the distal closed end or spine 36. At the open proximal
end, a tab 38 is defined which projects from and extends perpendicular to the first arm 34.
Between the arms 32 and 34 in the centre of the seat there is a channel 40 which, in use, receives
the marginal edge/perimeter of a sheet of mesh 110, most preferably woven stainless steel mesh.
As shown in Figure 3, each arm of the seat defines engaging formations in the form of teeth 35,
33 with the teeth 35 of the arm 34 having inclined faces defining second engaging formations in
the form of teeth angled towards the open proximal end so that the teeth 35 can slide over the
teeth of the jaw 16 as the seat is inserted into the jaws and mesh, if removed. The third engaging
formations of the arm 32 are in the form of teeth 33 that are inclined/angled towards the distal
closed end 36.
 [0016]   Figure 4 shows a wedge 50 which is made from a relatively hard plastic typically a hard
PVC which is harder than the rubber forming the soft first arm 34 of the seat. As shown in
Figure 4, the wedge is generally elongate and defines a pointed end 52, which in use, is inserted
into the channel 12 of the frame member 10. The wedge tapers gradually from a larger proximal
end 53 to the relatively narrower distal end 52. The proximal end defines a laterally extending
tab 54. The side edges of the wedge 50 define teeth 56, 58 which define inclined surfaces which
are angled towards the proximal end 53 of the wedge.
 [0017]   In use, with reference to Figure 5, the peripheral edge of the mesh is sandwiched in the
channel of the U-shaped seat which wraps around the peripheral edge of the mesh. The seat and
mesh are inserted in the channel and the teeth 35 (second engaging formations) of the soft arm
34 of the seat being engaged against the teeth 22 of the channel 12. The wedge which is made
from a harder plastic compound than the soft arm of the seat is then inserted between the harder
arm of the U-shaped seat and the other side of the frame. The wedge compresses the U-shaped
seat around the mesh, particularly the softer first arm 34. The teeth 22 and 35, mesh and prevent
removal of the components.

                                                   5
[0018]   To make a rectangular screen, as is best with reference to Figure 6, three sides 10 of a
rectangular frame are assembled together typically using corner brackets and mitred lengths of
extrusions. A fourth side 10 is left to one side. The screen 110, previously cut to size has its
peripheral edge wrapped in lengths of the seat 30 and the screen is inserted into the frame and
wedges 50 are subsequently installed to secure the screen in the frame. The fourth side is then
attached to complete the frame.
[0019]   Figure 6 shows a completed door 100 embodying the present invention.
[0020]   Figure 7 shows an extruded aluminium frame element 150 for forming a window, and
Figure 8 shows an extruded aluminium frame element joiner element both of which define
channels 152 and 162, respectively for forming screen assemblies embodying the principles
described above.
[0021]   It will be appreciated by persons skilled in the art that numerous variations and/or
modifications may be made to the above-described embodiments, without departing from the
broad general scope of the present disclosure. The present embodiments are, therefore, to be
considered in all respects as illustrative and not restrictive.

                                                  6
CLAIMS:
1.         A screen assembly comprising a screen mounted in a surrounding frame assembly
wherein:
           the frame assembly includes a frame member defining a channel having end walls and
opposed side walls, the opposed side walls defining first engaging formations; wherein
           the screen assembly further includes:
           a generally U-shaped seat defining a channel and first and second side arms and
sandwiching a marginal edge section of the screen therebetween and wherein external faces of
the first and second side arms define second and third engaging formations respectively and
wherein the second engaging formations of the seat engage the first engaging formations of one
of the opposed end walls; and
           a wedge element for compressing the U-shaped seat disposed between the generally U
shaped seat and one end wall of the channel, the sides of the wedge element defining fourth
engaging formations engaging with the first engaging formations of the frame member and the
third engaging formations of the U-shaped seat and compressing the generally U-shaped seat
against one side wall of the channel, with the engaged formations inhibiting removal of the
screen from the frame.
2.         The screen assembly of claim 1 wherein the first side arm of the seat is made of a softer
material than the second side arm of the seat.
3.         The screen assembly of claim 1 or claim 2 wherein the first side arm of the seat is made
of a softer material than the wedge element.
4.         The screen assembly of claim 1 or claim 2 or claim 3 wherein the first side arm of the
seat is made of a rubber material and the second side arm of the seat and the wedge are made of a
harder plastics material, such as PVC.
5.         The screen assembly of any preceding wherein the screen assembly comprises a screen
door or a screen window.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
