ABSTRACT
A process of growing a phototrophic biomass in a reaction zone, including a reaction mixture
that is operative for effecting photosynthesis upon exposure to photosynthetically active light
radiation, is provided. The reaction mixture includes phototrophic biomass that is operative
for growth within the reaction zone. In one aspect, the carbon dioxide supply is modulated in
response to detected process parameters.     In another aspect, inputs to the reaction zone are
modulated based on changes to the carbon dioxide supply. In another aspect, dilution of the
carbon dioxide-comprising supply is effected.       In another aspect, pressure of the carbon
dioxide-comprising supply is increased.      In another aspect, water is condensed from the
carbon dioxide-comprising supply and recovered for re-use. In another aspect, the produced
phototrophic biomass is harvested at a rate which approximates a predetermined molar
growth rate of the phototrophic biomass.
10382670 1 (GHMatters) P91968.AU.2

                                                -1
                                   BIOMASS PRODUCTION
   RELATED APPLICATIONS
 5 This is a continuation-in-part of U.S. Patent Application Serial No. 12/784,215, filed on
   May 20, 2010, and is also a continuation-in-part of U.S. Patent Application Serial No.
   12/784,181 , filed on May 20, 2010, and is also a continuation-in-part of U.S. Patent
   Application Serial No. 12/784,172, filed on May 20, 2010, and is also a continuation-in
   part of U.S. Patent Application Serial No. 12/784,141, filed on May 20, 2010, and is
10 also a continuation-in-part of U.S. Patent Application Serial No. 12/784,126, filed on
   May 20, 2010, and is also a continuation-in-part of U.S. Patent Application Serial No.
   12/784,106, filed on May 20, 2010, and is also a continuation-in-part of U.S. Patent
   Application Serial No. 13/022,396, filed on February 7, 2011. This disclosure
   accompanies a divisional application of AU<removed-apn>, the contents of which are
15 incorporated herein in its entirety by reference.
   FIELD
   [0001] The present disclosure relates to a process for growing biomass.
20
   BACKGROUND
   [0002] The cultivation of phototrophic organisms has been widely practised for
   purposes of producing a fuel source. Exhaust gases from industrial processes have also
25 been used to promote the growth of phototrophic organisms by supplying carbon
   dioxide for consumption by phototrophic organisms during photosynthesis. By
   providing exhaust gases for such purpose, environmental impact is reduced and, in
   parallel a potentially useful fuel source is produced. Challenges remain, however, to
   render this approach more economically attractive for incorporation within existing
30 facilities.
   SUMMARY
   [0003] In one aspect, there is provided a process of growing a phototrophic biomass in a
35 reaction zone. The reaction zone includes a reaction mixture that is operative for
   effecting photosynthesis upon exposure to photosynthetically active light radiation,
   wherein the reaction mixture includes phototrophic biomass that is operative for growth
                                                                  10382612_2 (GHMatters) P91968.AU.2 19/06/18

                                              -2
   within the reaction zone. While exposing the reaction mixture to photosynthetically
   active light radiation and effecting growth of the phototrophic biomass in the reaction
   zone, wherein the effected growth includes growth effected by photosynthesis, and
   while discharging phototrophic biomass from the reaction zone, when a phototrophic
 5 biomass growth indicator is different than a target value of the phototrophic biomass
   growth indicator, modulating the molar rate of discharge of the phototrophic biomass
   from the reaction zone, wherein the target value of the phototrophic biomass growth
   indicator is based upon a predetermined molar growth rate of the phototrophic biomass
   within the reaction mixture which is disposed within the reaction zone and is being
10 exposed to photosynthetically active light radiation.
   [0004] In another aspect, there is provided another process of growing a phototrophic
   biomass in a reaction zone. The reaction zone includes a production purpose reaction
   mixture that is operative for effecting photosynthesis upon exposure to
15 photosynthetically active light radiation, wherein the production purpose reaction
   mixture includes production purpose phototrophic biomass that is operative for growth
   within the reaction zone. While exposing the reaction mixture to photosynthetically
   active light radiation and effecting growth of the production purpose phototrophic
   biomass in the reaction zone, wherein the effected growth includes growth effected by
20 photosynthesis, and while discharging production purpose phototrophic biomass from
   the reaction zone, when a phototrophic biomass growth indicator is different than a
   predetermined target value of the phototrophic biomass growth indicator, modulating
   the molar rate of discharge of the production purpose phototrophic biomass from the
   reaction zone, wherein the target value of the phototrophic biomass growth indicator is
25 based upon a predetermined molar growth rate of the production purpose phototrophic
   biomass within the reaction mixture which is disposed within the reaction zone and is
   being exposed to photosynthetically active light radiation. The predetermination of the
   target value includes supplying an evaluation purpose reaction mixture that is
   representative of the production purpose reaction mixture and is operative for effecting
30 photosynthesis upon exposure to photosynthetically active light radiation, such that the
   phototrophic biomass of the evaluation purpose reaction mixture is an evaluation
   purpose phototrophic biomass that is representative of the production purpose
   phototrophic biomass. While the evaluation purpose reaction mixture disposed in the
   reaction zone is exposed to photo synthetically active light radiation and growth of the
35 evaluation purpose phototrophic biomass is being effected within the evaluation
   purpose reaction mixture, at least periodically detecting the phototrophic biomass
   growth indicator to provide a plurality of detected values of the phototrophic biomass
                                                                  10382612_2 (GHMatters) P91968.AU.2 19/06/18

                                                 -3
   growth indicator that have been detected during a time period, and calculating molar
   growth rates of the evaluation purpose phototrophic biomass based on the plurality of
   detected values of the phototrophic biomass growth indicator such that a plurality of
   molar growth rates of the evaluation purpose phototrophic biomass are determined
 5 during the time period A relationship between the molar growth rate of the evaluation
   purpose phototrophic biomass and the phototrophic biomass growth indicator is
   established, based on the calculated molar growth rates and the detected values of the
   phototrophic biomass growth indicator upon which the calculated molar growth rates
   have been based, such that the established relationship between the molar growth rate of
10 the evaluation purpose phototrophic biomass and the phototrophic biomass growth
   indicator is representative of a relationship between the molar growth rate of the
   production purpose phototrophic biomass within the reaction zone and the phototrophic
   biomass growth indicator, and such that the relationship between the molar growth rate
   of the production purpose phototrophic biomass within the reaction zone and the
15 phototrophic biomass growth indicator is thereby determined. The predetermined molar
   growth rate of the production purpose phototrophic biomass is selected. The
   phototrophic biomass growth indicator target value is defined as the phototrophic
   biomass growth indicator at which the predetermined molar growth rate is being
   effected based on the determined relationship between the molar growth rate of the
20 production purpose phototrophic biomass within the reaction zone and the phototrophic
   biomass growth indicator, such that the correlation between the phototrophic biomass
   growth indicator target value and the predetermined molar growth rate is also thereby
   effected.
25 [0005] In another aspect, there is provided another process for growing a phototrophic
   biomass in a reaction zone. The reaction zone includes a reaction mixture that is
   operative for effecting photosynthesis upon exposure to photosynthetically active light
   radiation, wherein the reaction mixture includes phototrophic biomass that is operative
   for growth within the reaction zone. While exposing the reaction mixture disposed in
30 the reaction zone to photosynthetically active light radiation and growth of the
   phototrophic biomass is being effected within the reaction mixture, discharging the
   phototrophic biomass from the reaction zone at a molar rate that is within 10% of the
   molar rate at which the growth of the phototrophic biomass is being effected within the
   reaction zone. The effected growth of the phototrophic biomass within the reaction zone
35 is being effected at a molar rate that is at least 90% of the maximum growth rate of the
   phototrophic biomass within the reaction mixture which is disposed in reaction zone
   and is being exposed to the photosynthetically active light radiation.
                                                                   10382612_2 (GHMatters) P91968.AU.2 19/06/18

                                                -4
    [0006] In another aspect, there is provided another process for growing phototrophic
    biomass in a reaction zone. The reaction zone includes a reaction mixture that is
    operative for effecting photosynthesis upon exposure to photosynthetically active light
  5 radiation, wherein the reaction mixture includes phototrophic biomass that is operative
    for growth within the reaction zone. While exposing the reaction mixture to
    photosynthetically active light radiation and effecting growth of the phototrophic
    biomass within the reaction mixture disposed in the reaction zone, wherein the effected
    growth of the phototrophic biomass includes growth which is effected by the
10  photosynthesis, discharging phototrophic biomass from the reaction zone such that the
    molar rate of discharge of the phototrophic biomass is within 10% of the molar rate at
    which the growth of the phototrophic biomass is being effected.
    [0007] In another aspect, there is provided a process for growing a phototrophic
15  biomass in a reaction zone, wherein the reaction zone includes a reaction mixture that is
    operative for effecting photosynthesis upon exposure to photosynthetically active light
    radiation, wherein the reaction mixture includes phototrophic biomass that is operative
    for growth within the reaction zone, wherein the growth of the phototrophic biomass
    includes that which is effected by the photosynthesis, comprising: while the gaseous
20  exhaust material is being discharged by the gaseous exhaust material producing process,
    wherein any of the gaseous exhaust material being supplied to the reaction zone defines
    a gaseous exhaust material reaction zone supply, supply of the gaseous exhaust material
    reaction zone supply to the reaction zone is modulated based on detection of at least one
    carbon dioxide processing capacity indicator.
25
    [0008] In another aspect, there is provided a process for growing a phototrophic
    biomass in a reaction zone, wherein the reaction zone includes a reaction mixture that is
    operative for effecting photosynthesis upon exposure to photosynthetically active light
    radiation, wherein the reaction mixture includes phototrophic biomass that is operative
30  for growth within the reaction zone, wherein the growth of the phototrophic biomass
    includes that which is effected by the photosynthesis, comprising: while the gaseous
    exhaust material is being discharged by the gaseous exhaust material producing process,
    and while at least a fraction of the gaseous exhaust material is being supplied to the
    reaction zone, wherein the at least a fraction of the gaseous exhaust material which is
35  being supplied to the reaction zone defines a gaseous exhaust material reaction zone
    supply, and there is effected a reduction in the molar rate of supply, or the termination
    of the supply, of the gaseous exhaust material reaction zone supply being supplied to
                                                                    10382612_2 (GHMatters) P91968.AU.2 19/06/18

                                               -5
   the reaction zone, the process further includes initiating the supply of a supplemental
   gas- comprising material, or increasing the molar rate of supply of a supplemental gas
   comprising material, to the reaction zone.
 5 [0009] In another aspect, there is provided a process for growing a phototrophic
   biomass in a reaction zone, wherein the reaction zone includes a reaction mixture that is
   operative for effecting photosynthesis upon exposure to photosynthetically active light
   radiation, wherein the reaction mixture includes phototrophic biomass that is operative
   for growth within the reaction zone, wherein the growth of the phototrophic biomass
10 includes that which is effected by the photosynthesis, comprising: supplying gaseous
   exhaust material reaction zone supply to the reaction zone, wherein the gaseous exhaust
   material reaction zone supply is defined by at least a fraction of gaseous exhaust
   material produced by a gaseous exhaust material producing process, wherein the
   gaseous exhaust material reaction zone supply includes carbon dioxide, and supplying a
15 supplemental aqueous material supply from a container to the reaction zone, wherein
   the supplemental aqueous material supply includes aqueous material that has been
   condensed from the gaseous exhaust material reaction zone supply and collected in the
   container, wherein the condensing of the aqueous material is effected while the gaseous
   exhaust material reaction zone supply is being cooled before being supplied to the
20 reaction zone.
   [0010] In another aspect, there is provided a process for growing a phototrophic
   biomass in a reaction zone, wherein the reaction zone includes a reaction mixture that is
   operative for effecting photosynthesis upon exposure to photosynthetically active light
25 radiation, wherein the reaction mixture includes phototrophic biomass that is operative
   for growth within the reaction zone, wherein the growth of the phototrophic biomass
   includes that which is effected by the photosynthesis, comprising: while carbon dioxide
   is being discharged by the gaseous exhaust material producing process, and while at
   least a fraction of the discharged carbon dioxide is being supplied to the reaction zone,
30 wherein the at least a fraction of the discharged carbon dioxide which is being supplied
   to the reaction zone defines a discharged carbon dioxide reaction zone supply, at least
   one material input to the reaction zone is modulated based on, at least, the molar rate at
   which the discharged carbon dioxide reaction zone supply is being supplied to the
   reaction zone.
35
   [0011] In another aspect, there is provided a process for growing a phototrophic
   biomass in a reaction zone, wherein the reaction zone includes a reaction mixture that is
                                                                   10382612_2 (GHMatters) P91968.AU.2 19/06/18

                                               -6
   operative for effecting photosynthesis upon exposure to photosynthetically active light
   radiation, wherein the reaction mixture includes phototrophic biomass that is operative
   for growth within the reaction zone, wherein the growth of the phototrophic biomass
   includes that which is effected by the photosynthesis, comprising: while carbon dioxide
 5 is being discharged by the gaseous exhaust material producing process, and while at
   least a fraction of the discharged carbon dioxide is being supplied to the reaction zone,
   wherein the at least a fraction of the discharged carbon dioxide which is being supplied
   to the reaction zone defines a discharged carbon dioxide reaction zone supply, at least
   one material input to the reaction zone is modulated based on, at least, an indication of
10 the molar rate at which the discharged carbon dioxide reaction zone supply is being
   supplied to the reaction zone.
   [0012] In another aspect, there is provided a process for growing a phototrophic
   biomass in a reaction zone, wherein the reaction zone includes a reaction mixture that is
15 operative for effecting photosynthesis upon exposure to photosynthetically active light
   radiation, wherein the reaction mixture includes phototrophic biomass that is operative
   for growth within the reaction zone, wherein the growth of the phototrophic biomass
   includes that which is effected by the photosynthesis, comprising: while carbon dioxide
   is being discharged by the gaseous exhaust material producing process, and while at
20 least a fraction of the discharged carbon dioxide is being supplied to the reaction zone,
   wherein the at least a fraction of the discharged carbon dioxide which is being supplied
   to the reaction zone defines a discharged carbon dioxide reaction zone supply, when an
   indication of a change in the molar rate of supply of the discharged carbon dioxide
   reaction zone supply being supplied to the reaction zone is detected, modulation of at
25 least one material input to the reaction zone is effected.
   [0013] In another aspect, there is provided a process for growing a phototrophic
   biomass in a reaction zone, wherein the reaction zone includes a reaction mixture that is
   operative for effecting photosynthesis upon exposure to photosynthetically active light
30 radiation, wherein the reaction mixture includes phototrophic biomass that is operative
   for growth within the reaction zone, wherein the growth of the phototrophic biomass
   includes that which is effected by the photosynthesis, comprising: while carbon dioxide
   is being discharged by the gaseous exhaust material producing process, and while at
   least a fraction of the discharged carbon dioxide is being supplied to the reaction zone,
35 wherein the at least a fraction of the discharged carbon dioxide which is being supplied
   to the reaction zone defines a discharged carbon dioxide reaction zone supply, when a
   decrease in the molar rate of supply of the discharged carbon dioxide reaction zone
                                                                  10382612_2 (GHMatters) P91968.AU.2 19/06/18

                                               -7
   supply being supplied to the reaction zone is detected, or when an indication of a
   decrease in the molar rate of supply of the discharged carbon dioxide reaction zone
   supply being supplied to the reaction zone is detected, either the molar rate of supply of
   a supplemental carbon dioxide supply to the reaction zone is increased, or supply of the
 5 supplemental carbon dioxide supply to the reaction zone is initiated.
   [0014] In another aspect, there is provided a process for growing a phototrophic
   biomass in a reaction zone, wherein the reaction zone includes a reaction mixture that is
   operative for effecting photosynthesis upon exposure to photosynthetically active light
10 radiation, wherein the reaction mixture includes phototrophic biomass that is operative
   for growth within the reaction zone, wherein the growth of the phototrophic biomass
   includes that which is effected by the photosynthesis, comprising: prior to supplying
   reaction zone carbon dioxide supply to the reaction zone at a pressure sufficient to
   effect flow of the reaction zone carbon dioxide supply through a vertical extent of the
15 reaction zone of at least a seventy (70) inches, increasing pressure of the reaction zone
   carbon dioxide supply by flowing the reaction zone carbon dioxide supply through an
   eductor or a jet pump.
   [0015] In another aspect, there is provided a process for growing a phototrophic
20 biomass in a reaction zone, wherein the reaction zone includes a reaction mixture that is
   operative for effecting photosynthesis upon exposure to photosynthetically active light
   radiation, wherein the reaction mixture includes phototrophic biomass that is operative
   for growth within the reaction zone, wherein the growth of the phototrophic biomass
   includes that which is effected by the photosynthesis, comprising: prior to supplying
25 reaction zone carbon dioxide supply to the reaction zone at a pressure sufficient to
   effect flow of the reaction zone carbon dioxide supply through a vertical extent of the
   reaction zone of at least a seventy (70) inches, transferring pressure energy to the
   reaction zone carbon dioxide supply from a motive fluid flow using the venturi effect.
30 [0016] In another aspect, there is provided a process for growing a phototrophic
   biomass in a reaction zone, wherein the reaction zone includes a reaction mixture that is
   operative for effecting photosynthesis upon exposure to photosynthetically active light
   radiation, wherein the reaction mixture includes phototrophic biomass that is operative
   for growth within the reaction zone, wherein the growth of the phototrophic biomass
35 includes that which is effected by the photosynthesis, comprising: while a reaction zone
   feed material is supplied to the reaction zone, supplying the reaction zone feed material
   with a supplemental gaseous dilution agent, wherein the molar concentration of carbon
                                                                   10382612_2 (GHMatters) P91968.AU.2 19/06/18

                                                 -8
   dioxide of the supplemental gaseous dilution agent is less than the molar concentration
   of carbon dioxide of the gaseous exhaust material reaction zone supply which is being
   supplied to the reaction zone feed material.
 5 [0017] In another aspect, there is provided a process for growing a phototrophic
   biomass in a reaction zone, wherein the reaction zone includes a reaction mixture that is
   operative for effecting photosynthesis upon exposure to photosynthetically active light
   radiation, wherein the reaction mixture includes phototrophic biomass that is operative
   for growth within the reaction zone, wherein the growth of the phototrophic biomass
10 includes that which is effected by the photosynthesis, comprising: while a carbon
   dioxide concentrated supply is being supplied, admixing the carbon dioxide
   concentrated supply with a supplemental gaseous dilution agent to effect production of
   a diluted carbon dioxide supply, wherein the molar concentration of carbon dioxide of
   the diluted carbon dioxide supply is less than the molar concentration of carbon dioxide
15 of the carbon dioxide concentrated supply; and supplying at least a fraction of the
   diluted carbon dioxide reaction zone supply to the reaction zone.
   BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
20 [0018] The process of the preferred embodiments of the invention will now be
   described with the following accompanying drawing:
   [0019] Figure 1 is a process flow diagram of an embodiment of the process;
25 [0020] Figure 2 is a process flow diagram of another embodiment of the process; and
   [0021] Figure 3 is a schematic illustration of a portion of a fluid passage of an
   embodiment of the process.
30 DETAILED DESCRIPTION
   [0022] Reference throughout the specification to "some embodiments" means that a
   particular feature, structure, or characteristic described in connection with some
   embodiments are not necessarily referring to the same embodiments. Furthermore, the
35 particular features, structure, or characteristics may be combined in any suitable manner
   with one another. [0023] Referring to Figure 1 , there is provided a process of growing
   a phototrophic biomass in a reaction zone 10. The reaction zone 10 includes a reaction
                                                                    10382612_2 (GHMatters) P91968.AU.2 19/06/18

                                               -9
   mixture that is operative for effecting photosynthesis upon exposure to
   photosynthetically active light radiation. The reaction mixture includes phototrophic
   biomass material, carbon dioxide, and water. In some embodiments, the reaction zone
   includes phototrophic biomass and carbon dioxide disposed in an aqueous medium.
 5 Within the reaction zone, the phototrophic biomass is disposed in mass transfer
   communication with both of carbon dioxide and water. In some embodiments, for
   example, the reaction mixture includes phototrophic biomass disposed in an aqueous
   medium, and carbon dioxide-enriched phototrophic biomass is provided upon the
   receiving of carbon dioxide by the phototrophic biomass.
10
   [0024] "Phototrophic organism" is an organism capable of phototrophic growth in the
   aqueous medium upon receiving light energy, such as plant cells and microorganisms.
   The phototrophic organism is unicellular or multicellular. In some embodiments, for
   example, the phototrophic organism is an organism which has been modified artificially
15 or by gene manipulation. In some embodiments, for example, the phototrophic
   organism is an algae. In some embodiments, for example, the algae is microalgae.
   [0025] "Phototrophic biomass" is at least one phototrophic organism. In some
   embodiments, for example, the phototrophic biomass includes more than one species of
20 phototrophic organisms.
   [0026] "Reaction zone 10" defines a space within which the growing of the
   phototrophic biomass is effected. In some embodiments, for example, the reaction zone
   10 is provided in a photobioreactor 12. In some embodiments, for example, pressure
25 within the reaction zone is atmospheric pressure.
   [0027] "Photobioreactor 12" is any structure, arrangement, land formation or area that
   provides a suitable environment for the growth of phototrophic biomass. Examples of
   specific structures which can be used is a photobioreactor 12 by providing space for
30 growth of phototrophic biomass using light energy include, without limitation, tanks,
   ponds, troughs, ditches, pools, pipes, tubes, canals, and channels. Such photobioreactors
   may be either open, closed, partially closed, covered, or partially covered. In some
   embodiments, for example, the photobioreactor 12 is a pond, and the pond is open, in
   which case the pond is susceptible to uncontrolled receiving of materials and light
35 energy from the immediate environments. In other embodiments, for example, the
   photobioreactor 12 is a covered pond or a partially covered pond, in which case the
   receiving of materials from the immediate environment is at least partially interfered
                                                                  10382612_2 (GHMatters) P91968.AU.2 19/06/18

                                               - 10
   with. The photobioreactor 12 includes the reaction zone 10 which includes the reaction
   mixture. In some embodiments, the photobioreactor 12 is configured to receive a supply
   of phototrophic reagents (and, in some of these embodiments, optionally, supplemental
   nutrients), and is also configured to effect discharge of phototrophic biomass which is
 5 grown within the reaction zone 10. In this respect, in some embodiments, the
   photobioreactor 12 includes one or more inlets for receiving the supply of phototrophic
   reagents and supplemental nutrients, and also includes one or more outlets for effecting
   the recovery or harvesting of biomass which is grown within the reaction zone 10. In
   some embodiments, for example, one or more of the inlets are configured to be
10 temporarily sealed for periodic or intermittent time intervals. In some embodiments, for
   example, one or more of the outlets are configured to be temporarily sealed or
   substantially sealed for periodic or intermittent time intervals. The photobioreactor 12 is
   configured to contain the reaction mixture which is operative for effecting
   photosynthesis upon exposure to photo synthetically active light radiation. The
15 photobioreactor 12 is also configured so as to establish photosynthetically active light
   radiation (for example, a light of a wavelength between about 400-700 nm, which can
   be emitted by the sun or another light source) within the photobioreactor 12 for
   exposing the phototrophic biomass. The exposing of the reaction mixture to the
   photosynthetically active light radiation effects photosynthesis and growth of the
20 phototrophic biomass. In some embodiments, for example, the established light
   radiation is provided by an artificial light source 14 disposed within the photobioreactor
   12. For example, suitable artificial lights sources include submersible fiber optics or
   light guides, light-emitting diodes ("LEDs"), LED strips and fluorescent lights. Any
   LED strips known in the art can be adapted for use in the photobioreactor 12. In the
25 case of the submersible LEDs, in some embodiments, for example, energy sources
   include alternative energy sources, such as wind, photovoltaic cells, fuel cells, etc. to
   supply electricity to the LEDs. Fluorescent lights, external or internal to the
   photobioreactor 12, can be used as a back-up system. In some embodiments, for
   example, the established light is derived from a natural light source 16 which has been
30 transmitted from externally of the photobioreactor 12 and through a transmission
   component. In some embodiments, for example, the transmission component is a
   portion of a containment structure of the photobioreactor 12 which is at least partially
   transparent to the photosynthetically active light radiation, and which is configured to
   provide for transmission of such light to the reaction zone 10 for receiving by the
35 phototrophic biomass. In some embodiments, for example, natural light is received by a
   solar collector, filtered with selective wavelength filters, and then transmitted to the
   reaction zone 10 with fiber optic material or with a light guide. In some embodiments,
                                                                    10382612_2 (GHMatters) P91968.AU.2 19/06/18

                                               - 11
   for example, both natural and artificial lights sources are provided for effecting
   establishment of the photosyntetically active light radiation within the photobioreactor
   12.
 5 [0028] "Aqueous medium" is an environment that includes water. In some
   embodiments, for example, the aqueous medium also includes sufficient nutrients to
   facilitate viability and growth of the phototrophic biomass. In some embodiments, for
   example, supplemental nutrients may be included such as one of, or both of, NOx and
   SOx.. Suitable aqueous media are discussed in detail in: Rogers, L. J. and Gallon J. R.
10 "Biochemistry of the Algae and Cyanobacteria," Clarendon Press Oxford, 1988;
   Burlew, John S. "Algal Culture: From Laboratory to Pilot Plant." Carnegie Institution of
   Washington Publication 600. Washington, D.C., 1961 (hereinafter "Burlew 1961 "); and
   Round, F. E. The Biology of the Algae. St Martin's Press, New York, 1965; each of
   which is incorporated herein by reference). A suitable supplemental nutrient
15 composition, known as "Bold's Basal Medium", is described in Bold, H.C. 1949, The
   morphology of Chlamydomonas chlamydogama sp. nov. Bull. Torrey Bot. Club. 76:
   101- 8 (see also Bischoff, H.W. and Bold, H.C. 1963. Phycological Studies IV. Some
   soil algae from Enchanted Rock and related algal species, Univ. Texas Publ. 63 1 8: 1
   95, and Stein, J. (ED.) Handbook of Phycological Methods, Culture methods and
20 growth measurements, Cambridge University Press, pp. 7-24). [0029] "Modulating",
   with respect to a process variable, such as an input or an output, means any one of
   initiating, terminating, increasing, decreasing, or otherwise changing the process
   parameter, such as that of an input or an output.
25 [0030] In some embodiments, the process includes supplying the reaction zone 10 with
   carbon dioxide. In some of these embodiments, for example, the carbon dioxide
   supplied to the reaction zone 10 is derived from a gaseous exhaust material 18 which
   includes carbon dioxide. In this respect, in some embodiments, the carbon dioxide is
   supplied by a gaseous exhaust material producing process 20, and the supplying is,
30 therefore, effected from the gaseous exhaust material 18 being discharged by a gaseous
   exhaust material producing process 20. In some embodiments, for example, at least a
   fraction of the carbon dioxide being discharged by the gaseous exhaust material
   producing process 20 is supplied to the reaction zone 10, wherein the at least a fraction
   of the discharged carbon dioxide which is being supplied to the reaction zone 10 defines
35 a discharged carbon dioxide reaction zone supply. In some embodiments, for example,
   at least a fraction of the gaseous exhaust material 18 being discharged by the gaseous
   exhaust material producing process 20 is supplied to the reaction zone 10, wherein the
                                                                   10382612_2 (GHMatters) P91968.AU.2 19/06/18

                                              - 12
   at least a fraction of the gaseous exhaust material 18 which is being supplied to the
   reaction zone 10 defines gaseous exhaust material reaction zone supply 24, such that the
   discharged carbon dioxide reaction zone supply is supplied to the reaction zone 10 as a
   portion of the gaseous exhaust material reaction zone supply 24 (along with other non
 5 carbon dioxide materials deriving from the gaseous exhaust material 18). In some of
   these embodiments, for example, the exposing of the phototrophic biomass disposed in
   the reaction zone 10 to photosynthetically active light radiation is effected while the
   gaseous exhaust material reaction zone supply 24 is being supplied to the reaction zone
   10.
10
   [0031] In some embodiments, for example, the gaseous exhaust material 18 includes a
   carbon dioxide concentration of at least 2 volume % based on the total volume of the
   gaseous exhaust material 18. In this respect, in some embodiments, for example, the
   gaseous exhaust material reaction zone supply 24 includes a carbon dioxide
15 concentration of at least 2 volume % based on the total volume of the gaseous exhaust
   material reaction zone supply 24. In some embodiments, for example, the gaseous
   exhaust material 18 includes a carbon dioxide concentration of at least 4 volume %
   based on the total volume of the gaseous exhaust material 18. In this respect, in some
   embodiments, for example, the gaseous exhaust material reaction zone supply 24
20 includes a carbon dioxide concentration of at least 4 volume % based on the total
   volume of the gaseous exhaust material reaction zone supply 24. In some embodiments,
   for example, the gaseous exhaust material reaction zone supply 24 also includes one of,
   or both of, NOx and SOx.
25 [0032] In some embodiments, for example, the at least a fraction of the gaseous exhaust
   material 18 being supplied to the reaction zone 10 has been treated prior to being
   supplied to the reaction zone 10 so as to effect removal of undesirable components of
   the gaseous exhaust material 18 such that the material composition of the at least a
   fraction of the gaseous material 18 being supplied to the reaction zone 10 is different
30 relative to the material composition of the gaseous exhaust material 18 being discharged
   from the gaseous exhaust material producing process 20.
   [0033] The gaseous exhaust material producing process 20 includes any process which
   effects production and discharge of the gaseous exhaust material 18. In some
35 embodiments, for example, at least a fraction of the gaseous exhaust material 18 being
   discharged by the gaseous exhaust material producing process 20 is supplied to the
   reaction zone 10. The at least a fraction of the gaseous exhaust material 18, being
                                                                   10382612_2 (GHMatters) P91968.AU.2 19/06/18

                                               - 13
   discharged by the gaseous exhaust material producing process 20, and supplied to the
   reaction zone 10, includes carbon dioxide derived from the gaseous exhaust material
   producing process 20. In some embodiments, for example, the gaseous exhaust material
   producing process 20 is a combustion process. In some embodiments, for example, the
 5 combustion process is effected in a combustion facility. In some of these embodiments,
   for example, the combustion process effects combustion of a fossil fuel, such as coal,
   oil, or natural gas. For example, the combustion facility is any one of a fossil fuel-fired
   power plant, an industrial incineration facility, an industrial furnace, an industrial
   heater, or an internal combustion engine. In some embodiments, for example, the
10 combustion facility is a cement kiln. [0034] Reaction zone feed material 22 is supplied
   to the reaction zone 10 such that carbon dioxide of the reaction zone feed material 22 is
   received within the reaction zone 10. At least a fraction of the carbon dioxide of the
   reaction zone feed material 22 is derived from the gaseous exhaust material 18. During
   at least some periods of operation of the process, at least a fraction of the reaction zone
15 feed material 22 is supplied by the gaseous exhaust material 18 which is discharged
   from the gaseous exhaust material producing process 20. As discussed above, any of the
   gaseous exhaust material 18 that is supplied to the reaction zone 10 is supplied as a
   gaseous exhaust material reaction zone supply 24. In some of these embodiments, for
   example, the exposing of the phototrophic biomass disposed in the reaction zone 10 to
20 photosynthetically active light radiation is effected while the gaseous exhaust material
   reaction zone supply 24 is being supplied to the reaction zone 10. It is understood that,
   in some embodiments, not the entirety of the gaseous exhaust material 18 is necessarily
   supplied to the reaction zone 10 as the gaseous exhaust material reaction zone supply
   24, such that the reaction zone feed material 22 includes the gaseous exhaust material
25 reaction zone supply 24. It is also understood that, in some embodiments, the gaseous
   exhaust material 18, or at least a fraction thereof, is not necessarily supplied to the
   reaction zone 10 as the gaseous exhaust material reaction zone supply 24 for the entire
   time period during which the process is operational. The gaseous exhaust material
   reaction zone supply 24 includes carbon dioxide. In some of these embodiments, for
30 example, the gaseous exhaust material reaction zone supply 24 is at least a fraction of
   the gaseous exhaust material 18 being discharged by the gaseous exhaust material
   producing process 20. In some cases, the entirety of the gaseous exhaust material 18
   discharged by the gaseous exhaust producing process 20 is supplied to the gaseous
   exhaust material reaction zone supply 24.
35
   [0035] With respect to the reaction zone feed material 22, the reaction zone feed
   material 22 is a fluid. In some embodiments, for example, the reaction zone feed
                                                                    10382612_2 (GHMatters) P91968.AU.2 19/06/18

                                              - 14
   material 22 is a gaseous material. In some embodiments, for example, the reaction zone
   feed material 22 includes gaseous material disposed in liquid material. In some
   embodiments, for example, the liquid material is an aqueous material. In some of these
   embodiments, for example, at least a fraction of the gaseous material is dissolved in the
 5 liquid material. In some of these embodiments, for example, at least a fraction of the
   gaseous material is disposed as a gas dispersion in the liquid material. In some of these
   embodiments, for example, and during at least some periods of operation of the process,
   the gaseous material of the reaction zone feed material 22 includes carbon dioxide
   supplied by the gaseous exhaust material reaction zone supply 24. In some of these
10 embodiments, for example, the reaction zone feed material 22 is supplied to the reaction
   zone 10 as a flow. In some embodiments, for example, a flow of reaction zone feed
   material 22 includes a flow of the gaseous exhaust material reaction zone feed material
   supply 24. In some embodiments, for example, a flow of reaction zone feed material 22
   is a flow of the gaseous exhaust material reaction zone feed material supply 24.
15
   [0036] In some embodiments, for example, the reaction zone feed material 22 is
   supplied to the reaction zone 10 as one or more reaction zone feed material flows. For
   example, each of the one or more reaction zone feed material flows is flowed through a
   respective reaction zone feed material fluid passage. In some of those embodiments
20 where there are more than one reaction zone feed material flow, the material
   composition varies between the reaction zone feed material flows.
   [0037] In some embodiments, for example, the reaction zone feed material 22 is cooled
   prior to supply to the reaction zone 10 so that the temperature of the reaction zone feed
25 material 22 aligns with a suitable temperature at which the phototrophic biomass can
   grow In some embodiments, for example, the gaseous exhaust material reaction zone
   supply 24 being supplied to the reaction zone material 22 is disposed at a temperature
   of between 1 10 degrees Celsius and 150 degrees Celsius. In some embodiments, for
   example, the temperature of the gaseous exhaust material reaction zone supply 24 is
30 about 132 degrees Celsius. In some embodiments, the temperature at which the gaseous
   exhaust material reaction zone supply 24 is disposed is much higher than this, and, in
   some embodiments, such as the gaseous exhaust material reaction zone supply 24 from
   a steel mill, the temperature is over 500 degrees Celsius. In some embodiments, for
   example, the reaction zone feed material 22, which includes the gaseous exhaust
35 material reaction zone supply 24, is cooled to between 20 degrees Celsius and 50
   degrees Celsius (for example, about 30 degrees Celsius). In some embodiments, the
   reaction zone feed material 22 is defined by the gaseous exhaust material reaction zone
                                                                  10382612_2 (GHMatters) P91968.AU.2 19/06/18

                                               - 15
   supply 24. Supplying the reaction zone feed material 22 at higher temperatures could
   hinder growth, or even kill, the phototrophic biomass in the reaction zone 10. In some
   of these embodiments, in effecting the cooling of the reaction zone feed material 22, at
   least a fraction of any water vapour of the gaseous exhaust material reaction zone
 5 supply 24 is condensed in a heat exchanger 26 (such as a condenser) and separated from
   the reaction zone feed material 22 as an aqueous material 70. In some embodiments, the
   resulting aqueous material 70 is supplied to a container 28 (described below) where it
   provides supplemental aqueous material supply 44 for supply to the reaction zone 10. In
   some embodiments, the condensing effects heat transfer from the reaction zone feed
10 material 22 to a heat transfer medium 30, thereby raising the temperature of the heat
   transfer medium 30 to produce a heated heat transfer medium 30, and the heated heat
   transfer medium 30 is then supplied (for example, flowed) to a dryer 32 (discussed
   below), and heat transfer is effected from the heated heat transfer medium 30 to an
   intermediate concentrated reaction zone product 34 to effect drying of the intermediate
15 concentrated reaction zone product 34 and thereby effect production of the final
   reaction zone product 36. In some embodiments, for example, after being discharged
   from the dryer 32, the heat transfer medium 30 is recirculated to the heat exchanger 26.
   Examples of a suitable heat transfer medium 30 include thermal oil and glycol solution.
20 [0038] In some embodiments, for example, the supply of the reaction zone feed
   material 22 to the reaction zone 10 effects agitation of at least a fraction of the
   phototrophic biomass disposed in the reaction zone 10. In this respect, in some
   embodiments, for example, the reaction zone feed material 22 is introduced to a lower
   portion of the reaction zone 10. In some embodiments, for example, the reaction zone
25 feed material 22 is introduced from below the reaction zone 10 so as to effect mixing of
   the contents of the reaction zone 10. In some of these embodiments, for example, the
   effected mixing (or agitation) is such that any difference in molar concentration of the
   phototrophic biomass between any two points in the reaction zone 10 is less than 20%.
   In some embodiments, for example, any difference in molar concentration of the
30 phototrophic biomass between any two points in the reaction zone 10 is less than 10%.
   In some of these embodiments, for example, the effected mixing is such that a
   homogeneous suspension is provided in the reaction zone 10. In those embodiments
   with a photobioreactor 12, for some of these embodiments, for example, the supply of
   the reaction zone feed material 22 is co-operatively configured with the photobioreactor
35 12 so as to effect the desired agitation of the at least a fraction of the phototrophic
   biomass disposed in the reaction zone 10.
                                                                      10382612_2 (GHMatters) P91968.AU.2 19/06/18

                                              - 16
   [0039] With further respect to those embodiments where the supply of the reaction zone
   feed material 22 to the reaction zone 10 effects agitation of at least a fraction of the
   phototrophic biomass disposed in the reaction zone 10, in some of these embodiments,
   for example, the reaction zone feed material 22 flows through a gas injection
 5 mechanism, such as a sparger 40, before being introduced to the reaction zone 10. In
   some of these embodiments, for example, the sparger 40 provides reaction zone feed
   material 22 as a gas-liquid mixture, including fine gas bubbles entrained in a liquid
   phase, to the reaction zone 10 in order to maximize the interface contact area between
   the phototrophic biomass and the carbon dioxide (and, in some embodiments, for
10 example, one of, or both of, SOx and NOX) of the reaction zone feed material 22. This
   assists the phototrophic biomass in efficiently absorbing the carbon dioxide (and, in
   some embodiments, other gaseous components) required for photosynthesis, thereby
   promoting the optimization of the growth rate of the phototrophic biomass. As well, in
   some embodiments, for example, the sparger 40 provides reaction zone feed material 22
15 in larger bubbles that agitate the phototrophic biomass in the reaction zone 10 to
   promote mixing of the components of the reaction zone 10. An example of a suitable
   sparger 40 is EDI FlexAirT M T-Series Tube Diffuser Model 91 X 1003 supplied by
   Enviornmental Dynamics Inc of Columbia, Missouri. In some embodiments, for
   example, this sparger 40 is disposed in a photobioreactor 12 having a reaction zone 10
20 volume of 6000 litres and with an algae concentration of between 0.8 grams per litre
   and 1.5 grams per litre, and the reaction zone feed material 22 is a gaseous fluid flow
   supplied at a flowrate of between 10 cubic feet per minute and 20 cubic feet per minute,
   and at a pressure of about 68 inches of water.
25 [0040] With respect to the sparger 40, in some embodiments, for example, the sparger
   40 is designed to consider the fluid head of the reaction zone 10, so that the supplying
   of the reaction zone feed material 22 to the reaction zone 10 is effected in such a way as
   to promote the optimization of carbon dioxide absorption by the phototrophic biomass.
   In this respect, bubble sizes are regulated so that they are fine enough to promote
30 optimal carbon dioxide absorption by the phototrophic biomass from the reaction zone
   feed material. Concomitantly, the bubble sizes are large enough so that at least a
   fraction of the bubbles rise through the entire height of the reaction zone 10, while
   mitigating against the reaction zone feed material 22 "bubbling through" the reaction
   zone 10 and being released without being absorbed by the phototrophic biomass. To
35 promote the realization of an optimal bubble size, in some embodiments, the pressure of
   the reaction zone feed material 22 is controlled using a pressure regulator upstream of
   the sparger 40.
                                                                    10382612_2 (GHMatters) P91968.AU.2 19/06/18

                                                 - 17
   [0041] With respect to those embodiments where the reaction zone 10 is disposed in a
   photobioreactor 12, in some of these embodiments, for example, the sparger 40 is
   disposed externally of the photobioreactor 12. In other embodiments, for example, the
 5 sparger 40 is disposed within the photobioreactor 12. In some of these embodiments,
   for example, the sparger 40 extends from a lower portion of the photobioreactor 12 (and
   within the photobioreactor 12).
   [0042] In one aspect, carbon dioxide is supplied to the reaction zone 10, and the
10 supplied carbon dioxide defines the reaction zone carbon dioxide supply 2402. The
   reaction zone carbon dioxide supply 2402 is supplied to the reaction zone 10 at a
   pressure which effects flow of the reaction zone carbon dioxide supply through a
   vertical extent of the reaction zone of at least seventy (70) inches. In some
   embodiments, for example, the vertical extent is at least 10 feet. In some embodiments,
15 for example, the vertical extent is at least 20 feet. In some embodiments, for example,
   the vertical extent is at least 30 feet. In some embodiments, for example, the pressure of
   the reaction zone carbon dioxide supply 2402 is increased before being supplied to the
   reaction zone 10. In some embodiments, the increase in pressure of the reaction zone
   carbon dioxide supply 2402 is effected while the gaseous exhaust material 18 is being
20 produced by the gaseous exhaust material producing process 20. In some embodiments,
   for example the increase in pressure of the reaction zone carbon dioxide supply 2402 is
   effected while the reaction zone carbon dioxide supply is being supplied to the reaction
   zone 10. In some embodiments, for example, the exposing of the phototrophic biomass
   disposed in the reaction zone 10 to photosynthetically active light radiation is effected
25 while the reaction zone carbon dioxide supply 2402 is being supplied to the reaction
   zone 10.
   [0043] In some embodiments, for example, the pressure increase is at least partially
   effected by a prime mover 38. For those embodiments where the pressure increase is at
30 least partially effected by the prime mover 38. An example of a suitable prime mover
   38, for embodiments where the reaction zone carbon dioxide supply 2402 is a portion of
   the reaction zone feed material 22, and the reaction zone feed material 22 includes
   liquid material, is a pump. Examples of a suitable prime mover 38, for embodiments
   where the pressure increase is effected to a gaseous flow, include a blower, a
35 compressor, and an air pump. In other embodiments, for example, the pressure increase
   is effected by a jet pump or eductor.
                                                                    10382612_2 (GHMatters) P91968.AU.2 19/06/18

                                               - 18
   [0044] Where the pressure increase is effected by a jet pump or eductor, in some of
   these embodiments, for example, the reaction zone carbon dioxide supply 2402 is
   supplied to the jet pump or eductor and pressure energy is transferred to the reaction
   zone carbon dioxide supply from another flowing fluid (the "motive fluid flow") using
 5 the venturi effect to effect a pressure increase in the reaction zone carbon dioxide
   supply. In this respect, in some embodiments, for example, and referring to Figure 3, a
   motive fluid flow 700 is provided, wherein material of the motive fluid flow 700
   includes a motive fluid pressure PMI. In this respect also, a lower pressure reaction
   zone carbon dioxide supply 2402A is provided including a pressure PE, wherein the
10 lower pressure state carbon dioxide supply 2402 A includes the reaction zone carbon
   dioxide supply 2402. In some embodiments, the lower pressure reaction zone carbon
   dioxide supply 2402A is defined by the reaction zone carbon dioxide supply 2402. PMi
   of the motive fluid flow is greater than PE of the lower pressure state carbon dioxide
   supply 2402A. Pressure of the motive fluid flow 700 is reduced from P i to PM2, such
15 that PM2 is less than PE, by flowing the motive fluid flow 700 from an upstream fluid
   passage portion 702 to an intermediate downstream fluid passage portion 704. The
   intermediate downstream fluid passage portion 704 is characterized by a smaller cross
   sectional area relative to the upstream fluid passage portion 702. By flowing the motive
   fluid flow 700 from the upstream fluid passage portion 702 to the intermediate
20 downstream fluid passage portion 704, static pressure energy is converted to kinetic
   energy. When the pressure of the motive fluid flow 700 has becomes reduced to PM2,
   fluid communication between the motive fluid flow 700 and the lower pressure state
   carbon dioxide supply 2402A is effected such that the lower pressure state carbon
   dioxide supply 2402A is induced to mix with the motive fluid flow 700 in the
25 intermediate downstream fluid passage portion 704, in response to the pressure
   differential between the lower pressure state carbon dioxide supply 2402A and the
   motive fluid flow 700, to produce a reaction zone carbon dioxide supply-comprising
   mixture 2404 which includes the reaction zone carbon dioxide supply 2402. At least a
   fraction of the reaction zone carbon dioxide supply-comprising mixture 2404 is
30 supplied to the reaction zone 10. Pressure of the reaction zone carbon dioxide supply
   comprising mixture 2404, which includes the reaction zone carbon dioxide supply
   2402, is increased to PM3, such that the pressure of the reaction zone carbon dioxide
   supply 2402 is also increased to PM3- PM3 is greater than PE and is also sufficient to
   effect supply of the reaction zone carbon dioxide supply 2402 to the reaction zone 10
35 and, upon supply of the reaction zone carbon dioxide supply 2402 to the reaction zone
   10, effect flow of the reaction zone carbon dioxide supply 2402 through a vertical
   extent of the reaction zone 10 of at least seventy (70) inches. In some embodiments, for
                                                                    10382612_2 (GHMatters) P91968.AU.2 19/06/18

                                               - 19
   example, PM3 is greater than PE and is also sufficient to effect supply of the reaction
   zone carbon dioxide supply 2402 to the reaction zone 10 and, upon supply of the
   reaction zone carbon dioxide supply 2402 to the reaction zone 10, effect flow of the
   reaction zone carbon dioxide supply 2402 through a vertical extent of the reaction zone
 5 10 of at least 10 feet. In some embodiments, for example, PM3 is greater than PE and is
   also sufficient to effect supply of the reaction zone carbon dioxide supply 2402 to the
   reaction zone 10 and, upon supply of the reaction zone carbon dioxide supply 2402 to
   the reaction zone 10, effect flow of the reaction zone carbon dioxide supply 2402
   through a vertical extent of the reaction zone 10 of at least 20 feet. In some
10 embodiments, for example, PM3 is greater than PE and is also sufficient to effect
   supply of the reaction zone carbon dioxide supply 2402 to the reaction zone 10 and,
   upon supply of the reaction zone carbon dioxide supply 2402 to the reaction zone 10,
   effect flow of the reaction zone carbon dioxide supply 2402 through a vertical extent of
   the reaction zone 10 of at least 30 feet. In any of these embodiments, the pressure
15 increase is designed to overcome the fluid head within the reaction zone 10. The
   pressure increase is effected by flowing the reaction zone carbon dioxide supply
   comprising mixture 2404 from the intermediate downstream fluid passage portion 704
   to a "kinetic energy to static pressure energy conversion" downstream fluid passage
   portion 706. The cross-sectional area of the "kinetic energy to static pressure energy
20 conversion" downstream fluid passage portion 706 is greater than the cross- sectional
   area of the intermediate downstream fluid passage portion 704, such that kinetic energy
   of the reaction zone carbon dioxide supply-comprising mixture 2404 disposed in the
   intermediate downstream fluid passage portion 704 is converted into static pressure
   energy when the reaction zone carbon dioxide supply-comprising mixture 2404
25 becomes disposed in the "kinetic energy to static pressure energy conversion"
   downstream fluid passage portion 706 by virtue of the fact that the reaction zone carbon
   dioxide supply- comprising mixture 2404 has become flowed to a fluid passage portion
   with a larger cross-sectional area. In some embodiments, for example, a converging
   nozzle portion of a fluid passage defines the upstream fluid passage portion 702 and a
30 diverging nozzle portion of the fluid passage defines the "kinetic energy to static
   pressure energy conversion" downstream fluid passage portion 706, and the
   intermediate downstream fluid passage portion 704 is disposed intermediate of the
   converging and diverging nozzle portions. In some embodiments, for example, the
   combination of the upstream fluid passage portion 702 and the "kinetic energy to static
35 pressure energy conversion" downstream fluid passage portion 706 is defined by a
   venture nozzle. In some embodiments, for example, the combination of the upstream
   fluid passage portion 702 and the "kinetic energy to static pressure energy conversion"
                                                                   10382612_2 (GHMatters) P91968.AU.2 19/06/18

                                               - 20
   downstream fluid passage portion 706 is disposed within an eductor or jet pump. In
   some of these embodiments, for example, the motive fluid flow 700 includes liquid
   aqueous material and, in this respect, the reaction zone carbon dioxide supply
   comprising mixture 2404 includes a combination of liquid and gaseous material. In this
 5 respect, in some embodiments, for example, the reaction zone carbon dioxide supply
   comprising mixture 2404 includes a dispersion of a gaseous material within a liquid
   material, wherein the dispersion of a gaseous material includes the reaction zone carbon
   dioxide supply. Alternatively, in some of these embodiments, for example, the motive
   fluid flow 700 is another gaseous flow, such as an air flow, and the reaction zone
10 carbon dioxide supply-comprising mixture is gaseous. At least a fraction of the reaction
   zone carbon dioxide supply- comprising mixture 2404 is supplied to the reaction zone
   feed material 22 so as to effect supply of the at least a fraction of the reaction zone
   carbon dioxide supply-comprising mixture to the reaction zone 10. In this respect, the
   carbon dioxide of the reaction zone feed material 22 includes at least a fraction of the
15 reaction zone carbon dioxide supply 2402. In some embodiments, for example, the
   carbon dioxide of the reaction zone feed material 22 is defined by at least a fraction of
   the reaction zone carbon dioxide supply 2402.
   [0045] In some of these embodiments, for example, the reaction zone carbon dioxide
20 supply 2402 is supplied by at least a fraction of the gaseous exhaust material 18 being
   discharged by the gaseous exhaust material producing process 20, and the supplying of
   the reaction zone carbon dioxide supply 2402, by the at least a fraction of the gaseous
   exhaust material 18 being discharged by the gaseous exhaust material producing
   process 20, is effected while the gaseous exhaust material 18 is being discharged by the
25 gaseous exhaust material producing process 20 and while the reaction zone carbon
   dioxide supply 2402 is being supplied to the reaction zone 10. In this respect, in some
   embodiments, for example, the reaction zone carbon dioxide supply 2402 is supplied by
   at least a fraction of the carbon dioxide being discharged by the gaseous exhaust
   material producing process 20, and the supplying of the reaction zone carbon dioxide
30 supply 2402, by the at least a fraction of the carbon dioxide being discharged by the
   gaseous exhaust material producing process 20, is effected while the carbon dioxide is
   being discharged by the gaseous exhaust material producing process 20 and while the
   reaction zone carbon dioxide supply 2402 is being supplied to the reaction zone 10. In
   some embodiments, for example, the reaction zone carbon dioxide supply 2402 is
35 defined by the discharged carbon dioxide reaction zone supply.
   [0046] In some embodiments, for example, the photobioreactor 12, or plurality of
                                                                     10382612_2 (GHMatters) P91968.AU.2 19/06/18

                                              - 21
   photobioreactors 12, are configured so as to optimize carbon dioxide absorption by the
   phototrophic biomass and reduce energy requirements. In this respect, the
   photobioreactor (s) is (are) configured to provide increased residence time of the carbon
   dioxide within the reaction zone 10. As well, movement of the carbon dioxide over
 5 horizontal distances is minimized, so as to reduce energy consumption. To this end, the
   one or more photobioreactors 12 is, or are, relatively taller, and provide a reduced
   footprint, so as to increase carbon dioxide residence time while conserving energy.
   [0047] In some embodiments, for example, a supplemental nutrient supply 42 is
10 supplied to the reaction zone 10. In some of these embodiments, for example, the
   exposing of the phototrophic biomass disposed in the reaction zone 10 to
   photosynthetically active light radiation is effected while the supplemental nutrient
   supply 42 is being supplied to the reaction zone 10. In some embodiments, for example,
   the supplemental nutrient supply 42 is effected by a pump, such as a dosing pump. In
15 other embodiments, for example, the supplemental nutrient supply 42 is supplied
   manually to the reaction zone 10. Nutrients within the reaction zone 10 are processed or
   consumed by the phototrophic biomass, and it is desirable, in some circumstances, to
   replenish the processed or consumed nutrients. A suitable nutrient composition is
   "Bold's Basal Medium", and this is described in Bold, H.C. 1949, The morphology of
20 Chlamydomonas chlamydogama sp. nov. Bull. Torrey Bot. Club. 76: 101-8 (see also
   Bischoff, H.W. and Bold, H.C. 1963. Phycological Studies IV. Some soil algae from
   Enchanted Rock and related algal species, Univ. Texas Publ. 6318: 1-95, and Stein, J.
   (ED.) Handbook of Phycological Methods, Culture methods and growth measurements,
   Cambridge University Press, pp. 7-24). The supplemental nutrient supply 42 is supplied
25 for supplementing the nutrients provided within the reaction zone, such as "Bold's Basal
   Medium", or one ore more dissolved components thereof. In this respect, in some
   embodiments, for example, the supplemental nutrient supply 42 includes "Bold's Basal
   Medium". In some embodiments for example, the supplemental nutrient supply 42
   includes one or more dissolved components of "Bold's Basal Medium", such as NaNO3,
30 CaCl2, MgSO4, KH2P04, NaCl, or other ones of its constituent dissolved components.
   [0048] In some of these embodiments, the rate of supply of the supplemental nutrient
   supply 42 to the reaction zone 10 is controlled to align with a desired rate of growth of
   the phototrophic biomass in the reaction zone 10. In some embodiments, for example,
35 regulation of nutrient addition is monitored by measuring any combination of pH, N03
   concentration, and conductivity in the reaction zone 10. [0049] In some embodiments,
   for example, the supplemental aqueous material supply 44 is supplied to the reaction
                                                                    10382612_2 (GHMatters) P91968.AU.2 19/06/18

                                              - 22
   zone 10 so as to replenish water within the reaction zone 10 of the photobioreactor 12.
   In some embodiments, for example, and as further described below, the supply of the
   supplemental aqueous material supply 24 effects the discharge of product from the
   photobioreactor 12. For example, the supplemental aqueous material supply 44 effects
 5 the discharge of product from the photobioreactor 12 as an overflow.
   [0050] In some embodiments, for example, the supplemental aqueous material is water.
   [0051] In another aspect, the supplemental aqueous material supply 44 includes at least
10 one of: (a) aqueous material 70 that has been condensed from the reaction zone feed
   material 22 while the reaction zone feed material 22 is cooled before being supplied to
   the reaction zone 10, and (b) aqueous material that has been separated from a
   discharged phototrophic biomass-comprising product 500. In some embodiments, for
   example, the supplemental aqueous material supply 44 is derived from an independent
15 source (ie. a source other than the process), such as a municipal water supply.
   [0052] In some embodiments, for example, the supplemental aqueous material supply
   44 is supplied by the pump 281. In some of these embodiments, for example, the
   supplemental aqueous material supply 44 is continuously supplied to the reaction zone
20 10.
   [0053] In some embodiments, for example, at least a fraction of the supplemental
   aqueous material supply 44 is supplied from a container 28, which is further described
   below. At least a fraction of aqueous material which is discharged from the process is
25 recovered and supplied to the container 28 to provide supplemental aqueous material in
   the container 28.
   [0054] Referring to Figure 2, in some embodiments, the supplemental nutrient supply
   42 and the supplemental aqueous material supply 44 are supplied to the reaction zone
30 feed material 22 through the sparger 40 before being supplied to the reaction zone 10.
   In those embodiments where the reaction zone 10 is disposed in the photobioreactor 12,
   in some of these embodiments, for example, the sparger 40 is disposed externally of the
   photobioreactor 12. In some embodiments, it is desirable to mix the reaction zone feed
   material 22 with the supplemental nutrient supply 42 and the supplemental aqueous
35 material supply 44 within the sparger 40, as this effects better mixing of these
   components versus separate supplies of the reaction zone feed material 22, the
   supplemental nutrient supply 42, and the supplemental aqueous material supply 44. On
                                                                   10382612_2 (GHMatters) P91968.AU.2 19/06/18

                                               - 23
   the other hand, the rate of supply of the reaction zone feed material 22 to the reaction
   zone 10 is limited by virtue of saturation limits of gaseous material of the reaction zone
   feed material 22 in the combined mixture. Because of this trade-off, such embodiments
   are more suitable when response time required for providing a modulated supply of
 5 carbon dioxide to the reaction zone 10 is not relatively immediate, and this depends on
   the biological requirements of the phototrophic organisms being used.
   [0055] In another aspect, at least a fraction of the supplemental nutrient supply 42 is
   mixed with the supplemental aqueous material in the container 28 to provide a nutrient
10 enriched supplemental aqueous material supply 44, and the nutrient-enriched
   supplemental aqueous material supply 44 is supplied directly to the reaction zone 10 or
   is mixed with the reaction zone feed material 22 in the sparger 40. In some
   embodiments, for example, the direct or indirect supply of the nutrient-enriched
   supplemental aqueous material supply is effected by a pump.
15
   [0056] In some embodiments, for example, while carbon dioxide is being discharged by
   the gaseous exhaust material producing process 20, and while at least a fraction of the
   discharged carbon dioxide is being supplied to the reaction zone 10, wherein the at least
   a fraction of the discharged carbon dioxide which is being supplied to the reaction zone
20 10 defines a discharged carbon dioxide reaction zone supply, at least one material input
   to the reaction zone 10 is modulated based on at least the molar rate at which the
   discharged carbon dioxide reaction zone supply is being supplied to the reaction zone
   10. In some of these embodiments, the exposing of the phototrophic biomass disposed
   in the reaction zone 10 to photosynthetically active light radiation is effected while the
25 modulating of at least one input is being effected. [0057] As suggested above,
   modulating of a material input is any one of initiating, terminating, increasing,
   decreasing, or otherwise changing the material input. A material input to the reaction
   zone 10 is an input whose supply to the reaction zone 10 is material to the rate of
   growth of the phototrophic biomass within the reaction zone 10. Exemplary material
30 inputs to the reaction zone 10 include supply of photosynthetically active light radiation
   of a characteristic intensity being to the reaction zone, and supply of supplemental
   nutrient supply 42 to the reaction zone 10.
   [0058] In this respect, modulating the intensity of photosynthetically active light
35 radiation being supplied to the reaction zone 10 is any one of: initiating supply of
   photosynthetically active light radiation to the reaction zone, terminating supply of
   photosynthetically active light radiation which is being supplied to the reaction zone,
                                                                   10382612_2 (GHMatters) P91968.AU.2 19/06/18

                                               - 24
   increasing the intensity of photosynthetically active light radiation being supplied to the
   reaction zone, and decreasing the intensity of photosynthetically active light radiation
   being supplied to the reaction zone 10. In some embodiments, for example, the
   modulating of the intensity of photosynthetically active light radiation being supplied to
 5 the reaction zone includes modulating of the intensity of photosynthetically active light
   radiation to which at least a fraction of the carbon dioxide-enriched phototrophic
   biomass is exposed.
   [0059] Modulating the molar rate of supply of supplemental nutrient supply 42 to the
10 reaction zone is any one of initiating the supply of supplemental nutrient supply 42 to
   the reaction zone, terminating the supply of supplemental nutrient supply 42 being
   supplied to the reaction zone, increasing the molar rate of supply of supplemental
   nutrient supply 42 being supplied to the reaction zone, or decreasing the molar rate of
   supply of supplemental nutrient supply 42 being supplied to the reaction zone.
15
   [0060] In some embodiments, for example, the modulation is based on, at least, an
   indication of the molar rate at which the discharged carbon dioxide reaction zone
   supply is being supplied to the reaction zone 10. In this respect, in some embodiments,
   for example, while carbon dioxide is being discharged by the gaseous exhaust material
20 producing process 20, and while at least a fraction of the discharged carbon dioxide is
   being supplied to the reaction zone 10, wherein the at least a fraction of the discharged
   carbon dioxide which is being supplied to the reaction zone 10 defines a discharged
   carbon dioxide reaction zone supply, at least one material input to the reaction zone 10
   is modulated based on, at least, an indication of the molar rate at which the discharged
25 carbon dioxide reaction zone supply is being supplied to the reaction zone 10. In some
   of these embodiments, the exposing of the phototrophic biomass disposed in the
   reaction zone 10 to photosynthetically active light radiation is effected while the
   modulating of at least one input is being effected.
30 [0061] In some embodiments, for example, the indication of the molar rate of supply of
   the discharged carbon dioxide reaction zone supply which is being supplied to the
   reaction zone 10 is the molar rate at which gaseous exhaust material 18 is being
   discharged by the gaseous exhaust material producing process 20, such that the
   modulation is based on, at least, the molar rate at which the gaseous exhaust material 18
35 is being discharged by the gaseous exhaust material producing process 20, wherein the
   gaseous exhaust material includes the discharged carbon dioxide reaction zone supply.
   In this respect, in some embodiments, for example, a flow sensor 78 is provided for
                                                                   10382612_2 (GHMatters) P91968.AU.2 19/06/18

                                               - 25
   detecting the molar flow rate of the gaseous exhaust material 18 being discharged by
   the gaseous exhaust material producing process 20, and transmitting a signal
   representative of the detected molar flow rate of the gaseous exhaust material 18 being
   discharged by the gaseous exhaust material producing process 20 to the controller.
 5 Upon the controller receiving a signal from the flow sensor 78 which is representative
   of the detected molar flow rate of the gaseous exhaust material 18, the controller effects
   modulation of at least one material input to the reaction zone 10 based on the detected
   molar flow rate of the gaseous exhaust material 18 being discharged by the gaseous
   exhaust material producing process 20. In some embodiments, for example, the
10 modulating of at least one material input includes at least one of: (i) initiating supply of
   the photosynthetically active light radiation to the reaction zone 10, or (ii) effecting an
   increase in the intensity of the photosynthetically active light radiation being supplied to
   the reaction zone 10. In some embodiments, for example, the modulating of at least one
   material input includes: (i) initiating supply of the supplemental nutrient supply 42 to
15 the reaction zone, or (ii) effecting an increase in the molar rate of supply of the
   supplemental nutrient supply 42 being supplied to the reaction zone 10. In some
   embodiments, the modulation of at least one material input includes at least one of: (i)
   terminating supply of the photosynthetically active light radiation being supplied to the
   reaction zone 10, or (ii) effecting a decrease in the intensity of the photosynthetically
20 active light radiation being supplied to the reaction zone 10. In some embodiments, for
   example, the modulating of at least one material input includes at least one of: (i)
   terminating supply of the supplemental nutrient supply 42 being supplied to the reaction
   zone, or (ii) effecting a decrease in the molar rate of supply of the supplemental nutrient
   supply 42 being supplied to the reaction zone 10.
25
   [0062] .In some embodiments, for example, the indication of the molar rate of supply of
   the discharged carbon dioxide reaction zone supply which is being supplied to the
   reaction zone 10 is the molar concentration of carbon dioxide of the gaseous exhaust
   material 18 being discharged by the gaseous exhaust material producing process 20,
30 such that the modulation is based on, at least, the molar concentration of carbon dioxide
   of the gaseous exhaust material 18 being discharged by the gaseous exhaust material
   producing process 20, wherein the gaseous exhaust material 18 includes the discharged
   carbon dioxide reaction zone supply. In this respect, in some embodiments, for
   example, a carbon dioxide sensor 781 is provided for detecting the molar concentration
35 of carbon dioxide of the gaseous exhaust material 18 being discharged by the gaseous
   exhaust material producing process 20, and transmitting a signal representative of the
   molar concentration of carbon dioxide of the gaseous exhaust material 18 being
                                                                    10382612_2 (GHMatters) P91968.AU.2 19/06/18

                                               - 26
   discharged by the gaseous exhaust material producing process 20 to the controller.
   Upon the controller receiving a signal from the carbon dioxide sensor 781 which is
   representative of a detected molar concentration of carbon dioxide of the gaseous
   exhaust material 18, the controller effects modulation of at least one material input to
 5 the reaction zone 10 based on the detected molar concentration of carbon dioxide of the
   gaseous exhaust material 18. In some embodiments, for example, the modulating of at
   least one material input includes at least one of: (i) initiating supply of the
   photosynthetically active light radiation to the reaction zone 10, or (ii) effecting an
   increase in the intensity of the photosynthetically active light radiation being supplied to
10 the reaction zone 10. In some embodiments, for example, the modulating of at least one
   material input includes: (i) initiating supply of the supplemental nutrient supply 42 to
   the reaction zone, or (ii) effecting an increase in the molar rate of supply of the
   supplemental nutrient supply 42 being supplied to the reaction zone 10. In some
   embodiments, the modulation of at least one material input includes at least one of: (i)
15 terminating supply of the photosynthetically active light radiation being supplied to the
   reaction zone 10, or (ii) effecting a decrease in the intensity of the photosynthetically
   active light radiation being supplied to the reaction zone 10. In some embodiments, for
   example, the modulating of at least one material input includes at least one of: (i)
   terminating supply of the supplemental nutrient supply 42 being supplied to the reaction
20 zone, or (ii) effecting a decrease in the molar rate of supply of the supplemental nutrient
   supply 42 being supplied to the reaction zone 10.
   [0063] In some embodiments, for example, the indication of the molar rate of supply of
   the discharged carbon dioxide reaction zone supply which is being supplied to the
25 reaction zone 10 is the molar rate at which carbon dioxide is being discharged by the
   gaseous exhaust material producing process 20, such that the modulation is based on, at
   least, the molar rate at which carbon dioxide is being discharged by the gaseous exhaust
   material producing process 20, wherein the gaseous exhaust material 18 includes the
   discharged carbon dioxide reaction zone supply. In some embodiments, for example,
30 the molar rate at which carbon dioxide is being discharged by the gaseous exhaust
   material producing process 20 is calculated based on the combination of the detected
   molar flow rate of the gaseous exhaust material 18 being discharged by the gaseous
   exhaust material producing process 20 and the detected molar concentration of carbon
   dioxide of the gaseous effluent material 18 being discharged by the gaseous exhaust
35 material producing process 20. The combination of (i) the detected molar flow rate of
   the gaseous exhaust material 18 being discharged by the gaseous exhaust material
   producing process 20, and (ii) the detected molar concentration of carbon dioxide of the
                                                                     10382612_2 (GHMatters) P91968.AU.2 19/06/18

                                               - 27
   gaseous effluent material 18 being discharged by the gaseous exhaust material
   producing process 20, provides a basis for calculating a molar rate at which carbon
   dioxide is being discharged by the gaseous exhaust material producing process 20. In
   this respect, a flow sensor 78 is provided for detecting the molar flow rate of the
 5 gaseous exhaust material 18 being discharged by the gaseous exhaust material
   producing process 20, and transmitting a signal representative of the detected molar
   flow rate of the gaseous exhaust material 18, being discharged by the gaseous exhaust
   material producing process 20, to the controller. In this respect also, a carbon dioxide
   sensor 781 is provided for detecting the molar concentration of carbon dioxide of the
10 gaseous exhaust material 18 being discharged by the gaseous exhaust material
   producing process 20, and transmitting a signal representative of the detected molar
   concentration of carbon dioxide of the gaseous exhaust material 18, being discharged
   by the gaseous exhaust material producing process 20, to the controller. Upon the
   controller receiving a flow sensor signal from the flow sensor 78, which is
15 representative of a detected molar flow rate of the gaseous exhaust material 18 being
   discharged by the gaseous exhaust material producing process 20, and also receiving a
   carbon dioxide sensor signal from a carbon dioxide sensor 781, which is representative
   of a detected molar concentration of carbon dioxide of the gaseous exhaust material 18
   being discharged by the gaseous exhaust material producing process 20, wherein the
20 detected molar concentration of carbon dioxide of the gaseous exhaust material 18 is
   being detected contemporaneously, or substantially contemporaneously, with the
   detecting of the molar flow rate of the gaseous exhaust material 18 being discharged by
   the process 20, upon which the flow sensor signal is based, and calculating a molar rate
   of carbon dioxide being discharged by the gaseous exhaust material producing process
25 20, based upon the received flow sensor signal and the received carbon dioxide sensor
   signal, the controller effects modulation of at least one material input to the reaction
   zone 10 based on the calculated molar rate of carbon dioxide being discharged by the
   gaseous exhaust material producing process 20. In some embodiments, for example, the
   modulating of at least one material input includes at least one of: (i) initiating supply of
30 the photosynthetically active light radiation to the reaction zone 10, or (ii) effecting an
   increase in the intensity of the photosynthetically active light radiation being supplied to
   the reaction zone 10. In some embodiments, for example, the modulating of at least one
   material input includes: (i) initiating supply of the supplemental nutrient supply 42 to
   the reaction zone, or (ii) effecting an increase in the molar rate of supply of the
35 supplemental nutrient supply 42 being supplied to the reaction zone 10. In some
   embodiments, the modulation of at least one material input includes at least one of: (i)
   terminating supply of the photosynthetically active light radiation being supplied to the
                                                                    10382612_2 (GHMatters) P91968.AU.2 19/06/18

                                               - 28
   reaction zone 10, or (ii) effecting a decrease in the intensity of the photosynthetically
   active light radiation being supplied to the reaction zone 10. In some embodiments, for
   example, the modulating of at least one material input includes at least one of: (i)
   terminating supply of the supplemental nutrient supply 42 being supplied to the reaction
 5 zone, or (ii) effecting a decrease in the molar rate of supply of the supplemental nutrient
   supply 42 being supplied to the reaction zone 10.
   [0064] In another aspect, while carbon dioxide is being discharged by the gaseous
   exhaust material producing process 20, and while at least a fraction of the discharged
10 carbon dioxide is being supplied to the reaction zone 10, wherein the at least a fraction
   of the discharged carbon dioxide which is being supplied to the reaction zone 10 defines
   a discharged carbon dioxide reaction zone supply, when a change in the molar rate of
   supply of the discharged carbon dioxide reaction zone supply being supplied to the
   reaction zone 10 is detected, modulation of at least one material input to the reaction
15 zone 10 is effected. In this respect, the modulation of at least one material input to the
   reaction zone 10 is effected in response to the detection of a change in the molar rate of
   supply of the discharged carbon dioxide reaction zone supply being supplied to the
   reaction zone 10. In some of these embodiments, the exposing of the phototrophic
   biomass disposed in the reaction zone 10 to photosynthetically active light radiation is
20 effected while the modulating of at least one material input is being effected.
   [0065] In another aspect, while carbon dioxide is being discharged by the gaseous
   exhaust material producing process 20, and while at least a fraction of the discharged
   carbon dioxide is being supplied to the reaction zone 10, wherein the at least a fraction
25 of the discharged carbon dioxide which is being supplied to the reaction zone 10 defines
   a discharged carbon dioxide reaction zone supply, when an indication of a change in the
   molar rate of supply of the discharged carbon dioxide reaction zone supply being
   supplied to the reaction zone 10 is detected, modulation of at least one material input to
   the reaction zone 10 is effected. In this respect, the modulation of at least one material
30 input to the reaction zone 10 is effected in response to the detection of an indication of a
   change in the molar rate of supply of the discharged carbon dioxide reaction zone
   supply being supplied to the reaction zone 10. In some of these embodiments, the
   exposing of the phototrophic biomass disposed in the reaction zone 10 to
   photosynthetically active light radiation is effected while the modulating of at least one
35 material input is being effected.
   [0066] As above-described, modulating of a material input is any one of initiating,
                                                                    10382612_2 (GHMatters) P91968.AU.2 19/06/18

                                               - 29
   terminating, increasing, or decreasing the material input. Exemplary material inputs to
   the reaction zone include supply of photosynthetically active light radiation of a
   characteristic intensity to the reaction zone 10, and supply of a molar rate of supply of
   supplemental nutrient supply 42 to the reaction zone 10.
 5
   [0067] As also above-described, modulating the intensity of photosynthetically active
   light radiation being supplied to the reaction zone 10 is any one of: initiating supply of
   photosynthetically active light radiation to the reaction zone, terminating supply of
   photosynthetically active light radiation being supplied to the reaction zone, increasing
10 the intensity of photosynthetically active light radiation being supplied to the reaction
   zone, and decreasing the intensity of photosynthetically active light radiation being
   supplied to the reaction zone. In some embodiments, for example, the modulating of the
   intensity of photosynthetically active light radiation being supplied to the reaction zone
   includes modulating of the intensity of photosynthetically active light radiation to
15 which at least a fraction of the carbon dioxide-enriched phototrophic biomass is
   exposed.
   [0068] As also above-described, modulating the molar rate of supply of supplemental
   nutrient supply 42 to the reaction zone is any one of initiating the supply of
20 supplemental nutrient supply 42 to the reaction zone, terminating the supply of
   supplemental nutrient supply 42 being supplied to the reaction zone, increasing the
   molar rate of supply of supplemental nutrient supply 42 being supplied to the reaction
   zone, or decreasing the molar rate of supply of supplemental nutrient supply 42 being
   supplied to the reaction zone.
25
   [0069] In some embodiments, for example, and as also above-described, the modulating
   of the intensity of the photosynthetically active light radiation is effected by a
   controller. In some embodiments, for example, to increase or decrease light intensity of
   a light source, the controller changes the power output to the light source from the
30 power supply, and this can be effected by controlling either one of voltage or current.
   As well, in some embodiments, for example, the modulating of the molar rate of supply
   of the supplemental nutrient supply 42 is also effected by a controller. To modulate the
   molar rate of supply of the supplemental nutrient supply 42, the controller can control a
   dosing pump 421 to provide a predetermined molar flow rate of the supplemental
35 nutrient supply 42.
   [0070] In some embodiments, for example, while carbon dioxide is being discharged by
                                                                    10382612_2 (GHMatters) P91968.AU.2 19/06/18

                                                 - 30
   the gaseous exhaust material producing process 20, and while at least a fraction of the
   discharged carbon dioxide is being supplied to the reaction zone 10, wherein the at least
   a fraction of the discharged carbon dioxide which is being supplied to the reaction zone
   10 defines a discharged carbon dioxide reaction zone supply, when an increase in the
 5 molar rate of supply of the discharged carbon dioxide reaction zone supply being
   supplied to the reaction zone 10 is detected, the modulating of at least one material
   input includes at least one of: (i) initiating supply of the photosynthetically active light
   radiation to the reaction zone 10, or (ii) effecting an increase in the intensity of the
   photosynthetically active light radiation being supplied to the reaction zone 10. In this
10 respect, such modulation is effected in response to the detection of an increase in the
   molar rate of supply of the discharged carbon dioxide reaction zone supply being
   supplied to the reaction zone 10. In some embodiments, for example, the increase in the
   intensity of the photosynthetically active light radiation being supplied to the reaction
   zone 10 is proportional to the increase in the molar rate of supply of the discharged
15 carbon dioxide reaction zone supplied being supplied to the reaction zone 10.
   [0071] In some embodiments, for example, while carbon dioxide is being discharged by
   the gaseous exhaust material producing process 20, and while at least a fraction of the
   discharged carbon dioxide is being supplied to the reaction zone 10, wherein the at least
20 a fraction of the discharged carbon dioxide which is being supplied to the reaction zone
   10 defines a discharged carbon dioxide reaction zone supply, when an indication of an
   increase in the molar rate of supply of the discharged carbon dioxide reaction zone
   supply being supplied to the reaction zone 10 is detected, the modulating of at least one
   material input includes at least one of: (i) initiating supply of the photosynthetically
25 active light radiation to the reaction zone 10, or (ii) effecting an increase in the intensity
   of the photosynthetically active light radiation being supplied to the reaction zone 10. In
   this respect, such modulation is effected in response to the detection of an indication of
   an increase in the molar rate of supply of the discharged carbon dioxide reaction zone
   supply being supplied to the reaction zone 10. In some embodiments, for example, the
30 increase in the intensity of the photosynthetically active light radiation being supplied to
   the reaction zone 10 is proportional to the increase in the molar rate of supply of the
   discharged carbon dioxide reaction zone supplied being supplied to the reaction zone
   10.
35 [0072] In some embodiments, for example, upon the initiating of the supply of
   photosynthetically active light radiation being supplied to the reaction zone, or the
   increasing of the intensity of photosynthetically active light radiation being supplied to
                                                                     10382612_2 (GHMatters) P91968.AU.2 19/06/18

                                                 - 31
   the reaction zone, the rate of cooling of a light source, that is provided in the reaction
   zone 10 and that is supplying the photosynthetically active light radiation to the reaction
   zone, is increased. The cooling is effected for mitigating heating of the reaction zone by
   any thermal energy that is dissipated from the light source while the light source is
 5 supplying the photosynthetically active light radiation to the reaction zone. Heating of
   the reaction zone 10 increases the temperature of the reaction zone. In some
   embodiments, excessive temperature within the reaction zone 10 is deleterious to the
   phototrophic biomass. In some embodiments, for example, the light source is disposed
   in a liquid light guide and a heat transfer fluid is disposed within the liquid light guide,
10 and the rate of cooling is increased by increasing the rate of exchanges of the heat
   transfer fluid within the liquid light guide.
   [0073] In some embodiments, for example, while carbon dioxide is being discharged by
   the gaseous exhaust material producing process 20, and while at least a fraction of the
15 discharged carbon dioxide is being supplied to the reaction zone 10, wherein the at least
   a fraction of the discharged carbon dioxide which is being supplied to the reaction zone
   10 defines a discharged carbon dioxide reaction zone supply, when an increase in the
   molar rate of supply of the discharged carbon dioxide reaction zone supply being
   supplied to the reaction zone 10 is detected, the modulating of at least one material
20 input includes at least one of: (i) initiating supply of the supplemental nutrient supply
   42 to the reaction zone 10, or (ii) effecting an increase in the molar rate of supply of the
   supplemental nutrient supply 42 being supplied to the reaction zone 10. In this respect,
   such modulation is effected in response to the detection of an increase in the molar rate
   of supply of the discharged carbon dioxide reaction zone supply being supplied to the
25 reaction zone 10.
   [0074] In some embodiments, for example, while carbon dioxide is being discharged by
   the gaseous exhaust material producing process 20, and while at least a fraction of the
   discharged carbon dioxide is being supplied to the reaction zone 10, wherein the at least
30 a fraction of the discharged carbon dioxide which is being supplied to the reaction zone
   10 defines a discharged carbon dioxide reaction zone supply, when an indication of an
   increase in the molar rate of supply of the discharged carbon dioxide reaction zone
   supply being supplied to the reaction zone 10 is detected, the modulating of at least one
   material input includes at least one of: (i) initiating supply of the supplemental nutrient
35 supply 42 to the reaction zone 10, or (ii) effecting an increase in the molar rate of
   supply of the supplemental nutrient supply 42 being supplied to the reaction zone 10. In
   this respect, such modulation is effected in response to the detection of an indication of
                                                                     10382612_2 (GHMatters) P91968.AU.2 19/06/18

                                              - 32
   an increase in the molar rate of supply of the discharged carbon dioxide reaction zone
   supply being supplied to the reaction zone 10.
   [0075] In some embodiments, for example, the indication of an increase in the molar
 5 rate of supply of the discharged carbon dioxide reaction zone supply being supplied to
   the reaction zone 10 which is detected is an increase in the molar rate at which gaseous
   exhaust material 18 is being discharged by the gaseous exhaust material producing
   process 20, wherein the gaseous exhaust material 18 includes the discharged carbon
   dioxide reaction zone supply. In this respect, in some embodiments, for example, a flow
10 sensor 78 is provided for detecting the molar flow rate of the gaseous exhaust material
   18 being discharged by the gaseous exhaust material producing process 20, and
   transmitting a signal representative of the detected molar flow rate of the gaseous
   exhaust material 18 to the controller. Upon the controller comparing a received signal
   from the flow sensor 78, which is representative of the detected molar flow rate of the
15 gaseous exhaust material 18 being discharged by the gaseous exhaust material
   producing process 20, to a previously received signal representative of a previously
   detected molar flow rate of the gaseous exhaust material 18 being discharged by the
   gaseous exhaust material producing process 20, and determining that an increase in the
   molar flow rate of the gaseous exhaust material 18 being discharged by the gaseous
20 exhaust material producing process 20 has been effected, the controller effects at least
   one of: (a) initiation of supply of photosynthetically active light radiation to the reaction
   zone 10, or an increase in the intensity of photosynthetically active light radiation
   supply being supplied to the reaction zone 10, and (b) initiation of supply of a
   supplemental nutrient supply 42 to the reaction zone 10, or an increase in the molar rate
25 of supply of a supplemental nutrient supply 42 being supplied to the reaction zone 10.
   [0076] In some embodiments, for example, the indication of an increase in the molar
   rate of supply of the discharged carbon dioxide reaction zone supply being supplied to
   the reaction zone 10 which is detected is an increase in the molar concentration of
30 carbon dioxide of gaseous exhaust material 18 being discharged by the gaseous exhaust
   material producing process 20, wherein the gaseous exhaust material 18 includes the
   discharged carbon dioxide reaction zone supply. In this respect, in some embodiments,
   for example, a carbon dioxide sensor 781 is provided for detecting the molar
   concentration of carbon dioxide of the gaseous exhaust material 18 being discharged by
35 the gaseous exhaust material producing process 20, and transmitting a signal
   representative of the detected molar concentration of carbon dioxide of the gaseous
   exhaust material 18 being discharged by the gaseous exhaust material producing
                                                                    10382612_2 (GHMatters) P91968.AU.2 19/06/18

                                              - 33
   process 20, to the controller. Upon the controller comparing a received signal from the
   carbon dioxide sensor 781, which is representative of the detected molar concentration
   of carbon dioxide of the gaseous exhaust material 18 being discharged by the gaseous
   exhaust material producing process 20, to a previously received signal representative of
 5 a previously detected molar concentration of carbon dioxide of the gaseous exhaust
   material 18 being discharged by the gaseous exhaust material producing process 20, and
   determining that an increase in the molar concentration of carbon dioxide of the
   gaseous exhaust material 18 has been effected, the controller effects at least one of: (a)
   initiation of supply of photosynthetically active light radiation to the reaction zone 10,
10 or an increase in the intensity of photosynthetically active light radiation supply being
   supplied to the reaction zone 10, and (b) initiation of supply of a supplemental nutrient
   supply 42 to the reaction zone 10, or an increase in the molar rate of supply of a
   supplemental nutrient supply 42 being supplied to the reaction zone 10.
15 [0077] In some embodiments, for example, the indication of an increase in the molar
   rate of supply of the discharged carbon dioxide reaction zone supply being supplied to
   the reaction zone 10 is an increase in the molar rate at which carbon dioxide is being
   discharged by the gaseous exhaust material producing process 20. In this respect, in
   some embodiments, for example, the increase in the molar rate at which carbon dioxide
20 is being discharged by the gaseous exhaust material producing process 20 is based on a
   comparison between (i) a calculated molar rate at which carbon dioxide is being
   discharged by the gaseous exhaust producing process 20, wherein the calculation is
   based on the combination of a detected molar flow rate of the gaseous exhaust material
   18 being discharged by the gaseous exhaust material producing process 20 and also a
25 detected molar concentration of carbon dioxide of the gaseous exhaust material 18
   being discharged by the gaseous exhaust material producing process 20, and (ii) a
   calculated molar rate at which carbon dioxide has been previously discharged by the
   gaseous exhaust producing process 20, wherein the calculation is based on the
   combination of a previously detected molar flow rate of the gaseous exhaust material 18
30 previously being discharged by the gaseous exhaust material producing process 20 and
   also a previously detected molar concentration of carbon dioxide of the gaseous exhaust
   material 18 previously being discharged by the gaseous exhaust material producing
   process 20. In this respect, a flow sensor 78 is provided for detecting the molar flow
   rate of the gaseous exhaust material 18 being discharged by the gaseous exhaust
35 material producing process 20, and transmitting a signal representative of the detected
   molar flow rate of the gaseous exhaust material 18 being discharged by the gaseous
   exhaust material producing process 20, to the controller. In this respect also, a carbon
                                                                    10382612_2 (GHMatters) P91968.AU.2 19/06/18

                                                - 34
   dioxide sensor 781 is provided for detecting the molar concentration of carbon dioxide
   of the gaseous exhaust material 18 being discharged by the gaseous exhaust material
   producing process 20, and transmitting a signal representative of the detected molar
   concentration of carbon dioxide of the gaseous exhaust material 18, being discharged
 5 by the gaseous exhaust material producing process 20, to the controller. Upon the
   controller receiving a flow sensor signal from the flow sensor 78, which is
   representative of a detected molar flow rate of the gaseous exhaust material 18 being
   discharged by the gaseous exhaust material producing process 20, and also receiving a
   carbon dioxide sensor signal from a carbon dioxide sensor 781 , which is representative
10 of a detected molar concentration of carbon dioxide of the gaseous exhaust material 18
   being discharged by the gaseous exhaust material producing process 20, wherein the
   detecting of the detected molar concentration of carbon dioxide of the gaseous exhaust
   material 18 is contemporaneous, or substantially contemporaneous, with the detecting
   of the detected molar flow rate of the gaseous exhaust material 18 being discharged by
15 the process 20, upon which the flow sensor signal is based, and calculating a molar rate
   at which carbon dioxide is being discharged by the gaseous exhaust material producing
   process 20, based upon the received flow sensor signal and the received carbon dioxide
   sensor signal, and comparing the calculated molar rate at which carbon dioxide is being
   discharged by the gaseous exhaust material producing process 20 to a calculated molar
20 rate at which carbon dioxide has previously been discharged by the gaseous exhaust
   material producing process 20, wherein the calculated molar rate at which carbon
   dioxide has previously been discharged by the gaseous exhaust material producing
   process 20 is based upon the combination of a previously received flow sensor signal,
   which is representative of a previously detected molar flow rate of the gaseous exhaust
25 material 18 previously discharged by the gaseous exhaust material producing process
   20, and a previously received carbon dioxide sensor signal, which is representative of a
   previously detected molar concentration of carbon dioxide of the gaseous exhaust
   material 18 previously discharged by the gaseous exhaust material producing process
   20, wherein the detecting of the previously detected molar concentration of carbon
30 dioxide has been effected contemporaneously, or substantially contemporaneously, with
   the detecting of the previously detected molar flow rate of the previously discharging
   gaseous exhaust material 18, upon which the previously received flow sensor signal is
   based, and determining that an increase in the molar rate at which carbon dioxide is
   being discharged by the gaseous exhaust material producing process 20 has been
35 effected, the controller effects at least one of: (a) initiation of supply of
   photosynthetically active light radiation to the reaction zone 10, or an increase in the
   intensity of photosynthetically active light radiation supply being supplied to the
                                                                      10382612_2 (GHMatters) P91968.AU.2 19/06/18

                                               - 35
   reaction zone 10, and (b) initiation of supply of a supplemental nutrient supply 42 to the
   reaction zone 10, or an increase in the molar rate of supply of a supplemental nutrient
   supply 42 being supplied to the reaction zone 10.
 5 [0078] In some embodiments, for example, any one of: (a) an increase in the detected
   molar flow rate of the gaseous exhaust material 18 being discharged by the gaseous
   exhaust material producing process 20, (b) an increase in the detected molar
   concentration of carbon dioxide of the gaseous exhaust material 18 being discharged by
   the gaseous exhaust material producing process 20, or (c) an increase in the calculated
10 molar rate of supply of carbon dioxide being discharged by the gaseous exhaust
   material producing process 20, is an indicator of an increase in the molar rate of supply
   of the discharged carbon dioxide reaction zone supply being supplied to the reaction
   zone 10. Where there is provided an increase in the molar rate of supply of the
   discharged carbon dioxide reaction zone supply to the reaction zone 10, the molar rate
15 of supply of at least one condition for growth (ie. increased molar rate of supply of
   carbon dioxide) of the phototrophic biomass is increased, and the rates of supply of
   other inputs, relevant to such growth, are correspondingly initiated or increased, in
   anticipation of growth of the phototrophic biomass in the reaction zone 10.
20 [0079] In some embodiments, for example, while carbon dioxide is being discharged by
   the gaseous exhaust material producing process 20, and while at least a fraction of the
   discharged carbon dioxide is being supplied to the reaction zone 10, wherein the at least
   a fraction of the discharged carbon dioxide which is being supplied to the reaction zone
   10 defines a discharged carbon dioxide reaction zone supply, when a decrease in the
25 molar rate of supply of the discharged carbon dioxide reaction zone supply being
   supplied to the reaction zone 10 is detected, the modulating of at least one material
   input includes effecting at least one of: (i) terminating supply of the photosynthetically
   active light radiation being supplied to the reaction zone 10, or (ii) effecting a decrease
   in the intensity of the photosynthetically active light radiation being supplied to the
30 reaction zone 10. In this respect, such modulation is effected in response to the
   detection of a decrease in the molar rate of supply of the discharged carbon dioxide
   reaction zone supply being supplied to the reaction zone 10. In some embodiments, for
   example, the decrease in the intensity of the photosynthetically active light radiation
   being supplied to the reaction zone is proportional to the decrease in the molar rate of
35 supply of the discharged carbon dioxide reaction zone supplied being supplied to the
   reaction zone 10.
                                                                    10382612_2 (GHMatters) P91968.AU.2 19/06/18

                                               - 36
   [0080] In some embodiments, for example, while carbon dioxide is being discharged by
   the gaseous exhaust material producing process 20, and while at least a fraction of the
   discharged carbon dioxide is being supplied to the reaction zone 10, wherein the at least
   a fraction of the discharged carbon dioxide which is being supplied to the reaction zone
 5 10 defines a discharged carbon dioxide reaction zone supply, when an indication of a
   decrease in the molar rate of supply of the discharged carbon dioxide reaction zone
   supply being supplied to the reaction zone 10 is detected, the modulating of at least one
   material input includes effecting at least one of: (i) terminating supply of the
   photosynthetically active light radiation being supplied to the reaction zone 10, or (ii)
10 effecting a decrease in the intensity of the photosynthetically active light radiation being
   supplied to the reaction zone 10. In this respect, such modulation is effected in response
   to the detection of an indication of a decrease in the molar rate of supply of the
   discharged carbon dioxide reaction zone supply being supplied to the reaction zone 10.
   In some embodiments, for example, the decrease in the intensity of the
15 photosynthetically active light radiation being supplied to the reaction zone is
   proportional to the decrease in the molar rate of supply of the discharged carbon dioxide
   reaction zone supplied being supplied to the reaction zone 10.
   [0081] In some embodiments, for example, while carbon dioxide is being discharged by
20 the gaseous exhaust material producing process 20, and while at least a fraction of the
   discharged carbon dioxide is being supplied to the reaction zone 10, wherein the at least
   a fraction of the discharged carbon dioxide which is being supplied to the reaction zone
   10 defines a discharged carbon dioxide reaction zone supply, when a decrease in the
   molar rate of supply of the discharged carbon dioxide reaction zone supply being
25 supplied to the reaction zone 10 is detected, the modulating of at least one material
   input includes effecting at least one of: (i) terminating supply of the supplemental
   nutrient supply 42 being supplied to the reaction zone, or (ii) effecting a decrease in the
   molar rate of supply of the supplemental nutrient supply 42 being supplied to the
   reaction zone 10. In this respect, such modulation is effected in response to the
30 detection of a decrease in the molar rate of supply of the discharged carbon dioxide
   reaction zone supply being supplied to the reaction zone 10.
   [0082] In some embodiments, for example, while carbon dioxide is being discharged by
   the gaseous exhaust material producing process 20, and while at least a fraction of the
35 discharged carbon dioxide is being supplied to the reaction zone 10, wherein the at least
   a fraction of the discharged carbon dioxide which is being supplied to the reaction zone
   10 defines a discharged carbon dioxide reaction zone supply, when an indication of a
                                                                    10382612_2 (GHMatters) P91968.AU.2 19/06/18

                                               - 37
   decrease in the molar rate of supply of the discharged carbon dioxide reaction zone
   supply being supplied to the reaction zone 10 is detected, the modulating of at least one
   material input includes effecting at least one of: (i) terminating supply of the
   supplemental nutrient supply 42 being supplied to the reaction zone, or (ii) effecting a
 5 decrease in the molar rate of supply of the supplemental nutrient supply 42 being
   supplied to the reaction zone 10. In this respect, such modulation is effected in response
   to the detection of an indication of a decrease in the molar rate of supply of the
   discharged carbon dioxide reaction zone supply being supplied to the reaction zone 10.
10 [0083] In some embodiments, for example, the indication of a decrease in the molar rate
   of supply of the discharged carbon dioxide reaction zone supply being supplied to the
   reaction zone 10 which is detected is a decrease in the molar rate at which the gaseous
   exhaust material 18 is being discharged by the gaseous exhaust material producing
   process 20. In this respect, in some embodiments, for example, a flow sensor 78 is
15 provided for detecting the molar flow rate of the gaseous exhaust material 18 being
   discharged by the gaseous exhaust material producing process 20, and transmitting a
   signal representative of the detected molar flow rate of the gaseous exhaust material 18
   to the controller. Upon the controller comparing a received signal from the flow sensor
   78, which is representative of the detected molar flow rate of the gaseous exhaust
20 material 18 being discharged by the gaseous exhaust material producing process 20, to a
   previously received signal representative of a previously detected molar flow rate of the
   gaseous exhaust material 18 previously being discharged by the gaseous exhaust
   material producing process 20 , and determining that a decrease in the molar flow rate
   of the gaseous exhaust material 18, being discharged by the gaseous exhaust material
25 producing process 20, has been effected, the controller effects at least one of: (a) a
   decrease in the intensity of, or termination of, supply of the photosynthetically active
   light radiation being supplied to the reaction zone 10, and (b) a decrease in the molar
   rate of supply of, or termination of supply of, of a supplemental nutrient supply 42
   being supplied to the reaction zone 10.
30
   [0084] In some embodiments, for example, the indication of a decrease in the molar rate
   of supply of the discharged carbon dioxide reaction zone supply being supplied to the
   reaction zone 10 which is detected is a decrease in the molar concentration of carbon
   dioxide of the gaseous effluent material 18 being discharged by the gaseous exhaust
35 material producing process 20. In this respect, in some embodiments, for example, a
   carbon dioxide sensor 781 is provided for detecting the molar concentration of carbon
   dioxide of the gaseous exhaust material 18 being discharged by the gaseous exhaust
                                                                    10382612_2 (GHMatters) P91968.AU.2 19/06/18

                                               - 38
   material producing process 20, and transmitting a signal representative of the detected
   molar concentration of carbon dioxide of the gaseous exhaust material 18 being
   discharged by the gaseous exhaust material producing process 20, to the controller.
   Upon the controller comparing a received signal from the carbon dioxide sensor 781
 5 which is representative of the detected molar concentration of carbon dioxide of the
   gaseous exhaust material 18 being discharged by the gaseous exhaust material
   producing process 20, to a previously received signal representative of a previously
   detected molar concentration of carbon dioxide of the gaseous exhaust material 18
   previously being discharged by the gaseous exhaust material producing process 20, and
10 determining that a decrease in the molar concentration of carbon dioxide of the gaseous
   exhaust material 18, being discharged by the gaseous exhaust material producing
   process 20, has been effected, the controller effects at least one of: (a) a decrease in the
   intensity of, or termination of, supply of the photosynthetically active light radiation
   being supplied to the reaction zone 10, and (b) a decrease in the molar rate of supply of,
15 or termination of supply of, a supplemental nutrient supply 42 being supplied to the
   reaction zone 10. [0085] In some embodiments, for example, the indication of a
   decrease in the molar rate of supply of the discharged carbon dioxide reaction zone
   supply being supplied to the reaction zone 10 is a decrease in the molar rate at which
   carbon dioxide is being discharged by the gaseous exhaust material producing process
20 20. In this respect, in some embodiments, for example, the decrease in the molar rate at
   which carbon dioxide is being discharged by the gaseous exhaust material producing
   process 20 is based on a comparison between (i) a calculated molar rate at which carbon
   dioxide is being discharged by the gaseous exhaust producing process 20, wherein the
   calculation is based on the combination of a detected molar flow rate of the gaseous
25 exhaust material 18 being discharged by the gaseous exhaust material producing
   process 20 and also a detected molar concentration of carbon dioxide of the gaseous
   exhaust material 18 being discharged by the gaseous exhaust material producing
   process 20, and (ii) a calculated molar rate at which carbon dioxide has previously been
   discharged by the gaseous exhaust producing process 20, wherein the calculation is
30 based on the combination of a previously detected molar flow rate of the gaseous
   exhaust material 18 previously being discharged by the gaseous exhaust material
   producing process 20 and also a previously detected molar concentration of carbon
   dioxide of the gaseous exhaust material 18 previously being discharged by the gaseous
   exhaust material producing process 20. In this respect, a flow sensor 78 is provided for
35 detecting the molar flow rate of the gaseous exhaust material 18 being discharged by
   the gaseous exhaust material producing process 20, and transmitting a signal
   representative of the detected molar flow rate of the gaseous exhaust material 18 being
                                                                    10382612_2 (GHMatters) P91968.AU.2 19/06/18

                                               - 39
   discharged by the gaseous exhaust material producing process 20, to the controller. In
   this respect also, a carbon dioxide sensor 781 is provided for detecting the molar
   concentration of carbon dioxide of the gaseous exhaust material 18 being discharged by
   the gaseous exhaust material producing process 20, and transmitting a signal
 5 representative of the detected molar concentration of carbon dioxide of the gaseous
   exhaust material 18 being discharged by the gaseous exhaust material producing
   process 20, to the controller. Upon the controller receiving a flow sensor signal from the
   flow sensor 78, which is representative of a detected molar flow rate of the gaseous
   exhaust material 18 being discharged by the gaseous exhaust material producing
10 process 20, and also receiving a carbon dioxide sensor signal from a carbon dioxide
   sensor 781, which is representative of a detected molar concentration of carbon dioxide
   of the gaseous exhaust material 18 being discharged by the gaseous exhaust material
   producing process 20, wherein the detecting of the detected molar concentration of
   carbon dioxide of the gaseous exhaust material 18 is contemporaneous, or substantially
15 contemporaneous, with the detecting of the detected molar flow rate of the gaseous
   exhaust material 18 being discharged by the process 20, upon which the flow sensor
   signal is based, and calculating a molar rate at which carbon dioxide is being discharged
   by the gaseous exhaust material producing process 20, based upon the received flow
   sensor signal and the received carbon dioxide sensor signal, and comparing the
20 calculated molar rate at which carbon dioxide is being discharged by the gaseous
   exhaust material producing process 20 to a calculated molar rate at which carbon
   dioxide has previously been discharged by the gaseous exhaust material producing
   process 20, wherein the calculation of the molar rate at which carbon dioxide has
   previously been discharged by the gaseous exhaust material producing process 20, is
25 based upon the combination of a previously received flow sensor signal, which is
   representative of a previously detected molar flow rate of the gaseous exhaust material
   18 previously discharged by the gaseous exhaust material producing process 20, and a
   previously received carbon dioxide sensor signal, which is representative of a
   previously detected molar concentration of carbon dioxide of the gaseous exhaust
30 material 18 previously discharged by the gaseous exhaust material producing process
   20, wherein the detecting of the previously detected molar concentration of carbon
   dioxide has been effected contemporaneously, or substantially contemporaneously, with
   the detecting of the previously detected molar flow rate of the gaseous exhaust material
   18 previously discharged by the process 20, upon which the previously received flow
35 sensor signal is based, and determining that a decrease in the molar rate at which carbon
   dioxide is being discharged by the gaseous exhaust material producing process 20 has
   been effected, the controller effects at least one of: (a) a decrease in the intensity, or
                                                                     10382612_2 (GHMatters) P91968.AU.2 19/06/18

                                               - 40
   termination of supply, of the photosynthetically active light radiation being supplied to
   the reaction zone 10, and (b) a decrease in the molar rate of supply, or termination of
   supply, of a supplemental nutrient supply 42 being supplied to the reaction zone 10.
   [0086] In some embodiments, for example, any one of: (a) a decrease in the molar flow
 5 rate of the gaseous exhaust material 18 being discharged by the gaseous exhaust
   material producing process 20, (b) a decrease in the molar concentration of carbon
   dioxide of the gaseous exhaust material 18 being discharged by the gaseous exhaust
   material producing process 20, or (c) a decrease in the molar rate of carbon dioxide
   being discharged by the gaseous exhaust material producing process 20, is an indicator
10 of a decrease in the molar rate of supply of the discharged carbon dioxide reaction zone
   supply being supplied to the reaction zone 10. Because there is provided a decrease in
   the molar rate of supply of the discharged carbon dioxide reaction zone supply to the
   reaction zone 10, the rate of supply of one or more other material inputs, which are
   relevant to phototrophic biomass growth, are correspondingly reduced or terminated to
15 conserve such inputs.
   [0087] In another aspect, while carbon dioxide is being discharged by the gaseous
   exhaust material producing process 20, and while at least a fraction of the discharged
   carbon dioxide is being supplied to the reaction zone 10, wherein the at least a fraction
20 of the discharged carbon dioxide which is being supplied to the reaction zone 10 defines
   a discharged carbon dioxide reaction zone supply, when a decrease in the molar rate of
   supply of the discharged carbon dioxide reaction zone supply being supplied to the
   reaction zone 10 is detected, or when an indication of a decrease in the molar rate of
   supply of the discharged carbon dioxide reaction zone supply being supplied to the
25 reaction zone 10 is detected, either the molar rate of supply of a supplemental carbon
   dioxide supply 92 to the reaction zone 10 is increased, or supply of the supplemental
   carbon dioxide supply 92 to the reaction zone 10 is initiated. In this respect, the increase
   in the molar rate of supply of a supplemental carbon dioxide supply 92 to the reaction
   zone 10, or the initiation of the supply of the supplemental carbon dioxide supply 92 to
30 the reaction zone 10 is effected in response to the detecting of a decrease, or an
   indication of a decrease in the molar rate of supply of the discharged carbon dioxide
   reaction zone supply being supplied to the reaction zone 10. In some embodiments, for
   example, the source of the supplemental carbon dioxide supply 92 is a carbon dioxide
   cylinder. In some embodiments, for example, the source of the supplemental carbon
35 dioxide supply 92 is a supply of air. In some embodiments, for example, the detected
   decrease is a detected termination of the molar rate of supply of the discharged carbon
   dioxide reaction zone supply being supplied to the reaction zone 10. In some
                                                                   10382612_2 (GHMatters) P91968.AU.2 19/06/18

                                                - 41
   embodiments, for example the detected indication of a decrease is a detected indication
   of the termination of the molar rate of supply of the discharged carbon dioxide reaction
   zone supply being supplied to the reaction zone 10. In some embodiments, for example,
   the indication of a decrease in the molar rate of supply of the discharged carbon dioxide
 5 reaction zone supply being supplied to the reaction zone 10 is any of the indications
   described above.
   [0088] In some of these embodiments, the exposing of the phototrophic biomass
   disposed in the reaction zone 10 to photosynthetically active light radiation is effected
10 while the increasing of the molar rate of supply, or the initiation of supply, of the
   supplemental carbon dioxide supply 92 to the reaction zone 10 is being effected.
   [0089] In some embodiments, for example, the supplemental carbon dioxide supply 92
   is provided for compensating for the decrease in the molar rate of supply of carbon
15 dioxide being supplied by the gaseous exhaust material producing process 20 to the
   reaction zone 10, with a view to sustaining a substantially constant growth rate of the
   phototrophic biomass, when it is believed that the decrease (for example, the
   termination) is only of a temporary nature (such as less than two weeks). In this respect,
   in some embodiments, the supply of supply 92 to the reaction zone 10 continues after
20 its initiation for a period of less than two (2) weeks, for example, less than one week,
   and as a further example, less than five (5) days, and as a further example, less than
   three (3) days, and as a further example, less than one (1) day. In some embodiments,
   for example, the supply of supply 92 to the reaction zone 10 continues after its initiation
   for a period of greater than 15 minutes, for example, greater than 30 minutes, and as a
25 further example, greater than one (1) hour, and as a further example, greater than six (6)
   hours, and as a further example, greater than 24 hours.
   [0090] In those embodiments where the increasing of the molar rate of supply, or the
   initiation of supply, of a supplemental carbon dioxide supply 92 to the reaction zone 10
30 is effected in response to the detection of an indication of a decrease in the molar rate of
   supply of the discharged carbon dioxide reaction zone supply being supplied to the
   reaction zone 10, and the indication of a decrease in the molar rate of supply of the
   discharged carbon dioxide reaction zone supply being supplied to the reaction zone 10,
   which is detected, is a decrease in the molar flow rate of the gaseous exhaust material
35 18 being discharged by the gaseous exhaust material producing process 20, in some of
   these embodiments, for example, a flow sensor 78 is provided for detecting the molar
   flow rate of the gaseous exhaust material 18 being discharged by the gaseous exhaust
                                                                    10382612_2 (GHMatters) P91968.AU.2 19/06/18

                                              - 42
   material producing process 20, and transmitting a signal representative of the detected
   molar flow rate of the gaseous exhaust material 18, being discharged by the gaseous
   exhaust material producing process 20, to the controller. Upon the controller comparing
   a received signal from the flow sensor 78 which is representative of a currently detected
 5 molar flow rate of the gaseous exhaust material 18, being discharged by the gaseous
   exhaust material producing process 20, to a previously received signal representative of
   a previously detected molar flow rate of the gaseous exhaust material 18 previously
   being discharged by the process 20, and determining that a decrease in the molar flow
   rate of the gaseous exhaust material 18, being discharged by the gaseous exhaust
10 material producing process 20, has been effected, the controller actuates the opening of
   a flow control element, such as a valve 921 , to initiate supply of the supplemental
   carbon dioxide supply 92 to the reaction zone 10 from a source of the supplemental
   carbon dioxide supply 92, or to effect increasing of the molar rate of supply of the
   supplemental carbon dioxide supply being supplied to the reaction zone 10.
15
   [0091] In those embodiments where the increasing of the molar rate of supply, or the
   initiation of supply, of a supplemental carbon dioxide supply 92 to the reaction zone 10
   is effected in response to the detection of an indication of a decrease in the molar rate of
   supply of the discharged carbon dioxide reaction zone supply being supplied to the
20 reaction zone 10, and the indication of a decrease in the molar rate of supply of the
   discharged carbon dioxide reaction zone supply being supplied to the reaction zone 10
   which is detected is a decrease in the molar concentration of carbon dioxide of the
   gaseous exhaust material 18 being discharged by the gaseous exhaust material
   producing process 20, in some embodiments, for example, a carbon dioxide sensor 781
25 is provided for detecting the molar concentration of carbon dioxide of the gaseous
   exhaust material 18 being discharged by the gaseous exhaust material producing
   process 20, and transmitting a signal representative of the detected molar concentration
   of carbon dioxide of the gaseous exhaust material 18 being discharged by the gaseous
   exhaust material producing process 20, to the controller. Upon the controller comparing
30 a received signal from the carbon dioxide sensor 781 which is representative of the
   detected molar concentration of carbon dioxide of the gaseous exhaust material 18
   being discharged by the gaseous exhaust material producing process 20, to a previously
   received signal representative of a previously detected molar concentration of carbon
   dioxide of the gaseous exhaust material 18 previously being discharged by the gaseous
35 exhaust material producing process 20, and determining that a decrease in the molar
   concentration of carbon dioxide of the gaseous exhaust material 18 being discharged by
   the gaseous exhaust material producing process 20, has been effected, the controller
                                                                   10382612_2 (GHMatters) P91968.AU.2 19/06/18

                                               - 43
   actuates the opening of a flow control element, such as a valve 921, to initiate supply of
   the supplemental carbon dioxide supply 92 to the reaction zone 10, or to effect
   increasing of the molar rate of supply of the supplemental carbon dioxide supply being
   supplied to the reaction zone 10.
 5
   [0092] In those embodiments where the increasing of the molar rate of supply of a
   supplemental carbon dioxide supply 92 being supplied to the reaction zone, or the
   initiation of supply of a supplemental carbon dioxide supply 92 to the reaction zone 10,
   is effected in response to the detection of an indication of a decrease in the molar rate of
10 supply of the discharged carbon dioxide reaction zone supply to the reaction zone 10,
   when the indication of a decrease in the molar rate of supply of the discharged carbon
   dioxide reaction zone supply to the reaction zone 10, which is detected is a decrease in
   the molar rate at which carbon dioxide is being discharged by the gaseous exhaust
   material producing process 20, in some of these embodiments, for example, the
15 decrease in the molar rate at which carbon dioxide is being discharged by the gaseous
   exhaust material producing process 20 is based on a comparison between (i) a
   calculated molar rate at which carbon dioxide is being discharged by the gaseous
   exhaust producing process 20, wherein the calculation is based on the combination of a
   detected molar flow rate of the gaseous exhaust material 18 being discharged by the
20 gaseous exhaust material producing process 20 and also a detected molar concentration
   of carbon dioxide of the gaseous exhaust material 18 being discharged by the gaseous
   exhaust material producing process 20, and (ii) a calculated molar rate at which carbon
   dioxide has previously been discharged by the gaseous exhaust producing process 20,
   wherein the calculation is based on the combination of a previously detected molar flow
25 rate of the gaseous exhaust material 18 previously being discharged by the gaseous
   exhaust material producing process 20 and also a previously detected molar
   concentration of carbon dioxide of the gaseous exhaust material 18 previously being
   discharged by the gaseous exhaust material producing process 20. In this respect, a flow
   sensor 78 is provided for detecting the molar flow rate of the gaseous exhaust material
30 18 being discharged by the gaseous exhaust material producing process 20, and
   transmitting a signal representative of the detected molar flow rate of the gaseous
   exhaust material 18 being discharged by the gaseous exhaust material producing
   process 20, to the controller. In this respect also, a carbon dioxide sensor 781 is
   provided for detecting the molar concentration of carbon dioxide of the gaseous exhaust
35 material 18 being discharged by the gaseous exhaust material producing process 20, and
   transmitting a signal representative of the detected molar concentration of carbon
   dioxide of the gaseous exhaust material 18 being discharged by the gaseous exhaust
                                                                    10382612_2 (GHMatters) P91968.AU.2 19/06/18

                                              - 44
   material producing process 20, to the controller. Upon the controller receiving a flow
   sensor signal from the flow sensor 78, which is representative of a detected molar flow
   rate of the gaseous exhaust material 18 being discharged by the gaseous exhaust
   material producing process 20, and also receiving a carbon dioxide sensor signal from a
 5 carbon dioxide sensor 781, which is representative of a detected molar concentration of
   carbon dioxide of the gaseous exhaust material 18 being discharged by the gaseous
   exhaust material producing process 20, wherein the detecting of the detected molar
   concentration of carbon dioxide of the gaseous exhaust material 18 is contemporaneous,
   or substantially contemporaneous, with the detecting of the detected molar flow rate of
10 the gaseous exhaust material 18 being discharged by the process 20, upon which the
   flow sensor signal is based, and calculating a molar rate at which carbon dioxide is
   being discharged by the gaseous exhaust material producing process 20, based upon the
   received flow sensor signal and the received carbon dioxide sensor signal, and
   comparing the calculated molar rate at which carbon dioxide is being discharged by the
15 gaseous exhaust material producing process 20 to a calculated molar rate at which
   carbon dioxide has previously been discharged by the gaseous exhaust material
   producing process 20, wherein the calculated molar rate at which carbon dioxide has
   previously been discharged by the gaseous exhaust material producing process 20 is
   based upon the combination of a previously received flow sensor signal, which is
20 representative of a previously detected molar flow rate of the gaseous exhaust material
   18 previously discharged by the gaseous exhaust material producing process 20, and a
   previously received carbon dioxide sensor signal, which is representative of a
   previously detected molar concentration of carbon dioxide of the gaseous exhaust
   material 18 previously discharged by the gaseous exhaust material producing process
25 20, wherein the detecting of the previously detected molar concentration of carbon
   dioxide has been effected contemporaneously, or substantially contemporaneously, with
   the detecting of the previously detected molar flow rate of the gaseous exhaust material
   18 previously discharged by the process 20, upon which the previously received flow
   sensor signal is based, and determining that a decrease in the molar rate at which carbon
30 dioxide is being discharged by the gaseous exhaust material producing process 20 has
   been effected, the controller actuates the opening of a flow control element, such as a
   valve 921, to initiate supply of the supplemental carbon dioxide supply 92 to the
   reaction zone 10, or to effect increasing of the molar rate of supply of the supplemental
   carbon dioxide supply being supplied to the reaction zone 10.
35
   [0093] In those embodiments where a decrease (or termination) in the molar rate of
   supply of the discharged carbon dioxide reaction zone supply being supplied to the
                                                                   10382612_2 (GHMatters) P91968.AU.2 19/06/18

                                                - 45
   reaction zone 10 is detected, or when an indication of a decrease (or termination) in the
   molar rate of supply of the discharged carbon dioxide reaction zone supply being
   supplied to the reaction zone 10 is detected, and, in response, either the molar rate of
   supply of a supplemental carbon dioxide supply 92 to the reaction zone 10 is increased,
 5 or supply of the supplemental carbon dioxide supply 92 to the reaction zone 10 is
   initiated, in some of these embodiments, the process further includes initiating the
   supply of a supplemental gas-comprising material 48, or increasing the molar rate of
   supply of a supplemental gas-comprising material 48, to the reaction zone 10.
10 [0094] In some embodiments, for example, the initiation of the supply of the
   supplemental gas-comprising material 48 to the reaction zone 10, or the increasing of
   the molar rate of supply of the supplemental gas-comprising material 48 being supplied
   to the reaction zone 10, at least partially compensates for the reduction in molar supply
   rate of material (such as material of the reaction zone feed material 22), or the
15 termination of supply of material (such as material of the reaction zone feed material
   22), to the reaction zone 10 which is effected by the decrease in the molar rate of
   supply, or by the termination of supply, of the discharged carbon dioxide reaction zone
   supply being supplied to the reaction zone 10, notwithstanding the initiation of the
   supply of the supplemental carbon dioxide supply 92 to the reaction zone 10, or the
20 increase to the molar rate of supply of a supplemental carbon dioxide supply 92 to the
   reaction zone 10, which is effected in response to the reduction in the molar rate of
   supply, or to the termination of supply, of the discharged carbon dioxide reaction zone
   supply being supplied to the reaction zone 10.
25 [0095] In some embodiments, for example, the compensation for the reduction in molar
   supply rate of material (reaction zone feed material 22), or for the termination of supply
   of material (reaction zone feed material 22), to the reaction zone 10 which is effected,
   effects substantially no change to the molar rate of supply of material (reaction zone
   feed material 22) to the reaction zone 10.
30
   [0096] In some embodiments, the compensation for the reduction in molar supply rate
   of material (reaction zone feed material 22), or for the termination of supply of material
   (reaction zone feed material 22), to the reaction zone 10 which is effected, mitigates
   against the reduced agitation of the reaction zone 10 which would otherwise be
35 attributable to the reduction in the molar rate of supply, or the termination of supply, of
   the gaseous exhaust material reaction zone supply 24 to the reaction zone 10, which is
   effected by the decrease in the molar rate of supply, or by the termination of supply, of
                                                                    10382612_2 (GHMatters) P91968.AU.2 19/06/18

                                                - 46
    the discharged carbon dioxide reaction zone supply being supplied to the reaction zone
    10.
    [0097] In some embodiments, for example, the combination of any gaseous exhaust
  5 material reaction zone supply 24, the supplemental carbon dioxide supply 92, and the
    supplemental gas-comprising material defines a combined operative material flow that
    is supplied to the reaction zone as at least a fraction of the reaction zone feed material
    22, and the reaction zone feed material 22 is supplied to the reaction zone 10 and effects
    agitation of material in the reaction zone such that any difference in molar
10  concentration of the phototrophic biomass between any two points in the reaction zone
    10 is less than 20%. In some embodiments, for example, the effected agitation is such
    that any difference in the molar concentration of the phototrophic biomass between any
    two points in the reaction zone 10 is less than 10%. In this respect, the supply of the
    supplemental gas-comprising material 48 is provided to mitigate against the creation of
15  a phototrophic biomass concentration gradient between any two points in the reaction
    zone above a desired maximum.
    [0098] The molar concentration of carbon dioxide, if any, of the supplemental gas
    comprising material 48 is lower than the molar concentration of carbon dioxide of the
20  supplemental carbon dioxide supply 92 being supplied to the reaction zone 10. In some
    embodiments, for example, the molar concentration of carbon dioxide of the
    supplemental gas material 48 is less than 3 mole %based on the total moles of the
    supplemental gas material 48. In some embodiments, for example, the molar
    concentration of carbon dioxide of the supplemental gas material 48 is less than 1 (one)
25  mole % based on the total moles of the supplemental gas material 48.
    [0099] In some embodiments, for example, the supplemental gas-comprising material
    48 is a gaseous material. In some of these embodiments, for example, the supplemental
    gas-comprising material 48 includes a dispersion of gaseous material in a liquid
30  material. In some of these embodiments, for example, the supplemental gas- comprising
    material 48 includes air. In some of these embodiments, for example, the supplemental
    gas-comprising material 48 is provided as a flow. The supplemental gas- comprising
    material 48 is supplied to the reaction zone 10 as a fraction of the reaction zone feed
    material 22.
35
    [00100] In some embodiments, for example, the initiating of the supply of a
    supplemental gas-comprising material 48 to the reaction zone 10, or the increasing of
                                                                      10382612_2 (GHMatters) P91968.AU.2 19/06/18

                                               - 47
   the molar rate of supply of a supplemental gas-comprising material 48 being supplied to
   the reaction zone 10, is effected also in response to the detection of a decrease in (or
   termination of) the molar rate of supply of the discharged carbon dioxide reaction zone
   supply being supplied to the reaction zone 10, or of an indication of a decrease in (or
 5 termination of) the molar rate of supply of the discharged carbon dioxide reaction zone
   supply being supplied to the reaction zone 10. Examples of suitable indications, and
   suitable sensors and control schemes for detecting such indications, are described
   above, and, in some embodiments, the initiating of the supply of a supplemental gas
   comprising material 48 to the reaction zone 10, or the increasing of the molar rate of
10 supply of a supplemental gas-comprising material 48 being supplied to the reaction
   zone 10, is effected by the controller actuating the opening, or an increase in the
   opening, of a flow control element (such as valve 50) to effect fluid coupling to a
   source of the supplemental gas-comprising material 48.
15 [00101] In some embodiments, for example, the initiating of the supply of a
   supplemental gas-comprising material 48 to the reaction zone 10, or the increasing of
   the molar rate of supply of a supplemental gas-comprising material 48 being supplied to
   the reaction zone 10 is effected in response to the detection of a decrease, or an
   indication of a decrease, in the molar rate of supply of the reaction zone feed material
20 22 being supplied to the reaction zone 10, while the supplemental carbon dioxide
   supply 92 is being supplied to the reaction zone 10. In some embodiments, for example,
   a flow sensor is provided for detecting the molar flow rate of the reaction zone feed
   material 22, and transmitting a signal representative of the detected molar flow rate of
   the reaction zone feed material 22 to the controller. Upon the controller comparing a
25 received signal from the flow sensor which is representative of a currently detected
   molar flow rate of the reaction zone feed material 22, to a previously received signal
   representative of a previously detected molar flow rate of the reaction zone feed
   material 22, and determining that a decrease in the molar flow rate of the reaction zone
   feed material 22 has been effected, the controller actuates the opening of a flow control
30 element, such as a valve (for example, valve 50), to initiate supply of the supplemental
   gas-comprising material 48 to the reaction zone 10 from a source of the supplemental
   gas-comprising material 48, or to effect increasing of the molar rate of supply of the
   supplemental gas- comprising material 48 being supplied to the reaction zone 10 from a
   source of the supplemental gas-comprising material 48.
35
   [00102] In another aspect, while the gaseous exhaust material 18 is being discharged by
   the gaseous exhaust material producing process 20, wherein any of the gaseous exhaust
                                                                   10382612_2 (GHMatters) P91968.AU.2 19/06/18

                                               - 48
   material 18 being supplied to the reaction zone 10 defines a gaseous exhaust material
   reaction zone supply 24, supply of the gaseous exhaust material reaction zone supply 24
   to the reaction zone 10 is modulated based on detection of at least one carbon dioxide
   processing capacity indicator. In some embodiments, for example, the gaseous exhaust
 5 material 18 is discharged in the form of a gaseous flow. In some embodiments, for
   example, the gaseous exhaust material reaction zone supply 24 is provided in the form
   of a gaseous flow. In some embodiments, for example, the exposing of the phototrophic
   biomass disposed in the reaction zone 10 to photosynthetically active light radiation is
   effected while the modulating of the gaseous exhaust material reaction zone supply 24
10 is being effected.
   [00103] When the supply of the gaseous exhaust material reaction zone supply 24 to the
   reaction zone 10 is modulated based on detection of at least one carbon dioxide
   processing capacity indicator, in some embodiments, for example, the process further
15 includes modulating of a supply of a bypass fraction of the discharged gaseous exhaust
   material 18 to another unit operation. The supply of the bypass fraction of the
   discharged gaseous exhaust material 18 to another unit operation defines a bypass
   gaseous exhaust material 60. The bypass gaseous exhaust material 60 includes carbon
   dioxide. The another unit operation converts the bypass gaseous exhaust material 60
20 such that its environmental impact is reduced.
   [00104] As suggested above, modulating of a supply of the gaseous exhaust material
   reaction zone supply 24 to the reaction zone 10 is any one of initiating, terminating,
   increasing, decreasing, or otherwise changing the supply of the gaseous exhaust
25 material reaction zone supply 24 to the reaction zone 10. Also, modulating of a supply
   of the bypass fraction of the discharged gaseous exhaust material 18 (ie. the bypass
   gaseous exhaust material 60) to another unit operation, is any one of initiating,
   terminating, increasing, decreasing, or otherwise changing the supply of the bypass
   gaseous exhaust material 60 to another unit operation.
30
   [00105] The carbon dioxide processing capacity indicator is any characteristic that is
   representative of the capacity of the reaction zone 10 for receiving carbon dioxide and
   having at least a fraction of the received carbon dioxide converted in a photosynthesis
   reaction effected by phototrophic biomass disposed within the reaction zone.
35
   [00106] In some embodiments, for example, the carbon dioxide processing capacity
   indicator is any characteristic of the process that is representative of the capacity of the
                                                                    10382612_2 (GHMatters) P91968.AU.2 19/06/18

                                               - 49
   reaction zone 10 for receiving carbon dioxide and having at least a fraction of the
   received carbon dioxide converted in a photosynthesis reaction effected by phototrophic
   biomass disposed within the reaction zone, such that the photosynthesis effects growth
   of the phototrophic biomass within the reaction zone 10. In this respect, the detection of
 5 the carbon dioxide processing capacity indicator is material to determining whether
   modulation of the supply of the gaseous exhaust material reaction zone supply 24 is
   required to effect a predetermined molar rate of growth of the phototrophic biomass
   within the reaction zone 10.
10 [00107] In some embodiments, for example, the carbon dioxide processing capacity
   indicator is any characteristic of the process that is representative of the capacity of the
   reaction zone 10 for receiving carbon dioxide and having at least a fraction of the
   received carbon dioxide converted in a photosynthesis reaction effected by phototrophic
   biomass disposed within the reaction zone 10, such that any discharge of carbon dioxide
15 from the reaction zone 10 is effected below a predetermined molar rate. In this respect,
   the detection of the carbon dioxide processing capacity indicator is material to
   determining whether modulation of the supply of the gaseous exhaust material reaction
   zone supply 24 to the reaction zone 10 is required to effect a predetermined molar rate
   of discharge of the carbon dioxide from the reaction zone 10.
20
   [00108] In some embodiments, for example, the carbon dioxide processing capacity
   indicator which is detected is a pH within the reaction zone 10. In some embodiments,
   for example, the carbon dioxide processing capacity indicator which is detected is a
   molar concentration of phototrophic biomass within the reaction zone 10. Because any
25 of phototrophic biomass-comprising product 500 that is being discharged from the
   reaction zone 10 includes a portion of material from within the reaction zone 10 (ie.
   phototrophic biomass-comprising product 500 that is being discharged from the
   reaction zone 10 is supplied with material from within the reaction zone 10), the
   detecting of a carbon dioxide processing capacity indicator (such as the pH within the
30 reaction zone, or the phototrophic biomass molar concentration within the reaction
   zone) includes detecting of the carbon dioxide processing capacity indicator within the
   phototrophic biomass- comprising product 500 that is being discharged from the
   reaction zone 10
35 [00109] In some embodiments for example, the modulating of the supply of the gaseous
   exhaust reaction zone supply 24 to the reaction zone 10 is based on detection of two or
   more carbon dioxide processing capacity indicators within the reaction zone 10.
                                                                    10382612_2 (GHMatters) P91968.AU.2 19/06/18

                                               - 50
   [00110] In some embodiments, for example, while the gaseous exhaust material 18 is
   being discharged by the gaseous exhaust material producing process 20, wherein any
   gaseous exhaust material 18 which is being supplied to the reaction zone 10 defines a
 5 gaseous exhaust material reaction zone supply 24, when a carbon dioxide processing
   capacity indicator is detected in the reaction zone 10 which is representative of a
   capacity of the reaction zone 10 for receiving an increased molar rate of supply of
   carbon dioxide, the modulating of the supply of the gaseous exhaust material reaction
   zone supply 24 to the reaction zone 10 includes initiating the supply of the gaseous
10 exhaust material reaction zone supply 24 to the reaction zone 10, or increasing the
   molar rate of supply of the gaseous exhaust material reaction zone supply 24 being
   supplied to the reaction zone 10. In this respect, the modulating is effected in response
   to the detection of a carbon dioxide processing capacity indicator in the reaction zone
   10 which is representative of a capacity of the reaction zone 10 for receiving an
15 increased molar rate of supply of carbon dioxide. In those embodiments where the
   outlet of the gaseous exhaust material producing process 20 is co-operatively disposed
   with another unit operation to effect supply of the bypass gaseous exhaust material 60
   to the another unit operation, and while the bypass gaseous exhaust material 60 is being
   supplied to the another unit operation, in some of these embodiments, the process
20 further includes effecting a decrease to the molar rate of supply of, or terminating the
   supply of, the bypass gaseous exhaust material 60 being supplied to the another unit
   operation. It is understood that, in some embodiments, the detecting of a capacity
   indicator which is representative of a capacity of the reaction zone 10 for receiving an
   increased molar rate of supply of carbon dioxide occurs while the reaction zone 10 is
25 being supplied with the gaseous exhaust material reaction zone supply 24. It is also
   understood that, in other embodiments, the detecting of a capacity indicator which is
   representative of a capacity of the reaction zone 10 for receiving an increased molar rate
   of supply of carbon dioxide occurs while the reaction zone 10 is not being supplied with
   the gaseous exhaust material reaction zone supply 24.
30
   [00111] In some embodiments, for example, while the gaseous exhaust material 18 is
   being discharged by the gaseous exhaust material producing process 20, and while at
   least a fraction of the gaseous exhaust material 18 is being supplied to the reaction zone
   10, wherein the at least a fraction of the gaseous exhaust material 18 which is being
35 supplied to the reaction zone 10 defines a gaseous exhaust material reaction zone
   supply 24, when a carbon dioxide processing capacity indicator is detected in the
   reaction zone 10 which is representative of a capacity of the reaction zone 10 for
                                                                   10382612_2 (GHMatters) P91968.AU.2 19/06/18

                                              - 51
   receiving a decreased molar rate of supply of carbon dioxide, the modulating of the
   supply of the gaseous exhaust material reaction zone supply 24 to the reaction zone 10
   includes reducing the molar rate of supply of, or terminating the supply of, the gaseous
   exhaust material reaction zone supply 24 being supplied to the reaction zone 10. In this
 5 respect, the modulating is effected in response to the detection of a carbon dioxide
   processing capacity indicator in the reaction zone 10 which is representative of a
   capacity of the reaction zone 10 for receiving a decreased molar rate of supply of
   carbon dioxide. In those embodiments where the outlet of the gaseous exhaust material
   producing process 20 is co-operatively disposed with another unit operation to effect
10 supply of the bypass gaseous exhaust material 60 to the another unit operation, in some
   of these embodiments, the process further includes initiating the supply of the bypass
   gaseous exhaust material 60 to the another unit operation, or effecting an increase to the
   molar rate of supply of the bypass gaseous exhaust material 60 being supplied to the
   another unit operation. [00112] In some embodiments, for example, the carbon dioxide
15 processing capacity indicator is a pH within the reaction zone 10. Operating with a pH
   in the reaction zone 10 which is above the predetermined high pH (indicating an
   insufficient molar rate of supply of carbon dioxide to the reaction zone 20), or which is
   below the predetermined low pH (indicating an excessive molar rate of supply of
   carbon dioxide to the reaction zone 10), effects less than a desired growth rate of the
20 phototrophic biomass, and, in the extreme, could effect death of the phototrophic
   biomass. In some embodiments, for example, the pH which is detected in the reaction
   zone is detected in the reaction zone 10 with a pH sensor 46. The pH sensor 46 is
   provided for detecting the pH within the reaction zone, and transmitting a signal
   representative of the detected pH within the reaction zone to the controller.
25
   [00113] In some embodiments, for example, while the gaseous exhaust material 18 is
   being discharged by the gaseous exhaust material producing process 20, wherein any of
   the gaseous exhaust material 18 which is supplied to the reaction zone 10 defines a
   gaseous exhaust material reaction zone supply 24, when a pH is detected in the reaction
30 zone 10 that is above a predetermined high pH value, the modulating of the supply of
   the gaseous exhaust material reaction zone supply 24 to the reaction zone 10 includes
   initiating the supply of the gaseous exhaust material reaction zone supply 24 to the
   reaction zone 10, or increasing the molar rate of supply of the gaseous exhaust material
   reaction zone supply 24 being supplied to the reaction zone 10. In those embodiments
35 where the outlet of the gaseous exhaust material producing process 20 is co-operatively
   disposed with another unit operation to effect supply of the bypass gaseous exhaust
   material 60 to the another unit operation, and while the bypass gaseous exhaust material
                                                                  10382612_2 (GHMatters) P91968.AU.2 19/06/18

                                                - 52
   60 is being supplied to the another unit operation, in some of these embodiments, the
   process further includes effecting a decrease to the molar rate of supply, or terminating
   the supply, of the bypass gaseous exhaust material 60 being supplied to the another unit
   operation. It is understood that, in some embodiments, the detecting of a pH in the
 5 reaction zone 10 that is above a predetermined high pH value occurs when the reaction
   zone 10 is being supplied with the gaseous exhaust material reaction zone supply 24. It
   is also understood that, in other embodiments, the detecting of a pH in the reaction zone
   10 that is above a predetermined high pH value occurs when the reaction zone 10 is not
   being supplied with the gaseous exhaust material reaction zone supply 24.
10
   [00114] In those embodiments when the pH within the reaction zone is above a
   predetermined high pH value, in some of these embodiments, upon the controller
   comparing a received signal from the pH sensor 47 which is representative of the
   detected pH within the reaction zone 10 to a target value (ie. the predetermined high pH
15 value), and determining that the detected pH within the reaction zone 10 is above the
   predetermined high pH value, the controller responds by effecting initiation of the
   supply of the gaseous exhaust material reaction zone supply 24 to the reaction zone 10,
   or effecting an increase to the molar rate of supply of the gaseous exhaust material
   reaction zone supply 24 being supplied to the reaction zone 10. In some embodiments,
20 for example, the initiation of supply of the gaseous exhaust material reaction zone
   supply 24 to the reaction zone 10 is effected by actuating opening of the flow control
   element 50 with the controller. In some embodiments, for example, the effecting of an
   increase to the molar supply rate of the gaseous exhaust material reaction zone supply
   24 being supplied to the reaction zone 10 is effected by actuating an increase to the
25 opening of the flow control element 50 with the controller. The flow control element 50
   is provided and configured to selectively control the molar rate of flow of the supply of
   the gaseous exhaust material reaction zone supply 24 to the reaction zone 10 by
   selectively interfering with the flow of the supply of the gaseous exhaust material
   reaction zone supply 24 to the reaction zone 10, including by effecting pressure losses
30 to the flow of the supply of the gaseous exhaust material reaction zone supply 24 to the
   reaction zone 10. In this respect, the initiation of supply, or the increase to the molar
   rate of supply, of the gaseous exhaust material reaction zone supply 24 to the reaction
   zone 10 is effected by actuation of the flow control element 50. The predetermined high
   pH value depends on the phototrophic organisms of the biomass. In some embodiments,
35 for example, the predetermined high pH value can be as high as 10.
   [00115] In those embodiments where the outlet of the gaseous exhaust material
                                                                     10382612_2 (GHMatters) P91968.AU.2 19/06/18

                                              - 53
   producing process 20 is co-operatively disposed with another unit operation to effect
   supply of the bypass gaseous exhaust material 60 to the another unit operation, and
   while the bypass gaseous exhaust material 60 is being supplied to the another unit
   operation, in some of these embodiments, for example, upon the controller determining
 5 that the pH within the reaction zone 10 is above the predetermined high pH value, the
   controller further responds by effecting a decrease to the molar rate of supply, or by
   effecting termination of the supply, of the bypass gaseous exhaust material 60 being
   supplied to the another unit operation. In some embodiments, for example, the decrease
   to the molar rate of supply of the bypass gaseous exhaust material 60 being supplied to
10 the another unit operation is effected by the controller by actuating a decrease to the
   opening of a valve disposed between the gaseous exhaust material producing process 20
   and the another unit operation, wherein the valve is configured to interfere with fluid
   communication between the gaseous exhaust material producing process 20 and the
   another unit operation. In some embodiments, for example, the termination of the
15 supply of the bypass gaseous exhaust material 60 being supplied to the another unit
   operation is effected by the controller by actuation closure of a valve disposed between
   the gaseous exhaust material producing process 20 and the another unit operation,
   wherein the valve is configured to interfere with fluid communication between the
   gaseous exhaust material producing process 20 and the another unit operation.
20
   [00116] Also in those embodiments where the outlet of the gaseous exhaust material
   producing process 20 is co-operatively disposed with another unit operation to effect
   supply of bypass gaseous exhaust material 60 to the another unit operation, and while
   bypass gaseous exhaust material 60 is being supplied to the another unit operation, in
25 other ones of these embodiments, for example, the decrease to the molar rate of supply,
   or the termination of supply, of the bypass gaseous exhaust material 60 being supplied
   to the another unit operation is effected when the pressure of the gaseous exhaust
   material 18 upstream of the another unit operation is below a predetermined pressure,
   wherein the decrease in pressure is effected in response to an initiation of the supply of
30 the gaseous exhaust material reaction zone supply 24 to the reaction zone 10, or an
   increase to the molar rate of supply of the gaseous exhaust material reaction zone
   supply 24 being supplied to the reaction zone 10, either of which is effected by the
   controller in response to the determination that the detected pH within the reaction zone
   is above a predetermined high pH value. In such embodiments, upon the controller
35 determining that the detected pH within the reaction zone is above the predetermined
   high pH value, the controller effects an initiation of the supply of the gaseous exhaust
   material reaction zone supply 24 to the reaction zone 10, or an increase to the molar rate
                                                                   10382612_2 (GHMatters) P91968.AU.2 19/06/18

                                              - 54
   of supply of the gaseous exhaust material reaction zone supply 24 being supplied to the
   reaction zone 10, as described above. The initiation of supply of, or the increase to the
   molar rate of supply of, the gaseous exhaust material reaction zone supply 24 to the
   reaction zone 10 effects a corresponding decrease in pressure of the gaseous exhaust
 5 material 18 such that the pressure of the gaseous exhaust material 18 upstream of the
   another unit operation becomes disposed below the predetermined pressure. When the
   pressure of the gaseous exhaust material 18 upstream of the another unit operation is
   below the predetermined pressure, the forces biasing closure of a closure element 64
   (such as a valve), disposed between the gaseous exhaust material producing process 20
10 and the another unit operation and configured for interfering with fluid communication
   between the gaseous exhaust material producing process 20 and the another unit
   operation, exceed the fluid pressure forces acting to open the closure element 64. In
   some implementations, there is effected a decrease of the opening of the closure
   element 64, thereby effecting the decrease to the molar rate of supply of the bypass
15 gaseous exhaust material 60 being supplied to the another unit operation. In other
   implementations, there is effected closure of the closure element 64, thereby effecting
   the termination of supply of the bypass gaseous exhaust material 60 being supplied to
   the another unit operation.
20 [00117] Also in those embodiments where the outlet of the gaseous exhaust material
   producing process 20 is co-operatively disposed with another unit operation to effect
   supply of bypass gaseous exhaust material 60 to the another unit operation, and while
   bypass gaseous exhaust material 60 is being supplied to the another unit operation, in
   other ones of these embodiments, for example, the decrease to the molar rate of supply
25 of the bypass gaseous exhaust material 60 being supplied to the another unit operation
   is effected when the pressure of the gaseous exhaust material 18 upstream of the
   another unit operation is decreased, wherein the decrease in pressure of the gaseous
   exhaust material 18 is effected in response to an initiation of the supply of the gaseous
   exhaust material reaction zone supply 24 to the reaction zone 10, or an increase to the
30 molar rate of supply of the gaseous exhaust material reaction zone supply 24 being
   supplied to the reaction zone 10, either of which is effected by the controller in response
   to the determination that the detected pH within the reaction zone is above a
   predetermined high pH value. The decrease in pressure of the gaseous exhaust material
   18 upstream of the another unit operation effects a decrease in the molar rate of supply
35 of the bypass gaseous exhaust material 60 being supplied to the another unit operation.
   [00118] In some embodiments, for example, while the gaseous exhaust material 18 is
                                                                   10382612_2 (GHMatters) P91968.AU.2 19/06/18

                                               - 55
   being discharged by the gaseous exhaust material producing process 20, and while at
   least a fraction of the gaseous exhaust material 18 is being supplied to the reaction zone
   10, wherein the at least a fraction of the gaseous exhaust material 18 which is being
   supplied to the reaction zone 10 defines a gaseous exhaust material reaction zone
 5 supply 24, when a pH is detected in the reaction zone 10 that is below a predetermined
   low pH value, the modulating of the supply of the gaseous exhaust material reaction
   zone supply 24 to the reaction zone 10 includes reducing the molar rate of supply, or
   terminating the supply, of the gaseous exhaust material reaction zone supply 24 being
   supplied to the reaction zone 10. In those embodiments where the outlet of the gaseous
10 exhaust material producing process 20 is co-operatively disposed with another unit
   operation to effect supply of the bypass gaseous exhaust material 60 to the another unit
   operation, in some of these embodiments, for example, the process further includes
   initiating the supply of the bypass gaseous exhaust material 60 to the another unit
   operation, or effecting an increase to the molar rate of supply of the bypass gaseous
15 exhaust material 60 being supplied to the another unit operation.
   [00119] In those embodiments where the pH within the reaction zone is below a
   predetermined low pH value, in some of these embodiments, for example, upon the
   controller comparing a received signal from the pH sensor 46 which is representative of
20 the detected pH within the reaction zone 10 to a target value (ie. the predetermined low
   pH value), and determining that the detected pH within the reaction zone 10 is below
   the predetermined low pH value, the controller responds by effecting reduction of the
   molar rate of supply of, or effecting termination of the supply of, the gaseous exhaust
   material reaction zone supply 24 being supplied to the reaction zone 10. In some
25 embodiments, for example, the effected reduction of the molar rate of supply of the
   gaseous exhaust material reaction zone supply 24 being supplied to the reaction zone 10
   is effected by actuating a decrease in the opening of the flow control element 50 (such
   as a valve) with the controller. In some embodiments, for example, the effected
   termination of supply of the gaseous exhaust material reaction zone supply 24 being
30 supplied to the reaction zone 10 is effected by actuating the closure of a flow control
   element 50 (such as a valve) with the controller. The predetermined low pH value
   depends on the phototrophic organisms of the biomass. In some embodiments, for
   example, the predetermined low pH value can be as low as 4.0.
35 [00120] In those embodiments where the outlet of the gaseous exhaust material
   producing process 20 is co-operatively disposed with another unit operation to effect
   supply of the bypass gaseous exhaust material 60 to the another unit operation, in some
                                                                   10382612_2 (GHMatters) P91968.AU.2 19/06/18

                                               - 56
   of these embodiments, for example, upon the controller determining that the pH within
   the reaction zone 10 is below the predetermined low pH value, the controller further
   responds by effecting initiation of the supply of the bypass gaseous exhaust material 60
   to the another unit operation, or effecting an increase to the molar rate of supply of the
 5 bypass gaseous exhaust material 60 being supplied to the another unit operation. In
   some embodiments, for example, the initiation of the supply of the bypass gaseous
   exhaust material 60 to the another unit operation, or the increase to the molar rate of
   supply of the bypass gaseous exhaust material 60 being supplied to the another unit
   operation is effected by the controller actuating a valve disposed between the gaseous
10 exhaust material producing process 20 and the another unit operation, wherein the valve
   is configured for interfering with fluid flow between the process 20 and the another unit
   operation. In some implementations, for example, the initiation of the supply of the
   bypass gaseous exhaust material 60 to the another unit operation is effected by the
   controller by actuating the opening of a valve disposed between the gaseous exhaust
15 material producing process 20 and the another unit operation. In some implementations,
   for example, the increase to the molar rate of supply of the bypass gaseous exhaust
   material 60 to the another unit operation is effected by the controller by actuation of an
   increase to the opening of a valve disposed between the gaseous exhaust material
   producing process 20 and the another unit operation. [00121] Also in those
20 embodiments where the outlet of the gaseous exhaust material producing process 20 is
   co-operatively disposed with another unit operation to effect supply of bypass gaseous
   exhaust material 60 to the another unit operation, in other ones of these embodiments,
   for example, the initiation of the supply of the bypass gaseous exhaust material 60 to
   the another unit operation, or an increase in the molar rate of supply of the bypass
25 gaseous exhaust material 60 to the another unit operation, is effected when the pressure
   of the gaseous exhaust material 18 upstream of the another unit operation is above a
   predetermined pressure, wherein the increase in pressure of the gaseous exhaust
   material 18 upstream of the another unit operation to above the predetermined pressure
   is effected in response to the reduction of the molar rate of supply, or the termination of
30 the supply, of the gaseous exhaust material reaction zone supply 24 being supplied to
   the reaction zone 10, either of which is effected by the controller in response to the
   determination that the detected pH within the reaction zone is below a predetermined
   low pH value. In such embodiments, upon the controller determining that the detected
   pH within the reaction zone by the pH sensor 47 is below a predetermined low pH
35 value, the controller effects a reduction of the molar rate of supply, or effects
   termination of the supply, of the gaseous exhaust material reaction zone supply 24
   being supplied to the reaction zone 10, as described above. The reduction of the molar
                                                                   10382612_2 (GHMatters) P91968.AU.2 19/06/18

                                               - 57
   rate of supply, or the termination of the supply, of the gaseous exhaust material reaction
   zone supply 24 being supplied to the reaction zone 10 effects a corresponding increase
   in pressure of the gaseous exhaust material 18 upstream of the another unit operation
   such that the pressure of the gaseous exhaust material 18 upstream of the another unit
 5 operation becomes disposed above a predetermined pressure. When the pressure of the
   gaseous exhaust material 18 upstream of the another unit operation is above the
   predetermined pressure, the forces biasing closure of a closure element 64 (such as a
   valve), disposed between the gaseous exhaust material producing process 20 and the
   another unit operation and configured for interfering with fluid communication between
10 the gaseous exhaust material producing process 20 and the another unit operation, are
   exceeded by the fluid pressure forces of the gaseous exhaust material 18 acting to open
   the closure element 64. In some implementations, there is effected initiation of the
   opening of the closure element 64, which effects the initiation of supply of the bypass
   gaseous exhaust material 60 being supplied to the another unit operation, in response to
15 the fluid pressure increase. In other implementations, there is effected an increase to the
   opening of the closure element 64, which effects the increase to the molar rate of supply
   of the bypass gaseous exhaust material 60 being supplied to the another unit operation,
   in response to the fluid pressure increase.
20 [00122] Also in those embodiments where the outlet of the gaseous exhaust material
   producing process 20 is co-operatively disposed with another unit operation to effect
   supply of bypass gaseous exhaust material 60 to the another unit operation, in other
   ones of these embodiments, for example, the increase in the molar rate of supply of the
   bypass gaseous exhaust material 60 being supplied to the another unit operation is
25 effected in response to the increase in pressure of the gaseous exhaust material 18
   upstream of the another unit operation, which is effected in response to the reduction of
   the molar rate of supply, or the termination of the supply, of the gaseous exhaust
   material reaction zone supply 24 being supplied to the reaction zone 10, either of which
   is effected by the controller in response to the determination that the detected pH within
30 the reaction zone is below a predetermined low pH value. In such embodiments, upon
   the controller determining that the detected pH within the reaction zone by the pH
   sensor 47 is below a predetermined low pH value, the controller effects a reduction of
   the molar rate of supply, or effects termination of the supply, of the gaseous exhaust
   material reaction zone supply 24 being supplied to the reaction zone 10, as described
35 above. The reduction of the molar rate of supply of, or the termination of the supply of,
   the gaseous exhaust material reaction zone supply 24 being supplied to the reaction
   zone 10 effects a corresponding increase in pressure of the gaseous exhaust material 18
                                                                   10382612_2 (GHMatters) P91968.AU.2 19/06/18

                                              - 58
   upstream of the another unit operation. The increase in pressure of the gaseous exhaust
   material 18 upstream of the another unit operation effects the increase in the molar rate
   of supply of the bypass gaseous exhaust material 60 being supplied to the another unit
   operation.
 5
   [00123] In some embodiments, for example, the carbon dioxide processing capacity
   indicator is a molar concentration of phototrophic biomass within the reaction zone 10.
   In some embodiments, for example, it is desirable to control the molar concentration of
   the phototrophic biomass within the reaction zone 10, as, for example, higher overall
10 yield of the harvested phototrophic biomass is effected when the molar concentration of
   the phototrophic biomass within the reaction zone 10 is maintained at a predetermined
   concentration or within a predetermined concentration range. In some embodiments, the
   detecting of the molar concentration of phototrophic biomass in the reaction zone 10 is
   effected with a cell counter 47. For example, a suitable cell counter is an AS-16F Single
15 Channel Absorption Probe supplied by optek-Danulat, Inc. of Germantown, Wisconsin,
   U.S.A. Other suitable devices for detecting molar concentration of phototrophic
   biomass include other light scattering sensors, such as a spectrophotometer. As well, the
   molar concentration of phototrophic biomass can be detected manually, and then input
   manually into the controller for effecting the desired response.
20
   [00124] In this respect, in some embodiments, for example, while the gaseous exhaust
   material 18 is being discharged by the gaseous exhaust material producing process 20,
   and while at least a fraction of the gaseous exhaust material 18 is being supplied to the
   reaction zone 10, wherein the at least a fraction of the gaseous exhaust material 18
25 which is being supplied to the reaction zone 10 defines a gaseous exhaust material
   reaction zone supply 24, when a phototrophic biomass concentration is detected in the
   reaction zone 10 that is above a predetermined high molar concentration of
   phototrophic biomass (the "predetermined high target concentration value"), the
   modulating of the supply of the gaseous exhaust material reaction zone supply 24 to the
30 reaction zone 10 includes reducing the molar rate of supply, or terminating the supply,
   of the gaseous exhaust material reaction zone supply 24 being supplied to the reaction
   zone 10. In those embodiments where the outlet of the gaseous exhaust material
   producing process 20 is co-operatively disposed with another unit operation to effect
   supply of the bypass gaseous exhaust material 60 to the another unit operation, the
35 process further includes initiating the supply of the bypass gaseous exhaust material 60
   to the another unit operation, or effecting an increase to the molar rate of supply of the
   bypass gaseous exhaust material 60 being supplied to the another unit operation.
                                                                   10382612_2 (GHMatters) P91968.AU.2 19/06/18

                                              - 59
   [00125] In those embodiments where the phototrophic biomass concentration within the
   reaction zone is above the predetermined high concentration target value, in some of
   these embodiments, upon the controller comparing a received signal from the cell
 5 counter 47, which is representative of the detected molar concentration of phototrophic
   biomass within the reaction zone 10, to the predetermined high concentration target
   value, and determining that the molar concentration of phototrophic biomass within the
   reaction zone 10 is above the predetermined high concentration target value, the
   controller responds by effecting reduction of the molar rate of supply of, or termination
10 of the supply of, the gaseous exhaust material reaction zone supply 24 being supplied to
   the reaction zone 10. In some implementations, for example, the reduction of the molar
   rate of supply of the gaseous exhaust material reaction zone supply 24 being supplied to
   the reaction zone 10 is effected by actuating a decrease to the opening the flow control
   element 50 with the controller. In some implementations, for example, the termination
15 of the supply of the gaseous exhaust material reaction zone supply 24 being supplied to
   the reaction zone 10 is effected by actuating closure of the flow control element 50 with
   the controller.
   [00126] In those embodiments where the outlet of the gaseous exhaust material
20 producing process 20 is co-operatively disposed with another unit operation to effect
   supply of bypass gaseous exhaust material 60 to the another unit operation, in some of
   these embodiments, for example, upon the controller comparing a received signal from
   the cell counter 47, which is representative of the molar concentration of phototrophic
   biomass within the reaction zone 10, to the predetermined high concentration target
25 value, and determining that the molar concentration of phototrophic biomass within the
   reaction zone 10 is above the predetermined high concentration target value, the
   controller further responds by effecting initiation of the supply of the bypass gaseous
   exhaust material 60 to the another unit operation, or effecting an increase to the molar
   rate of supply of the bypass gaseous exhaust material 60 being supplied to the another
30 unit operation. In some embodiments, for example, the initiation of the supply of the
   bypass gaseous exhaust material 60 to the another unit operation, or the increase to the
   molar rate of supply of the bypass gaseous exhaust material 60 being supplied to the
   another unit operation is effected by the controller actuating a valve disposed between
   the gaseous exhaust material producing process 20 and the another unit operation,
35 wherein the valve is configured for interfering with fluid flow between the process 20
   and the another unit operation. In some implementations, for example, the initiation of
   the supply the bypass gaseous exhaust material 60 to the another unit operation is
                                                                   10382612_2 (GHMatters) P91968.AU.2 19/06/18

                                               - 60
   effected by the controller by actuation of the opening of the valve disposed between the
   gaseous exhaust material producing process 20 and the another unit operation. In some
   implementations, for example, the increase to the molar rate of supply of the bypass
   gaseous exhaust material 60 being supplied to the another unit operation is effected by
 5 the controller by actuation of an increase in the opening of the valve disposed between
   the gaseous exhaust material producing process 20 and the another unit operation.
   [00127] Also in those embodiments where the outlet of the gaseous exhaust material
   producing process 20 is co-operatively disposed with another unit operation to effect
10 supply of bypass gaseous exhaust material 60 to the another unit operation, in other
   ones of these embodiments, for example, the initiation of the supply of the bypass
   gaseous exhaust material 60 to the another unit operation, or an increase in the molar
   rate of supply of the bypass gaseous exhaust material 60 being supplied to the another
   unit operation, is effected when the pressure of the gaseous exhaust material 18
15 upstream of the another unit operation is above a predetermined pressure, wherein the
   increase in pressure of the gaseous exhaust material 18 upstream of the another unit
   operation to above the predetermined pressure is effected in response to the reduction of
   the molar rate of supply, or the termination of the supply, of the gaseous exhaust
   material reaction zone supply 24 being supplied to the reaction zone 10, either of which
20 is effected by the controller in response to the determination that the detected molar
   concentration of phototrophic biomass within the reaction zone is above the
   predetermined high concentration target value. In such embodiments, upon the
   controller determining that the detected molar concentration of phototrophic biomass
   within the reaction zone by the cell counter 47 is above the predetermined high
25 concentration target value, the controller effects a reduction of the molar rate of supply,
   or termination of the supply, of the gaseous exhaust material reaction zone supply 24
   being supplied to the reaction zone 10, as described above. The reduction of the molar
   rate of supply of, or the termination of the supply of, the gaseous exhaust material
   reaction zone supply 24 being supplied to the reaction zone 10 effects a corresponding
30 increase in pressure of the gaseous exhaust material 18 upstream of the another unit
   operation such that the pressure of the gaseous exhaust material 18 becomes disposed
   above a predetermined pressure. When the pressure of the gaseous exhaust material 18
   is above the predetermined pressure, the forces biasing closure of a closure element 64
   (such as a valve), disposed between the gaseous exhaust material producing process 20
35 and the another unit operation and configured for interfering with fluid communication
   between the gaseous exhaust material producing process 20 and the another unit
   operation, are exceeded by the fluid pressure forces acting to open the closure element
                                                                   10382612_2 (GHMatters) P91968.AU.2 19/06/18

                                               - 61
   64. In some implementations, there is effected an initiation of the opening of the closure
   element 64, thereby effecting the initiation of the supply of the bypass gaseous exhaust
   material 60 to the another unit operation. In some implementations, there is effected an
   increase in the opening of the closure element 64, thereby effecting the increase in the
 5 molar rate of supply of the bypass gaseous exhaust material 60 being supplied to the
   another unit operation.
   [00128] Also in those embodiments where the outlet of the gaseous exhaust material
   producing process 20 is co-operatively disposed with another unit operation to effect
10 supply of bypass gaseous exhaust material 60 to the another unit operation, in other
   ones of these embodiments, for example, the increase in the molar rate of supply of the
   bypass gaseous exhaust material 60 being supplied to the another unit operation is
   effected in response to the increase in pressure of the gaseous exhaust material 18
   upstream of the another unit operation, which is effected in response to the reduction of
15 the molar rate of supply, or the termination of the supply, of the gaseous exhaust
   material reaction zone supply 24 being supplied to the reaction zone 10, either of which
   is effected by the controller in response to the determination that the detected molar
   concentration of phototrophic biomass within the reaction zone is above the
   predetermined high concentration target value. In such embodiments, upon the
20 controller determining that the detected molar concentration of phototrophic biomass
   within the reaction zone by the cell counter 47 is above the predetermined high
   concentration target value, the controller effects a reduction of the molar rate of supply,
   or effects termination of the supply, of the gaseous exhaust material reaction zone
   supply 24 being supplied to the reaction zone 10, as described above. The reduction of
25 the molar rate of supply of, or the termination of the supply of, the gaseous exhaust
   material reaction zone supply 24 to the reaction zone 10 effects a corresponding
   increase in pressure of the gaseous exhaust material 18 upstream of the another unit
   operation. The increase in pressure of the gaseous exhaust material 18 upstream of the
   another unit operation effects the increase in the molar rate of supply of the bypass
30 gaseous exhaust material 60 being supplied to the another unit operation.
   [00129] In some embodiments, for example, while the gaseous exhaust material 18 is
   being discharged by the gaseous exhaust material producing process 20, wherein any of
   the gaseous exhaust material 18 which is being supplied to the reaction zone 10 defines
35 a gaseous exhaust material reaction zone supply 24, when a molar concentration of
   phototrophic biomass is detected in the reaction zone 10 that is below a predetermined
   low molar concentration of phototrophic biomass (a "predetermined low concentration
                                                                   10382612_2 (GHMatters) P91968.AU.2 19/06/18

                                              - 62
   target value"), the modulating of the supply of the gaseous exhaust material reaction
   zone supply 24 to the reaction zone 10 includes initiating the supply of the gaseous
   exhaust material reaction zone supply 24 to the reaction zone 10, or increasing the
   molar rate of supply of the gaseous exhaust material reaction zone supply 24 being
 5 supplied to the reaction zone 10. In those embodiments where the outlet of the gaseous
   exhaust material producing process 20 is co-operatively disposed with another unit
   operation to effect supply of the bypass gaseous exhaust material 60 to the another unit
   operation, and while the bypass gaseous exhaust material 60 is being supplied to the
   another unit operation, in some of these embodiments, the process further includes
10 effecting a decrease to the molar rate of supply of, or terminating the supply of, the
   bypass gaseous exhaust material 60 to the another unit operation.
   [00130] In those embodiments where the molar concentration of phototrophic biomass
   within the reaction zone is below the predetermined low concentration target value, in
15 some of these embodiments, upon the controller comparing a received signal from the
   cell counter 47, which is representative of the detected molar concentration of
   phototrophic biomass within the reaction zone 10, to the predetermined low
   concentration target value, and determining that the detected molar concentration of
   phototrophic biomass within the reaction zone 10 is below the predetermined low
20 concentration target value, the controller responds by effecting initiation of the supply
   of the gaseous exhaust material reaction zone supply 24 to the reaction zone 10, or
   effecting an increase to the molar rate of supply of the gaseous exhaust material
   reaction zone supply 24 being supplied to the reaction zone 10. In some embodiments,
   for example, this is effected by actuating the flow control element 50 with the
25 controller. In some implementations, the initiation of supply of the gaseous exhaust
   material reaction zone supply 24 to the reaction zone 10 is effected by actuating
   opening of the flow control element 50 with the controller. In some implementations,
   the effecting of an increase to the molar supply rate of the gaseous exhaust material
   reaction zone supply 24 being supplied to the reaction zone 10 is effected by actuating
30 an increase to the opening of the flow control element 50 with the controller.
   [00131] In those embodiments where the outlet of the gaseous exhaust material
   producing process 20 is co-operatively disposed with another unit operation to effect
   supply of the bypass gaseous exhaust material 60 to the another unit operation, and
35 while the bypass gaseous exhaust material 60 is being supplied to the another unit
   operation, in some of these embodiments, for example, upon the controller comparing a
   received signal from the cell counter 47, which is representative of the molar
                                                                  10382612_2 (GHMatters) P91968.AU.2 19/06/18

                                              - 63
   concentration of phototrophic biomass within the reaction zone 10, to the low
   concentration target value, and determining that the molar concentration of
   phototrophic biomass within the reaction zone 10 is below the predetermined low
   concentration target value, the controller further responds by effecting a decrease to the
 5 molar rate of supply, or by effecting the termination of the supply, of the bypass
   gaseous exhaust material 60 to the another unit operation. In some embodiments, for
   example, the decrease to the molar rate of supply, or the termination of the supply, of
   the bypass gaseous exhaust material 60 to the another unit operation is effected by the
   controller by actuation of a valve disposed between the gaseous exhaust material
10 producing process 20 and the another unit operation, wherein the valve is configured to
   interfere with fluid communication between the gaseous exhaust material producing
   process 20 and the another unit operation. In some implementations, for example, the
   decrease to the molar rate of supply of the bypass gaseous exhaust material 60 being
   supplied to the another unit operation is effected by the controller by actuating a
15 decrease to the opening of a valve disposed between the gaseous exhaust material
   producing process 20 and the another unit operation. In some imlpementations, for
   example, the termination of the supply of the bypass gaseous exhaust material 60 being
   supplied to the another unit operation is effected by the controller by actuating closure
   of a valve disposed between the gaseous exhaust material producing process 20 and the
20 another unit operation.
   [00132] Also in those embodiments where the outlet of the gaseous exhaust material
   producing process 20 is co-operatively disposed with another unit operation to effect
   supply of bypass gaseous exhaust material 60 to the another unit operation, and while
25 bypass gaseous exhaust material 60 is being supplied to the another unit operation, in
   other ones of these embodiments, for example, the decrease to the molar rate of supply
   of the bypass gaseous exhaust material 60 being supplied to the another unit operation,
   or the termination of the supply of the bypass gaseous exhaust material 60 being
   supplied to the another unit operation, is effected in response to a decrease in pressure
30 of the gaseous exhaust material 18 upstream of the another unit operation, wherein the
   decrease in pressure is effected in response to an initiation of the supply of the gaseous
   exhaust material reaction zone supply 24 to the reaction zone 10, or an increase to the
   molar rate of supply of the gaseous exhaust material reaction zone supply 24 being
   supplied to the reaction zone 10, either of which is effected by the controller in response
35 to the determination that the detected molar concentration of phototrophic biomass
   within the reaction zone is below the predetermined low concentration target value. The
   pressure decrease is such that the pressure of the gaseous exhaust material 18 upstream
                                                                   10382612_2 (GHMatters) P91968.AU.2 19/06/18

                                               - 64
   of the another unit operation is below a predetermined minimum pressure, and the
   forces biasing closure of a closure element 64 (such as a valve), disposed between the
   gaseous exhaust material producing process 20 and the another unit operation and
   configured for interfering with fluid communication between the gaseous exhaust
 5 material producing process 20 and the another unit operation, exceed the fluid pressure
   forces of the gaseous exhaust material 18 acting to open the closure element 64. In
   some implementations, there is effected a decrease in the opening of the closure
   element 64, which effects the decrease to the molar rate of supply of the bypass gaseous
   exhaust material 60 to the another unit operation, in response to the decrease in the
10 pressure of the gaseous exhaust material 18 upstream of the another unit operation. In
   other implementations, there is effected a closure of the closure element 64, which
   effects the termination of the supply of the bypass gaseous exhaust material 60 to the
   another unit operation, in response to the decrease in the pressure of the gaseous
   exhaust material 18 upstream of the another unit operation.
15
   [00133] Also in those embodiments where the outlet of the gaseous exhaust material
   producing process 20 is co-operatively disposed with another unit operation to effect
   supply of bypass gaseous exhaust material 60 to the another unit operation, and while
   bypass gaseous exhaust material 60 is being supplied to the another unit operation, in
20 other ones of these embodiments, for example, the decrease to the molar rate of supply
   of the bypass gaseous exhaust material 60 being supplied to the another unit operation
   is effected in response to a decrease in pressure of the gaseous exhaust material 18
   upstream of the another unit operation, wherein the decrease in pressure is effected in
   response to an initiation of the supply of the gaseous exhaust material reaction zone
25 supply 24 to the reaction zone 10, or an increase to the molar rate of supply of the
   gaseous exhaust material reaction zone supply 24 being supplied to the reaction zone
   10, either of which is effected by the controller in response to the determination that the
   detected molar concentration of phototrophic biomass within the reaction zone is below
   the predetermined low concentration target value. The decrease in pressure of the
30 gaseous exhaust material 18 upstream of the another unit operation effects a decrease in
   the molar rate of supply of the bypass gaseous exhaust material 60 being supplied to the
   another unit operation.
   [00134] In some embodiments, for example, the modulating of the bypass gaseous
35 exhaust material 60 to the another unit operation is effected while the modulating of the
   supply of the gaseous exhaust material reaction zone supply 24 to the reaction zone 10
   is being effected. In this respect, in some embodiments, for example, the initiation of
                                                                   10382612_2 (GHMatters) P91968.AU.2 19/06/18

                                               - 65
   the supply of the bypass gaseous exhaust material 60 to the another unit operation, or
   the increase to the molar rate of supply of the bypass gaseous exhaust material 60 being
   supplied to the another unit operation, is effected while the decrease in the molar rate of
   supply, or the termination of the supply, of the gaseous exhaust material reaction zone
 5 supply 24 being supplied to the reaction zone 10 is being effected. Also in this respect,
   the decrease to the molar rate of supply, or the termination of the supply, of the bypass
   gaseous exhaust material 60 being supplied to the another unit operation is effected
   while the initiation of the supply of the gaseous exhaust material reaction zone supply
   24, or the increase in the molar rate of supply, of the gaseous exhaust material reaction
10 zone supply 24 being supplied to the reaction zone 10, is being effected.
   [00135] In some embodiments, for example, the flow control element 50 is a flow
   control valve. In some embodiments, for example, the flow control element 50 is a
   three- way valve which also regulates the supply of a supplemental gas-comprising
15 material 48, which is further described below.
   [00136] In some embodiments, for example, the closure element 64 is any one of a
   valve, a damper, or a stack cap.
20 [00137] In some embodiments, for example, when the gaseous exhaust material
   reaction zone supply 24 is supplied to the reaction zone 10 as a flow, the flowing of the
   gaseous exhaust material reaction zone supply 24 is at least partially effected by a prime
   mover 38. For such embodiments, examples of a suitable prime mover 38 include a
   blower, a compressor, a pump (for pressurizing liquids including the gaseous exhaust
25 material reaction zone supply 24), and an air pump. In some embodiments, for example,
   the prime mover 38 is a variable speed blower and the prime mover 38 also functions as
   the flow control element 50 which is configured to selectively control the flow rate of
   the reaction zone feed material 22 and define such flow rate.
30 [00138] In some embodiments, for example, the another unit operation is a smokestack
   62. The smokestack 62 is configured to receive the bypass gaseous exhaust material 60
   supplied from the outlet of the gaseous exhaust material producing process 20. When
   operational, the bypass gaseous exhaust material 60 is disposed at a pressure that is
   sufficiently high so as to effect flow through the smokestack 62. In some of these
35 embodiments, for example, the flow of the bypass gaseous exhaust material 60 through
   the smokestack 62 is directed to a space remote from the outlet of the gaseous exhaust
   material producing process 20. Also in some of these embodiments, for example, the
                                                                   10382612_2 (GHMatters) P91968.AU.2 19/06/18

                                               - 66
   bypass gaseous exhaust material 60 is supplied from the outlet when the pressure of the
   gaseous exhaust material 18 exceeds a predetermined maximum pressure. In such
   embodiments, for example, the exceeding of the predetermined maximum pressure by
   the gaseous exhaust material 18 effects an opening of the closure element 64, to thereby
 5 effect supply of the bypass gaseous exhaust material 60.
   [00139] In some embodiments, for example, the smokestack 62 is provided to direct the
   bypass fraction of the gaseous exhaust material 18 to a space remote from the outlet
   which discharges the gaseous exhaust material 18 from the gaseous exhaust material
10 producing process 20, in response to a detected carbon dioxide processing capacity
   indicator which is representative of a capacity of the reaction zone 10 for receiving a
   decreased molar rate of supply of carbon dioxide from the gaseous exhaust material
   reaction zone supply 24, so as to mitigate against a gaseous discharge of an
   unacceptable carbon dioxide concentration to the environment.
15
   [00140] In some embodiments, for example, the smokestack 62 is an existing
   smokestack 62 which has been modified to accommodate lower throughput of gaseous
   flow as provided by the bypass gaseous exhaust material 60. In this respect, in some
   embodiments, for example, an inner liner is inserted within the smokestack 62 to
20 accommodate the lower throughput.
   [00141] In some embodiments, for example, the another unit operation is a separator
   which effects removal of carbon dioxide from the bypass gaseous exhaust material 60.
   In some embodiments, for example, the separator is a gas absorber.
25
   [00142] In some embodiments, for example, while the gaseous exhaust material 18 is
   being discharged by the gaseous exhaust material producing process 20, and while at
   least a fraction of the gaseous exhaust material 18 is being supplied to the reaction zone
   10, wherein the at least a fraction of the gaseous exhaust material 18 which is being
30 supplied to the reaction zone 10 defines a gaseous exhaust material reaction zone
   supply 24, when a carbon dioxide processing capacity indicator is detected in the
   reaction zone 10 which is representative of a capacity of the reaction zone 10 for
   receiving a decreased molar rate of supply of carbon dioxide, (for example, a detected
   pH within the reaction zone that is below a predetermined low pH value, or a detected
35 molar concentration of phototrophic biomass within the reaction zone that is above a
   predetermined high molar concentration of phototrophic biomass), and the modulating
   of the gaseous exhaust material reaction zone supply 24, in response to the detecting of
                                                                   10382612_2 (GHMatters) P91968.AU.2 19/06/18

                                                - 67
   the carbon dioxide processing capacity indicator which is representative of a capacity of
   the reaction zone 10 for receiving a decreased molar rate of supply of carbon dioxide,
   includes reducing the molar rate of supply, or terminating the supply, of the gaseous
   exhaust material reaction zone supply 24 being supplied to the reaction zone 10, the
 5 process further includes initiating the supply of a supplemental gas-comprising material
   48 to the reaction zone 10, or increasing the molar rate of supply of a supplemental gas
   comprising material 48 being supplied to the reaction zone 10.
   [00143] The molar concentration of carbon dioxide, if any, of the supplemental gas
10 comprising material 48 is lower than the molar concentration of carbon dioxide of the at
   least a fraction of the gaseous exhaust material 18 being supplied to the reaction zone
   10 from the gaseous exhaust material producing process 20. In some embodiments, for
   example, the molar concentration of carbon dioxide of the supplemental gas material 48
   is less than 3 mole %based on the total moles of the supplemental gas material 48. In
15 some embodiments, for example, the molar concentration of carbon dioxide of the
   supplemental gas material 48 is less than 1 (one) mole % based on the total moles of the
   supplemental gas material 48. In some embodiments, for example, the supplemental
   gas- comprising material 48 is supplied to the reaction zone 10 as a fraction of the
   reaction zone feed material 22. In some embodiments, for example, the reaction zone
20 feed material 22 is a gaseous material. In some embodiments, for example, the reaction
   zone feed material 22 includes a dispersion of gaseous material in a liquid material.
   [00144] In some embodiments, for example, the molar supply rate reduction, or the
   termination of the supply, of the gaseous exhaust material reaction zone supply 24,
25 being supplied to the reaction zone 10, effected by the modulating of the supply of the
   gaseous exhaust material reaction zone supply 24 to the reaction zone, co-operates with
   the supplying of the supplemental gas-comprising material 48 to the reaction zone 10 to
   effect a reduction in the molar rate of supply, or the termination of supply, of carbon
   dioxide being supplied to the reaction zone 10. In some embodiments, for example, the
30 initiation of the supply, or the increase to the molar rate of supply, of the bypass
   gaseous exhaust material 60 to the another unit operation is effected while the decrease
   in the molar rate of supply, or the termination of the supply, of the gaseous exhaust
   material reaction zone supply 24 being supplied to the reaction zone 10 is being
   effected, and while the initiating of the supply of the supplemental gas-comprising
35 material 48 to the reaction zone 10, or the increasing of the molar rate of supply, of the
   supplemental gas- comprising material 48 being supplied to the reaction zone 10, is
   being effected.
                                                                    10382612_2 (GHMatters) P91968.AU.2 19/06/18

                                              - 68
   [00145] In some of these embodiments, and as described above, the flow control
   element 50 is a three-way valve, and is operative to modulate supply of the
   supplemental gas-comprising material 48 to the reaction zone, in combination with the
 5 modulation of the supply of the gaseous exhaust material reaction zone supply 24 to the
   reaction zone 10, in response to the carbon dioxide processing capacity indicator. In this
   respect, when a carbon dioxide processing capacity indicator is detected in the reaction
   zone 10 which is representative of a capacity of the reaction zone for receiving a
   decreased molar rate of supply of carbon dioxide, (for example, a detected pH within
10 the reaction zone that is below a predetermined low pH value, or a detected molar
   concentration of phototrophic biomass within the reaction zone that is above a
   predetermined high molar concentration of phototrophic biomass), the controller
   responds by actuating the valve 50 to initiate the supply of the supplemental gas
   comprising material 48 to the reaction zone 10, or increase the molar rate of supply of
15 the supplemental gas-comprising material 48 being supplied to the reaction zone 10. In
   some embodiments, while the supplemental gas- comprising material 48 is being
   supplied to the reaction zone 10, when a carbon dioxide processing capacity indicator is
   detected in the reaction zone 10 which is representative of a capacity of the reaction
   zone for receiving an increased molar rate of supply of carbon dioxide (for example, a
20 detected pH within the reaction zone that is above a predetermined high pH value, or a
   detected molar concentration of phototrophic biomass within the reaction zone that is
   below a predetermined low molar concentration of phototrophic biomass), the
   controller responds by actuating the valve 50 to reduce the molar rate of supply, or
   terminate the supply, of the supplemental gas-comprising material 48 being supplied to
25 the reaction zone 10.
   [00146] In another aspect, while the gaseous exhaust material 18 is being discharged by
   the gaseous exhaust material producing process 20, and while at least a fraction of the
   gaseous exhaust material 18 is being supplied to the reaction zone 10, wherein the at
30 least a fraction of the gaseous exhaust material 18 which is being supplied to the
   reaction zone 10 defines a gaseous exhaust material reaction zone supply 24, and there
   is effected a reduction in the molar rate of supply, or the termination of the supply, of
   the gaseous exhaust material reaction zone supply 24 being supplied to the reaction
   zone 10, the process further includes initiating the supply of a supplemental gas
35 comprising material 48, or increasing the molar rate of supply of a supplemental gas
   comprising material 48, to the reaction zone 10.
                                                                   10382612_2 (GHMatters) P91968.AU.2 19/06/18

                                              - 69
   [00147] In some embodiments, for example, the initiating of the supply of a
   supplemental gas-comprising material 48 to the reaction zone 10, or the increasing of
   the molar rate of supply of a supplemental gas-comprising material 48 being supplied to
   the reaction zone 10 is effected in response to the detection of the reduction in the molar
 5 rate of supply of, or the termination of the supply of, the gaseous exhaust material
   reaction zone supply 24 being supplied to the reaction zone 10, or of an indication of
   the reduction in the molar rate of supply of, or the termination of the supply of, the
   gaseous exhaust material reaction zone supply 24 being supplied to the reaction zone
   10. For example, the reduction in the molar rate of supply of, or the termination of the
10 supply of, the gaseous exhaust material reaction zone supply 24 being supplied to the
   reaction zone 10 being effected in response to the detecting of the carbon dioxide
   processing capacity indicator which is representative of a capacity of the reaction zone
   10 for receiving a decreased molar rate of supply of carbon dioxide, is described above.
   In some embodiments, for example, a flow sensor is provided for detecting the molar
15 flow rate of the gaseous exhaust material reaction zone supply 24, and transmitting a
   signal representative of the detected molar flow rate of the gaseous exhaust material
   reaction zone supply 24 to the controller. Upon the controller comparing a received
   signal from the flow sensor which is representative of a currently detected molar flow
   rate of the gaseous exhaust material reaction zone supply 24, to a previously received
20 signal representative of a previously detected molar flow rate of the gaseous exhaust
   material reaction zone supply 24, and determining that a decrease in the molar flow rate
   of the gaseous exhaust material reaction zone supply 24 has been effected, the
   controller actuates the opening of a flow control element, such as a valve (for example,
   valve 50), to initiate supply of the supplemental gas-comprising material 48 to the
25 reaction zone 10 from a source of the supplemental gas-comprising material 48, or to
   effect increasing of the molar rate of supply of the supplemental gas-comprising
   material 48 being supplied to the reaction zone 10 from a source of the supplemental
   gas-comprising material 48.
30 [00148] In other ones of these embodiments, the reduction in the molar rate of supply,
   or the termination of the supply, of the gaseous exhaust material reaction zone supply
   24 to the reaction zone 10 is effected by a reduction in the molar rate at which the
   gaseous exhaust material 18 is being discharged by the gaseous exhaust material
   producing process 20. In some of these embodiments, for example, the corresponding
35 initiating of the supply of a supplemental gas-comprising material 48 to the reaction
   zone 10, or the corresponding increasing of the molar rate of supply of a supplemental
   gas- comprising material 48 being supplied to the reaction zone 10 is effected in
                                                                   10382612_2 (GHMatters) P91968.AU.2 19/06/18

                                               - 70
   response to the detection of the reduction in the molar rate at which the gaseous exhaust
   material 18 is being discharged by the gaseous exhaust material producing process 20,
   or of an indication of the reduction in the molar rate at which the gaseous exhaust
   material 18 is being discharged by the gaseous exhaust material producing process 20.
 5 In some embodiments, for example, a flow sensor is provided for detecting the molar
   flow rate of the gaseous exhaust material 18, and transmitting a signal representative of
   the detected molar flow rate of the gaseous exhaust material 18 to the controller. Upon
   the controller comparing a received signal from the flow sensor which is representative
   of a currently detected molar flow rate of the gaseous exhaust material 18, to a
10 previously received signal representative of a previously detected molar flow rate of the
   gaseous exhaust material 18, and determining that a decrease in the molar flow rate of
   the gaseous exhaust material 18 has been effected, the controller actuates the opening of
   a flow control element, such as a valve (for example, valve 50), to initiate supply of the
   supplemental gas-comprising material 48 to the reaction zone 10 from a source of the
15 supplemental gas-comprising material 48, or to effect increasing of the molar rate of
   supply of the supplemental gas-comprising material 48 being supplied to the reaction
   zone 10 from a source of the supplemental gas-comprising material 48. [00149] In some
   embodiments, for example, the exposing of the phototrophic biomass disposed in the
   reaction zone 10 to photosynthetically active light radiation is effected while the
20 initiation of the supply of the supplemental gas-comprising material 48 to the reaction
   zone 10, or the increasing of the molar rate of supply of the supplemental gas
   comprising material 48 to the reaction zone 10, is being effected. In some embodiments,
   for example, the modulation of the supply of the supplemental gas- comprising material
   48 to the reaction zone 10 is effected by the flow control element 50, for example, upon
25 actuation by the controller. In some embodiments, the actuation by the controller is
   effected when a detected molar flow rate of the gaseous exhaust material 18 being
   discharged by the gaseous exhaust material producing process 20, is compared to a
   previously detected molar flow rate of the gaseous exhaust material 18 being discharged
   by the gaseous exhaust material producing process 20, and it is determined that there
30 has been a decrease in the molar flow rate of the gaseous exhaust material 18 being
   discharged by the gaseous exhaust material producing process 20.
   [00150] With respect to any of the above-described embodiments of the process where
   there is the reduction in the molar rate of supply, or the termination of supply, of the
35 gaseous exhaust material reaction zone supply 24 to the reaction zone 10, and where
   there is initiated the supply of the supplemental gas-comprising material 48 to the
   reaction zone 10, or the increase to the molar rate of supply of the supplemental gas
                                                                   10382612_2 (GHMatters) P91968.AU.2 19/06/18

                                               - 71
   comprising material 48 to the reaction zone 10, in some of these embodiments, for
   example, the initiation of the supply of the supplemental gas-comprising material 48 to
   the reaction zone 10, or the increasing of the molar rate of supply of the supplemental
   gas-comprising material 48 being supplied to the reaction zone 10, at least partially
 5 compensates for the reduction in molar supply rate of material (such as material of the
   reaction zone feed material 22), or the termination of supply of material (such as
   material of the reaction zone feed material 22), to the reaction zone 10 which is effected
   by the reduction in the molar rate of supply, or by the termination of supply, of the
   gaseous exhaust material reaction zone supply 24 to the reaction zone 10. In some
10 embodiments, for example, the compensation for the reduction in molar supply rate of
   material (such as material of the reaction zone feed material 22), or for the termination
   of supply of material (such as material of the reaction zone feed material 22), to the
   reaction zone 10 which is effected by the reduction in the molar rate of supply, or by the
   termination of supply, of the gaseous exhaust material reaction zone supply 24 to the
15 reaction zone 10, as effected by the initiation of the supply, or the increasing of the
   molar rate of supply, of the supplemental gas-comprising material 48, effects
   substantially no change to the molar rate of supply of material (such as material of the
   reaction zone feed material 22) to the reaction zone 10.
20 [00151] In some embodiments, the combination of: (a) the reduction of the molar rate
   of supply, or the termination of supply, of the gaseous exhaust material reaction zone
   supply 24 to the reaction zone 10, and (b) the initiation of the supply, or the increase to
   the molar rate of supply, of the supplemental gas-comprising material 48 to the reaction
   zone 10, mitigates against the reduced agitation of the reaction zone 10 attributable to
25 the reduction in the molar rate of supply, or the termination of supply, of the gaseous
   exhaust material reaction zone supply 24 to the reaction zone 10. In some embodiments,
   for example, the combination of the supplemental gas-comprising material and any of
   the gaseous exhaust material reaction zone supply 24 is supplied to the reaction zone as
   at least a fraction of the reaction zone feed material 22, and the reaction zone feed
30 material 22 is supplied to the reaction zone 10 and effects agitation of material in the
   reaction zone such that any difference in the molar concentration of the phototrophic
   biomass between any two points in the reaction zone 10 is less than 20%. In some
   embodiments, for example, the effected agitation is such that any difference in the
   molar concentration of the phototrophic biomass between any two points in the reaction
35 zone 10 is less than 10%. The supply of the supplemental gas-comprising material 48 is
   provided to mitigate against the creation of a phototrophic biomass concentration
   gradient between any two points in the reaction zone above a desired maximum.
                                                                    10382612_2 (GHMatters) P91968.AU.2 19/06/18

                                               - 72
   [00152] In some embodiments, for example, the supplemental gas-comprising material
   48 is a gaseous material. In some of these embodiments, for example, the supplemental
   gas-comprising material 48 includes a dispersion of gaseous material in a liquid
 5 material. In some of these embodiments, for example, the supplemental gas- comprising
   material 48 includes air. In some of these embodiments, for example, the supplemental
   gas-comprising material 48 is provided as a flow. [00153] In some circumstances, it is
   desirable to grow phototrophic biomass using carbon dioxide of the gaseous exhaust
   material 18 being discharged from the gaseous exhaust material producing process 20,
10 but the molar concentration of carbon dioxide in the discharged gaseous exhaust
   material 18 is excessive for effecting a desired growth rate of the phototrophic biomass.
   In this respect, when a reaction zone feed material 22 is supplied to the reaction zone
   10, and the reaction zone feed material 22 is supplied by the gaseous exhaust material
   reaction zone supply 24 being discharged by the gaseous exhaust material producing
15 process 20, such that the gaseous exhaust material reaction zone supply 24 defines at
   least a fraction of the reaction zone feed material 22, the phototrophic biomass may
   respond adversely when exposed to the reaction zone feed material 22, if the carbon
   dioxide concentration of the reaction zone feed material 22 is excessive, such carbon
   dioxide concentration being at least partly attributable to the molar concentration of
20 carbon dioxide of the gaseous exhaust material 18 from which the gaseous exhaust
   material reaction zone supply 24 is derived.
   [00154] In other circumstances, when a reaction zone feed material 22 is supplied to the
   reaction zone 10, and the reaction zone feed material 22 is supplied by the supplemental
25 carbon dioxide supply 92, such that the supplemental carbon dioxide supply 92 defines
   at least a fraction of the reaction zone feed material 22, the supplemental carbon dioxide
   supply 92 may include a relatively high concentration of carbon dioxide (such as
   greater than 90 mol % carbon dioxide based on the total moles of supplemental carbon
   dioxide supply 92), such that the phototrophic biomass may respond adversely when
30 exposed to the reaction zone feed material 22.
   [00155] In this respect, in another aspect, carbon dioxide is supplied to the reaction
   zone 10, and the supplied carbon dioxide defines the reaction zone carbon dioxide
   supply. A carbon dioxide concentrated supply 25A is provided, wherein the carbon
35 dioxide concentrated supply 25A includes the reaction zone carbon dioxide supply. The
   carbon dioxide concentrated supply 25A is admixed with a supplemental gaseous
   dilution agent 90. The admixing effects production of a diluted carbon dioxide supply
                                                                    10382612_2 (GHMatters) P91968.AU.2 19/06/18

                                             - 73
   25B, wherein the molar concentration of carbon dioxide of the diluted carbon dioxide
   supply 25B is less than the molar concentration of carbon dioxide of the carbon dioxide
   concentrate supply 25A. At least a fraction of the diluted carbon dioxide zone supply
   25B is supplied to the reaction zone 10. The molar concentration of carbon dioxide of
 5 the supplemental gaseous dilution agent 90 is less than the molar concentration of
   carbon dioxide of the carbon dioxide concentrated supply 25A. In some embodiments,
   for example, the reaction zone carbon dioxide supply includes, or is defined by, carbon
   dioxide discharged by the gaseous exhaust material producing process 20. In some
   embodiments, for example, the reaction zone carbon dioxide supply includes, or is
10 defined by, the supplemental carbon dioxide supply 92.
   [00156] In another aspect, while the gaseous exhaust material 18 is being discharged by
   the gaseous exhaust material producing process 20, a carbon dioxide concentrated
   supply 25A is admixed with the supplemental gaseous dilution agent 90, wherein the
15 carbon dioxide concentrated supply 25A includes a gaseous exhaust material-derived
   supply 24A, wherein the gaseous exhaust material-derived supply 24A is defined by at
   least a fraction of the gaseous exhaust material 18 which is being discharged by the
   gaseous exhaust material producing process 20. The admixing effects production of a
   diluted carbon dioxide supply 25B, wherein the molar concentration of carbon dioxide
20 of the diluted carbon dioxide zone supply 25B is less than the molar concentration of
   carbon dioxide of the carbon dioxide concentrated supply 25A. At least a fraction of the
   diluted carbon dioxide supply 25B is supplied to the reaction zone 10. The molar
   concentration of carbon dioxide of the supplemental gaseous dilution agent 90 is less
   than the molar concentration of carbon dioxide of the carbon dioxide concentrated
25 supply 25A. In some of these embodiments, for example, the exposing of the
   phototrophic biomass disposed in the reaction zone 10 to photosynthetically active light
   radiation is effected while the admixing of the carbon dioxide concentrated supply 25A
   with the supplemental gaseous dilution agent 90 is being effected. In some
   embodiments, for example, the carbon dioxide concentrated supply 25A is defined by
30 the gaseous exhaust material-derived supply 24A. In some embodiments, for example,
   the carbon dioxide concentrated supply 25A includes the supplemental carbon dioxide
   supply 92. In some of these embodiments, for example, the supplying of the
   supplemental carbon dioxide supply 92 to the carbon dioxide concentrated supply 25A
   is being effected while the admixing is being effected. [00157] In some embodiments,
35 for example, the diluted carbon dioxide supply 25B includes a molar concentration of
   carbon dioxide that is below a predetermined maximum molar concentration of carbon
   dioxide. In some embodiments, for example, the predetermined maximum molar
                                                                  10382612_2 (GHMatters) P91968.AU.2 19/06/18

                                             - 74
   concentration of carbon dioxide is at least 30 mol% based on the total moles of the
   diluted carbon dioxide supply 25B. In some embodiments, for example, the
   predetermined maximum molar concentration of carbon dioxide is at least 20 mol%
   based on the total moles of the diluted carbon dioxide supply 25B. In some
 5 embodiments, for example, the predetermined maximum molar concentration of carbon
   dioxide is at least 10 mol% based on the total moles of the diluted carbon dioxide
   supply 25B.
   [00158] In some embodiments, for example, the admixing of the supplemental gaseous
10 dilution agent 90 with the carbon dioxide concentrated supply 25A is effected in
   response to detection of a molar concentration of carbon dioxide in the gaseous exhaust
   material 18 being discharged from the carbon dioxide producing process 20 that is
   greater than a predetermined maximum molar concentration of carbon dioxide. In some
   embodiments, for example, the predetermined maximum molar concentration of carbon
15 dioxide is at least 10 mole %based on the total moles of the gaseous exhaust material
   18. In some embodiments, for example, the predetermined maximum molar
   concentration of carbon dioxide is at least 20 mole %based on the total moles of the
   gaseous exhaust material 18. In some embodiments, for example, the predetermined
   maximum molar concentration of carbon dioxide is at least 30 mole % based on the
20 total moles of the gaseous exhaust material 18. In this respect, in some embodiments,
   for example, a carbon dioxide sensor 781 is provided for detecting the molar
   concentration of carbon dioxide of the gaseous exhaust material 18 being discharged,
   and transmitting a signal representative of the molar concentration of carbon dioxide of
   the gaseous exhaust material 18 being discharged by the gaseous exhaust material
25 producing process 20, to the controller. Upon the controller comparing a received signal
   from the carbon dioxide sensor 781, which is representative of a detected molar
   concentration of carbon dioxide of the gaseous exhaust material 18, to a predetermined
   maximum molar concentration of carbon dioxide, and determining that the molar
   concentration of carbon dioxide of the gaseous exhaust material 18 is greater than the
30 predetermined maximum molar concentration of carbon dioxide, the controller actuates
   opening of, or an increase to the opening of, a control valve 901 which effects supply of
   the supplemental gaseous dilution agent 90 for admixing with the carbon dioxide
   concentrated supply 25A.
35 [00159] In some embodiments, for example, while carbon dioxide is being discharged
   by the gaseous exhaust material producing process 20, and while at least a fraction of
   the discharged carbon dioxide is being supplied to the reaction zone 10, wherein the at
                                                                  10382612_2 (GHMatters) P91968.AU.2 19/06/18

                                              - 75
   least a fraction of the discharged carbon dioxide which is being supplied to the reaction
   zone 10 defines a discharged carbon dioxide reaction zone supply, when an indication
   of a decrease in the molar rate of supply of the discharged carbon dioxide reaction zone
   supply to the reaction zone 10 is detected, either the molar rate of supply of a
 5 supplemental carbon dioxide supply 92 being supplied to the reaction zone 10 is
   increased, or supply of the supplemental carbon dioxide supply 92 to the reaction zone
   10 is initiated. While the supplemental carbon dioxide supply 92 is being supplied to a
   carbon dioxide concentrated supply 25A, in response to the detection of the indication
   of a decrease in the molar rate of supply of the discharged carbon dioxide reaction zone
10 supply to the reaction zone 10, such that at least a fraction of the carbon dioxide
   concentrated supply 25A is defined by the supplemental carbon dioxide supply 92, and
   while at least a fraction of the carbon dioxide concentrated supply 25A is being
   supplied to the reaction zone 10, the carbon dioxide concentrated supply 25 A is
   admixed with the supplemental gaseous dilution agent 90 to effect production of the
15 diluted carbon dioxide supply 25B. In some embodiments, for example, the source of
   the supplemental carbon dioxide supply 92 is a carbon dioxide cylinder. In some
   embodiments, for example, the source of the supplemental carbon dioxide supply 92 is
   a supply of air. In some of these embodiments, the exposing of the phototrophic
   biomass disposed in the reaction zone 10 to photosynthetically active light radiation is
20 effected while the carbon dioxide concentrated supply 25A is admixed with the
   supplemental carbon dioxide supply 92 to effect production of the diluted carbon
   dioxide supply 25B, and while at least a fraction of the diluted carbon dioxide supply
   25B is being supplied to the reaction zone 10. In some embodiments, for example, the
   carbon dioxide concentrated supply 25A is admixed with the supplemental carbon
25 dioxide supply 92 to effect production of the diluted carbon dioxide supply 25B such
   that the diluted carbon dioxide supply 25B includes a molar concentration of carbon
   dioxide below the predetermined maximum concentration of carbon dioxide. In some
   embodiments, for example, the admixing is effect in response to the detection of a
   molar concentration of carbon dioxide in the carbon dioxide concentrated supply 25A
30 (which includes the supplemental carbon dioxide supply 92) that is above the
   predetermined maximum molar concentration of carbon dioxide. In some embodiments,
   for example, the indication of a decrease in the molar rate of supply of the discharged
   carbon dioxide reaction zone supply to the reaction zone 10 is any of the indications
   described above. In some embodiments, for example, the supplemental carbon dioxide
35 supply 92 is provided for compensating for the decrease in the molar rate of supply of
   the gaseous exhaust material reaction zone supply 24 being supplied to the reaction
   zone 10, with a view to sustaining a constant growth rate of the phototrophic biomass,
                                                                    10382612_2 (GHMatters) P91968.AU.2 19/06/18

                                               - 76
   when it is believed that the decrease is only of a temporary nature (such as less than two
   weeks).
   [00160] In those embodiments where the carbon dioxide concentrated supply 25A
 5 includes the supplemental carbon dioxide supply 92, and the carbon dioxide
   concentrated supply 25A is being admixed with the supplemental gaseous dilution
   agent 90 to produce the diluted carbon dioxide supply 25B, and at least a fraction of the
   diluted carbon dioxide supply 25B is supplied to the reaction zone, the admixing of the
   carbon dioxide concentrated supply 25A with the supplemental gaseous dilution agent
10 90 is configured to produce the diluted carbon dioxide supply 25B including a
   predetermined molar concentration of carbon dioxide.
   [00161] In some embodiments, for example, the supplemental gaseous dilution agent 90
   is gaseous material. In some embodiments, for example, the supplemental gaseous
15 dilution agent 90 includes air. In some embodiments, for example, the supplemental
   gaseous dilution agent 90 is being supplied to the carbon dioxide concentrated supply
   25A as a flow.
   [00162] The reaction mixture disposed in the reaction zone 10 is exposed to
20 photosynthetically active light radiation so as to effect photosynthesis. The
   photosynthesis effects growth of the phototrophic biomass. In some embodiments, for
   example, there is provided the carbon dioxide-enriched phototrophic biomass disposed
   in the aqueous medium, and the carbon dioxide-enriched phototrophic biomass
   disposed in the aqueous medium is exposed to photosynthetically active light radiation
25 so as to effect photosynthesis.
   [00163] In some embodiments, for example, the light radiation is characterized by a
   wavelength of between 400-700 nm. In some embodiments, for example, the light
   radiation is in the form of natural sunlight. In some embodiments, for example, the light
30 radiation is provided by an artificial light source 14. In some embodiments, for
   example, light radiation includes natural sunlight and artificial light.
   [00164] In some embodiments, for example, the intensity of the provided light is
   controlled so as to align with the desired growth rate of the phototrophic biomass in the
35 reaction zone 10. In some embodiments, regulation of the intensity of the provided light
   is based on measurements of the growth rate of the phototrophic biomass in the reaction
   zone 10. In some embodiments, regulation of the intensity of the provided light is based
                                                                   10382612_2 (GHMatters) P91968.AU.2 19/06/18

                                                - 77
   on the molar rate of supply of carbon dioxide to the reaction zone feed material 22.
   [00165] In some embodiments, for example, the light is provided at pre-determined
   wavelengths, depending on the conditions of the reaction zone 10. Having said that,
 5 generally, the light is provided in a blue light source to red light source ratio of 1 :4.
   This ratio varies depending on the phototrophic organism being used. As well, this ratio
   may vary when attempting to simulate daily cycles. For example, to simulate dawn or
   dusk, more red light is provided, and to simulate mid-day condition, more blue light is
   provided. Further, this ratio may be varied to simulate artificial recovery cycles by
10 providing more blue light.
   [00166] It has been found that blue light stimulates algae cells to rebuild internal
   structures that may become damaged after a period of significant growth, while red
   light promotes algae growth. Also, it has been found that omitting green light from the
15 spectrum allows algae to continue growing in the reaction zone 10 even beyond what
   has previously been identified as its "saturation point" in water, so long as sufficient
   carbon dioxide and, in some embodiments, other nutrients, are supplied. [00167] With
   respect to artificial light sources, for example, suitable artificial light source 14 include
   submersible fiber optics, light-emitting diodes, LED strips and fluorescent lights. Any
20 LED strips known in the art can be adapted for use in the process. In the case of the
   submersible LEDs, the design includes the use of solar powered batteries to supply the
   electricity. In the case of the submersible LEDs, in some embodiments, for example,
   energy sources include alternative energy sources, such as wind, photovoltaic cells, fuel
   cells, etc. to supply electricity to the LEDs.
25
   [00168] With respect to those embodiments where the reaction zone 10 is disposed in a
   photobioreactor 12 which includes a tank, in some of these embodiments, for example,
   the light energy is provided from a combination of sources, as follows. Natural light
   source 16 in the form of solar light is captured though solar collectors and filtered with
30 custom mirrors that effect the provision of light of desired wavelengths to the reaction
   zone 10. The filtered light from the solar collectors is then transmitted through light
   guides or fiber optic materials into the photobioreactor 12, where it becomes dispersed
   within the reaction zone 10. In some embodiments, in addition to solar light, the light
   tubes in the photobioreactor 12 contains high power LED arrays that can provide light
35 at specific wavelengths to either complement solar light, as necessary, or to provide all
   of the necessary light to the reaction zone 10 during periods of darkness (for example,
   at night). In some embodiments, with respect to the light guides, for example, a
                                                                      10382612_2 (GHMatters) P91968.AU.2 19/06/18

                                               - 78
   transparent heat transfer medium (such as a glycol solution) is circulated through light
   guides within the photobioreactor 12 so as to regulate the temperature in the light
   guides and, in some circumstances, provide for the controlled dissipation of heat from
   the light guides and into the reaction zone 10. In some embodiments, for example, the
 5 LED power requirements can be predicted and, therefore, controlled, based on trends
   observed with respect to the gaseous exhaust material 18, as these observed trends assist
   in predicting future growth rate of the phototrophic biomass.
   [00169] In some embodiments, the exposing of the reaction mixture to
10 photosynthetically active light radiation is effected while the supplying of the reaction
   feed material 22 is being effected. [00170] In some embodiments, for example, the
   growth rate of the phototrophic biomass is dictated by the available gaseous exhaust
   material reaction zone supply 24 (defining the at least a fraction of the gaseous exhaust
   material 18 discharged by the gaseous exhaust material producing process 20 and being
15 supplied to the reaction zone 10). In turn, this defines the nutrient, water, and light
   intensity requirements to maximize phototrophic biomass growth rate. In some
   embodiments, for example, a controller, e.g. a computer-implemented system, is
   provided to be used to monitor and control the operation of the various components of
   the process disclosed herein, including lights, valves, sensors, blowers, fans, dampers,
20 pumps, etc.
   [00171] Reaction zone product 500 is discharged from the reaction zone. The reaction
   zone product 500 includes phototrophic biomass 58. In some embodiments, for
   example, the reaction zone product 500 includes at least a fraction of the contents of the
25 reaction zone 10. In this respect, the discharge of the reaction zone product 500 effects
   harvesting of the phototrophic biomass. In some embodiments, for example, a reaction
   zone gaseous effluent product 80 is also discharged from the reaction zone 10.
   [00172] In another aspect, there is provided a process for growing a phototrophic
30 biomass in a reaction zone 10 that includes modulating of the molar rate of discharge of
   phototrophic biomass based on the detection of a phototrophic biomass growth
   indicator.
   [00173] The reaction mixture, in the form of a production purpose reaction mixture that
35 is operative for effecting photosynthesis upon exposure to photosynthetically active
   light radiation, is disposed within the reaction zone 10. The production purpose reaction
   mixture includes phototrophic biomass in the form of production purpose phototrophic
                                                                    10382612_2 (GHMatters) P91968.AU.2 19/06/18

                                              - 79
   biomass that is operative for growth within the reaction zone 10. In this respect, a
   reaction zone concentration of production purpose phototrophic biomass is provided in
   the reaction zone 10. While the reaction mixture disposed in the reaction zone 10 is
   exposed to photosynthetically active light radiation and growth of the production
 5 purpose phototrophic biomass is being effected within the reaction mixture, and while
   production purpose phototrophic biomass is discharging from the reaction zone 10,
   when a difference between a phototrophic biomass growth indicator from within the
   reaction zone and a predetermined phototrophic biomass growth indicator target value
   is detected, the process includes modulating the molar rate of discharge of the
10 production purposes phototrophic biomass from the reaction zone 10, wherein the
   predetermined phototrophic biomass growth indicator target value is correlated with a
   predetermined molar growth rate of the production purpose phototrophic biomass
   within the reaction mixture which is disposed within the reaction zone 10 and is being
   exposed to the photosynthetically active light radiation. The effected growth of the
15 production purpose phototrophic biomass includes growth effected by photosynthesis.
   In some embodiments, for example, the growth includes that effected by metabolic
   processes that consume supplemental nutrients disposed within the reaction mixture.
   [00174] The predetermined phototrophic biomass growth indicator target value
20 corresponds to the phototrophic biomass growth indicator target value at which the
   molar growth rate of the production purpose phototrophic biomass, within the reaction
   mixture which is disposed within the reaction zone 10 and is being exposed to the
   photosynthetically active light radiation, is the predetermined molar growth rate.
25 [00175] In some embodiments, for example, the effected growth of the production
   purpose phototrophic biomass is being effected within 10% of the predetermined
   growth rate of the production purpose phototrophic biomass within the reaction mixture
   which is disposed within the reaction zone 10 and is being exposed to
   photosynthetically active light radiation. In some embodiments, the effected growth of
30 the production purpose phototrophic biomass is being effected within 5% of the
   predetermined growth rate of the production purpose phototrophic biomass within the
   reaction mixture which is disposed within the reaction zone 10 and is being exposed to
   the photosynthetically active light radiation. In some embodiments, the effected growth
   of the production purpose phototrophic biomass is being effected within 1 % of the
35 predetermined growth rate of the production purpose phototrophic biomass within the
   reaction mixture which is disposed within the reaction zone 10 and is being exposed to
   the photosynthetically active light radiation. [00176] In some embodiments, for
                                                                  10382612_2 (GHMatters) P91968.AU.2 19/06/18

                                              - 80
   example, the modulating is effected in response to comparing of a detected
   phototrophic biomass growth indicator to the predetermined phototrophic biomass
   growth indicator target value.
 5 [00177] In some embodiments, for example, the process further includes detecting a
   phototrophic biomass growth indicator to provide the detected phototrophic biomass
   growth indicator.
   [00178] In some embodiments, for example, the phototrophic biomass growth indicator
10 is a molar concentration of the phototrophic biomass within the reaction mixture
   disposed within the reaction zone 10.
   [00179] In some embodiments, for example, the detected phototrophic biomass growth
   indicator is representative of the molar concentration of the production purpose
15 phototrophic biomass within the reaction mixture disposed within the reaction zone 10.
   In this respect, in some of these embodiments, for example, the detected phototrophic
   biomass growth indicator is the molar concentration of the production purpose
   phototrophic biomass within the reaction mixture disposed within the reaction zone 10.
   In other ones of these embodiments, for example, the detected phototrophic biomass
20 growth indicator is the molar concentration of the production purpose phototrophic
   biomass within the reaction zone product 500. In some embodiments, for example, the
   detecting of the concentration is effected by a cell counter 47. For example, a suitable
   cell counter is an AS-16F Single Channel Absorption Probe supplied by optek-Danulat,
   Inc. of Germantown, Wisconsin, U.S.A. Other suitable devices for detecting a molar
25 concentration of phototrophic biomass indication include other light scattering sensors,
   such as a spectrophotometer. As well, the molar concentration of phototrophic biomass
   can be detected manually, and then input manually into a controller for effecting the
   desired response.
30 [00180] In some embodiments, for example, the effecting of the growth of the
   phototrophic biomass includes supplying carbon dioxide to the reaction zone 10 and
   exposing the production purpose reaction mixture to photosynthetically active light
   radiation. In some embodiments, for example, the supplied carbon dioxide is supplied
   from the gaseous exhaust material 18 of the gaseous exhaust material producing process
35 20. In some embodiments, for example, the supplied carbon dioxide is supplied from
   the gaseous exhaust material 18 of the gaseous exhaust material producing process 20
   while the gaseous exhaust material 18 is being discharged by the gaseous exhaust
                                                                   10382612_2 (GHMatters) P91968.AU.2 19/06/18

                                              - 81
   material producing process 20, and while at least a fraction of the gaseous exhaust
   material 18 is being supplied to the reaction zone feed material 22 (as the gaseous
   exhaust material reaction zone supply 24), and while the reaction zone feed material 22
   is being supplied to the reaction zone 10. In this respect, in some embodiments, for
 5 example, the carbon dioxide is supplied to the reaction zone 10 while the growth is
   being effected, wherein at least a fraction of the carbon dioxide being supplied to the
   reaction zone 10 is supplied from a gaseous exhaust material 18 while the gaseous
   exhaust material 18 is being discharged from a gaseous exhaust material producing
   process 20.
10
   [00181] In some embodiments, for example, the production purpose reaction mixture
   further includes water and carbon dioxide.
   [00182] In some of these embodiments, for example, the predetermined molar rate of
15 growth of the phototrophic biomass is based upon the maximum molar rate of growth of
   the phototrophic biomass within the reaction mixture which is disposed within the
   reaction zone 10 and is being exposed to the photosynthetically active light radiation, as
   described above.
20 [00183] In some embodiments, for example, the predetermined molar growth rate of the
   production purpose phototrophic biomass is at least 90% of the maximum molar growth
   rate of the production purpose phototrophic biomass within the reaction mixture which
   is disposed within the reaction zone 10 and is being exposed to the photosynthetically
   active light radiation. In some embodiments, for example, the predetermined molar
25 growth rate is at least 95% of the maximum molar growth rate of the production
   purpose phototrophic biomass within the reaction mixture which is disposed within the
   reaction zone 10 and is being exposed to the photosynthetically active light radiation. In
   some embodiments, for example, the predetermined molar growth rate is at least 99%
   of the maximum molar growth rate of the production purpose phototrophic biomass
30 within the reaction mixture which is disposed within the reaction zone 10 and is being
   exposed to the photosynthetically active light radiation. In some embodiments, for
   example, the predetermined molar growth rate is equivalent to the maximum molar
   growth rate of the production purpose phototrophic biomass within the reaction mixture
   which is disposed within the reaction zone 10 and is being exposed to the
35 photosynthetically active light radiation.
   [00184] In some embodiments, for example, while the modulating of the molar rate of
                                                                    10382612_2 (GHMatters) P91968.AU.2 19/06/18

                                              - 82
   discharge of the production purpose phototrophic biomass from the reaction zone 10 is
   being effected, the volume of the reaction mixture disposed within the reaction zone is
   maintained constant or substantially constant for a time period of at least one (1) hour.
   In some embodiments, for example, the time period is at least six (6) hours. In some
 5 embodiments, for example, the time period is at least 24 hours. In some embodiments,
   for example, the time period is at least seven (7) days. In some embodiments, for
   example, while the modulating is being effected, the volume of the reaction mixture
   disposed within the reaction zone is maintained constant or substantially constant for
   the a period of time such that the predetermined phototrophic biomass growth indicator
10 value, as well as the predetermined molar rate of growth of phototrophic biomass, is
   maintained constant or substantially constant during this period, with a view to
   optimizing economic efficiency of the process.
   [00185] In some embodiments, for example, the reaction zone 10 is disposed within a
15 photobioreactor 10, and the production purpose phototrophic biomass is discharged
   from the photobioreactor 12 (and reaction zone 10) by displacement effected in
   response to supplying of an aqueous feed material 4 to the reaction zone 10. In other
   words, the supplying of an aqueous feed material 4 to the reaction zone 10 effects
   displacement of the production purpose phototrophic biomass from the photobioreactor
20 12 (and the reaction zone 10), thereby effecting discharge of the production purpose
   phototrophic biomass from the photobioreactor 12 (and the reaction zone 10). In some
   embodiments, for example, the production purpose phototrophic biomass is discharged
   from the photobioreactor 12 by displacement as an overflow from the photobioreactor
   12. [00186] In some embodiments, for example, the aqueous feed material 4 includes
25 substantially no phototrophic biomass. In other embodiments, for example, the aqueous
   feed material includes phototrophic biomass at a molar concentration less than the
   molar concentration of phototrophic biomass disposed within the reaction mixture
   disposed within the reaction zone 10.
30 [00187] In some embodiments, for example, with respect to the aqueous feed material
   4, the aqueous feed material 4 is supplied as a flow from a source 6 of aqueous feed
   material 4. For example, the flow is effected by a prime mover, such as pump. In some
   embodiments, for example, the aqueous feed material includes the supplemental
   aqueous material supply 44. As described above, in some embodiments, for example, at
35 least a fraction of the supplemental aqueous material supply 44 is supplied from a
   container 28. In this respect, in those embodiments where the supplemental aqueous
   material supply 44 is included within the aqueous feed material, the container functions
                                                                  10382612_2 (GHMatters) P91968.AU.2 19/06/18

                                              - 83
   as the source 6 of the aqueous feed material 4.
   [00188] In some embodiments, for example, the aqueous feed material 4 includes the
   supplemental nutrient supply 42 and the supplemental aqueous material supply 44. In
 5 some of these embodiments, the aqueous feed material 4 is supplied to the reaction zone
   feed material 22 upstream of the reaction zone 10. In this respect, and referring to
   Figure 2, and as described above, in some of these embodiments, the supplemental
   nutrient supply 42 and the supplemental aqueous material supply 44 are supplied to the
   reaction zone feed material 22 through the sparger 40 upstream of the reaction zone 10.
10
   [00189] In some embodiments, for example, when the detected phototrophic biomass
   growth indicator is a molar concentration of phototrophic biomass within the reaction
   mixture disposed within the reaction zone 10, and the detected molar concentration of
   phototrophic biomass within the reaction mixture disposed within the reaction zone 10
15 is less than the predetermined phototrophic biomass molar concentration target value,
   the modulating includes effecting a decrease in the molar rate of discharge of the
   production purpose phototrophic biomass from the reaction zone 10. In some of these
   embodiments, for example, the production purpose phototrophic biomass is discharged
   by displacement from the reaction zone 10 in response to the supplying of the aqueous
20 feed material 4 to the reaction zone 10, and the decrease in the molar rate of discharge
   of the production purpose phototrophic biomass from the reaction zone 10 is effected
   by effecting a decrease in the molar rate of supply of, or termination of the supply of,
   the aqueous feed material 4 to the reaction zone 10. In this respect, when the production
   purpose phototrophic biomass is discharged by such displacement, in some
25 embodiments, for example, when the detected phototrophic biomass growth indicator is
   a molar concentration of phototrophic biomass within the reaction mixture disposed
   within the reaction zone 10, upon comparing the detected molar concentration of
   phototrophic biomass within the reaction mixture disposed within the reaction zone 10,
   which is detected by the cell counter 47, with the predetermined phototrophic biomass
30 molar concentration target value, and determining that the detected molar concentration
   is less than the predetermined phototrophic biomass molar concentration target value,
   the controller responds by effecting a decrease in the molar rate of supply of, or
   termination of supply of, the aqueous feed material 4 to the reaction zone 10, which
   thereby effects a decrease in the molar rate of discharge of, or termination of, the
35 production purpose phototrophic biomass from the reaction zone 10. In some
   embodiments, for example, the decrease in the molar rate of supply of the aqueous feed
   material 4 to the reaction zone 10 is effected by the controller by actuating a decrease in
                                                                   10382612_2 (GHMatters) P91968.AU.2 19/06/18

                                              - 84
   the opening of a control valve 441 that is disposed in a fluid passage that facilitates
   supply of a flow of the aqueous feed material 4 from the source 6 to the reaction zone
   10. In some embodiments, for example, the termination of supply of the aqueous feed
   material 4 to the reaction zone 10 is effected by the controller by actuating closure of a
 5 control valve 441 that is disposed in a fluid passage that facilitates supply of a flow of
   the aqueous feed material 4 from the source 6 to the reaction zone 10. In some
   embodiments, for example, the flow of the aqueous feed material 4 is being effected by
   a prime mover, such as a pump 281. In some embodiments, for example, the flow of the
   aqueous feed material 4 is being effected by gravity. In some embodiments, for
10 example, the aqueous feed material 4 includes the supplemental aqueous material
   supply 44 which is supplied from the container 28. In some embodiments, the aqueous
   feed material 4 is the supplemental aqueous material supply 44 which is supplied from
   the container 28. In some of these embodiments, for example, the supplemental aqueous
   material supply 44 is supplied from the container 28 by the pump 281, and in other ones
15 of these embodiments, for example, the supplemental aqueous material supply 44 is
   supplied from the container 28 by gravity. In some embodiments, for example, where a
   prime mover (such as the pump 281) is provided for effecting the flow of the aqueous
   feed material 4 to the reaction zone 10, the decrease in the molar rate of supply of the
   aqueous feed material 4 to the reaction zone 10 is effected by the controller actuating a
20 decrease to the power being supplied to the prime mover 281 (such as the pump 281) to
   the aqueous feed material 4, such as by reducing the speed of the prime mover 281. In
   some embodiments, for example, where a prime mover (such as the pump 281) is
   provided for effecting the flow of the aqueous feed material 4 to the reaction zone 10,
   the termination of supply of the aqueous feed material 4 to the reaction zone 10 is
25 effected by the controller actuating stoppage of the prime mover.
   [00190] In some embodiments, for example, when the detected phototrophic biomass
   growth indicator is a molar concentration of phototrophic biomass within the reaction
   mixture disposed within the reaction mixture disposed within the reaction zone 10, and
30 the detected molar concentration of phototrophic biomass within the reaction mixture
   disposed within the reaction zone 10 is greater than the predetermined phototrophic
   biomass molar concentration target value, the modulating includes effecting an increase
   in the molar rate of discharge of the production purpose phototrophic biomass from the
   reaction zone 10. In some of these embodiments, for example, the production purpose
35 phototrophic biomass is discharged from the reaction zone 10 by displacement in
   response to the supplying of the aqueous feed material 4 to the reaction zone 10, and the
   increase in the molar rate of discharge of the production purpose phototrophic biomass
                                                                   10382612_2 (GHMatters) P91968.AU.2 19/06/18

                                               - 85
   from the reaction zone 10 is effected by effecting initiation of supply of, or an increase
   in the molar rate of supply of, the aqueous feed material 4 to the reaction zone 10. In
   this respect, when the production purpose phototrophic biomass is discharged by such
   displacement, in some embodiments, for example, when the detected phototrophic
 5 biomass growth indicator is a molar concentration of phototrophic biomass in the
   reaction zone 10, upon comparing the detected molar concentration of phototrophic
   biomass within the reaction mixture disposed within the reaction zone 10, which is
   detected by the cell counter 47, with the predetermined phototrophic biomass molar
   concentration target value, and determining that the detected molar concentration is
10 greater than the predetermined phototrophic biomass molar concentration target value,
   the controller responds by effecting initiation of supply of, or an increase in the molar
   rate of supply of, the aqueous feed material 4 to the reaction zone 10, which thereby
   effects an increase in the molar rate of discharge of the production purpose phototrophic
   biomass from the reaction zone 10. In some embodiments, for example, the initiation of
15 supply of the aqueous feed material 4 to the reaction zone 10 is effected by the
   controller by actuating opening of a control valve 441 that is disposed in a fluid passage
   that facilitates supply of a flow of the aqueous feed material 4 from the source 6 to the
   reaction zone 10. In some embodiments, for example, the increase in the molar rate of
   supply of the aqueous feed material 4 to the reaction zone 10 is effected by the
20 controller by actuating an increase in the opening of a control valve 441 that is disposed
   in a fluid passage that facilitates supply of a flow of the aqueous feed material 4 from
   the source 6 to the reaction zone 10. In some embodiments, for example, the flow of the
   aqueous feed material 4 is being effected by a prime mover, such as a pump 281. In
   some embodiments, for example, the flow of the aqueous feed material 4 is being
25 effected by gravity. In some embodiments, for example, the aqueous feed material
   includes the supplemental aqueous material supply 44 which is supplied from the
   container 28. In some embodiments, for example, the aqueous feed material is the
   supplemental aqueous material supply 44 which is supplied from the container 28. In
   some of these embodiments, for example, the supplemental aqueous material supply 44
30 is supplied from the container 28 by the pump 281, and in other ones of these
   embodiments, for example, the supplemental aqueous material supply 44 is supplied
   from the container 28 by gravity. In some embodiments, for example, where a prime
   mover (such as the pump 281) is provided for effecting the flow of the aqueous feed
   material 4 to the reaction zone 10, the initiation of supply of the aqueous feed material 4
35 to the reaction zone 10 is effected by the controller actuating operation of the prime
   mover. In some embodiments, for example, where a prime mover (such as the pump
   281) is provided for effecting the flow of the aqueous feed material 4 to the reaction
                                                                    10382612_2 (GHMatters) P91968.AU.2 19/06/18

                                               - 86
   zone 10, the increase in the molar rate of supply of the aqueous feed material 4 to the
   reaction zone 10 is effected by the controller actuating an increase to the power being
   supplied to the prime mover to the aqueous feed material 4.
 5 [00191] In some embodiments, for example, the discharging of the phototrophic
   biomass 58 from the reaction zone 10 is effected by a prime mover that is fluidly
   coupled to the reaction zone 10. In this respect, in some embodiments, for example, the
   modulating of the molar rate of discharge of the phototrophic biomass from the reaction
   zone includes:
10
   [00192] (i) modulating the power being supplied to the prime mover effecting the
   discharge of the phototrophic biomass from the reaction zone 10 in response to
   detection of a difference between a detected phototrophic biomass growth indicator
   (within the reaction mixture disposed within the reaction zone) and a predetermined
15 phototrophic biomass growth indicator target value, wherein the predetermined
   phototrophic biomass growth indicator target value is correlated with a predetermined
   molar rate of growth of phototrophic biomass within the reaction mixture which is
   disposed within the reaction zone 10 and is being exposed to the photosynthetically
   active light radiation, and;
20
   [00193] (ii) while the modulating of the power supplied to the prime mover is being
   effected, modulating the molar rate of supply of the supplemental aqueous material
   supply 20 to the reaction zone 10 in response to detection of a difference between a
   detected indication of volume of reaction mixture within the reaction zone and a
25 predetermined reaction mixture volume indication value, wherein the predetermined
   reaction mixture volume indication value is representative of a volume of reaction
   mixture within the reaction zone 10 within which growth of the phototrophic biomass is
   being effected within the reaction mixture at the predetermined molar rate of growth of
   phototrophic biomass while the phototrophic biomass growth indicator within the
30 reaction mixture is disposed at the predetermined phototrophic biomass growth
   indicator target value.
   [00194] In some embodiments, for example, the indication of volume of reaction
   mixture within the reaction zone 10 (or, simply, the "reaction mixture volume
35 indication") is an upper liquid level of the reaction mixture within the reaction zone 10.
   In some embodiments, for example, this upper liquid level is detected with a level
   sensor. In this respect, in some embodiments, for example, the level sensor is provided
                                                                   10382612_2 (GHMatters) P91968.AU.2 19/06/18

                                               - 87
   to detect the level of the reaction mixture within the reaction zone 10, and transmit a
   signal representative of the detected level to a controller. The controller compares the
   received signal to a predetermined level value (representative of the predetermined
   reaction mixture volume indication value). If the received signal is less than the
 5 predetermined level value, the controller responds by effecting initiation of supply, or
   an increase to the molar rate of supply, of the supplemental aqueous material supply 48
   to the reaction zone 10, such as by opening (in the case of initiation of supply), or
   increasing the opening (in the case of increasing the molar rate of supply), of a valve
   configured to interfere with the supply of the supplemental aqueous material supply 48
10 to the reaction zone 10. If the received signal is greater than the predetermined level
   value, the controller responds by effecting a decrease to the molar rate of supply, or
   termination of supply, of the supplemental aqueous material supply 48 to the reaction
   zone 10, such as by decreasing the opening of (in the case of decreasing the molar rate
   of supply), or closing the valve (in the case of terminating the supply) that is configured
15 to interfere with the supply of the supplemental aqueous material supply 48 to the
   reaction zone 10. By regulating the supplying of the supplemental aqueous material
   supply 48 to the reaction zone 10 so as to effect the maintaining of a desired level
   within the reaction zone 10, make-up water is supplied to the reaction zone 10 to
   replace water that is discharged with the phototrophic biomass from the reaction zone
20 10, with a view to optimizing the molar rate of growth of phototrophic biomass within
   the reaction zone 10, and thereby optimizing the molar rate at which phototrophic
   biomass is being discharged from the reaction zone 10.
   [00195] In some embodiments, for example, while the modulating of the molar rate of
25 discharge of the phototrophic biomass from the reaction zone 10 is being effected, the
   process further includes modulating the molar rate of supply of the supplemental
   nutrient supply to the reaction zone in response to the detection of a difference between
   a detected concentration of one or more nutrients (eg. N03) within the reaction zone 10
   and a corresponding predetermined target concentration value. [00196] In some
30 embodiments, for example, while the modulating of the molar rate of discharge of the
   phototrophic biomass from the reaction zone 10 is being effected, the process further
   includes modulating the molar rate of flow of the carbon dioxide to the reaction zone 10
   in response to detecting of at least one carbon dioxide processing capacity indicator. In
   some embodiments, for example, the detecting of at least one of the at least one carbon
35 dioxide processing capacity indicator is effected in the reaction zone 10. The carbon
   dioxide processing capacity indicator which is detected is any characteristic that is
   representative of the capacity of the reaction zone 10 for receiving carbon dioxide and
                                                                    10382612_2 (GHMatters) P91968.AU.2 19/06/18

                                               - 88
   having at least a fraction of the received carbon dioxide converted in a photosynthesis
   reaction effected by phototrophic biomass disposed within the reaction zone. In some
   embodiments, for example, the carbon dioxide processing capacity indicator which is
   detected is a pH within the reaction zone 10. In some embodiments, for example, the
 5 carbon dioxide processing capacity indicator which is detected is a phototrophic
   biomass molar concentration within the reaction zone 10.
   [00197] In some embodiments, for example, while the modulating of the molar rate of
   discharge of the phototrophic biomass from the reaction zone 10 is being effected, the
10 process further includes modulating the intensity of the photosynthetically active light
   radiation to which the reaction mixture is exposed to, in response to a detected change
   in the molar rate at which the carbon dioxide is being supplied to the reaction zone 10.
   [00198] In another aspect, the process further includes effecting the predetermination of
15 the phototrophic biomass growth indicator target value. In this respect, an evaluation
   purpose reaction mixture that is representative of the production purpose reaction
   mixture and is operative for effecting photosynthesis, upon exposure to
   photosynthetically active light radiation, is provided, such that the phototrophic biomass
   of the evaluation purpose reaction mixture is an evaluation purpose phototrophic
20 biomass that is representative of the production purpose phototrophic biomass. In some
   embodiments, for example, the production purpose reaction mixture further includes
   water and carbon dioxide, and the evaluation purpose reaction mixture further includes
   water and carbon dioxide. While the evaluation purpose reaction mixture disposed in
   the reaction zone 10 is exposed to photosynthetically active light radiation and growth
25 of the evaluation purpose phototrophic biomass is being effected within the evaluation
   purpose reaction mixture, the process further includes:
   (i) at least periodically detecting the phototrophic biomass growth indicator to provide a
   plurality of detected values of the phototrophic biomass growth indicator that have been
30 detected during a time period ("at least periodically" means that the detecting could be
   done intermittently, at equally spaced intervals or at unequally spaced time intervals, or
   could be done continuously);
   (ii) calculating molar growth rates of the evaluation purpose phototrophic biomass
35 based on the plurality of detected values of the phototrophic biomass growth indicator
   such that a plurality of molar growth rates of the evaluation purpose phototrophic
   biomass are determined during the time period; and
                                                                   10382612_2 (GHMatters) P91968.AU.2 19/06/18

                                               - 89
   (iii) establishing a relationship between the molar growth rate of the evaluation purpose
   phototrophic biomass and the phototrophic biomass growth indicator, based on the
   calculated molar growth rates and the detected values of the phototrophic biomass
 5 growth indicator upon which the calculated molar growth rates have been based, such
   that the established relationship between the molar growth rate of the evaluation
   purpose phototrophic biomass and the phototrophic biomass growth indicator is
   representative of a relationship between the molar growth rate of the production
   purpose phototrophic biomass within the reaction zone 10 and the phototrophic biomass
10 growth indicator, and such that the relationship between the molar growth rate of the
   production purpose phototrophic biomass within the reaction zone 10 and the
   phototrophic biomass growth indicator is thereby provided.
   [00199] A predetermined molar growth rate is selected from the calculated molar
15 growth rates. The phototrophic biomass growth indicator target value is defined as the
   phototrophic biomass growth indicator at which the predetermined molar growth rate is
   being effected based on the determined relationship between the molar growth rate of
   the production purpose phototrophic biomass within the reaction zone and the
   phototrophic biomass growth indicator. In this respect, the correlation between the
20 phototrophic biomass growth indicator target value and the predetermined molar growth
   rate is also thereby effected.
   [00200] In some embodiments, for example, the growth of the evaluation purpose
   phototrophic biomass in the reaction zone 10 is effected while the reaction zone is
25 characterized by at least one evaluation purpose growth condition, wherein each one of
   the at least one evaluation purpose growth condition is representative of a production
   purpose growth condition by which the reaction zone 10 is characterized while growth
   of the production purpose phototrophic biomass, within the reaction zone 10, is being
   effected. In some embodiments, for example, the production purpose growth condition
30 is any one of a plurality of production purpose growth conditions including composition
   of the reaction mixture, reaction zone temperature, reaction zone pH, reaction zone light
   intensity, reaction zone lighting regimes (eg. variable intensities), reaction zone lighting
   cycles (eg. duration of ON/OFF lighting cycles), and reaction zone temperature. In
   some embodiments, for example, providing one or more evaluation purpose growth
35 conditions, each of which is representative of a production purpose growth condition to
   which the production purpose reaction mixture is exposed to while growth of the
   production purpose phototrophic biomass in the reaction zone 10 is being effected,
                                                                   10382612_2 (GHMatters) P91968.AU.2 19/06/18

                                               - 90
   promotes optimization of phototrophic biomass production.
   [00201] In another aspect, while the phototrophic biomass is growing at or relatively
   close to the maximum molar growth rate within the reaction zone 10, a molar rate of
 5 discharge of the phototrophic biomass is effected that at least approximates the molar
   growth rate of the phototrophic biomass within the reaction zone.
   [00202] The reaction mixture, in the form of a production purpose reaction mixture that
   is operative for effecting photosynthesis upon exposure to photosynthetically active
10 light radiation, is disposed within the reaction zone 10. The production purpose reaction
   mixture includes phototrophic biomass in the form of production purpose phototrophic
   biomass that is operative for growth within the reaction zone 10. While the reaction
   mixture disposed in the reaction zone 10 is exposed to photosynthetically active light
   radiation and growth of the production purpose phototrophic biomass is being effected
15 within the reaction mixture, production purpose phototrophic biomass is discharging
   from the reaction zone 10 at a molar rate that is within 10% of the molar rate at which
   the growth of the production purpose phototrophic biomass is being effected within the
   reaction zone 10. The effected growth of the production purpose phototrophic biomass
   within the reaction zone 10 is being effected at a molar rate that is at least 90% of the
20 maximum growth rate of the production purpose phototrophic biomass within the
   reaction mixture which is disposed in reaction zone 10 and is being exposed to the
   photosynthetically active light radiation. In some embodiments, for example, the molar
   rate of discharge of the production purpose phototrophic biomass is within 5% of the
   molar growth rate of the production purpose phototrophic biomass within the reaction
25 zone 10. In some embodiments, for example, the molar rate of discharge of the
   production purpose phototrophic biomass is within 1% of the molar growth rate of the
   production purpose phototrophic biomass within the reaction zone 10. In some
   embodiments, for example, the effected growth of the production purpose phototrophic
   biomass within the reaction zone 10 is being effected at a molar rate of growth of at
30 least 95% of the maximum growth rate of the production purpose phototrophic biomass
   within the reaction mixture which is disposed within the reaction zone 10 and is being
   exposed to the photosynthetically active light radiation, and in some of these
   embodiments, for example, the molar rate of discharge of the production purpose
   phototrophic biomass that is provided is within 5%, such as within 1%, of the molar
35 growth rate of the production purpose phototrophic biomass within the reaction zone
   10. In some embodiments, for example, the effected growth of the production purpose
   phototrophic biomass within the reaction zone 10 is being effected at a molar rate of
                                                                  10382612_2 (GHMatters) P91968.AU.2 19/06/18

                                              - 91
   growth of at least 99% of the maximum growth rate of the production purpose
   phototrophic biomass within the reaction mixture which is disposed within the reaction
   zone 10 and is being exposed to the photosynthetically active light radiation, and in
   some of these embodiments, for example, the molar rate of discharge of the production
 5 purpose phototrophic biomass that is provided is within 5%, such as within 1%, of the
   molar growth rate of the production purpose phototrophic biomass within the reaction
   zone 10.
   [00203] In some embodiments, for example, the effecting of the growth of the
10 production purpose phototrophic biomass includes supplying carbon dioxide to the
   reaction zone 10 and exposing the production purpose reaction mixture to
   photosynthetically active light radiation. In some embodiments, for example, the
   supplied carbon dioxide is supplied from the gaseous exhaust material 18 of the gaseous
   exhaust material producing process 20. In some embodiments, for example, the
15 supplied carbon dioxide is supplied from the gaseous exhaust material 18 of the gaseous
   exhaust material producing process 20 while the gaseous exhaust material 18 is being
   discharged by the gaseous exhaust material producing process 20, and while at least a
   fraction of the gaseous exhaust material 18 is being supplied to the reaction zone feed
   material 22 (as the gaseous exhaust material reaction zone supply 24), and while the
20 reaction zone feed material 22 is being supplied to the reaction zone 10. In this respect,
   in some embodiments, for example, the carbon dioxide is supplied to the reaction zone
   10 while the growth is being effected, wherein at least a fraction of the carbon dioxide
   being supplied to the reaction zone is supplied from a gaseous exhaust material while
   the gaseous exhaust material is being discharged from a gaseous exhaust material
25 producing process.
   [00204] In some embodiments, for example, the reaction zone 10 is disposed within a
   photobioreactor 10, and the production purpose phototrophic biomass is discharged
   from the photobioreactor 12 (and the reaction zone 10) by displacement effected in
30 response to supplying of an aqueous feed material 4 to the reaction zone 10. In other
   words, the supplying of an aqueous feed material 4 to the reaction zone 10 effects
   displacement of the production purpose phototrophic biomass from the photobioreactor
   12 (and the reaction zone 10), thereby effecting discharge of the production purpose
   phototrophic biomass from the photobioreactor 12 (and the reaction zone 10). In some
35 embodiments, for example, the production purpose phototrophic biomass product is
   discharged as an overflow from the photobioreactor. .
                                                                   10382612_2 (GHMatters) P91968.AU.2 19/06/18

                                              - 92
   [00205] In some embodiments, for example, the aqueous feed material 4 is supplied to
   the reaction zone 10 and effects displacement of the production purpose phototrophic
   biomass from the reaction zone 10, thereby effecting discharge of the production
   purpose phototrophic biomass from the reaction zone 10. In some of these
 5 embodiments, for example, the aqueous feed material 4 includes substantially no
   production purpose phototrophic biomass. In other ones of these embodiments, for
   example, the aqueous feed material 4 includes production purpose phototrophic
   biomass at a concentration less than the reaction zone concentration of the production
   purpose phototrophic biomass.
10
   [00206] In some embodiments, for example, with respect to the aqueous feed material
   4, the aqueous feed material 4 is supplied as a flow from a source 6 of aqueous feed
   material 4. For example, the flow is effected by a prime mover, such as pump. In some
   embodiments, for example, the aqueous feed material includes the supplemental
15 aqueous material supply 44. As described above, in some embodiments, for example, at
   least a fraction of the supplemental aqueous material supply 44 is supplied from a
   container 28. In this respect, in those embodiments where the supplemental aqueous
   material supply 44 is included within the aqueous feed material, the container functions
   as the source 6 of the aqueous feed material 4.
20
   [00207] In some embodiments, for example, the aqueous feed material 4 includes the
   supplemental nutrient supply 42 and the supplemental aqueous material supply 44. In
   some of these embodiments, the aqueous feed material 4 is supplied to the reaction zone
   feed material 22 upstream of the reaction zone 10. In this respect, and referring to
25 Figure 2, and as described above, in some of these embodiments, the supplemental
   nutrient supply 42 and the supplemental aqueous material supply 44 are supplied to the
   reaction zone feed material 22 through the sparger 40 upstream of the reaction zone 10.
   [00208] In some of these embodiments, for example, and as described above, the
30 discharging of the phototrophic biomass 58 from the reaction zone 10 is effected by a
   prime mover that is fluidly coupled to the reaction zone 10. In some embodiments, for
   example, supplemental aqueous material supply 44 is supplied to the reaction zone 10
   so as to maintain a predetermined volume of reaction mixture within the reaction zone
   10, as described above.
35
   [00209] In another aspect, discharging of the phototrophic biomass is effected at a rate
   that matches the molar growth rate of the phototrophic biomass within the reaction zone
                                                                  10382612_2 (GHMatters) P91968.AU.2 19/06/18

                                              - 93
   10. In some embodiments, for example, this mitigates shocking of the phototrophic
   biomass in the reaction zone 10. With respect to some embodiments, for example, the
   discharging of the phototrophic biomass is controlled through the molar rate of supply
   of supplemental aqueous material supply 44, which influences the displacement from
 5 the photobioreactor 12 of the phototrophic biomass-comprising product 500 from the
   photobioreactor 12. For example, the product 500, including the phototrophic biomass,
   is discharged as an overflow. In some of these embodiments, the upper portion of
   phototrophic biomass suspension in the reaction zone 10 overflows the photobioreactor
   12 (for example, the phototrophic biomass is discharged through an overflow port of the
10 photobioreactor 12) to provide the phototrophic biomass-comprising product 500. In
   other embodiments, for example, the discharging of the product 500 is controlled with a
   valve disposed in a fluid passage which is fluidly communicating with an outlet of the
   photobioreactor 12.
15 [00210] In some embodiments, for example, the discharging of the product 500 is
   effected continuously. In other embodiments, for example, the discharging of the
   product is effected periodically. In some embodiments, for example, the discharging of
   the product is designed such that the molar concentration of the biomass in the
   phototrophic biomass-comprising product 500 is maintained at a relatively low
20 concentration. In those embodiments where the phototrophic biomass includes algae, it
   is desirable, for some embodiments, to effect discharging of the product 500 at lower
   molar concentrations to mitigate against sudden changes in the molar growth rate of the
   algae in the reaction zone 10. Such sudden changes could effect shocking of the algae,
   which thereby contributes to lower yield over the longer term. In some embodiments,
25 where the phototrophic biomass is algae and, more specifically, scenedesmus obliquus,
   the concentration of this algae in the phototrophic biomass-comprising product 500
   could be between 0.5 and 3 grams per litre. The desired concentration of the discharged
   algae product 500 depends on the strain of algae such that this concentration range
   changes depending on the strain of algae. In this respect, in some embodiments,
30 maintaining a predetermined water content in the reaction zone is desirable to promote
   the optimal growth of the phototrophic biomass, and this can also be influenced by
   controlling the supply of the supplemental aqueous material supply 44. [00211] The
   phototrophic biomass-comprising product 500 includes water. In some embodiments,
   for example, the phototrophic biomass-comprising product 500 is supplied to a
35 separator 52 for effecting removal of at least a fraction of the water from the
   phototrophic biomass-comprising product 500 to effect production of an intermediate
   concentrated phototrophic biomass-comprising product 34 and a recovered aqueous
                                                                    10382612_2 (GHMatters) P91968.AU.2 19/06/18

                                              - 94
   material 72 (in some embodiments, substantially water). In some embodiments, for
   example, the separator 52 is a high speed centrifugal separator 52. Other suitable
   examples of a separator 52 include a decanter, a settling vessel or pond, a flocculation
   device, or a flotation device. In some embodiments, the recovered aqueous material 72
 5 is supplied to a container 28, such as a container, for re-use by the process.
   [00212] In some embodiments, for example, after the product 500 is discharged, and
   before being supplied to the separator 52, the phototrophic biomass-comprising product
   500 is supplied to a harvest pond 54. The harvest pond 54 functions both as a buffer
10 between the photobioreactor 12 and the separator 52, as well as a mixing vessel in cases
   where the harvest pond 54 receives different biomass strains from multiple
   photobioreactors. In the latter case, customization of a blend of biomass strains can be
   effected with a predetermined set of characteristics tailored to the fuel type or grade that
   will be produced from the blend.
15
   [00213] As described above, the container 28 provides a source of supplemental
   aqueous material supply 44 for the reaction zone 10, and functions to contain the
   supplemental aqueous material supply 44 before supplemental aqueous material supply
   44 is supplied to the reaction zone 10. Loss of water is experienced in some
20 embodiments as moisture in the final phototrophic biomass-comprising product 36, as
   well as through evaporation in the dryer 32. The supplemental aqueous material in the
   container 28, which is recovered from the process, can be supplied to the reaction zone
   10 as the supplemental aqueous material supply 44. In some embodiments, for example,
   the supplemental aqueous material supply 44 is supplied to the reaction zone 10 with
25 the pump 281. In other embodiments, the supply can be effected by gravity, if the
   layout of the process equipment of the system, which embodies the process, permits. As
   described above, the supplemental aqueous material recovered from the process
   includes at least one of: (a) aqueous material 70 which has been condensed from the
   reaction zone feed material 22 while the reaction zone feed material 22 is being cooled
30 before being supplied to the reaction zone 10, and (b) aqueous material 72 which has
   been separated from the phototrophic biomass-comprising product 500. In some
   embodiments, for example, the supplemental aqueous material supply 44 is supplied to
   the reaction zone 10 to effect displacement of the product 500 from the reaction zone.
   In some embodiments, for example, the product 500 is displaced as an overflow from
35 the photobioreactor 12. In some embodiments, for example, the supplemental aqueous
   material supply 44 is supplied to the reaction zone 10 to effect a desired predetermined
   concentration of phototrophic biomass within the reaction zone by diluting the reaction
                                                                   10382612_2 (GHMatters) P91968.AU.2 19/06/18

                                              - 95
   mixture disposed within the reaction zone.
   [00214] Examples of specific structures which can be used as the container 28 by
   allowing for containment of aqueous material recovered from the process, as above
 5 described, include, without limitation, tanks, ponds, troughs, ditches, pools, pipes,
   tubes, canals, and channels.
   [00215] In some embodiments, for example, the supplying of the supplemental aqueous
   material supply 44 to the reaction zone 10 is effected while the gaseous exhaust
10 material 18 is being discharged by the gaseous exhaust material producing process 20,
   and while the gaseous exhaust material reaction zone supply 24 is being supplied to the
   reaction zone feed material 22. In some embodiments, for example, the exposing of the
   carbon dioxide-enriched phototrophic biomass disposed in the aqueous medium to
   photosynthetically active light radiation is effected while the supplying of the
15 supplemental aqueous material supply to the reaction zone 10 is being effected.
   [00216] In some embodiments, for example, the supplying of the supplemental aqueous
   material supply 44 to the reaction zone 10 is modulated based upon the detection of a
   deviation of a value of a phototrophic biomass growth indicator from that of a
20 predetermined target value of the process parameter, wherein the predetermined target
   value of the phototrophic biomass growth indicator is based upon a predetermined
   molar growth rate of the phototrophic biomass within the reaction zone. The detection
   of a deviation of the phototrophic biomass growth indicator from that of the target value
   of the phototrophic biomass growth indicator, and the modulation of the supplying of
25 the supplemental aqueous material supply 44 to the reaction zone 10 in response to the
   detection, is discussed above.
   [00217] In some embodiments, for example, supply of the supplemental aqueous
   material supply 44 to the reaction zone 10 is dictated by the molar concentration of
30 phototrophic biomass concentration. In this respect, molar concentration of the
   phototrophic biomass in the reaction zone 10, or an indication of molar concentration of
   the phototrophic biomass in the reaction zone 10, is detected by a cell counter, such as
   the cell counters described above. The detected molar concentration of the phototrophic
   biomass, or the detected indication of molar concentration of phototrophic biomass, is
35 transmitted to the controller, and when the controller determines that the detected molar
   concentration exceeds a predetermined high molar concentration value, the controller
   responds by initiating the supply, or increasing the molar rate of supply, of the
                                                                   10382612_2 (GHMatters) P91968.AU.2 19/06/18

                                                - 96
   supplemental aqueous material supply 44 to the reaction zone 10. In some
   embodiments, for example, the initiating of the supply, or increasing the molar rate of
   supply, of the supplemental aqueous material supply 44 to the reaction zone 10 includes
   actuating a prime mover, such as the pump 281 , to initiate supply, or an increase in the
 5 molar rate of supply, of the supplemental aqueous material supply 44 to the reaction
   zone 10. In some embodiments, for example, the effecting supply, or increasing the
   molar rate of supply, of the supplemental aqueous material supply 44 to the reaction
   zone 10 includes initiating the opening, or increase the opening, of a valve that is
   configured to interfere with supply of the supplemental aqueous material supply 44
10 from the container 28 to the reaction zone 10.
   [00218] In some embodiments, for example, when the upper level of the contents of the
   reaction zone 10 within the photobioreactor 12 becomes disposed below a
   predetermined minimum level, the initiation of the supply of, or an increase to the
15 molar rate of supply of, the supplemental aqueous material supply 44 (which has been
   recovered from the process) is effected to the reaction zone 10. In some of these
   embodiments, for example, a level sensor 76 is provided for detecting the position of
   the upper level of the contents of the reaction zone 10 within the photobioreactor, and
   transmitting a signal representative of the upper level of the contents of the reaction
20 zone 10 to the controller. Upon the controller comparing a received signal from the
   level sensor 76, which is representative of the upper level of the contents of the reaction
   zone 10, to a predetermined low level value, and determining that the detected upper
   level of the contents of the reaction zone is below the predetermined low level value,
   the controller effects the initiation of the supply of, or an increase to the molar rate of
25 supply of, the supplemental aqueous material supply 44. When the supply of the
   supplemental aqueous material supply 44 to the reaction zone 10 is effected by a pump
   281, the controller actuates the pump 281 to effect the initiation of the supply, or an
   increase to the rate of supply, of the supplemental aqueous material supply 44 to the
   reaction zone 10. When the supply of the supplemental aqueous material supply 44 to
30 the reaction zone 10 is effected by gravity, the controller actuates the opening of a valve
   to effect the initiation of the supply, or an increase to the molar rate of supply, of the
   supplemental aqueous material supply 44 to the reaction zone 10. For example, control
   of the position of the upper level of the contents of the reaction zone 10 is relevant to
   operation for some of those embodiments where the discharging of the phototrophic
35 biomass 58 from the reaction zone 10 is effected from a lower portion of the reaction
   zone 10, such as when the discharging of the phototrophic biomass 58 from the reaction
   zone 10 is effected by a prime mover that is fluidly coupled to the reaction zone 10, as
                                                                     10382612_2 (GHMatters) P91968.AU.2 19/06/18

                                               - 97
   discussed above. In those embodiments where the discharging of the phototrophic
   biomass 58 from the reaction zone 10 is effected by an overflow, in some of these
   embodiments, control of the position of the upper level of the contents of the reaction
   zone 10 is relevant during the "seeding stage" of operation of the photobioreactor 12.
 5
   [00219] In some embodiments, for example, where the discharging of the product 500
   is controlled with a valve disposed in a fluid passage which is fluidly communicating
   with an outlet of the photobioreactor 12, molar concentration of phototrophic biomass
   in the reaction zone is detected by a cell counter 47, such as the cell counters described
10 above. The detected molar concentration of phototrophic biomass is transmitted to the
   controller, and when the controller determines that the detected molar phototrophic
   biomass concentration exceeds a predetermined high molar phototrophic biomass
   concentration value, the controller responds by initiating opening, or increasing the
   opening, of the valve to effect an increase in the molar rate of discharging of the
15 product 500 from the reaction zone 10.
   [00220] In some embodiments, for example, a source of additional make-up water 68 is
   provided to mitigate against circumstances when the supplemental aqueous material
   supply 44 is insufficient to make-up for water which is lost during operation of the
20 process. In this respect, in some embodiments, for example, the supplemental aqueous
   material supply 44 is mixed with the reaction zone feed material 22 in the sparger 40.
   Conversely, in some embodiments, for example, accommodation for draining of the
   container 28 to drain 66 is provided to mitigate against the circumstances when aqueous
   material recovered from the process exceeds the make-up requirements.
25
   [00221] In some embodiments, for example, a reaction zone gaseous effluent product
   80 is discharged from the reaction zone 10. At least a fraction of the reaction zone
   gaseous effluent 80 is recovered and supplied to a reaction zone 1 10 of a combustion
   process unit operation 100. As a result of the photosynthesis being effected in the
30 reaction zone 10, the reaction zone gaseous effluent 80 is rich in oxygen relative to the
   gaseous exhaust material reaction zone supply 24. The gaseous effluent 80 is supplied
   to the combustion zone 110 of a combustion process unit operation 100 (such as a
   combustion zone 110 disposed in a reaction vessel), and, therefore, functions as a useful
   reagent for the combustion process being effected in the combustion process unit
35 operation 100. The reaction zone gaseous effluent 80 is contacted with combustible
   material (such as carbon-comprising material) in the combustion zone 100, and a
   reactive process is effected whereby the combustible material is combusted. Examples
                                                                   10382612_2 (GHMatters) P91968.AU.2 19/06/18

                                              - 98
   of suitable combustion process unit operations 100 include those in a fossil fuel-fired
   power plant, an industrial incineration facility, an industrial furnace, an industrial
   heater, an internal combustion engine, and a cement kiln.
 5 [00222] In some embodiments, for example, the contacting of the recovered reaction
   zone gaseous effluent 80 with a combustible material is effected while the gaseous
   exhaust material 18 is being discharged by the gaseous exhaust material producing
   process 20 and while the gaseous exhaust material reaction zone supply 24 is being
   supplied to the reaction zone feed material 22. In some embodiments, for example, the
10 contacting of the recovered reaction zone gaseous effluent with a combustible material
   is effected while the gaseous exhaust material reaction zone supply 24 is being supplied
   to the reaction zone feed material 22. In some embodiments, for example, the
   contacting of the recovered reaction zone gaseous effluent with a combustible material
   is effected while the reaction zone feed material is being supplied to the reaction zone.
15 In some embodiments, for example, the exposing of the carbon dioxide-enriched
   phototrophic biomass disposed in the aqueous medium to photosynthetically active light
   radiation is effected while the contacting of the recovered reaction zone gaseous
   effluent with a combustible material is being effected.
20 [00223] The intermediate concentrated phototrophic biomass-comprising product 34 is
   supplied to a dryer 32 which supplies heat to the intermediate concentrated phototrophic
   biomass-comprising product 34 to effect evaporation of at least a fraction of the water
   of the intermediate concentrated phototrophic biomass-comprising product 34, and
   thereby effect production of a final phototrophic biomass-comprising product 36. As
25 discussed above, in some embodiments, the heat supplied to the intermediate
   concentrated phototrophic biomass-comprising product 34 is provided by a heat transfer
   medium 30 which has been used to effect the cooling of the reaction zone feed material
   22 prior to supply of the reaction zone feed material 22 to the reaction zone 10. By
   effecting such cooling, heat is transferred from the reaction zone feed material 22 to the
30 heat transfer medium 30, thereby raising the temperature of the heat transfer medium
   30. In such embodiments, the intermediate concentrated phototrophic biomass
   comprising product 34 is at a relatively warm temperature, and the heat requirement to
   effect evaporation of water from the intermediate concentrated phototrophic biomass
   comprising product 34 is not significant, thereby rendering it feasible to use the heated
35 heat transfer medium 30 as a source of heat to effect the drying of the intermediate
   concentrated phototrophic biomass-comprising product 34. As discussed above, after
   heating the intermediate concentrated phototrophic biomass-comprising product 34, the
                                                                    10382612_2 (GHMatters) P91968.AU.2 19/06/18

                                                - 99
   heat transfer medium 30, having lost some energy and becoming disposed at a lower
   temperature, is recirculated to the heat exchanger 26 to effect cooling of the reaction
   zone feed material 22. The heating requirements of the dryer 32 is based upon the rate
   of supply of intermediate concentrated phototrophic biomass-comprising product 34 to
 5 the dryer 32. Cooling requirements (of the heat exchanger 26) and heating requirements
   (of the dryer 32) are adjusted by the controller to balance the two operations by
   monitoring flowrates and temperatures of each of the reaction zone feed material 22 and
   the rate of production of the product 500 through discharging of the product 500 from
   the photobioreactor.
10
   [00224] In some embodiments, changes to the phototrophic biomass growth rate
   effected by changes to the rate of supply of the gaseous exhaust material reaction zone
   supply 24 to the reaction zone material feed 22 are realized after a significant time lag
   (for example, in some cases, more than three (3) hours, and sometimes even longer)
15 from the time when the change is effected to the rate of supply of the gaseous exhaust
   material reaction zone supply 24 to the reaction zone feed material 22. In comparison,
   changes to the thermal value of the heat transfer medium 30, which are based on the
   changes in the rate of supply of the gaseous exhaust material reaction zone supply 24 to
   the reaction zone feed material 22, are realized more quickly. In this respect, in some
20 embodiments, a thermal buffer is provided for storing any excess heat (in the form of
   the heat transfer medium 30) and introducing a time lag to the response of the heat
   transfer performance of the dryer 32 to the changes in the gaseous exhaust material
   reaction zone supply 24. In some embodiments, for example, the thermal buffer is a
   heat transfer medium storage tank. Alternatively, an external source of heat may be
25 required to supplement heating requirements of the dryer 32 during transient periods of
   supply of the gaseous exhaust material reaction zone supply 24 to the reaction zone
   material 22. The use of a thermal buffer or additional heat may be required to
   accommodate changes to the rate of growth of the phototrophic biomass, or to
   accommodate start-up or shutdown of the process. For example, if growth of the
30 phototrophic biomass is decreased or stopped, the dryer 32 can continue operating by
   using the stored heat in the buffer until it is consumed, or, in some embodiments, use a
   secondary source of heat.
   [00225] Further embodiments will now be described in further detail with reference to
35 the following non-limitative example. [00226] Example 1
   [00227] A prophetic example, exemplifying an embodiment of determining a target
                                                                    10382612_2 (GHMatters) P91968.AU.2 19/06/18

                                                - 100
    value of a phototrophic biomass growth indicator (eg. algae concentration in the
    reaction zone of a photobioreactor), and effecting operation of an embodiment of the
    above- described process, including modulating the molar rate of discharge of the
    phototrophic biomass-comprising product from the reaction zone based on a deviation
  5 of a detected value of the process parameter from the target value, will now be
    described.
    [00228] Initially, an initial algae concentration in an aqueous medium, with suitable
    nutrients, is provided in a reaction zone of a photobioreactor. Gaseous carbon dioxide is
10  supplied to the reaction zone, and the reaction zone is exposed to light from a light
    source (such as LEDs), to effect growth of the algae. When algae concentration in the
    reaction zone reaches 0.5 grams per litre, water is flowed to the reaction zone of the
    photobioreactor to effect harvesting of the algae by effecting overflow of the reactor
    contents, and an initial target algae concentration is set at 0.5 grams per litre. Initially,
15  the supplied water is flowed at a relatively moderate and constant rate such that the half
    (1/2) of the volume of the photobioreactor is exchanged per day, as it is found that
    periodically replacing water volume within the reaction zone with fresh water promotes
    growth of the algae and enables attaining the target value in a shorter period of time. If
    the algae growth rate is lower than the dilution rate, and the detected algae
20  concentration drops at least 2% from the algae concentration set point at any time
    during this determination exercise, the control system will stop or reduce the dilution
    rate to avoid further dilution of the algae concentration in the reaction zone. If the algae
    growth rate is higher than the dilution rate, the algae concentration will increase above
    the initial algae concentration set point, and the control system will increase the algae
25  concentration set point so as to keep pace with the increasing algae concentration, while
    maintaining the same dilution rate. For example, the algae concentration may increase
    to 0.52 grams per litre, at which point the control system will increase the algae
    concentration set point to 0.51. The control system continues to monitor the increase in
    algae concentration and, in parallel, increasing the target algae concentration. When a
30  maximum change in the algae growth rate has been detected, the target algae
    concentration is locked at its existing value to become the target value, and dilution rate
    is then modulated so that harvesting of the algae is effected at a rate which is equivalent
    to the growth rate of the algae within the photobioreactor when the algae concentration
    is at the target value.
35
    [00229] Algae growth rate corresponds with algae concentration. When a considerable
    change in the algae growth rate is detected, this is indicative of growth of algae within
                                                                      10382612_2 (GHMatters) P91968.AU.2 19/06/18

                                               -101
   the reaction zone at, or close to, its maximum rate, and this growth rate corresponds to
   an algae concentration at the target value. In this respect, by maintaining algae
   concentration in the reaction zone at the target value by controlling dilution rate, algae
   growth is maintained at or close to the maximum, and, as a corollary, over time, the rate
 5 of discharge of algae is optimized.
   [00230] In the above description, for purposes of explanation, numerous details are set
   forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present disclosure. However,
   it will be apparent to one skilled in the art that these specific details are not required in
10 order to practice the present disclosure. Although certain dimensions and materials are
   described for implementing the disclosed example embodiments, other suitable
   dimensions and/or materials may be used within the scope of this disclosure. All such
   modifications and variations, including all suitable current and future changes in
   technology, are believed to be within the sphere and scope of the present disclosure. All
15 references mentioned are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety.
   [00231] In the claims which follow and in the preceding description of the process,
   except where the context requires otherwise due to express language or necessary
   implication, the word "comprise" or variations such as "comprises" or "comprising" is
20 used in an inclusive sense, i.e. to specify the presence of the stated features but not to
   preclude the presence or addition of further features in various embodiments of the
   process.
   [00232] It is to be understood that, if any prior art publication is referred to herein, such
25 reference does not constitute an admission that the publication forms a part of the
   common general knowledge in the art, in Australia or any other country.
                                                                     10382612_2 (GHMatters) P91968.AU.2 19/06/18

                                               - 102
CLAIMS
1.           A process for growing a phototrophic biomass in a reaction zone, wherein the
reaction zone includes a reaction mixture that is operative for effecting photosynthesis
upon exposure to photosynthetically active light radiation, wherein the reaction mixture
includes phototrophic biomass that is operative for growth within the reaction zone,
comprising:
while exposing the reaction mixture to photosynthetically active light radiation and
effecting growth of the phototrophic biomass in the reaction zone, wherein the effected
growth includes growth effected by photosynthesis, and while discharging phototrophic
biomass from the reaction zone, when a phototrophic biomass growth indicator is
different than a target value of the phototrophic biomass growth indicator, modulating the
rate of discharge of the phototrophic biomass from the reaction zone, wherein the target
value of the phototrophic biomass growth indicator is based upon a predetermined growth
rate of the phototrophic biomass within the reaction mixture which is disposed within the
reaction zone and is being exposed to photosynthetically active light radiation.
2.           The process as claimed in claim 1;
wherein the target value of the phototrophic biomass growth indicator is correlated with
the predetermined growth rate of the phototrophic biomass.
3.           The process as claimed in claim 1;
wherein the modulating is effected in response to detection of a difference between the
phototrophic biomass growth indicator and the target value of the phototrophic biomass
growth indicator.
4.           The process as claimed in claim 3;
10382650 1 (GHMatters) P91968.AU.2

                                               - 103
further comprising detecting a phototrophic biomass growth indicator to provide a
detected phototrophic biomass growth indicator.
5.           The process as claimed in claim 4;
wherein the detected phototrophic biomass growth indicator is representative of the
concentration of the phototrophic biomass within the reaction mixture.
6.           The process as claimed in claim 4;
wherein the detected phototrophic biomass growth indicator is the concentration of the
phototrophic biomass within the reaction mixture.
7.           The process as claimed in claim 4;
wherein the detected phototrophic biomass growth indicator is the concentration of the
phototrophic biomass within a reaction zone product being discharged from the reaction
zone, wherein the reaction zone product further includes water.
8.           The process as claimed in claim 1;
wherein the target value of the phototrophic biomass growth indicator is predetermined.
9.           The process as claimed in claim 1;
wherein the effected growth of the phototrophic biomass is being effected at a rate of
growth that is within 10% of the predetermined growth rate.
10.          The process as claimed in claim 1;
10382650 1 (GHMatters) P91968.AU.2

                                               - 104
wherein the effected growth of the phototrophic biomass is being effected at a rate of
growth that is within 5% of the predetermined growth rate.
11.          The process as claimed in claim 1;
wherein the effected growth of the phototrophic biomass is being effected at a rate of
growth that is within 1% of the predetermined growth rate.
12.          The process as claimed in claim 1;
wherein the reaction zone is disposed within a photobioreactor, and wherein the
discharged phototrophic biomass is included in an overflow that is discharged from the
photobioreactor, and the overflow is effected by supplying of an aqueous feed material to
the reaction zone.
13.          The process as claimed in claim 12;
wherein the modulating of the rate of discharge of the phototrophic biomass from the
reaction zone is effected by modulating the rate of supply of the aqueous feed material to
the reaction zone.
14.          The process as claimed in claim 4;
wherein, when the detected phototrophic biomass growth indicator is less than the
phototrophic biomass growth indicator target value, the modulating includes effecting a
decrease in the rate of discharge of the phototrophic biomass from the reaction zone.
15.          The process as claimed in claim 14;
wherein the reaction zone is disposed within a photobioreactor, and wherein the
discharged phototrophic biomass is included in an overflow that is discharged from the
10382650 1 (GHMatters) P91968.AU.2

                                               - 105
photobioreactor, and the overflow is effected by supplying of an aqueous feed material to
the reaction zone.
16.          The process as claimed in claim 15;
wherein the modulating is effected by effecting a decrease in the rate of supply of the
aqueous feed material to the reaction zone.
17.            The process as claimed in claim 1;
wherein, when the phototrophic biomass growth indicator is greater than the target value
of the phototrophic biomass growth indicator, the modulating includes effecting an
increase in the rate of discharge of the phototrophic biomass from the reaction zone.
18.          The process as claimed in claim 17;
wherein the reaction zone is disposed within a photobioreactor, and wherein the
discharged phototrophic biomass is included in an overflow that is discharged from the
photobioreactor, and the overflow is effected by supplying of an aqueous feed material to
the reaction zone.
19.          The process as claimed in claim 18;
wherein the modulating is effected by effecting an increase in the rate of supply of the
aqueous feed material to the reaction zone.
20.          The process as claimed in claim 12;
wherein the aqueous feed material includes substantially no phototrophic biomass.
21.          The process as claimed in claim 1;
10382650 1 (GHMatters) P91968.AU.2

                                              -  106
wherein the effecting of the growth of the phototrophic biomass includes supplying
carbon dioxide to the reaction zone and exposing the production purpose reaction mixture
to photosynthetically active light radiation.
22.          The process as claimed in claim 21;
wherein the carbon dioxide is supplied while the growth is being effected.
23.          The process as claimed in claim 22;
wherein at least a fraction of the carbon dioxide being supplied to the reaction zone is
supplied from a gaseous exhaust material while the gaseous exhaust material is being
discharged from a gaseous exhaust material producing process.
24.          The process as claimed in claim 1;
wherein the reaction mixture further includes water and carbon dioxide.
25.          The process as claimed in claim 1;
wherein the predetermined growth rate of the production purpose phototrophic biomass is
at least 90% of the maximum growth rate of the production purpose phototrophic
biomass within the reaction mixture which is disposed within the reaction zone and is
being exposed to the photosynthetically active light radiation.
26.          A process for growing a production purpose phototrophic biomass in a reaction
zone, wherein the reaction zone includes a production purpose reaction mixture that is
operative for effecting photosynthesis upon exposure to photosynthetically active light
radiation, wherein the production purpose reaction mixture includes production purpose
phototrophic biomass that is operative for growth within the reaction zone, comprising:
10382650 1 (GHMatters) P91968.AU.2

                                                       - 107
while exposing the reaction mixture to photosynthetically active light radiation and
effecting growth of the production purpose phototrophic biomass in the reaction zone,
wherein the effected growth includes growth effected by photosynthesis, and while
discharging production purpose phototrophic biomass from the reaction zone,:
when a phototrophic biomass growth indicator is different than a predetermined target
value of the phototrophic biomass growth indicator, modulating the rate of discharge of
the production purpose phototrophic biomass from the reaction zone, wherein the target
value of the phototrophic biomass growth indicator is based upon a predetermined growth
rate of the production purpose phototrophic biomass within the reaction mixture which is
disposed within the reaction zone and is being exposed to photosynthetically active light
radiation;
wherein the predetermination of the target value includes:
supplying an evaluation purpose reaction mixture that is representative of the production
purpose reaction mixture and is operative for effecting photosynthesis upon exposure to
photosynthetically active light radiation, such that the phototrophic biomass of the
evaluation purpose reaction mixture is an evaluation purpose phototrophic biomass that is
representative of the production purpose phototrophic biomass;
while the evaluation purpose reaction mixture disposed in the reaction zone is exposed to
photosynthetically                 active light radiation  and growth of the evaluation purpose
phototrophic biomass is being effected within the evaluation purpose reaction mixture,:
             at least periodically detecting the phototrophic biomass growth indicator to
provide a plurality of detected values of the phototrophic biomass growth indicator that
have been detected during a time period; and
10382650 1 (GHMatters) P91968.AU.2

                                                  - 108
             calculating growth rates of the evaluation purpose phototrophic biomass based on
the plurality of detected values of the phototrophic biomass growth indicator such that a
plurality of growth rates of the evaluation purpose phototrophic biomass are determined
during the time period;
establishing              a relationship between the growth rate  of the evaluation purpose
phototrophic biomass and the phototrophic biomass growth indicator, based on the
calculated growth rates and the detected values of the phototrophic biomass growth
indicator upon which the calculated growth rates have been based, such that the
established relationship between the growth rate of the evaluation purpose phototrophic
biomass and the phototrophic biomass growth indicator is representative of a relationship
between the growth rate of the production purpose phototrophic biomass within the
reaction zone and the phototrophic biomass growth indicator, and such that the
relationship between the growth rate of the production purpose phototrophic biomass
within the reaction zone and the phototrophic biomass growth indicator is thereby
determined;
selecting the predetermined growth rate of the production purpose phototrophic biomass;
and
defining the phototrophic biomass growth indicator target value as the phototrophic
biomass growth indicator at which the predetermined growth rate is being effected based
on the determined relationship between the growth rate of the production purpose
phototrophic biomass within the reaction zone and the phototrophic biomass growth
indicator, such that the correlation between the phototrophic biomass growth indicator
target value and the predetermined growth rate is also thereby effected.
27.          The process as claimed in claim 26;
wherein the effected growth of the evaluation purpose phototrophic biomass is effected
while the reaction zone is characterized by at least one evaluation purpose growth
condition, wherein each one of the at least one evaluation purpose growth condition is
10382650 1 (GHMatters) P91968.AU.2

                                              -  109
representative of a production purpose growth condition by which the reaction zone is
characterized while the growth of the production purpose phototrophic biomass, within
the reaction zone, is being effected.
28.          The process as claimed in claim 27;
wherein the production purpose growth condition is any one of a plurality of production
purpose growth conditions including composition of the reaction zone, reaction zone
temperature, reaction zone pH, reaction zone light intensity, reaction zone lighting
regimes, reaction zone lighting cycles, and reaction zone temperature.
29.          The process as claimed in claim 26;
wherein the predetermined growth rate of the production purpose phototrophic biomass is
at least 90% of the maximum growth rate of the production purpose phototrophic
biomass within the reaction mixture which is disposed within the reaction zone and is
being exposed to the photosynthetically active light radiation..
30.          The process as claimed in claim 26;
the predetermined growth rate of the production purpose phototrophic biomass is at least
99% of the maximum growth rate of the production purpose phototrophic biomass within
the reaction mixture which is disposed within the reaction zone and is being exposed to
the photosynthetically active light radiation.
31.          The process as claimed in claim 26;
wherein the production purpose reaction mixture further includes water and carbon
dioxide;
10382650 1 (GHMatters) P91968.AU.2

                                              -110
and wherein the evaluation purpose reaction mixture further includes water and carbon
dioxide.
32.          A process for growing a phototrophic biomass in a reaction zone, wherein the
reaction zone includes a reaction mixture that is operative for effecting photosynthesis
upon exposure to photosynthetically active light radiation, wherein the reaction mixture
includes phototrophic biomass that is operative for growth within the reaction zone,
comprising:
while exposing the reaction mixture disposed in the reaction zone to photosynthetically
active light radiation and growth of the phototrophic biomass is being effected within the
reaction mixture, discharging the phototrophic biomass from the reaction zone at a rate
that is within 10% of the rate at which the growth of the phototrophic biomass is being
effected within the reaction zone;
wherein the effected growth of the phototrophic biomass within the reaction zone is being
effected at a rate that is at least 90% of the maximum growth rate of the phototrophic
biomass within the reaction mixture which is disposed in reaction zone and is being
exposed to the photosynthetically active light radiation.
33.          The process as claimed in claim 32;
wherein the reaction zone is disposed within a photobioreactor, and wherein the
discharged phototrophic biomass is included in an overflow from the photobioreactor.
34.          The process as claimed in claim 32;
wherein the effecting of the growth of the production purpose phototrophic biomass
includes supplying carbon dioxide to the reaction zone and exposing the production
purpose reaction mixture to photosynthetically active light radiation.
10382650 1 (GHMatters) P91968.AU.2

                                              - 111
35.          The process as claimed in claim 32;
wherein the effected growth of the phototrophic biomass within the reaction zone is being
effected at a rate that is at least 95% of the maximum growth rate of the phototrophic
biomass within the reaction mixture which is disposed in reaction zone and is being
exposed to the photosynthetically active light radiation.
36.          The process as claimed in claim 32;
wherein the effected growth of the phototrophic biomass within the reaction zone is being
effected at a rate that is at least 99% of the maximum growth rate of the phototrophic
biomass within the reaction mixture which is disposed in reaction zone and is being
exposed to the photosynthetically active light radiation.
37.          The process as claimed in claim 32;
wherein the discharging of the phototrophic biomass from the reaction zone is effected at
a rate that is within 5% of the rate at which the growth of the phototrophic biomass is
being effected within the reaction zone.
38.          The process as claimed in claim 32;
wherein the discharging of the phototrophic biomass from the reaction zone is effected at
a rate that is within 1% of the rate at which the growth of the phototrophic biomass is
being effected within the reaction zone.
39.          A process for growing a phototrophic biomass in a reaction zone, wherein the
reaction zone includes a reaction mixture that is operative for effecting photosynthesis
upon exposure to photosynthetically active light radiation, wherein the reaction mixture
includes phototrophic biomass that is operative for growth within the reaction zone,
comprising:
10382650 1 (GHMatters) P91968.AU.2

                                              -112
while exposing the reaction mixture to photosynthetically active light radiation and
effecting growth of the phototrophic biomass within the reaction mixture disposed in the
reaction zone, wherein the effected growth of the phototrophic biomass includes growth
which is effected by the photosynthesis, discharging phototrophic biomass from the
reaction zone such that the rate of discharge of the phototrophic biomass is within 10% of
the rate at which the growth of the phototrophic biomass is being effected.
40.          The process as claimed in claim 39;
wherein the rate of discharge of the phototrophic biomass is within 5% of the rate at
which the growth of the phototrophic biomass is being effected.
41.          The process as claimed in claim 39;
wherein the rate of discharge of the phototrophic biomass is within 1% of the rate at
which the growth of the phototrophic biomass is being effected.
42.          The process as claimed in claim 39;
wherein the rate of discharge of the phototrophic biomass is equivalent to the rate at
which the growth of the phototrophic biomass is being effected.
43.          The process as claimed in claim 39;
wherein the rate at which the growth of the phototrophic biomass is being effected is
equivalent to the maximum growth rate of the phototrophic biomass within the reaction
mixture which is disposed within the reaction zone and is being exposed to the
photosynthetically active light radiation.
10382650 1 (GHMatters) P91968.AU.2

                                              - 113
44.          A process for growing a phototrophic biomass in a reaction zone, wherein the
reaction zone includes a reaction mixture that is operative for effecting photosynthesis
upon exposure to photosynthetically active light radiation, wherein the reaction mixture
includes phototrophic biomass that is operative for growth within the reaction zone,
wherein the growth of the phototrophic biomass includes that which is effected by the
photosynthesis, comprising:
while the gaseous exhaust material is being discharged by the gaseous exhaust material
producing process, wherein any of the gaseous exhaust material being supplied to the
reaction zone defines a gaseous exhaust material reaction zone supply, supply of the
gaseous exhaust material reaction zone supply to the reaction zone is modulated based on
detection of at least one carbon dioxide processing capacity indicator.
45.          The process as claimed in claim 44;
wherein the detection of at least one of the at least one carbon dioxide processing
capacity indicator is effected in the reaction zone.
46.          The process as claimed in claim 44;
further comprising modulating of a supply of a bypass fraction of the discharged gaseous
exhaust material to another unit operation, wherein the supply of the bypass fraction of
the discharged gaseous exhaust material to another unit operation defines a bypass
gaseous exhaust material.
47.          The process as claimed in claim 46;
wherein the modulating of the bypass gaseous exhaust material to the another unit
operation is effected while the modulating of the supply of the gaseous exhaust material
reaction zone supply to the reaction zone is being effected.
48.          The process as claimed in claim 46;
10382650 1 (GHMatters) P91968.AU.2

                                              -114
wherein the another unit operation converts the bypass gaseous exhaust material such that
its environmental impact is reduced.
49.          The process as claimed in claim 48;
wherein the another unit operation is a separator which effects removal of carbon dioxide
from the bypass gaseous exhaust material.
50.          The process as claimed in claim 48;
wherein the another unit operation is a smokestack.
51.          The process as claimed in claim 44;
wherein the carbon dioxide processing capacity indicator which is detected is any
characteristic that is representative of the capacity of the reaction zone for receiving
carbon dioxide and having at least a fraction of the received carbon dioxide converted in
a photosynthesis reaction effected by phototrophic biomass disposed within the reaction
zone.
52.          The process as claimed in claim 44;
wherein the carbon dioxide processing capacity indicator which is detected is any
characteristic of the process that is representative of the capacity of the reaction zone for
receiving carbon dioxide and having at least a fraction of the received carbon dioxide
converted in a photosynthesis reaction effected by phototrophic biomass disposed within
reaction mixture disposed the reaction zone, such that the photosynthesis effects a
predetermined growth rate of the phototrophic biomass within the reaction zone
53.          The process as claimed in claim 44;
wherein the carbon dioxide processing capacity indicator which is detected is any
characteristic of the process that is representative of the capacity of the reaction zone for
receiving carbon dioxide and having at least a fraction of the received carbon dioxide
converted in a photosynthesis reaction effected by phototrophic biomass disposed within
10382650 1 (GHMatters) P91968.AU.2

                                              - 115
the reaction zone, such that any discharge of carbon dioxide from the reaction zone is
effected below an acceptable molar rate.
54.          The process as claimed in claim 44;
wherein the carbon dioxide processing capacity indicator which is detected is at least one
of pH and a concentration of phototrophic biomass.
55.          The process as claimed in claim 44;
wherein, while the gaseous exhaust material is being discharged by the gaseous exhaust
material producing process, wherein any gaseous exhaust material which is being
supplied to the reaction zone defines a gaseous exhaust material reaction zone supply,
when a carbon dioxide processing capacity indicator is detected in the reaction zone
which is representative of a capacity of the reaction zone for receiving an increased molar
rate of supply of carbon dioxide, the modulating of the supply of the gaseous exhaust
material reaction zone supply to the reaction zone includes initiating the supply of the
gaseous exhaust material reaction zone supply to the reaction zone, or increasing the
molar rate of supply of the gaseous exhaust material reaction zone supply being supplied
to the reaction zone.
56.          The process as claimed in claim 55;
further comprising, where the gaseous exhaust material producing process is co
operatively disposed with another unit operation to effect supply of a bypass gaseous
exhaust material to the another unit operation, and while the bypass gaseous exhaust
material is being supplied to the another unit operation, effecting a decrease to the molar
rate of supply of, or terminating the supply of, the bypass gaseous exhaust material being
supplied to the another unit operation.
57.          The process as claimed in claim 44;
wherein, while the gaseous exhaust material is being discharged by the gaseous exhaust
material producing process, and while at least a fraction of the gaseous exhaust material
is being supplied to the reaction zone, wherein the at least a fraction of the gaseous
10382650 1 (GHMatters) P91968.AU.2

                                              -116
exhaust material which is being supplied to the reaction zone defines a gaseous exhaust
material reaction zone supply, when a carbon dioxide processing capacity indicator is
detected in the reaction zone which is representative of a capacity of the reaction zone for
receiving a decreased molar rate of supply of carbon dioxide, the modulating of the
supply of the gaseous exhaust material reaction zone supply to the reaction zone includes
reducing the molar rate of supply of, or terminating the supply of, the gaseous exhaust
material reaction zone supply being supplied to the reaction zone.
58.          The process as claimed in claim 57;
further comprising, where the gaseous exhaust material producing process is co
operatively disposed with another unit operation to effect supply of a bypass gaseous
exhaust material to the another unit operation, the process further includes initiating the
supply of the bypass gaseous exhaust material to the another unit operation, or effecting
an increase to a molar rate of supply of the bypass gaseous exhaust material being
supplied to the another unit operation.
59.          The process as claimed in claim 44;
wherein, when a carbon dioxide processing capacity indicator is detected in the reaction
zone which is representative of a capacity of the reaction zone for receiving a decreased
molar rate of supply of carbon dioxide, and the modulating of the gaseous exhaust
material reaction zone supply, in response to the detection of the carbon dioxide
processing capacity indicator which is representative of a capacity of the reaction zone
for receiving a decreased molar rate of supply of carbon dioxide, includes reducing the
molar rate of supply, or terminating the supply, of the gaseous exhaust material reaction
zone supply being supplied to the reaction zone, the process further includes initiating the
supply of a supplemental gas-comprising material to the reaction zone, or increasing the
molar rate of supply of a supplemental gas-comprising material being supplied to the
reaction zone.
60.          The process as claimed in claim 59;
10382650 1 (GHMatters) P91968.AU.2

                                              -117
wherein a molar concentration of carbon dioxide, if any, of the supplemental gas
comprising material is lower than a molar concentration of carbon dioxide of the at least
a fraction of the gaseous exhaust material being supplied to the reaction zone from the
gaseous exhaust material producing process.
61.          The process as claimed in claim 60;
wherein the molar supply rate reduction, or the termination of the supply, of the gaseous
exhaust material reaction zone supply, being supplied to the reaction zone, effected by
the modulating of the supply of the gaseous exhaust material reaction zone supply to the
reaction zone, co-operates with the supplying of the supplemental gas-comprising
material to the reaction zone to effect a reduction in the molar rate of supply, or the
termination of supply, of carbon dioxide being supplied to the reaction zone.
62.          The process as claimed in claim 59;
wherein the initiation of the supply of the supplemental gas-comprising material to the
reaction zone, or the increasing of the molar rate of supply of the supplemental gas
comprising material being supplied to the reaction zone, at least partially compensates for
the reduction in molar rate of supply of matter, or the termination of supply of matter, to
the reaction zone which is attributable to the reduction in the molar rate of supply, or by
the termination of supply, of the gaseous exhaust material reaction zone supply to the
reaction zone.
63.          The process as claimed in claim 62;
wherein the combination of: (a) the reduction of the molar rate of supply, or the
termination of supply, of the gaseous exhaust material reaction zone supply to the
reaction zone, and (b) the initiation of the supply, or the increase to the molar rate of
supply, of the supplemental gas-comprising material to the reaction zone, mitigates
against reduced agitation of the reaction zone attributable to the reduction in the molar
rate of supply, or the termination of supply, of the gaseous exhaust material reaction zone
supply to the reaction zone.
10382650 1 (GHMatters) P91968.AU.2

                                                   - 118
64.          The process as claimed in claim 63;
wherein the combination of the supplemental gas-comprising material and any of the
gaseous exhaust material reaction zone supply is supplied to the reaction zone as at least
a fraction of a reaction zone feed material, and the reaction zone feed material is supplied
to the reaction zone and effects agitation of material in the reaction zone such that any
difference in concentration of phototrophic biomass between any two points in the
reaction zone is less than 20%.
65.          The process as claimed in claim 44;
wherein           exposing         of the reaction mixture disposed in the reaction zone   to
photosynthetically active light radiation is effected while the modulating of the supply of
the gaseous exhaust material reaction zone supply to the reaction zone is being effected.
66.          A process for growing a phototrophic biomass in a reaction zone, wherein the
reaction zone includes a reaction mixture that is operative for effecting photosynthesis
upon exposure to photosynthetically active light radiation, wherein the reaction mixture
includes phototrophic biomass that is operative for growth within the reaction zone,
wherein the growth of the phototrophic biomass includes that which is effected by the
photosynthesis, comprising:
while the gaseous exhaust material is being discharged by the gaseous exhaust material
producing process, and while at least a fraction of the gaseous exhaust material is being
supplied to the reaction zone, wherein the at least a fraction of the gaseous exhaust
material which is being supplied to the reaction zone defines a gaseous exhaust material
reaction zone supply, and there is effected a reduction in the molar rate of supply, or the
termination of the supply, of the gaseous exhaust material reaction zone supply being
supplied to the reaction zone, the process further includes initiating the supply of a
supplemental gas-comprising material, or increasing the molar rate of supply of a
supplemental gas-comprising material, to the reaction zone.
67.          The process as claimed in claim 66;
10382650 1 (GHMatters) P91968.AU.2

                                              -119
wherein the initiating of the supply of a supplemental gas-comprising material to the
reaction zone, or the increasing of the molar rate of supply of a supplemental gas
comprising material being supplied to the reaction zone is effected in response to the
detection of the reduction in the molar rate of supply of, or the termination of the supply
of, the gaseous exhaust material reaction zone supply being supplied to the reaction zone,
or of an indication of the reduction in the molar rate of supply of, or the termination of
the supply of, the gaseous exhaust material reaction zone supply being supplied to the
reaction zone.
68.          The process as claimed in claim 67;
wherein a molar concentration of carbon dioxide, if any, of the supplemental gas
comprising material is lower than a molar concentration of carbon dioxide of the at least
a fraction of the gaseous exhaust material being supplied to the reaction zone from the
gaseous exhaust material producing process.
69.          The process as claimed in claim 68;
wherein the molar supply rate reduction, or the termination of the supply, of the gaseous
exhaust material reaction zone supply, being supplied to the reaction zone, effected by
the modulating of the supply of the gaseous exhaust material reaction zone supply to the
reaction zone, co-operates with the supplying of the supplemental gas-comprising
material to the reaction zone to effect a reduction in the molar rate of supply, or the
termination of supply, of carbon dioxide being supplied to the reaction zone.
70.          The process as claimed in claim 66;
wherein the initiation of the supply of the supplemental gas-comprising material to the
reaction zone, or the increasing of the molar rate of supply of the supplemental gas
comprising material being supplied to the reaction zone, at least partially compensates for
the reduction in molar rate of supply of matter, or the termination of supply of matter, to
the reaction zone which is attributable to the reduction in the molar rate of supply, or by
the termination of supply, of the gaseous exhaust material reaction zone supply to the
reaction zone.
10382650 1 (GHMatters) P91968.AU.2

                                                   - 120
71.          The process as claimed in claim 70;
wherein the combination of: (a) the reduction of the molar rate of supply, or the
termination of supply, of the gaseous exhaust material to the reaction zone, and (b) the
initiation of the supply, or the increase to the molar rate of supply, of the supplemental
gas-comprising material to the reaction zone, mitigates against reduced agitation of the
reaction zone attributable to the reduction in the molar rate of supply, or the termination
of supply, of the gaseous exhaust material reaction zone supply to the reaction zone.
72.          The process as claimed in claim 70;
wherein the combination of the supplemental gas-comprising material and any of the
gaseous exhaust material reaction zone supply is supplied to the reaction zone as at least
a fraction of a reaction zone feed material, and the reaction zone feed material is supplied
to the reaction zone and effects agitation of material in the reaction zone such that any
difference in concentration of phototrophic biomass between any two points in the
reaction zone is less than 20%.
73.          The process as claimed in claim 66;
wherein           exposing         of the reaction mixture disposed in the reaction zone   to
photosynthetically active light radiation is effected while the initiating of the supply of a
supplemental gas-comprising material, or the increasing the molar rate of supply of a
supplemental gas-comprising material, to the reaction zone is being effected.
74.          A process for growing a phototrophic biomass in a reaction zone, wherein the
reaction zone includes a reaction mixture that is operative for effecting photosynthesis
upon exposure to photosynthetically active light radiation, wherein the reaction mixture
includes phototrophic biomass that is operative for growth within the reaction zone,
wherein the growth of the phototrophic biomass includes that which is effected by the
photosynthesis, comprising:
supplying gaseous exhaust material reaction zone supply to the reaction zone, wherein
the gaseous exhaust material reaction zone supply is defined by at least a fraction of
10382650 1 (GHMatters) P91968.AU.2

                                              -  121
gaseous exhaust material produced by a gaseous exhaust material producing process,
wherein the gaseous exhaust material reaction zone supply includes carbon dioxide;
supplying a supplemental aqueous material supply from a container to the reaction zone,
wherein the supplemental aqueous material supply includes aqueous material that has
been condensed from the gaseous exhaust material reaction zone supply and collected in
the container, wherein the condensing of the aqueous material is effected while the
gaseous exhaust material reaction zone supply is being cooled before being supplied to
the reaction zone.
75.          The process as claimed in claim 74;
wherein the condensed aqueous material is water.
76.          The process as claimed in claim 74;
wherein the supplemental aqueous material supply further includes aqueous material
77.          The process as claimed in claim 74;
wherein the cooling of the gaseous exhaust reaction zone supply is from a temperature of
greater than 110 degrees Celsius to a temperature below 50 degrees Celsius.
78.          The process as claimed in claim 77;
wherein the cooling of the gaseous exhaust material reaction zone supply is effected in a
heat exchanger.
79.          The process as claimed in claim 78;
wherein the condensing effects heat transfer from the gaseous exhaust material reaction
zone supply reaction zone to a heat transfer medium to effect production of a heated heat
transfer medium, and the heated heat transfer medium is supplied to a dryer to effect
vaporization of water from phototrophic biomass that is discharged from the reaction
zone.
10382650 1 (GHMatters) P91968.AU.2

                                                   - 122
80.          The process as claimed in claim 79;
wherein the vaporization is effected by heat transfer from the heated heat transfer
medium to the biomass product in the dryer so as to effect production of a cooled heat
transfer medium, and the cooled heat transfer medium is recirculated to the heat
exchanger so as to effect the condensing.
81.          The process as claimed in claim 74;
wherein the supplying of the supplemental aqueous material is effected while the gaseous
exhaust material reaction zone supply is being supplied to the reaction zone.
82.          The process as claimed in claim 81;
wherein the supplying of the supplemental aqueous material is effected while the gaseous
exhaust material reaction zone supply is being produced by the gaseous exhaust material
producing process.
83.          The process as claimed in claim 82;
wherein           exposing         of the reaction mixture disposed in the reaction zone to
photosynthetically active light radiation is effected while the supplying of the
supplemental aqueous material is being effected.
84.          The process as claimed in claim 79;
wherein, in response to a change in the rate of heat transfer from the gaseous exhaust
material reaction zone supply to the heat transfer medium effected by a change in the
molar rate of supply of the gaseous exhaust material reaction zone supply to the reaction
zone, a thermal buffer is provided to delay the effect of the change in the molar rate of
supply of the gaseous exhaust material reaction zone supply to the reaction zone on the
rate of heat transfer from the heated heat transfer medium to the biomass product in the
dryer.
85.          The process as claimed in claim 79;
10382650 1 (GHMatters) P91968.AU.2

                                              - 123
wherein, in response to a decrease in the rate of heat transfer from the gaseous exhaust
material reaction zone supply to the heat transfer medium effected by a decrease in the
molar rate of supply of the gaseous exhaust material reaction zone supply to the reaction
zone, an additional heating source is provided in thermal communication with biomass
product within the dryer to supplement the rate of heat transfer from the heated heat
transfer medium to the biomass product in the dryer.
86.          A process for growing a phototrophic biomass in a reaction zone, wherein the
reaction zone includes a reaction mixture that is operative for effecting photosynthesis
upon exposure to photosynthetically active light radiation, wherein the reaction mixture
includes phototrophic biomass that is operative for growth within the reaction zone,
wherein the growth of the phototrophic biomass includes that which is effected by the
photosynthesis, comprising:
while carbon dioxide is being discharged by the gaseous exhaust material producing
process, and while at least a fraction of the discharged carbon dioxide is being supplied to
the reaction zone, wherein the at least a fraction of the discharged carbon dioxide which
is being supplied to the reaction zone defines a discharged carbon dioxide reaction zone
supply, at least one material input to the reaction zone is modulated based on, at least, the
molar rate at which the discharged carbon dioxide reaction zone supply is being supplied
to the reaction zone.
87.          The process as claimed in claim 86;
wherein the exposing of the phototrophic biomass disposed in the reaction zone to
photosynthetically active light radiation is effected while the modulating of at least one
material input is being effected.
88.          The process as claimed in claim 86;
10382650 1 (GHMatters) P91968.AU.2

                                              -  124
wherein each one of the at least one material input to the reaction zone is an input whose
supply to the reaction zone is material to the rate of growth of the phototrophic biomass
within the reaction zone.
89.          The process as claimed in claim 86;
wherein the at least one material input includes at least one of: (i) supply of a
photosynthetically active light radiation of a characteristic intensity, and (ii) supply of a
supplemental nutrient supply.
90.          The process as claimed in claim 89;
wherein, when the modulation of at least one input includes initiating of the supply of
photosynthetically active light radiation being supplied to the reaction zone, or increasing
of the intensity of photosynthetically active light radiation being supplied to the reaction
zone, upon the initiating of the supply of photosynthetically active light radiation being
supplied to the reaction zone, or the increasing of the intensity of photosynthetically
active light radiation being supplied to the reaction zone, a rate of cooling of a light
source, that is provided in the reaction zone and that is supplying the photosynthetically
active light radiation to the reaction zone, is increased.
91.          A process for growing a phototrophic biomass in a reaction zone, wherein the
reaction zone includes a reaction mixture that is operative for effecting photosynthesis
upon exposure to photosynthetically active light radiation, wherein the reaction mixture
includes phototrophic biomass that is operative for growth within the reaction zone,
wherein the growth of the phototrophic biomass includes that which is effected by the
photosynthesis, comprising:
while carbon dioxide is being discharged by the gaseous exhaust material producing
process, and while at least a fraction of the discharged carbon dioxide is being supplied to
the reaction zone, wherein the at least a fraction of the discharged carbon dioxide which
is being supplied to the reaction zone defines a discharged carbon dioxide reaction zone
supply, at least one material input to the reaction zone is modulated based on, at least, an
10382650 1 (GHMatters) P91968.AU.2

                                              - 125
indication of the molar rate at which the discharged carbon dioxide reaction zone supply
is being supplied to the reaction zone.
92.          The process as claimed in claim 91;
wherein the exposing of the phototrophic biomass disposed in the reaction zone to
photosynthetically active light radiation is effected while the modulating of at least one
material input is being effected.
93.          The process as claimed in claim 91;
wherein each one of the at least one material input to the reaction zone is an input whose
supply to the reaction zone is material to the rate of growth of the phototrophic biomass
within the reaction zone.
94.          The process as claimed in claim 91;
wherein the at least one material input includes at least one of: (i)              supply of
photosynthetically active light radiation of a characteristic intensity, and (ii) supply of a
supplemental nutrient supply.
95.          The process as claimed in claim 91;
wherein the indication of the molar rate of supply of the discharged carbon dioxide
reaction zone supply which is being supplied to the reaction zone is the molar rate at
which gaseous exhaust material is being discharged by the gaseous exhaust material
producing process, such that the modulation is based on, at least, the molar rate at which
the gaseous exhaust material is being discharged by the gaseous exhaust material
producing process, wherein the gaseous exhaust material includes the discharged carbon
dioxide reaction zone supply.
96.          The process as claimed in claim 91;
10382650 1 (GHMatters) P91968.AU.2

                                              -  126
wherein the indication of the molar rate of supply of the discharged carbon dioxide
reaction zone supply which is being supplied           to the reaction zone is the molar
concentration of carbon dioxide of the gaseous exhaust material being discharged by the
gaseous exhaust material producing process, such that the modulation is based on, at
least, the molar concentration of carbon dioxide of the gaseous exhaust material being
discharged by the gaseous exhaust material producing process, wherein the gaseous
exhaust material includes the discharged carbon dioxide reaction zone supply.
97.          The process as claimed in claim 91;
the indication of the molar rate of supply of the discharged carbon dioxide reaction zone
supply which is being supplied to the reaction zone is the molar rate at which carbon
dioxide is being discharged by the gaseous exhaust material producing process, such that
the modulation is based on, at least, the molar rate at which carbon dioxide is being
discharged by the gaseous exhaust material producing process, wherein the gaseous
exhaust material includes the discharged carbon dioxide reaction zone supply.
98.          The process as claimed in claim 97;
wherein the molar rate at which carbon dioxide is being discharged by the gaseous
exhaust material producing process is calculated based on the combination of a detected
molar flow rate of the gaseous exhaust material being discharged by the gaseous exhaust
material producing process and the detected molar concentration of carbon dioxide of the
gaseous exhaust material being discharged by the gaseous exhaust material producing
process.
99.          The process as claimed in claim 94;
wherein, when the modulation of at least one input includes initiating of the supply of
photosynthetically active light radiation being supplied to the reaction zone, or increasing
of the intensity of photosynthetically active light radiation being supplied to the reaction
zone, upon the initiating of the supply of photosynthetically active light radiation being
10382650 1 (GHMatters) P91968.AU.2

                                              - 127
supplied to the reaction zone, or the increasing of the intensity of photosynthetically
active light radiation being supplied to the reaction zone, the rate of cooling of a light
source, that is provided in the reaction zone and that is supplying the photosynthetically
active light radiation to the reaction zone, is increased.
100.         A process for growing a phototrophic biomass in a reaction zone, wherein the
reaction zone includes a reaction mixture that is operative for effecting photosynthesis
upon exposure to photosynthetically active light radiation, wherein the reaction mixture
includes phototrophic biomass that is operative for growth within the reaction zone,
wherein the growth of the phototrophic biomass includes that which is effected by the
photosynthesis, comprising:
while carbon dioxide is being discharged by the gaseous exhaust material producing
process, and while at least a fraction of the discharged carbon dioxide is being supplied to
the reaction zone, wherein the at least a fraction of the discharged carbon dioxide which
is being supplied to the reaction zone defines a discharged carbon dioxide reaction zone
supply, when an indication of a change in the molar rate of supply of the discharged
carbon dioxide reaction zone supply being supplied to the reaction zone is detected,
modulation of at least one material input to the reaction zone is effected.
101.         The process as claimed in claim 100;
wherein the exposing of the phototrophic biomass disposed in the reaction zone to
photosynthetically active light radiation is effected while the modulating of at least one
material input is being effected.
102.         The process as claimed in claim 100;
wherein each one of the at least one material input to the reaction zone is an input whose
supply to the reaction zone is material to the rate of growth of the phototrophic biomass
within the reaction zone.
10382650 1 (GHMatters) P91968.AU.2

                                              - 128
103.         The process as claimed in claim 100;
wherein the at least one material input includes at least one of: (i) supply             of a
photosynthetically active light radiation of a characteristic intensity, and (ii) supply of a
supplemental nutrient supply.
104.         The process as claimed in claim 103;
wherein, when the modulation of at least one input includes initiating of the supply of
photosynthetically active light radiation being supplied to the reaction zone, or increasing
of the intensity of photosynthetically active light radiation being supplied to the reaction
zone, upon the initiating of the supply of photosynthetically active light radiation being
supplied to the reaction zone, or the increasing of the intensity of photosynthetically
active light radiation being supplied to the reaction zone, the rate of cooling of a light
source, that is provided in the reaction zone and that is supplying the photosynthetically
active light radiation to the reaction zone, is increased.
105.         A process for growing a phototrophic biomass in a reaction zone, wherein the
reaction zone includes a reaction mixture that is operative for effecting photosynthesis
upon exposure to photosynthetically active light radiation, wherein the reaction mixture
includes phototrophic biomass that is operative for growth within the reaction zone,
wherein the growth of the phototrophic biomass includes that which is effected by the
photosynthesis, comprising:
while carbon dioxide is being discharged by the gaseous exhaust material producing
process, and while at least a fraction of the discharged carbon dioxide is being supplied to
the reaction zone, wherein the at least a fraction of the discharged carbon dioxide which
is being supplied to the reaction zone defines a discharged carbon dioxide reaction zone
supply, when a decrease in the molar rate of supply of the discharged carbon dioxide
reaction zone supply being supplied to the reaction zone is detected, or             when an
indication of a decrease in the molar rate of supply of the discharged carbon dioxide
reaction zone supply being supplied to the reaction zone is detected, either the molar rate
10382650 1 (GHMatters) P91968.AU.2

                                              - 129
of supply of a supplemental carbon dioxide supply to the reaction zone is increased, or
supply of the supplemental carbon dioxide supply to the reaction zone is initiated.
106.         The process as claimed in claim 105;
wherein, when the supply of the supplemental carbon dioxide supply to the reaction zone
is initiated in response to the detection of a decrease in the molar rate of supply, or of an
indication of a decrease in the molar rate of supply, of the discharged carbon dioxide
reaction zone supply being supplied to the reaction zone, the supply of the supplemental
carbon dioxide supply to the reaction zone continues after its initiation for a period of
greater than 30 minutes.
107.         The process as claimed in claim 105;
further comprising initiating the supply of a supplemental gas-comprising material, or
increasing the molar rate of supply of a supplemental gas-comprising material, to the
reaction zone, wherein a molar concentration of carbon dioxide, if any, of the
supplemental gas-comprising material is lower than the molar concentration of carbon
dioxide of the supplemental carbon dioxide supply being supplied to the reaction zone.
108.         The process as claimed in claim 107;
wherein the combination of any discharged carbon dioxide reaction zone supply, the
supplemental carbon dioxide supply, and the supplemental gas-comprising material
defines a combined operative material flow that is supplied to the reaction zone as at least
a fraction of the reaction zone feed material, and the reaction zone feed material is
supplied to the reaction zone and effects agitation of material in the reaction zone such
that any difference in concentration of phototrophic biomass between any two points in
the reaction zone is less than 20%.
109.         The process as claimed in claim 107;
10382650 1 (GHMatters) P91968.AU.2

                                              - 130
wherein the initiating of the supply of a supplemental gas-comprising material to the
reaction zone, or the increasing of the molar rate of supply of a supplemental gas
comprising material being supplied to the reaction zone is effected in response to the
detection of a decrease, or an indication of a decrease, in the molar rate of supply of the
reaction zone feed material being supplied to the reaction zone,
110.         The process as claimed in claim 109;
wherein the initiating of the supply of a supplemental gas-comprising material to the
reaction zone, or the increasing of the molar rate of supply of a supplemental gas
comprising material being supplied to the reaction zone is effected while the
supplemental carbon dioxide supply is being supplied to the reaction zone.
111.         The process as claimed in claim 107;
wherein the initiation of the supply of the supplemental gas-comprising material to the
reaction zone, or the increasing of the molar rate of supply of the supplemental gas
comprising material being supplied to the reaction zone, at least partially compensates for
the reduction in molar supply rate of material, or the termination of supply of matter, to
the reaction zone which is effected by the decrease in the molar rate of supply, or by the
termination of supply, of the discharged carbon dioxide reaction zone supply being
supplied to the reaction zone.
112.         The process as claimed in claim 105
wherein the exposing of the phototrophic biomass disposed in the reaction zone to
photosynthetically active light radiation is effected while the molar rate of supply of a
supplemental carbon dioxide supply to the reaction zone is increased, or the supply of the
supplemental carbon dioxide supply to the reaction zone is initiated.
10382650 1 (GHMatters) P91968.AU.2

                                              - 131
113.         The process as claimed in claim 107;
wherein the exposing of the phototrophic biomass disposed in the reaction zone to
photosynthetically active light radiation is effected while the initiating of the supply of a
supplemental gas-comprising material, or the increasing of the molar rate of supply of a
supplemental gas-comprising material, to the reaction zone, is effected.
114.         A process for growing a phototrophic biomass in a reaction zone, wherein the
reaction zone includes a reaction mixture that is operative for effecting photosynthesis
upon exposure to photosynthetically active light radiation, wherein the reaction mixture
includes phototrophic biomass that is operative for growth within the reaction zone,
wherein the growth of the phototrophic biomass includes that which is effected by the
photosynthesis, comprising:
prior to supplying reaction zone carbon dioxide supply to the reaction zone at a pressure
sufficient to effect flow of the reaction zone carbon dioxide supply through a vertical
extent of the reaction zone of at least a seventy (70) inches, increasing pressure of the
reaction zone carbon dioxide supply by flowing the reaction zone carbon dioxide supply
through an eductor or a jet pump.
115.         The process as claimed in claim 114;
wherein the pressure is sufficient to effect flow of the reaction zone carbon dioxide
supply through a vertical extent of the reaction zone of at least a ten (10) feet.
116.         The process as claimed in claim 114;
wherein the pressure is sufficient to effect flow of the reaction zone carbon dioxide
supply through a vertical extent of the reaction zone of at least 20 feet.
117.         The process as claimed in claim 114;
wherein the supplying of the reaction zone carbon dioxide supply to the reaction zone
effects agitation of at least a fraction of the contents of the reaction zone such that any
10382650 1 (GHMatters) P91968.AU.2

                                                   - 132
difference in concentration of phototrophic biomass between any two points in the
reaction zone is less than 20%.
118.         The process as claimed in claim 114;
wherein the reaction zone carbon dioxide supply is supplied by gaseous exhaust material
produced by a gaseous exhaust material producing process.
119.         The process as claimed in claim 118;
wherein the increase in pressure is effected while the gaseous exhaust material producing
process is effecting the supply of the reaction zone carbon dioxide supply to the reaction
zone.
120.         The process as claimed in claim 114;
wherein           exposing         of the reaction mixture disposed in the reaction zone  to
photosynthetically active light radiation is effected while the supplying of the reaction
zone carbon dioxide supply to the reaction zone is being effected.
121.         A process for growing a phototrophic biomass in a reaction zone, wherein the
reaction zone includes a reaction mixture that is operative for effecting photosynthesis
upon exposure to photosynthetically active light radiation, wherein the reaction mixture
includes phototrophic biomass that is operative for growth within the reaction zone,
wherein the growth of the phototrophic biomass includes that which is effected by the
photosynthesis, comprising:
prior to supplying reaction zone carbon dioxide supply to the reaction zone at a pressure
sufficient to effect flow of the reaction zone carbon dioxide supply through a vertical
extent of the reaction zone of at least a seventy (70) inches, transferring pressure energy
to the reaction zone carbon dioxide supply from a motive fluid flow using the venturi
effect.
122.         The process as claimed in claim 121;
10382650 1 (GHMatters) P91968.AU.2

                                                   - 133
wherein the pressure is sufficient to effect flow of the reaction zone carbon dioxide
supply through a vertical extent of the reaction zone of at least ten (10) feet.
123.         The process as claimed in claim 121;
wherein the pressure is sufficient to effect flow of the reaction zone carbon dioxide
supply through a vertical extent of the reaction zone of at least 20 feet.
124.         The process as claimed in claim 123;
wherein the supplying of the reaction zone carbon dioxide supply to the reaction zone
effects agitation of at least a fraction of the contents of the reaction zone such that any
difference in concentration of phototrophic biomass between any two points in the
reaction zone is less than 20%.
125.         The process as claimed in claim 121;
wherein the reaction zone carbon dioxide supply is supplied by gaseous exhaust material
produced by a gaseous exhaust material producing process.
126.         The process as claimed in claim 125;
wherein the increase in pressure is effected while the gaseous exhaust material producing
process is effecting the supply of the reaction zone carbon dioxide supply to the reaction
zone.
127.         The process as claimed in claim 121;
wherein exposing                   of the reaction mixture disposed in the reaction zone to
photosynthetically active light radiation is effected while the supplying of the reaction
zone carbon dioxide supply to the reaction zone is being effected.
128.         A process for growing a phototrophic biomass in a reaction zone, wherein the
reaction zone includes a reaction mixture that is operative for effecting photosynthesis
upon exposure to photosynthetically active light radiation, wherein the reaction mixture
10382650 1 (GHMatters) P91968.AU.2

                                              - 134
includes phototrophic biomass that is operative for growth within the reaction zone,
wherein the growth of the phototrophic biomass includes that which is effected by the
photosynthesis, comprising:
while a reaction zone feed material is supplied to the reaction zone, supplying the
reaction zone feed material with a supplemental gaseous dilution agent, wherein a molar
concentration of carbon dioxide of the supplemental gaseous dilution agent is less than a
molar concentration of carbon dioxide of the gaseous exhaust material reaction zone
supply which is being supplied to the reaction zone feed material.
129.         The process as claimed in claim 128;
wherein the supplying of the supplemental gaseous dilution agent to the reaction zone
feed material effects a molar concentration of carbon dioxide in the reaction zone feed
material being supplied to the reaction zone that is below a predetermined maximum
molar concentration of carbon dioxide.
130.         The process as claimed in claim 128;
wherein the supplying of the supplemental gaseous dilution agent to the reaction zone
feed material effects dilution of the reaction zone feed material with respect to molar
concentration of carbon dioxide.
131.         The process as claimed in claim 128;
wherein supplying of the supplemental gaseous dilution agent to the reaction zone feed
material effects reduction of molar concentration of carbon dioxide in the reaction zone
feed material.
132.         The process as claimed in claim 128;
wherein the reaction zone feed material includes gaseous exhaust material reaction zone
supply, wherein the gaseous exhaust material reaction zone supply is defined by at least a
10382650 1 (GHMatters) P91968.AU.2

                                              - 135
fraction of the gaseous exhaust material being discharged from a gaseous exhaust
material producing process.
133.         The process as claimed in claim 132;
wherein the reaction zone feed material is supplied to the reaction zone while the gaseous
material reaction zone supply is being supplied to the reaction zone feed material, and
while the gaseous exhaust material zone supply is being discharged by the gaseous
exhaust material producing process.
134.         The process as claimed in claim 133;
wherein the supplying of the supplemental gaseous dilution agent to the reaction zone
feed material is effected in response to detection of a molar concentration of carbon
dioxide in the gaseous exhaust material being discharged from a carbon dioxide
producing process that is greater than a predetermined maximum molar concentration of
carbon dioxide.
135.         The process as claimed in claim 134;
wherein the predetermined maximum molar concentration of carbon dioxide is at least 10
mole % based on the total moles of the gaseous exhaust material.
136.         The process as claimed in claim 128;
wherein the supplying of the supplemental gaseous dilution agent to the reaction zone
feed material is effected while the        reaction mixture disposed in the reaction zone is
exposed to photosynthetically active light radiation.
137.         A process for growing a phototrophic biomass in a reaction zone, wherein the
reaction zone includes a reaction mixture that is operative for effecting photosynthesis
upon exposure to photosynthetically active light radiation, wherein the reaction mixture
includes phototrophic biomass that is operative for growth within the reaction zone,
10382650 1 (GHMatters) P91968.AU.2

                                              - 136
wherein the growth of the phototrophic biomass includes that which is effected by the
photosynthesis, comprising:
while a carbon dioxide concentrated supply is being supplied, admixing the carbon
dioxide concentrated supply with a supplemental gaseous dilution agent to effect
production of a diluted carbon dioxide supply, wherein the molar concentration of carbon
dioxide of the diluted carbon dioxide supply is less than the molar concentration of
carbon dioxide of the carbon dioxide concentrated supply; and
supplying at least a fraction of the diluted carbon dioxide reaction zone supply to the
reaction zone.
138.         The process as claimed in claim 137;
wherein the admixing effects a molar concentration of carbon dioxide in the diluted
carbon dioxide reaction zone supply being supplied to the reaction zone which is below a
predetermined maximum molar concentration of carbon dioxide.
139.         The process as claimed in claim 138;
wherein the carbon dioxide concentrated supply includes reaction zone carbon dioxide
supply, wherein the reaction zone carbon dioxide supply is defined by at least a fraction
of the gaseous exhaust material being produced by a gaseous exhaust material producing
process, and wherein the admixing is effected while the reaction zone carbon dioxide
supply is being supplied to the carbon dioxide concentrated supply, and while the gaseous
exhaust material reaction zone supply is being produced by the gaseous exhaust material
producing process.
140.         The process as claimed in claim 139;
wherein the admixing is effected in response to detection of a molar concentration of
carbon dioxide in the gaseous exhaust material being discharged from the gaseous
10382650 1 (GHMatters) P91968.AU.2

                                              - 137
exhaust material producing process that is greater than a predetermined maximum molar
concentration of carbon dioxide.
141.         The process as claimed in claim 140;
wherein the predetermined maximum molar concentration of carbon dioxide is at least 10
mole % based on the total moles of the gaseous exhaust material.
142.         The process as claimed in claim 137;
wherein the admixing is effected while the reaction mixture disposed in the reaction zone
is exposed to photosynthetically active light radiation.
10382650 1 (GHMatters) P91968.AU.2

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
