                  Apparatus and Method for Audio Rendering Employing a
                                Geometric Distance Definition
                                             Abstract
 5
   An apparatus (100) for playing back an audio object associated with a position is
   provided. The apparatus (100) comprises a distance calculator (110) for calculating
   distances of the position to speakers or for reading the distances of the position to the
   speakers. The distance calculator (110) is configured to take a solution with a smallest
10 distance. The apparatus (100) is configured to play back the audio object using the
   speaker corresponding to the solution.
   Fig. 1
15

                             1/6
                 CO
      C-),   C-)~         C
                     W CI
                 C
                    =
                 ~C
                        C-:)
                 Cl)C
                 C
                  =     C
                             CI,
                 C)                                  I C
                                        1.LL.
CZ)o
     I,-:
                                   C-,:
             C   _C             C/:)C
           C:) -CD
                      c                         cz
                                C:
                               Cl)
 L -   -      -     - -       -       -      - -   -

                   Apparatus and Method for Audio Rendering Employing a
                                  Geometric Distance Definition
                                             Description
 5
   The present invention relates to audio signal processing, in particular, to an apparatus and
   a method for audio rendering, and, more particularly, to an apparatus and a method for
   audio rendering employing a geometric distance definition.
10
   With increasing multimedia content consumption in daily life, the demand for sophisticated
   multimedia solutions steadily increases. In this context, positioning of audio objects plays
   an important role. An optimal positioning of audio objects for an existing loudspeaker
   setup would be desirable.
15
   In the state of the art, audio objects are known. Audio objects may, e.g., be considered as
   sound     tracks with associated metadata. The metadata           may, e.g.,    describe the
   characteristics of the raw audio data, e.g., the desired playback position or the volume
   level. An advantage of object-based audio is that a predefined movement can be
20 reproduced by a special rendering process on the playback side in the best way possible
   for all reproduction loudspeaker layouts.
   Geometric metadata can be used to define where an audio object should be rendered,
   e.g., angles in azimuth or elevation or absolute positions relative to a reference point, e.g.,
25 the listener. The metadata is stored or transmitted along with the object audio signals.
   In the context of MPEG-H, at the 105th MPEG meeting the audio group reviewed the
   requirements and timelines of different application standards (MPEG = Moving Picture
   Experts Group). According to that review, it would be essential to meet certain points in
30 time and specific requirements for a next generation broadcast system. According to that,
   a system should be able to accept audio objects at the encoder input. Moreover, the
   system should support signaling, delivery and rendering of audio objects and should
   enable user control of objects, e.g., for dialog enhancement, alternative language tracks
   and audio description language.
35
   In the state of the art, different concepts are known. A first concept is reflected sound
   rendering for object-based audio (see [2]). Snap to speaker location information is
   included in a metadata definition as useful rendering information. However, in [2], no

   information is provided how the information is used in the playback process. Moreover, no
   information is provided how a distance between two positions is determined.
   Another concept of the state of the art, system and tools for enhanced 3D audio authoring
 5 and rendering is described in [5]. Fig. 6B of document [5] is a diagram illustrating how a
   "snapping" to a speaker might be algorithmically realized. In detail, according to        the
   document [5] if it is determined to snap the audio object position to a speaker location
   (see block 665 of Fig. 6B of document [5]), the audio object position will be mapped to a
   speaker location (see block 670 of Fig. 6B of document [5]), generally the one closest to
10 the intended (x,y,z) position received for the audio object. According to [5], the snapping
   might be applied to a small group of reproduction speakers and/or to an individual
   reproduction speaker. However, [5] employs Cartesian (x,y,z) coordinates instead of
   spherical coordinates. Moreover, the renderer behavior is just described as map audio
   object position to a speaker location; if the snap flag is one, no detailed description is
15 provided. Furthermore, no details are provided how the closest speaker is determined.
   According to another prior art, System and Method for Adaptive Audio Signal Generation,
   Coding and Rendering, described in document [1], metadata information (metadata
   elements) specify that "one or more sound components are rendered to a speaker feed for
20 playback through a speaker nearest an intended playback location of the sound
   component, as indicated by the position metadata". However, no information is provided,
   how the nearest speaker is determined.
   In a further prior art, audio definition model, described in document [4], a metadata flag is
25 defined called "channelLock". If set to 1, a renderer can lock the object to the nearest
   channel or speaker, rather than normal rendering. However, no determination of the
   nearest channel is described.
   In another prior art, upmixing of object based audio is described (see [3]). Document [3]
30 describes a method for the usage of a distance measure of speakers in a different field of
   application: Here it is used for upmixing object-based audio material.        The rendering
   system is configured to determine, from an object based audio program (and knowledge
   of the positions of the speakers to be employed to play the program), the distance
   between each position of an audio source indicated by the program and the position of
35 each of the speakers. Furthermore, the rendering system of [3] is configured to determine,
   for each actual source position (e.g., each source position along a source trajectory)
   indicated by the program, a subset of the full set of speakers (a "primary" subset)
   consisting of those speakers of the full set which are (or the speaker of the full set which

   is) closest to the actual source position, where "closest" in this context is defined in some
   reasonably defined sense. However, no information is provided how the distance should
   be calculated.
 5 The object of the present invention is to provide improved concepts for audio rendering.
   The object of the present invention is solved by an apparatus according to claim 1, by a
   decoder device according to claim 13, by a method according to claim 14 and by a
   computer program according to claim 15.
10 An apparatus for playing back an audio object associated with a position is provided. The
   apparatus comprises a distance calculator for calculating distances of the position to
   speakers or for reading the distances of the position to the speakers. The distance
   calculator is configured to take a solution with a smallest distance. The apparatus is
   configured to play back the audio object using the speaker corresponding to the solution.
15
   According to an embodiment, the distance calculator may, e.g., be configured to calculate
   the distances of the position to the speakers or to read the distances of the position to the
   speakers only if a closest speaker playout flag (mdaeclosestSpeakerPlayout), being
   received by the apparatus, is enabled. Moreover, the distance calculator may, e.g., be
20 configured to take a solution with a smallest distance only if the closest speaker playout
   flag (mdae closestSpeakerPlayout) is enabled. Furthermore, the apparatus may, e.g., be
   configured to play back the audio object using the speaker corresponding to the solution
   only of the closest speaker playout flag (mdae_closestSpeakerPlayout) is enabled.
25 In an embodiment, the apparatus may, e.g., be configured to not conduct any rendering
   on the audio object, if the closest speaker playout flag (mdaeclosestSpeakerPlayout) is
   enabled.
   According to an embodiment, the distance calculator may, e.g., be configured to calculate
30 the distances depending on a distance function which returns a weighted Euclidian
   distance or a great-arc distance.
   In an embodiment, the distance calculator may, e.g., be configured to calculate the
   distances depending on a distance function which returns weighted absolute differences
35 in azimuth and elevation angles.
   According to an embodiment, the distance calculator may, e.g., be configured to calculate
   the distances depending on a distance function which returns weighted absolute

   differences to the power p, wherein p is a number. In an embodiment, p may, e.g., be set
   to p = 2.
   According to an embodiment, the distance calculator may, e.g., be configured to calculate
 5 the distances depending on a distance function which returns a weighted angular
   difference.
   In an embodiment, the distance function may, e.g., be defined according to
10                          diffAngle = acos(cos(azDiff) * cos(elDiff)),
   wherein azDiff indicates a difference of two azimuth angles, wherein elDiff indicates a
   difference of two elevation angles, and wherein diffAngle indicates the weighted angular
   difference.
15
   According to an embodiment, the distance calculator may, e.g., be configured to calculate
   the distances of the position to the speakers, so that each distance A(eF                of the
   positon to one of the speakers is calculated according to
20                            A(P 1 ,P 2)      I  -  fl 21 + Ia 1 -    2
   a1 indicates an azimuth angle of the position, a2 indicates an azimuth angle of said one of
   the speakers, fi indicates an elevation angle of the position, and fi2 indicates an elevation
   angle of said one of the speakers. Or a1 indicates an azimuth angle of said one of the
25 speakers, a2 indicates an azimuth angle of the position,     #1lindicates an elevation angle of
   said one of the speakers, and   fi2 indicates an elevation angle of the position.
   In an embodiment, the distance calculator may, e.g., be configured to calculate the
   distances of the position to the speakers, so that each distance AF92 of the positon to
30 one of the speakers is calculated according to
                               A(,2)     =1 jl--2+ 1--a2 I+ Ir        -- r
   a1 indicates an azimuth angle of the position, a2 indicates an azimuth angle of said one of
35 the speakers, 1, indicates an elevation angle of the position, P2 indicates an elevation
   angle of said one of the speakers, r1 indicates a radius of the position and r2 indicates a
   radius of said one of the speakers. Or a1 indicates an azimuth angle of said one of the

   speakers, a2 indicates an azimuth angle of the position, i       indicates an elevation angle of
   said one of the speakers,     #2 indicates an elevation angle of the position, r 1 indicates a
   radius of said one of the speakers and r 2 indicates a radius of the position.
 5 According to an embodiment, the distance calculator may, e.g., be configured to calculate
   the distances of the position to the speakers, so that each distance AP1.r)                  of the
   positon to one of the speakers is calculated according to
                           A(P1 , P2 )= b -           3-#21+ a - I   1 - a2
10
   a1 indicates an azimuth angle of the position, a2 indicates an azimuth angle of said one of
   the speakers, fl indicates an elevation angle of the position,        #2  indicates an elevation
   angle of said one of the speakers, a is a first number, and b is a second number. Or a1
   indicates an azimuth angle of said one of the speakers, a2 indicates an azimuth angle of
15 the position, #1lindicates  an elevation angle of said one of the speakers,       #32 indicates  an
   elevation angle of the position, a is a first number, and b is a second number.
   In an embodiment, the distance calculator may, e.g., be configured to calculate the
   distances of the position to the speakers, so that each distance      Aird       of the positon to
20 one of the speakers is calculated according to
                 A(P 1 , P2 ) = b - If    -   #2 + a - Ia, - a2I + c - |r 1 - r 2 |
   a1 indicates an azimuth angle of the position, a2 indicates an azimuth angle of said one of
25 the speakers, i1 indicates an elevation angle of the position,        #32 indicates  an elevation
   angle of said one of the speakers, r 1 indicates a radius of the position, r 2 indicates a
   radius of said one of the speakers, a is a first number, and b is a second number. Or, a1
   indicates an azimuth angle of said one of the speakers, a2 indicates an azimuth angle of
   the position, i1 indicates an elevation angle of said one of the speakers, and        #32 indicates
30 an elevation angle of the position, r 1 indicates a radius of said one of the speakers, and r 2
   indicates a radius of the position, a is a first number, b is a second number, and c is a third
   number.
   According to an embodiment, a decoder device is provided. The decoder device
35 comprises a USAC decoder for decoding a bitstream to obtain one or more audio input
   channels, to obtain one or more input audio objects, to obtain compressed object
   metadata and to obtain one or more SAOC transport channels. Moreover, the decoder

   device comprises an SAOC decoder for decoding the one or more SAOC transport
   channels to obtain a group of one or more rendered audio objects. Furthermore, the
   decoder device comprises an object metadata decoder for decoding the compressed
   object metadata to obtain uncompressed metadata. Moreover, the decoder device
 5 comprises a format converter for converting the one or more audio input channels to
   obtain one or more converted channels. Furthermore, the decoder device comprises a
   mixer for mixing the one or more rendered audio objects of the group of one or more
   rendered audio objects, the one or more input audio objects and the one or more
   converted channels to obtain one or more decoded audio channels. The object metadata
10 decoder and the mixer together form an apparatus according to one of the above
   described embodiments. The object metadata decoder comprises the distance calculator
   of the apparatus according to one of the above-described embodiments, wherein the
   distance calculator is configured, for each input audio object of the one or more input
   audio objects, to calculate distances of the position associated with      said input audio
15 object to speakers or for reading the distances of the position associated with said input
   audio object to the speakers, and to take a solution with a smallest distance. The mixer is
   configured to output each input audio object of the one or more input audio objects within
   one of the one or more decoded audio channels to the speaker corresponding to the
   solution determined by the distance calculator of the apparatus according to one of the
20 above-described embodiments for said input audio object.
   A method for playing back an audio object associated with a position, comprising:
   -       Calculating distances of the position to speakers or reading the distances of the
25         position to the speakers.
   -       Taking a solution with a smallest distance. And:
   -       Playing back the audio object using the speaker corresponding to the solution.
30
   Moreover, a computer program for implementing the above-described method when being
   executed on a computer or signal processor is provided.
   In the following, embodiments of the present invention are described in more detail with
35 reference to the figures, in which:
   Fig. 1          is an apparatus according to an embodiment,

                                                       I
   Fig. 2          illustrates an object renderer according to an embodiment,
   Fig. 3          illustrates an object metadata processor according to an embodiment,
 5 Fig. 4          illustrates an overview of a 3D-audio encoder,
   Fig. 5           illustrates   an  overview     of a   3D-Audio    decoder  according   to   an
                   embodiment, and
10 Fig. 6          illustrates a structure of a format converter.
   Fig. 1 illustrates an apparatus 100 for playing back an audio object associated with a
   position is provided.
15
   The apparatus 100 comprises a distance calculator 110 for calculating distances of the
   position to speakers or for reading the distances of the position to the speakers. The
   distance calculator 110 is configured to take a solution with a smallest distance.
20 The apparatus 100 is configured to play back the audio object using the speaker
   corresponding to the solution.
   For example, for each loudspeaker, a distance between the position (the audio object
   position) and said loudspeaker (the location of said loudspeaker) is determined.
25
   According to an embodiment, the distance calculator may, e.g., be configured to calculate
   the distances of the position to the speakers or to read the distances of the position to the
   speakers only if a closest speaker playout flag (mdaeclosestSpeakerPlayout), being
   received by the apparatus 100, is enabled. Moreover, the distance calculator may, e.g., be
30 configured to take a solution with a smallest distance only if the closest speaker playout
   flag (mdae closestSpeakerPlayout) is enabled. Furthermore, the apparatus 100 may,
   e.g., be configured to play back the audio object using the speaker corresponding to the
   solution only of the closest speaker playout flag (mdaeclosestSpeakerPlayout) is
   enabled.
35
   In an embodiment, the apparatus 100 may, e.g., be configured to not conduct any
   rendering     on     the     audio    object,    if  the   closest    speaker   playout    flag
   (mdae_closestSpeakerPlayout) is enabled.

   According to an embodiment, the distance calculator may, e.g., be configured to calculate
   the distances depending on a distance function which returns a weighted Euclidian
   distance or a great-arc distance.
 5
   In an embodiment, the distance calculator may, e.g., be configured to calculate the
   distances depending on a distance function which returns weighted absolute differences
   in azimuth and elevation angles.
10 According to an embodiment, the distance calculator may, e.g., be configured to calculate
   the distances depending on a distance function which returns weighted absolute
   differences to the power p, wherein p is a number. In an embodiment, p may, e.g., be set
   to p = 2.
15 According to an embodiment, the distance calculator may, e.g., be configured to calculate
   the distances depending on a distance function which returns a weighted angular
   difference.
   In an embodiment, the distance function may, e.g., be defined according to
20
                             diffAngle = acos(cos(azDiff) * cos(elDiff)),
   wherein azDiff indicates a difference of two azimuth angles, wherein elDiff indicates a
   difference of two elevation angles, and wherein diffAngle indicates the weighted angular
25 difference.
   According to an embodiment, the distance calculator may, e.g., be configured to calculate
   the distances of the position to the speakers, so that each distance OvP                  of the
   positon to one of the speakers is calculated according to
30
                              A(P P2 ) = l#1-        fl 21 + lai -    a2 l
   a1 indicates an azimuth angle of the position, a2 indicates an azimuth angle of said one of
   the speakers,  #1 indicates an  elevation angle of the position, and f#2 indicates an elevation
35 angle of said one of the speakers. Or, a1 indicates an azimuth angle of said one of the
   speakers, a2 indicates an azimuth angle of the position,      1i indicates an elevation angle of
   said one of the speakers, and   fi2 indicates an elevation angle of the position.

   In an embodiment, the distance calculator may, e.g., be configured to calculate the
   distances of the position to the speakers, so that each distance ACPv~z& of the positon to
   one of the speakers is calculated according to
 5
                                 AP,2   =1-       -     1 a--  e2 -  r
                                                                    k--    r
   a1 indicates an azimuth angle of the position, a2 indicates an azimuth angle of said one of
   the speakers, i     indicates an elevation angle of the position,       #i2indicates    an elevation
10 angle of said one of the speakers, r 1 indicates a radius of the position and r 2 indicates a
   radius of said one of the speakers. Or a1 indicates an azimuth angle of said one of the
   speakers, a2 indicates an azimuth angle of the position, i       indicates an elevation angle of
   said one of the speakers,     #i2indicates   an elevation angle of the position, r 1 indicates a
   radius of said one of the speakers and r 2 indicates a radius of the position.
15
   According to an embodiment, the distance calculator may, e.g., be configured to calculate
   the distances of the position to the speakers, so that each distance A(.Pir.) of the
   positon to one of the speakers is calculated according to
20                         A (PP   2 )=    b-I|# 1 -   #l2 I +aa       1 -   a 2
   a1 indicates an azimuth angle of the position, a2 indicates an azimuth angle of said one of
   the speakers,   #1lindicates   an elevation angle of the position,      #32 indicates an elevation
   angle of said one of the speakers, a is a first number, and b is a second number. Or a1
25 indicates an azimuth angle of said one of the speakers, a 2 indicates an azimuth angle of
   the position, #1lindicates  an elevation angle of said one of the speakers,         #32 indicates an
   elevation angle of the position, a is a first number, and b is a second number.
   In an embodiment, the distance calculator may, e.g., be configured to calculate the
30 distances of the position to the speakers, so that each distance A99L9 of the positon to
   one of the speakers is calculated according to
               A(P 1 , P2 )  = b-    1   -   fl2 I    2  -|
                                                         1a    - a2      +   c - r1 -    r 21
35 a1 indicates an azimuth angle of the position, a2 indicates an azimuth angle of said one of
   the speakers,    13lindicates  an elevation angle of the position,      /32 indicates an elevation
   angle of said one of the speakers, r 1 indicates a radius of the position, r 2 indicates a

   radius of said one of the speakers, a is a first number, b is a second number, and c is a
   third number. Or, a1 indicates an azimuth angle of said one of the speakers, a2 indicates
   an azimuth angle of the position,       p1  indicates an elevation angle of said one of the
   speakers, and    P2  indicates an elevation angle of the position, r 1 indicates a radius of said
 5 one of the speakers, and r 2 indicates a radius of the position, a is a first number, b is a
   second number, and c is a third number.
   In the following, embodiments of the present invention are described. The embodiments
   provide concepts for using a geometric distance definition for audio rendering.
10
   Object metadata can be used to define either:
   1)      where in space an object should be rendered, or
15 2)      which loudspeaker should be used to play back the object.
   If the position of the object indicated in the metadata does not fall on a single speaker, the
   object renderer would create the output signal based by using multiple loudspeakers and
   defined panning rules. Panning is suboptimal in terms of localizing sounds or the sound
20 color.
   Therefore, it may be desirable by the producer of object based content, to define that a
   certain sound should come from a single loudspeaker from a certain direction.
25 It may happen that this loudspeaker does not exist in the users loudspeaker setup. Then a
   flag is set in the metadata that forces the sound to be played back by the nearest
   available loudspeaker without rendering.
   The invention describes how the closest loudspeaker can be found allowing for some
30 weighting to account for a tolerable deviation from the desired object position.
   Fig. 2 illustrates an object renderer according to an embodiment.
   In object-based audio formats metadata are stored or transmitted along with object
35 signals. The audio objects are rendered on the playback side using the metadata and
   information about the playback environment. Such information is e.g. the number of
   loudspeakers or the size of the screen.

Table 1 - Example metadata:
              ObjectlD
              Azimuth
Dynamic       Elevation
OAM           Gain
              Distance
              AllowOnOff
              AllowPositioninteractivity
              AllowGainInteractivity
              DefaultOnOff
              DefaultGain
              InteractivityMinGain
Interactivity lnteractivtiyMaxGain
              InteractivityMinAzOffset
              InteractivityMaxAzOffset
              InteractivityMinElOffset
              I nteractivityMaxEIOffset
              InteractivityMinDist
              InteractivityMaxDist
              IsSpeakerRelatedGroup
              SpeakerConfig3D
              AzimuthScreenRelated
Playout
              ElevationScreen Related
              ClosestSpeakerPlayout
Content       ContentKind
              ContentLanguage
              GrouplD
              GroupDescription
Group         GroupNumMembers
              GroupMembers
              Priority
              SwitchGrouplD
              SwitchGroupDescription
Switch        SwitchGroupDefault
GroupSwitchGroupNumMembers
              SwitchGroupMembers
              NumGroupsTotal
Audio         IsMainScene
Scene         NumGroupsPresent
              NumSwitchGroups

    For objects geometric metadata can be used to define how they should be rendered, e.g.
   angles in azimuth or elevation or absolute positions relative to a reference point, e.g. the
    listener. The renderer calculates loudspeaker signals on the basis of the geometric data
 5 and the available speakers and their position.
    If an audio-object (audio signal associated with a position in the 3D space, e.g. azimuth,
   elevation and distance given) should not be rendered to its associated position, but
    instead played back by a loudspeaker that exists in the local loudspeaker setup, one way
10 would be to define the loudspeaker where the object should be played back by means of
    metadata.
    Nevertheless, there are cases where the producer does not want the object content to be
    played-back by a specific speaker, but rather by the next available speaker, i.e. the
15  "geometrically nearest" speaker. This allows for a discrete playback without the necessity
   to define which speaker corresponds to which audio signal or to do rendering between
    multiple loudspeakers.
    Embodiments according to the present invention emerge from the above in the following
20  manner.
    Metadata fields:
                                     object should be played back by geometrically nearest
    ClosestSpeakerPlayout            speaker, no rendering (only for dynamic objects
                                     (IsSpeakerRelatedGroup == 0))
25
   Table 2 -      Syntax of GroupDefinitiono:
   Syntax                                                              No. of bits  Mnemonic
   mdaeGroupDefinition( numGroups)
   {
        for ( grp = 0; grp < numGroups; grp++ ) {
             mdaegrouplD[grp];                                         7            uimsbf

           mdae-groupPriority[grp];                                      3           uimsbf
           mdaeclosestSpeakerPlayout[grp];                               1           bslbf
   mdae_closestSpeakerPlayout             This flag defines that the members of the metadata
                                          element group should not be rendered but directly be
                                          played back by the speakers which are nearest to the
 5                                        geometric position of the members.
   The remapping is done in an object metadata processor that takes the local loudspeaker
   setup into account and performs a routing of the signals to the corresponding renderers
   with specific information by which loudspeaker or from which direction a sound should be
10 rendered.
   Fig. 3 illustrates an object metadata processor according to an embodiment.
   A strategy for distance calculation is described as follows:
15
   -        if closest loudspeaker metadata flag is set, sound is played back over the closest
            speaker
   -        to this end, the distance to next speakers is calculated (or read from a pre-stored
20          table)
   -        solution with smallest distance is taken
   -        distance function can be, for instance (but not limited to):
25
            -       weighted euclidian or great-arc distance
            -       weighted absolute differences in azimuth and elevation angle
30          -       weighted absolute differences to the power p (p=2 => Least Squares
                    Solution)

           -       weighted angular difference, e.g. diffAngle = acos(cos(azDiff)*cos(elDiff))
   Examples for closest speaker calculation are set out below.
 5
   If the mdaeclosestSpeakerPlayout flag of an audio element group is enabled, the
   members of the audio element group shall each be played back by the speaker that is
   nearest to the given position of the audio element. No rendering is applied.
10 The distance of two positions P1 and P 2 in a spherical coordinate system is defined as the
   absolute difference of their azimuth angles a and elevation angles pi.
15 This distance has to be calculated for all known positions P1 to PN of the N output
   speakers with respect to the wanted position of the audio element P .,ad
   The nearest known loudspeaker position is the one, where the distance to the wanted
   position of the audio element gets minimal
20
                       Pex, = min(A(P,,antesd, P), a ne , 2),..., A( ,,anted, 'N))
   With this formula, it is possible to add weights to elevation, azimuth and/or radius. In that
   way it is possible to state that an azimuth deviation should be less tolerable than an
25 elevation deviation by weighting the azimuth deviation by a high number:
              A(P 1 , P2 ) = b -    #     - #21 + a - ai - a2 | + c - |r1 - r 2 |
   An example concerns a closest loudspeaker calculation for binaural rendering.
30
   If audio content should be played back as a binaural stereo signal over headphones or a
   stereo speaker setup, each channel of the audio content is traditionally mathematically
   combined with a binaural room impulse response or a head-related impulse response.
35 The measuring position of this impulse response has to correspond to the direction from
   which the audio content of the associated channel should be perceived. In multi-channel
   audio systems or object-based audio there is the case that the number of definable

                                                    1 w/
   positions (either by a speaker or by an object position) is larger than the number of
   available impulse responses. In that case, an appropriate impulse response has to be
   chosen if there is no dedicated one available for the channel position or the object
   position. To inflict only minimum positional changes in the perception, the chosen impulse
 5 response should be the "geometrically nearest" impulse response.
   It is in both cases needed to determine, which of the list of known positions (i.e. playback
   speakers or BRIRs) is the next to the wanted position (BRIR = Binaural Room Impulse
   Response). Therefore a "distance" between different positions has to be defined.
10
   The distance between different positions is here defined as the absolute difference of their
   azimuth and elevation angles.
   The following formula is used to calculate a distance of two positions PP2 in a coordinate
15 system that is defined by elevation aand azimuth p:
                               A(P 1 ,P 2 ) = I1   -   I2| + |ai - a2|
   It is possible to add the radius r as a third variable:
20
   The nearest known position is the one, where the distance to the wanted position gets
   minimal
25
   In an embodiment, weights may, e.g., be added to elevation, azimuth and/or radius:
30   A(P ,P1 2 ) = bj-#l-f#      2 |I+ a - la, - a 2 |I+ C -r 1 - r 2I.
   According to some embodiments, the closest speaker may, e.g., be determined as
   follows:
35 The distance of two positions P1 and P 2 in a spherical coordinate system may, e.g., be
   defined as the absolute difference of their azimuth angles cp and elevation angles 0.

                                                 1wd
                                  AUL,P))=|10     - 02| +|1 ,-  2|
   This distance has to be calculated for all known position P 1 to PN of the N output speakers
   with respect to the wanted position of the audio element Pwanted.
 5
   The nearest known loudspeaker position is the one, where the distance to the wanted
   position of the audio element gets minimal:
                     next       ante.,d ,v,  wantedd , 2)              mntedt, PN).
10
   For example, according to some embodiments, the closest speaker playout processing
   according to some embodiments may be conducted by determining the position of the
   closest existing loudspeaker for each member of the group of audio objects, if the
   ClosestSpeakerPlayout flag is equal to one.
15
   The closest speaker playout processing may, e.g., be particularly meaningful for groups of
   elements with dynamic position data. The nearest known loudspeaker position may, e.g.,
   be the one, where the distance to the desired/wanted position of the audio element gets
   minimal.
20
   In the following, a system overview of a 3D audio codec system is provided. Embodiments
   of the present invention may be employed in such a 3D audio codec system. The 3D
   audio codec system may, e.g., be based on an MPEG-D USAC Codec for coding of
   channel and object signals.
25
   According to embodiments, to increase the efficiency for coding a large amount of objects,
   MPEG SAOC technology has been adapted (SAOC = Spatial Audio Object Coding). For
   example, according to some embodiments, three types of renderers may, e.g., perform
   the tasks of rendering objects to channels, rendering channels to headphones or
30 rendering channels to a different loudspeaker setup.
   When object signals are explicitly transmitted or parametrically encoded using SAOC, the
   corresponding object metadata information is compressed and multiplexed into the 3D
   audio bitstream.
35

                                                 .I
   Fig. 4 and Fig. 5 show the different algorithmic blocks of the 3D-Audio system. In
   particular, Fig. 4 illustrates an overview of a 3D-audio encoder. Fig. 5 illustrates an
   overview of a 3D-Audio decoder according to an embodiment.
 5 Possible embodiments of the modules of Fig. 4 and Fig. 5 are now described.
   In Fig. 4, a prerenderer 810 (also referred to as mixer) is illustrated. In the configuration of
   Fig. 4, the prerenderer 810 (mixer) is optional. The prerenderer 810 can be optionally
   used to convert a Channel+Object input scene into a channel scene before encoding.
10 Functionally the prerenderer 810 on the encoder side may, e.g., be related to the
   functionality of object renderer/mixer 920 on the decoder side, which is described below.
   Prerendering of objects ensures a deterministic signal entropy at the encoder input that is
   basically independent of the number of simultaneously active object signals. With
   prerendering of objects, no object metadata transmission is required. Discrete Object
15 Signals are rendered to the Channel Layout that the encoder is configured to use. The
   weights of the objects for each channel are obtained from the associated object metadata
   (OAM).
   The core codec for loudspeaker-channel signals, discrete object signals, object downmix
20 signals and pre-rendered signals is based on MPEG-D USAC technology (USAC Core
   Codec). The USAC encoder 820 (e.g., illustrated in Fig. 4) handles the coding of the
   multitude of signals by creating channel- and object mapping information based on the
   geometric and semantic information of the input's channel and object assignment. This
   mapping information describes, how input channels and objects are mapped to USAC
25 Channel Elements (CPEs, SCEs, LFEs) and the corresponding information is transmitted
   to the decoder.
   All additional payloads like SAOC data or object metadata have been passed through
   extension elements and may, e.g., be considered in the USAC encoder's rate control.
30
   The coding of objects is possible in different ways, depending on the rate/distortion
   requirements and the interactivity requirements for the renderer. The following object
   coding variants are possible:
35 -       Prerendered objects: Object signals are prerendered and mixed to the 22.2
           channel signals before encoding. The subsequent coding chain sees 22.2 channel
           signals.

   -       Discrete object waveforms: Objects are supplied as monophonic waveforms to the
           USAC encoder 820. The USAC encoder 820 uses single channel elements SCEs
           to transmit the objects in addition to the channel signals. The decoded objects are
           rendered and mixed at the receiver side. Compressed object metadata information
 5         is transmitted to the receiver/renderer alongside.
   -       Parametric object waveforms: Object properties and their relation to each other are
           described by means of SAOC parameters. The down-mix of the object signals is
           coded with USAC by the USAC encoder 820. The parametric information is
10         transmitted alongside. The number of downmix channels is chosen depending on
           the number of objects and the overall data rate. Compressed object metadata
           information is transmitted to the SAOC renderer.
   On the decoder side, a USAC decoder 910 conducts USAC decoding.
15
   Moreover, according to embodiments, a decoder is provided, see Fig. 5. The decoder
   comprises a USAC decoder 910 for decoding a bitstream to obtain one or more audio
   input channels, to obtain one or more audio objects, to obtain compressed object
   metadata and to obtain one or more SAOC transport channels.
20
   Furthermore, the decoder comprises an SAOC decoder 915 for decoding the one or more
   SAOC transport channels to obtain a first group of one or more rendered audio objects.
   Furthermore, the decoder comprises a format converter 922 for converting the one or
25 more audio input channels to obtain one or more converted channels.
   Moreover, the decoder comprises a mixer 930 for mixing the audio objects of the first
   group of one or more rendered audio objects, the audio object of the second group of one
   or more rendered audio objects and the one or more converted channels to obtain one or
30 more decoded audio channels.
   In Fig. 5 a particular embodiment of a decoder is illustrated. The SAOC encoder 815 (the
   SAOC encoder 815 is optional, see Fig. 4) and the SAOC decoder 915 (see Fig. 5) for
   object signals are based on MPEG SAOC technology. The system is capable of
35 recreating, modifying and rendering a number of audio objects based on a smaller number
   of transmitted channels and additional parametric data (OLDs, IOCs, DMGs) (OLD =
   object level difference, IOC = inter object correlation, DMG = downmix gain). The

   additional parametric data exhibits a significantly lower data rate than required for
   transmitting all objects individually, making the coding very efficient.
   The SAOC encoder 815 takes as input the object/channel signals as monophonic
 5 waveforms and outputs the parametric information (which is packed into the 3D-Audio
   bitstream) and the SAOC transport channels (which are encoded using single channel
   elements and transmitted).
   The SAOC decoder 915 reconstructs the object/channel signals from the decoded SAOC
10 transport channels and parametric information, and generates the output audio scene
   based on the reproduction layout, the decompressed object metadata information and
   optionally on the user interaction information.
   Regarding object metadata codec, for each object, the associated metadata that specifies
15 the geometrical position and spread of the object in 3D space is efficiently coded by
   quantization of the object properties in time and space, e.g., by the metadata encoder 818
   of Fig. 4. The compressed object metadata cOAM (cOAM = compressed audio object
   metadata) is transmitted to the receiver as side information. At the receiver the cOAM is
   decoded by the metadata decoder 918.
20
   For example, in Fig. 5, the metadata decoder 918 may, e.g., implement the distance
   calculator 110 of Fig. 1 according to one of the above-described embodiments.
   An object renderer, e.g., object renderer 920 of Fig. 5, utilizes the compressed object
25 metadata to generate object waveforms according to the given reproduction format. Each
   object is rendered to certain output channels according to its metadata. The output of this
   block results from the sum of the partial results. In some embodiments, if determination of
   the closest loudspeaker is conducted, the object renderer 920, may, for example, pass the
   audio objects, received from the USAC-3D decoder 910, without rendering them to the
30 mixer 930. The mixer 930 may, for example, pass the audio objects to the loudspeaker
   that was determined by the distance calculator (e.g., implemented within the meta-data
   decoder 918) to the loudspeakers. By this according to an embodiment, the meta-data
   decoder 918 which may, e.g., comprise a distance calculator, the mixer 930 and,
   optionally, the object renderer 920 may together implement the apparatus 100 of Fig. 1.
35
   For example, the meta-data decoder 918 comprises a distance calculator (not shown) and
   said distance calculator or the meta-data decoder 918 may signal, e.g., by a connection
   (not shown) to the mixer 930, the closest loudspeaker for each audio object of the one or

   more audio objects received from the USAC-3D decoder. The mixer 930 may then output
   the audio object within a loudspeaker channel only to the closest loudspeaker (determined
   by the distance calculator) of the plurality of loudspeakers.
 5 In some other embodiments, the closest loudspeaker is only signaled for one or more of
   the audio objects by the distance calculator or the meta-data decoder 918 to the mixer
   930.
   If both channel based content as well as discrete/parametric objects are decoded, the
10 channel based waveforms and the rendered object waveforms are mixed before
   outputting the resulting waveforms, e.g., by mixer 930 of Fig. 5 (or before feeding them to
   a postprocessor module like the binaural renderer or the loudspeaker renderer module).
   A binaural renderer module 940, may, e.g., produce a binaural downmix of the
15 multichannel audio material, such that each input channel is represented by a virtual
   sound    source. The     processing   is conducted      frame-wise  in QMF    domain.   The
   binauralization may, e.g., be based on measured binaural room impulse responses.
   A loudspeaker renderer 922 may, e.g., convert between the transmitted channel
20 configuration and the desired reproduction format. It is thus called format converter 922 in
   the following. The format converter 922 performs conversions to lower numbers of output
   channels, e.g., it creates downmixes. The system automatically generates optimized
   downmix matrices for the given combination of input and output formats and applies these
   matrices in a downmix process. The format converter 922 allows for standard loudspeaker
25 configurations as well as for random configurations with non-standard loudspeaker
   positions.
   According to embodiments, a decoder device is provided. The decoder device comprises
   a USAC decoder 910 for decoding a bitstream to obtain one or more audio input
30 channels, to obtain one or more input audio objects, to obtain compressed object
   metadata and to obtain one or more SAOC transport channels.
   Moreover, the decoder device comprises an SAOC decoder 915 for decoding the one or
   more SAOC transport channels to obtain a group of one or more rendered audio objects.
35
   Furthermore, the decoder device comprises an object metadata decoder 918 for decoding
   the compressed object metadata to obtain uncompressed metadata.

                                                  E.I
   Moreover, the decoder device comprises a format converter 922 for converting the one or
   more audio input channels to obtain one or more converted channels.
   Furthermore, the decoder device comprises a mixer 930 for mixing the one or more
 5 rendered audio objects of the group of one or more rendered audio objects, the one or
   more input audio objects and the one or more converted channels to obtain one or more
   decoded audio channels.
   The object metadata decoder 918 and the mixer 930 together form an apparatus 100
10 according to one of the above-described embodiments, e.g., according to the embodiment
   of Fig. 1.
   The object metadata decoder 918 comprises the distance calculator 110 of the apparatus
   100 according to one of the above-described embodiments, wherein the distance
15 calculator 110 is configured, for each input audio object of the one or more input audio
   objects, to calculate distances of the position associated with said input audio object to
   speakers or for reading the distances of the position associated with said input audio
   object to the speakers, and to take a solution with a smallest distance.
20 The mixer 930 is configured to output each input audio object of the one or more input
   audio objects within one of the one or more decoded audio channels to the speaker
   corresponding to the solution determined by the distance calculator 110 of the apparatus
   100 according to one of the above-described embodiments for said input audio object.
25 In such embodiments, the object renderer 920 may, e.g., be optional. In some
   embodiments, the object renderer 920 may be present, but may only render input audio
   objects if metadata information indicates that a closest speaker playout is deactivated. If
   metadata information indicates that closest speaker playout is activated, then the object
   renderer 920 may, e.g., pass the input audio objects directly to the mixer without
30 rendering the input audio objects.
   Fig. 6 illustrates a structure of a format converter. Fig. 6 illustrates a downmix configurator
   1010 and a downmix processor for processing the downmix in the QMF domain (QMF
   domain = quadrature mirror filter domain).
35
   In the following, further embodiments and concepts of embodiments of the present
   invention are described.

   In embodiments, the audio objects may, e.g., be rendered, e.g., by an object renderer, on
   the playback side using the metadata and information about the playback environment.
   Such information may, e.g., be the number of loudspeakers or the size of the screen. The
   object renderer may, e.g., calculate loudspeaker signals on the basis of the geometric
 5 data and the available speakers and their positions.
   User control of objects may, e.g., be realized by descriptive metadata, e.g., by information
   about the existence of an object inside the bitstream and high-level properties of objects,
   or, may, e.g., be realized by restrictive metadata, e.g., information on how interaction is
10 possible or enabled by the content creator.
   According to embodiments, signaling, delivery and rendering of audio objects may, e.g.,
   be realized by positional metadata, e.g., by structural metadata, for example, grouping
   and hierarchy of objects, e.g., by the ability to render to specific speaker and to signal
15 channel content as objects, and, e.g., by means to adapt object scene to screen size.
   Therefore, new metadata fields were developed in addition to the already defined
   geometrical position and level of the object in 3D space.
20 In general, the position of an object is defined by a position in 3D space that is indicated in
   the metadata.
   This playback loudspeaker can be a specific speaker that exists in the local loudspeaker
   setup. In this case the wanted loudspeaker can be directly defined by the means of
25 metadata.
   Nevertheless, there are cases where the producer does not want the object content to be
   played-back by a specific speaker, but rather by the next available speaker, e.g., the
   "geometrically nearest" speaker. This allows for a discrete playback without the necessity
30 to define which speaker corresponds to which audio signal. This is useful as the
   reproduction loudspeaker layout may be unknown to the producer, such that he might not
   know which speakers he can choose of.
   Embodiments provides a simple definition of a distance function that does not need any
35 square root operations or cos/sin functions. In embodiments, the distance function works
   in angular domain (azimuth, elevation, distance), so no transform to any other coordinate
   system (Cartesian, longitude/latitude) is needed. According to embodiments, there are
   weights in the function that provide a possibility to shift the focus between azimuth

   deviation, elevation deviation and radius deviation. The weights in the function might, e.g.,
   be adjusted to the abilities of human hearing (e.g. adjust weights according to the just
   noticeable difference in azimuth and elevation direction). The function could not only be
   applied for the determination of the closest speaker, but also for choosing a binaural room
 5 impulse response         or head-related    impulse response for binaural     rendering.      No
   interpolation of impulse responses is needed in this case, instead the "closest" impulse
   response can be used.
   According       to     an    embodiment,        a   "ClosestSpeakerPlayout"     flag      called
10 maeclosestSpeakerPlayout may, e.g., be defined in the object-based metadata that
   forces the sound to be played back by the nearest available loudspeaker without
   rendering. An object may, e.g., be marked for playback by the closest speaker if its
   "ClosestSpeakerPlayout" flag is set to one. The "ClosestSpeakerPlayout" flag may, e.g.,
   be defined on a level of a "group" of objects. A group of objects is a concept of a gathering
15 of related objects that should be rendered or modified as a union. If this flag is set to one,
   it is applicable for all members of the group.
   According      to    embodiments,     for    determining   the  closest   speaker,     if    the
   maeclosestSpeakerPlayout flag of a group, e.g., a group of audio objects, is enabled, the
20 members of the group shall each be played back by the speaker that is nearest to the
   given position of the object. No rendering is applied. If the "ClosestSpeakerPlayout" is
   enabled for a group, then the following processing is conducted:
   For each of the group members, the geometric position of the member is determined
25 (from the dynamic object metadata (OAM)), and the closest speaker is determined, either
   by lookup in a pre-stored table or by calculation with help of a distance measure. The
   distance of the member's position to every (or only a subset) of the existing speakers is
   calculated. The speaker that yields the minimum distance is defined to be the closest
   speaker, and the member is routed to its closest speaker. The group members are played
30 back each by its closest speaker.
   As already described, the distance measures for the determination of the closest speaker
   may, for example, be implemented as:
35 -        The weighted absolute differences in azimuth and elevation angle
   -        The weighted absolute differences in azimuth, elevation and radius/distance
            and for instance (but not limited to):
   -        The weighted absolute differences to the power p (p=2 => Least Squares Solution)

   -          (Weighted) Pythagorean Theorem / Euclidean Distance
   The distance d for Cartesian coordinates may, e.g., be realized by employing the formula
   with x 1 , y1, z1 being the x-, y- and z-coordinate values of a first position, with x 2 , Y2, z 2 being
   the x-, y- and z-coordinate values of a second position, and with d being the distance
   between the first and the second position.
10
   A distance measure d for polar coordinates may, e.g., be realized by employing the
   formula:
15
   with a1, i and r 1 being the polar coordinates of a first position, with a 2 , #i2and r 2 being the
   polar coordinates of a second position, and with d being the distance between the first and
   the second position.
20 The weighted angular difference may, e.g., be defined according to
                              diffAngle = acos(cos(crl - cA)- cos(St - PA))
   Regarding the orthodromic distance, the Great-Arc Distance, or the Great-Circle Distance,
25 the distance measured along the surface of a sphere (as opposed to a straight line
   through the sphere's interior). Square root operations and trigonometric functions may,
   e.g., be employed. Coordinates may, e.g., be transformed to latitude and longitude.
   Returning to the formula presented above:
30
                                   A(l 2) =,1 -- A 2  -+la -- a2l -+    -r-r2l
   the formula can be seen as a modified Taxicab geometry using polar coordinates instead
   of Cartesian coordinates as in the original taxicab geometry definition
35

   With this formula, it is possible to add weights to elevation, azimuth and/or radius. In that
   way it is possible to state that an azimuth deviation should be less tolerable than an
   elevation deviation by weighting the azimuth deviation by a high number:
 5              A(P 1 ,P2 )= b -I|# -      #2| + a -ai     - a 2 | + c - Ir1 -  r 2 |.
   As a further side remark, it should be noted, that in embodiments, the "rendered object
   audio" of Fig. 2 may, e.g., be considered as "rendered object-based audio". In Fig. 2, the
   usacConfigExtention regarding static object metadata and the usacExtension are only
10 used as examples of particular embodiments.
   Regarding Fig. 3. It should be noted that in some embodiments, the dynamic object
   metadata of Fig. 3 may, e.g., positional OAM (audio object metadata, positional data +
   gain). In some embodiments, the "route signals" may, e.g., be conducted by routing
15 signals to a format converter or to an object renderer.
   Although some aspects have been described in the context of an apparatus, it is clear that
   these aspects also represent a description of the corresponding method, where a block or
   device corresponds to a method step or a feature of a method step. Analogously, aspects
20 described in the context of a method step also represent a description of a corresponding
   block or item or feature of a corresponding apparatus.
   The inventive decomposed signal can be stored on a digital storage medium or can be
   transmitted on a transmission medium such as a wireless transmission medium or a wired
25 transmission medium such as the Internet.
   Depending on certain implementation requirements, embodiments of the invention can be
   implemented in hardware or in software. The implementation can be performed using a
   digital storage medium, for example a floppy disk, a DVD, a CD, a ROM, a PROM, an
30 EPROM, an EEPROM or a FLASH memory, having electronically readable control signals
   stored thereon, which cooperate (or are capable of cooperating) with a programmable
   computer system such that the respective method is performed.
   Some embodiments according to the invention comprise a non-transitory data carrier
35 having electronically readable control signals, which are capable of cooperating with a
   programmable computer system, such that one of the methods described herein is
   performed.

   Generally, embodiments of the present invention can be implemented as a computer
   program product with a program code, the program code being operative for performing
   one of the methods when the computer program product runs on a computer. The
   program code may for example be stored on a machine readable carrier.
 5
   Other embodiments comprise the computer program for performing one of the methods
   described herein, stored on a machine readable carrier.
   In other words, an embodiment of the inventive method is, therefore, a computer program
10 having a program code for performing one of the methods described herein, when the
   computer program runs on a computer.
   A further embodiment of the inventive methods is, therefore, a data carrier (or a digital
   storage medium, or a computer-readable medium) comprising, recorded thereon, the
15 computer program for performing one of the methods described herein.
   A further embodiment of the inventive method is, therefore, a data stream or a sequence
   of signals representing the computer program for performing one of the methods
   described herein. The data stream or the sequence of signals may for example be
20 configured to be transferred via a data communication connection, for example via the
   Internet.
   A further embodiment comprises a processing means, for example a computer, or a
   programmable logic device, configured to or adapted to perform one of the methods
25 described herein.
   A further embodiment comprises a computer having installed thereon the computer
   program for performing one of the methods described herein.
30 In some embodiments, a programmable logic device (for example a field programmable
   gate array) may be used to perform some or all of the functionalities of the methods
   described herein. In some embodiments, a field programmable gate array may cooperate
   with a microprocessor in order to perform one of the methods described herein. Generally,
   the methods are preferably performed by any hardware apparatus.
35
   The above described embodiments are merely illustrative for the principles of the present
   invention. It is understood that modifications and variations of the arrangements and the
   details described herein will be apparent to others skilled in the art. It is the intent,

therefore, to be limited only by the scope of the impending patent claims and not by the
specific details presented by way of description and explanation of the embodiments
herein.

                                         Literature
   [1] "System and Method for Adaptive Audio Signal Generation, Coding and
       Rendering", Patent application number: US20140133683 Al (Claim 48)
 5
   [2] "Reflected sound rendering for object-based audio", Patent application number:
       W02014036085 Al (Chapter Playback Applications)
   [3] "Upmixing object based audio", Patent application number: US20140133682 Al
10     (BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF EXEMPLARY EMBODIMENTS + Claim 71 b))
   [4] "Audio Definition Model", EBU-TECH 3364,
        https://tech.ebu.ch/docs/tech/tech3364.pdf
15 [5] "System and Tools for Enhanced 3D Audio Authoring and Rendering", Patent
       application number: US20140119581 Al

                                           Claims
   1. An apparatus (100) for playing back an audio object associated with a position,
      comprising:
 5
      a distance calculator (110) for calculating distances of the position to speakers or
      for reading the distances of the position to the speakers,
      wherein the distance calculator (110) is configured to take a solution with a
10    smallest distance, and
      wherein the apparatus (100) is configured to play back the audio object using the
      speaker corresponding to the solution.
15 2. An apparatus (100) according to claim 1,
      wherein the distance calculator (110) is configured to calculate the distances of the
      position to the speakers or to read the distances of the position to the speakers
      only if a closest speaker playout flag (mdaeclosestSpeakerPlayout), being
20    received by the apparatus (100), is enabled,
      wherein the distance calculator (110) is configured to take a solution with a
      smallest     distance     only    if     the    closest    speaker    playout    flag
      (mdaeclosestSpeakerPlayout) is enabled, and
25
      wherein the apparatus (100) is configured to play back the audio object using the
      speaker corresponding to the solution only of the closest speaker playout flag
      (mdaeclosestSpeakerPlayout) is enabled.
30 3. An apparatus (100) according to claim 2, wherein the apparatus (100) is
      configured to not conduct any rendering on the audio object, if the closest speaker
      playout flag (mdaeclosestSpeakerPlayout) is enabled.
   4. An apparatus (100) according to one of claims 1 to 3, wherein the distance
35    calculator (110) is configured to calculate the distances depending on a distance
      function which returns a weighted Euclidian distance or a great-arc distance.

   5. An apparatus (100) according to one of claims 1 to 3, wherein the distance
      calculator (110) is configured to calculate the distances depending on a distance
      function which returns weighted absolute differences in azimuth and elevation
      angles.
 5
   6. An apparatus (100) according to one of claims 1 to 3, wherein the distance
      calculator (110) is configured to calculate the distances depending on a distance
      function which returns weighted absolute differences to the power p, wherein p is a
      number.
10
   7. An apparatus (100) according to one of claims 1 to 3, wherein the distance
      calculator (110) is configured to calculate the distances depending on a distance
      function which returns a weighted angular difference.
15 8. An apparatus (100) according to claim 7, wherein the distance function is defined
      according to
                        diffAngle = acos(cos(azDiff) * cos(elDiff)),
20    wherein azDiff indicates a difference of two azimuth angles,
      wherein elDiff indicates a difference of two elevation angles, and
      wherein diffAngle indicates the weighted angular difference.
25
   9. An apparatus (100) according to one of the preceding claims, wherein the distance
      calculator (110) is configured to calculate the distances of the position to the
      speakers, so that each distance               of the positon to one of the speakers is
      calculated according to
30
                         A(P 1,P 2 ) = Il# -    #2l  +   lai - a2 l
      wherein a1 indicates an azimuth angle of the position, a 2 indicates an azimuth
      angle of said one of the speakers, fi indicates an elevation angle of the position,
35    and f#2 indicates an elevation angle of said one of the speakers, or

                                               wdI
       wherein a1 indicates an azimuth angle of said one of the speakers, a2 indicates an
       azimuth angle of the position, fl indicates an elevation angle of said one of the
       speakers, and #2 indicates an elevation angle of the position.
 5 10. An apparatus (100) according to one of claims 1 to 8,
       wherein the distance calculator (110) is configured to calculate the distances of the
       position to the speakers, so that each distance &C..,1 J of the positon to one of
       the speakers is calculated according to
10
       wherein a1 indicates an azimuth angle of the position, a 2 indicates an azimuth
       angle of said one of the speakers, i1 indicates an elevation angle of the position,
15     #i2indicates  an elevation angle of said one of the speakers, r 1 indicates a radius of
       the position and r 2 indicates a radius of said one of the speakers, or
       wherein a1 indicates an azimuth angle of said one of the speakers, a2 indicates an
       azimuth angle of the position,    #1lindicates  an elevation angle of said one of the
20     speakers,   #2 indicates  an elevation angle of the position, r 1 indicates a radius of
       said one of the speakers and r 2 indicates a radius of the position.
   11. An apparatus (100) according to one of claims 1 to 8,
25     wherein the distance calculator (110) is configured to calculate the distances of the
       position to the speakers, so that each distance        A      of the positon to one of
       the speakers is calculated according to
                       A(P 1,P 2 )= bjfl-#2|           +a-jai-       a2 |
30
       wherein a1 indicates an azimuth angle of the position, a 2 indicates an azimuth
       angle of said one of the speakers, i1 indicates an elevation angle of the position,
       #32 indicates an elevation angle of said one of the speakers, a is a first number, and
       b is a second number, or
35
       wherein a1 indicates an azimuth angle of said one of the speakers, a2 indicates an
       azimuth angle of the position, i1 indicates an elevation angle of said one of the

       speakers, #2 indicates an elevation angle of the position, a is a first number, and b
       is a second number.
   12. An apparatus (100) according to one of claims 1 to 8,
 5
       wherein the distance calculator (110) is configured to calculate the distances of the
       position to the speakers, so that each distance K               of the positon to one of
       the speakers is calculated according to
10            A (PP   2  )=   b*1f1 - f2           a     1 -  a2  + c-    |r1 - r2
       wherein a1 indicates an azimuth angle of the position, a 2 indicates an azimuth
       angle of said one of the speakers, i       indicates an elevation angle of the position,
       f#2 indicates an elevation angle of said one of the speakers, r 1 indicates a radius of
15     the position, r 2 indicates a radius of said one of the speakers, a is a first number, b
       is a second number, and c is a third number, or
       wherein a1 indicates an azimuth angle of said one of the speakers, a2 indicates an
       azimuth angle of the position, i      indicates an elevation angle of said one of the
20     speakers, and    f#2 indicates an elevation angle of the position, r1 indicates a radius
       of said one of the speakers, and r 2 indicates a radius of the position, a is a first
       number, b is a second number, and c is a third number.
   13. A decoder device comprising:
25
       a USAC decoder (910) for decoding a bitstream to obtain one or more audio input
       channels, to obtain one or more input audio objects, to obtain compressed object
       metadata and to obtain one or more SAOC transport channels,
30     an SAOC decoder (915) for decoding the one or more SAOC transport channels to
       obtain a group of one or more rendered audio objects,
       an object metadata decoder (918), for decoding the compressed object metadata
       to obtain uncompressed metadata,
35
       a format converter (922) for converting the one or more audio input channels to
       obtain one or more converted channels, and

       a mixer (930) for mixing the one or more rendered audio objects of the group of
       one or more rendered audio objects, the one or more input audio objects and the
       one or more converted channels to obtain one or more decoded audio channels,
 5
       wherein the object metadata decoder (918) and the mixer (930) together form an
       apparatus (100) according to one of the preceding claims,
       wherein the object metadata decoder (918) comprises the distance calculator
10     (110) (110) of the apparatus (100) according to one of the preceding claims,
       wherein the distance calculator (110) (110) is configured, for each input audio
       object of the one or more input audio objects, to calculate distances of the position
       associated with said input audio object to speakers or for reading the distances of
       the position associated with said input audio object to the speakers, and to take a
15     solution with a smallest distance, and
       wherein the mixer (930) is configured to output each input audio object of the one
       or more input audio objects within one of the one or more decoded audio channels
       to the speaker corresponding to the solution determined by the distance calculator
20     (110) (110) of the apparatus (100) according to one of the preceding claims for
       said input audio object.
   14. A method for playing back an audio object associated with a position, comprising:
25     calculating distances of the position to speakers or reading the distances of the
       position to the speakers,
       taking a solution with a smallest distance, and
30     playing back the audio object using the speaker corresponding to the solution.
   15. A computer program for implementing the method of claim 14 when being
       executed on a computer or signal processor.

                                                                                                <U+2736> <U+2701>
<removed-date>
                                                           <U+2718>
                                                           <U+270F>
                                        <U+270E>                      <U+270C><U+2713>             <U+2711>
                          s                                    <U+2713>                  <U+2721><U+2720>
                          <U+270D>             <U+270D>                      <U+2721>
                          <U+275B>             <U+270C><U+261E>                                        <U+270E>
                          <U+261B>                                    <U+270D>                  <U+271E><U+275D>
                                        <U+261B>                      <U+2713>
                          <U+2761>             <U+2721>                      <U+270C>                  <U+2721>
                      <U+2711><U+2720>                                       s              <U+270F>
                                        <U+2721><U+2720>                     <U+275B>                  <U+270C>
                          <U+2717>             <U+271F>                      <U+270C>                  <U+2715><U+270E>
                          <U+275B><U+275D>            <U+271E>                  <U+2663>
                      <U+2663>                 <U+275B>                  <U+270F>
                                                           <U+2711>                      <U+270E><U+2721>
                                                               <U+2721>
<removed-apn>                                                              <U+270C>
                                                                        <U+270D>
                                                      <U+2721><U+270E>            <U+2711>
                                                                        <U+275B><U+270E>
                                                      <U+2761>             <U+270F><U+2720>
                                                  <U+2711><U+2720>                    <U+271F>
                                                      <U+271F>                 <U+270E>
                                                  <U+2711>                 <U+270F>
                                                      <U+2721>                 <U+275D><U+270C><U+275D>
                                                  <U+2663>                     <U+275B>
                                                  <U+270F>
                                                      <U+270C><U+2713>                <U+2716>
                                                      <U+2713>             <U+270F>
                                                      <U+2721>                 <U+2715><U+270E>
                                                      <U+270D>
                                                      <U+2713>                 <U+2720>
                                                      <U+270C>                 <U+2714>
                                                      s             <U+2711>
                                                      <U+275B>                                                             <U+260E>
                                                      <U+270C>                 <U+2720><U+2721><U+270E>
                                                  <U+2663>
                                                  <U+270F>                     <U+271E><U+275D>
                                                                                                                    <U+2704>
                                                                        <U+2721>                                           <U+2702>
                                                                    <U+270F>                                               <U+274B>
              <U+271D>
              <U+271D>
              <U+2706>
                                                                                                 <U+2713>
                                                                                           <U+270C>     <U+2721><U+270E>
                                                                                           <U+270D>
                  <U+271D>                                                                    <U+2711>         <U+275D><U+275B>
                  <U+2706>                                                                        <U+275B><U+270E>    <U+271E>
                  <U+2706>                                                                    <U+270F><U+2720>        <U+270D><U+275D>
                                                                                           <U+271F>     <U+275B>
                                                                                                 <U+270D>
                                             <U+270E>                                                        <U+270F>        <U+270E>
                               <U+2712>             <U+270D>                                                        <U+2711>        <U+270D>
                                   <U+2721>         <U+270C><U+261E>                                                           <U+2721><U+2720>   <U+270C><U+261E>
                               <U+2711>             <U+261B>                                                            <U+270E>    <U+261B>
                                   <U+2721><U+2720>        <U+2721>                                                            <U+275B>    <U+2721>
                                   <U+270E><U+2720>                                                                     <U+270D>    <U+2721><U+2720>
                                             <U+2721><U+2720>                                                           <U+2721><U+275D>
                               <U+270F>                                                                               <U+271F>
                                   <U+2721>         <U+271F>                                                            <U+2713>    <U+271E>
                               <U+2663>             <U+271E>                                                            <U+270C>    <U+275B>
                                             <U+275B>                                                            s
                                                                                                          <U+275B>
                                                                                                          <U+270C>
                                                                                                      <U+2663>
                                                                                                      <U+270F>

                            <U+2737><U+2701>
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
                                         <U+2721><U+2720>
              <U+2711>                          <U+271F>
                  <U+2721><U+2720>                     <U+271E>
                  <U+270E>                      <U+275B>
                  <U+275B><U+2713>                     <U+270E>
                                         <U+270D>
                  <U+271E>                      <U+270C><U+261E>
                  <U+2761><U+2720>
              <U+2712>                          <U+261B>
              <U+2711>                          <U+2721>
                  <U+2721>                      <U+271F>
                  <U+270D>                      <U+270C><U+2713>
                  <U+275D>
                  <U+275B>                      <U+270C>
                  <U+270D>                      <U+271F>
                  <U+2721><U+275D>                 <U+2711>
                                         <U+270C><U+2713>
                                <U+2713>
                                <U+270C><U+2713>
                                                   <U+274B>
                                <U+270C>                  <U+2704>
                                <U+271F>                  <U+2702>
                            <U+2711>
                                <U+270C><U+2713>                 <U+274B>
                                <U+270E>
                                <U+270D>
                                <U+270C><U+261E>
                                <U+261B>
                                <U+2721>
                       <U+2721><U+2720>
                       <U+271F>                      <U+275B><U+270E>
                       <U+271E>                      <U+275B>
                       <U+275B>                      <U+271F>
                       <U+270E>                      <U+275B><U+270E>
                       <U+270D>
                       <U+270C><U+261E>                     <U+270C>
                       <U+261B>                      <U+2716>
                       <U+2721>

                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2738>                 <U+2701>
                                                                                                                     <U+2713>                                                                        <U+2713>                                                                  <U+2713>
<removed-date>
                                                                                          <U+270E>                          <U+270C><U+270E>                                            <U+270E>                          <U+270C><U+2713>                                                                 <U+270C><U+2713>
                                                                                          <U+275B>                          <U+2713>                                             <U+270D>
                                                                                                                     <U+270C>                                             <U+270C><U+261E>                         <U+270C>                                                                  <U+270C>
                                                                                          <U+2716><U+2713>                                                                                                  <U+271F>                                                                  <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                                   <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2660>
                                                                                          <U+2721>                      <U+2711>                                                                        <U+2711>                                                                  <U+2711>
                                                                                                                 <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+270C>                                                                  <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+271D>
                                                                                          <U+2720>
                                                                                                                     <U+2721>                                             <U+2660>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2666>
                                                                                                                                                                                          |                                                                  |
                                                                                                                                                              <U+275B><U+270E>                                                         <U+275B><U+270E>
                                                                                                        <U+270F><U+275D>                                                    <U+275B>                                                          <U+275B>                                                                                    <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+271F>                  <U+270F><U+275D>                                      <U+271F>                 <U+270F><U+275D>                                                                 <U+2720>
                                                                                                            <U+275B>                                                                        <U+275B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+271F>
                                                                                                        <U+2711>                                                                                                                                      <U+275B>
                                                                             <U+270C>                              <U+2761><U+2720>                                                                   <U+2711>                                                         <U+2711>                                                              <U+2711>
                                                                         <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2666>
                                                                             <U+271F>                                                                                                       <U+2761><U+2720>                                                        <U+2720><U+2761>                                                             <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+271E>                                                          <U+271E>
                                                                         <U+2711><U+2720>                             <U+270F>                                                                        <U+270F>                                                                                                                            <U+270C><U+2713>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+270F>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+271D>                                                          <U+271D>
                                                                                                            <U+275D>                                                                        <U+270E>
                                                                                                            <U+270C>                                                                                                                                                                                                 <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+2660>                                                          <U+2660>
                                                                             <U+2748>
                                                                                                        <U+2711>                                                     <U+271F>                      <U+270D>                                   <U+271F>
<removed-apn>
                       <U+2663>                                                                                                                                      <U+270C>                      <U+270C><U+261E>                                  <U+270C>                                                                                    <U+275D>
                           <U+271E><U+270E>                                                                           <U+2711>                                                     <U+271F>                                                          <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2666>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+275B>
                                                                         <U+2706>
                                                                                                            <U+275B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2660>
                           <U+270C>                                                                                                                                  <U+2721>                      <U+261B>                                   <U+2721>                                                                                    <U+270D>
                                                                                                            <U+2715>                                                                        <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+271D>
                                                                                                            <U+270D>                                                 <U+270D>                                                          <U+270D>                                                                                    <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+270C>                                                          <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2666>
                           <U+2713>
                           <U+2666>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+271F>                                                          <U+271F>
                           <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+25B2>
                           s
                           <U+275B>
                           <U+270C>
                       <U+2663>                                                                                                               <U+2713>
                           <U+275D>                                        <U+2713>                                                                  <U+270C>                                                                                                                                           <U+270D><U+2720>
                           <U+2666>
                                                                    <U+270C>                                                                  s
                           <U+275B>                                        s                                                                  <U+275B>                                                                                                                                           <U+2713><U+270E>            <U+2711>
                           <U+270D>                                        <U+275B>                                                                  <U+270C>                                                                                                                                           <U+270C>                 <U+2721><U+2720>
                           <U+2721>                                        <U+270C>                                                              <U+2663>                                        <U+2713>                                                                                                                        <U+270E>
                                                                <U+2663>                                                                  <U+270F>                                        <U+2721>                                                                                                      <U+2716>                 <U+275B>
                                                      <U+2761>         <U+270F>                                                                      <U+270E>                                                                                                                                           <U+2721>                 <U+270D>
                           <U+25B2>
                                                                                                                                                                            <U+2713>
                                                  <U+2711><U+2720>                <U+270E>                                                              <U+270F>
                                                                                                                                                         <U+2721><U+270E>                 <U+270C><U+270E>                         <U+2713>                                                                           <U+270C>             <U+2712><U+2720><U+2720>
                                                      <U+270E>         <U+270F>                                                                      <U+270C><U+2713>                                   <U+2713>                          <U+270C><U+2713>                                                                          <U+2761>                 <U+271F>
                                                      <U+271E>             <U+270C><U+2713>                             <U+270E>                                   <U+275B>                                    <U+270C>
                                                      <U+2721><U+2713>                                           <U+270C>                                                 <U+270F><U+275D>                                                <U+270C>                                                                           <U+271F>                 <U+2721>
                                                                    <U+275B>                          <U+270F>                                       <U+270C>                                                               <U+271F>                                                                           <U+270C><U+270E>
                                                                    <U+270C>                                                              <U+2711>                     <U+275B>              <U+2711>                                                                                                                            <U+2716>
                                                                                                                                                                        <U+2721>
                                                      <U+275D>         <U+2711>                              <U+270F><U+2720>                                                    <U+2711>                      <U+2721>                      <U+2711>                                                                               <U+275B><U+275D>
                                                      <U+275B>                                                                                <U+270C><U+270E>                                                              <U+270C>                                                                                             <U+275B><U+270E>
                                                  <U+2711>             <U+2712><U+2720>                                 <U+270E>                                                     <U+2720><U+2761>                 <U+270E>                                                                                                      <U+270C><U+2713>                <U+275B>
                                                      <U+2761><U+2720>                                           <U+271E>                                   <U+275D><U+275B>            <U+270F>                      <U+275B>                          <U+270E>                                                                                             <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
                                                                    s                              <U+2721>                                   <U+271E>                                                               <U+270D>                                                                       <U+2711>
                                                  <U+270F>                 <U+270D>                                                                                    <U+270C><U+270E>                                                                                                                                          <U+270E><U+275B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2761>
                                                                                                   <U+2717>                                   <U+270D><U+275D>                                   <U+2716><U+2713>                         <U+270C><U+261E>                                                                          <U+270C>
                                                                    <U+270C>                              <U+275B><U+275D>                                                    <U+271E>                                                                                                                         <U+270C><U+2713>                <U+270C>
                                                                    <U+2715>                                                                  <U+275B>                 <U+2721><U+2713>                 <U+2721>                          <U+261B>
                  <U+275B><U+270E>                                                <U+270D>                          <U+2663>                                       <U+270D>                                                                                                                                           <U+270D>                 <U+2716>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+270F>
                                                                                                                                                                            <U+2720>                          <U+2660>
                  <U+275B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+274B>
                  <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2704>
              <U+2706>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2702>
              <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+274B>
              <U+2711>
              <U+275B>
                  <U+2721><U+2720>                <U+2713>
                  <U+270E>                 <U+2721>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     <U+275B><U+270E>
                  <U+275B>             <U+270F>                                                                                             <U+275B><U+270E>                <U+2713>                                                                                                                         <U+275B>                 <U+2713>
                  <U+270D><U+2720>            <U+270F>
                                    <U+270C>                                                                                         <U+275B>                 <U+2721>                                                                                                                         <U+271F>                 <U+2721>
                  <U+275D>                 <U+270D>                                                                                         <U+271F>             <U+270F>                                                                                                                             <U+275B><U+270E>            <U+270F>
              <U+2663>                     <U+2721><U+2713>                                                                                        <U+275B><U+270E>            <U+270F>                                                                                                                             <U+270C>             <U+270F>
              <U+2663>                                                                                                                                 <U+270C>                                                                                                                                           <U+270C>
                  <U+275B>             <U+2663>                                                                                             <U+270C>                 <U+270D>                                                                                                                         <U+2716>                 <U+270D>
                                                                                                                              <U+2716>                 <U+2721><U+2713>                                                                                                                                          <U+2721><U+2713>
                                    <U+275B><U+270E>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+270D><U+2720>
                                                                                                                              <U+270D><U+2720>            <U+2663>                                                                                                                                           <U+2663>
                                    <U+275B>                                                                                         <U+270E>                                                                                                                                           <U+2716>
                                    <U+271F>                                                                                                           <U+270C><U+2713>                                                                                                                        <U+275B>                 <U+270C><U+2713>
                                                                                                                                            <U+2761>                                                                                                                                           <U+2761>
                                    <U+275B><U+270E>                                                                                        <U+275B><U+270E>
                                                                                                                          <U+270F>                 <U+2663>                                                                                                                         <U+2711>                 <U+2663>
                                    <U+270C>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     <U+2717>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+271F>
                                    <U+2716>
                                    <U+270E>
                                    <U+270D>
                                    <U+270C><U+261E>
                                    <U+261B>
                                    <U+2721>
                                                                                 <U+2711>
                                                                                 <U+2704>
                                                                                     <U+2721><U+2720>                                                                                                                             <U+270E>
                                                                                 <U+270F>                                                                                                                                  <U+270D>                               <U+2711>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2704>
                                             <U+270E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+2704>
                                             <U+270D>                                   <U+2711>                                                                                                                                  <U+270C><U+261E>                                  <U+2721><U+2720>
                                                                                     <U+270C><U+270E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+271E>
                                             <U+270C><U+261E>            <U+275B><U+270E>                                                                                                                                                       <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+270F>
                                             <U+261B>             <U+275B>                                                                                                                                                        <U+2721>             <U+2660>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+2711>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+270C><U+270E>
                                                                                 <U+2702>
                                             <U+2721>             <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+272D>
                                                           <U+275B><U+270E>                        <U+2761><U+2720>                                                                                                                             <U+270D><U+2720>            <U+275B><U+270E>
                                                                                 <U+2701>
                                             <U+270D><U+2720>            <U+270C>                     <U+2712>                                                                                                                                                <U+275B>                 <U+2702>
                                             <U+270E>                                   <U+2711>                                                                                                                                  <U+2716>             <U+271F>                     <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+275B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+2701>
                                             <U+275B><U+270E>            <U+2716>                         <U+2721>                                                                                                                                            <U+275B><U+270E>                    <U+275B>
                                         <U+270F>                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2711>                                   <U+270F>
                                                                                     <U+270D>                                                                                                                              <U+2717>             <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+271F>                                   <U+271E>
                                                                                     <U+275B>                                                                                                                                            <U+2716>
                                                                                 <U+270F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+272D>
                                                                                 <U+272D>
                                                                                     <U+271E>

                                                                                                                     <U+2739><U+2701>
<removed-date>
                                                            <U+2663>
                                                                <U+2660>
                                                                <U+2716>
<removed-apn>
                                                                                           <U+2713>
                                                                                           <U+270C>
              <U+271D>                                                                            <U+271F>
                                                                                           <U+2721>
              <U+273D>                                                                            <U+270D>
                                                                        <U+271D>
                                                                                       <U+2711>
                                                                        <U+2666>
                                                                                           <U+270C>
                                                                    <U+260E>
                                                                                                      <U+2713><U+270D><U+2712>
                                                                                                      <U+270C><U+270C>
                                                                                                                                  <U+2706>
                          <U+270F><U+270E>
                                                                            <U+2721><U+2720> <U+261E><U+2711>
                                                                                                                                      <U+2666>
                                                                              <U+271F><U+2759> <U+270F>t<U+261B><U+270E>
                                                                                                                                  <U+2761>
                               <U+270D>
                               <U+270C><U+261E>                                                                                                     <U+2660>
                                                                                                                                                           <U+271E>
                               <U+261B>
                                                                                      <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                                           <U+271D>
                               <U+2721>
                                                                                                      <U+270C><U+261E><U+261B>
                                                                                                                                      <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                           <U+2660>
                                                                                                                                                           <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                      <U+2666>
                               <U+271F>
                               <U+270C><U+2713>                                                                     t                                                <U+270F>
                                                                                                                                                           <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                       <U+270F>
                               <U+270C>
                               <U+271F>    <U+270F><U+270E>                                                                                   <U+2713>   <U+271E><U+271D>                            <U+270C><U+2713>
                          <U+2711>
                               <U+270C><U+2713>
                                      <U+270D>
                                      <U+270C><U+261E>
                                                                                                                         <U+270C>
                                                                                                                         <U+271F>   <U+2706><U+2666>           <U+2701><U+2706>           <U+2663>
                                                                                                                                                                             <U+274B>
                               <U+270C><U+2713>     <U+261B>                                                                                  <U+2721>   <U+260E><U+2704>           <U+273D>
                                                                                                                                                           <U+2716>
                                                                                                                         <U+270D>
                                                                                                                             <U+2702><U+2666>                            <U+2721>
                                                                                                            <U+2660>
                          <U+2663>           <U+2721>                                                                     <U+271D>
                                                                                                                     <U+2711>                                     <U+270D>                 <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                             <U+2702>
                          <U+275D><U+270F>                                                                                             <U+270C>
                                                                                                            <U+2666>
                                                                                                                                                                             <U+274B>
                               <U+275D>
                               <U+270C>
                          <U+2711>                                                                    <U+270F><U+270E>
                          <U+2711>                                                                      <U+270D>
                               <U+275B>                                                                 <U+270C><U+261E>
                               <U+2715>
                               <U+270D>                                                                 <U+261B>
                                                                                                 <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                                    <U+2713>
                                                                                                                                                                    <U+270C>
                                           <U+275B>
                                               <U+2713>
                                                                                                                <U+271E><U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                    <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                                    <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                                        <U+273D><U+2706>
                                               <U+270C><U+2713>
                                                                                                                                                                        <U+273D>
                                                                                                                                                   <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                    <U+270D>
                                                        <U+2713>
                                                                                                                <U+2706><U+2666>
                                                                                                                                                   <U+271D>
              <U+271D>                                <U+270C>        <U+270C>                                                                                                       <U+2711>
                                               <U+271F>
                                                                                                                <U+260E><U+2704>                                                  <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                   <U+2660>
              <U+273D>
              <U+2706>                            <U+2711>            <U+2720>
                                                                                                                <U+2702><U+2666>
                                                    <U+2702>
                                               <U+270C><U+2713>       <U+2716>
                                               <U+270C><U+2713>
                                           <U+2663>
                  <U+270F><U+275D>                                                            <U+270F><U+270E>
                      <U+270C>                                                           <U+270D>
                  <U+2711>                                                               <U+270C><U+261E>
                  <U+2711>
                                                                                                                                               <U+271E>
                      <U+275B>                                                           <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                               <U+271D>
                      <U+2715>                                                           <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                               <U+2660>
                      <U+270D>

                                                                                                                                                                                                     <U+273A><U+2701>
<removed-date>
                                                                                                                           <U+270C>                                                                                                                                 <U+2713>
                                                                                                                       <U+2711>                                                                                                                                     <U+270C>
                                                                                                                           <U+2721>                                                                                                                                 s
                                                                                                                           <U+2715>                               <U+270E>                                                                                                 <U+275B>
                                                                                                                       <U+2663>                                   <U+271E>                                                                                                 <U+270C>
                                                                                                                           <U+271F>                             <U+2663><U+270E>                                                                                              <U+2663>
                                                                                                                           <U+275B>                                                                                                                             <U+270F>                     <U+270F>
                                                                                                                           <U+270C>                               <U+271E>                                                                                                 <U+271F>                     <U+271F>
                                                                                                                           <U+2715>                               <U+2721>                                                                                                 <U+271E>                     <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             <U+2721><U+275D>                <U+2712><U+270C>
                                                                 <U+271D>
                                                                 <U+273E>
                                                                 <U+2660>
                                                                                                                                 <U+275D>
                                                                                                                                 <U+275B><U+2713>
                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2713>
                                                                                                                                                                   <U+270C><U+2713>
                                                                                                                                 <U+271E>                                 <U+270C>
                <U+275D>                                                                                                                <U+275B>                                 <U+271F>
<removed-apn>
                <U+275B><U+2713>                <U+2716>                     <U+270C>                        <U+270C>                                             <U+2711><U+2720>                              <U+2711>
                                                    <U+270F><U+275D>                       <U+270F>                                                                                     <U+270C><U+2713>
                <U+271E>                 <U+2721>                                          <U+2711>                                                   <U+261B>
                <U+275B>                 <U+2721><U+2713>                    <U+271E>                        <U+2721>
              <U+2711><U+2720>                                    <U+2663>                        <U+2663>
                <U+261B>                                       <U+2716><U+2720>                   <U+270F>                        <U+270F><U+275D>
                                                                                 <U+270C><U+2713>
                                                                                                          <U+270C>
                                                                                                      <U+2711>
                                                                                                      <U+2711>
                                                                                                          <U+275B>
                                                                                                          <U+2715>
                                                                                                          <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2713>
                                                <U+271D>                                                                                                                                                                          <U+270C>
                                                <U+273E>                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2716>
                <U+2711>                          <U+2713>                <U+270E>
                     <U+2721><U+2720>                    <U+270C>                <U+271E>                                                     <U+271F>                                                                                          <U+271F>                                                                                           <U+271F>
                                           s                <U+2721>                                                                             <U+270F><U+275D>                                                                 <U+270C><U+2713>                <U+270F><U+270E>                                                                        <U+270C><U+2713>            <U+270F><U+270E>
                     <U+270E>                     <U+275B>                <U+2717>                                                     <U+270C><U+270E>
                     <U+270D>                                                                                                                        <U+275B>                                                                                  <U+270D>                                                                                       <U+270D>
                     <U+271E>
                     <U+271F>
                                       <U+2663>
                                       <U+270F>
                                           <U+270C>                <U+275B><U+275D>                                                    <U+2713>
                                                                                                                  <U+270C>                       <U+2711>
                                                                                                                                          <U+2711>
                                                                                                                                                                                                             <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                             <U+271F>                   <U+270C><U+261E>                                                                      <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         <U+271F>               <U+270C><U+261E>       <U+274B>
                                                                                                                                              <U+275B>                                                          <U+2711>                       <U+261B>                                                                   <U+2711>                   <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                <U+273E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                <U+2706>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                <U+273D>
                     <U+2721><U+2713>                    <U+271F>                                                                  <U+2711>
                                                                                                              <U+2721>
                                                                                                                  <U+2721>                           <U+2715>                                                              <U+270C><U+2713>                  <U+2721>                                                                       <U+270C><U+2713>              <U+2721>            <U+2704>
                <U+2663>                          <U+271E>                                                                      <U+270D>                           <U+270D>                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2702>
                     <U+270C><U+2713>                    <U+2721><U+275D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+274B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+270F><U+2720>
                                                                                                 <U+2713>                                                                              <U+271E>                                                         <U+270C><U+270E><U+270D>                                          <U+2704><U+2702> <U+271E><U+260E>
                                                                                        <U+270E>        <U+270C><U+270E>
                                                                                                                                                                        <U+2706><U+260E><U+2712> <U+260E><U+271E><U+260E>                                                           <U+2720><U+270C>                                             <U+2759> <U+275E><U+271D>                                 <U+273E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2706>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2701>
                                                                                        <U+275B>        <U+2713>
                                                                                                 <U+270C>                                                                         <U+2711> <U+275E>                                                            <U+261B><U+2721><U+261B>                                                 <U+2706><U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                                         <U+271D><U+2666> <U+260E><U+271E><U+2761>
                                                                                        <U+2716><U+2713>
                              <U+273E>                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+270C><U+261E><U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2721>
                                                                                      <U+2712><U+2721>
                                                                                             <U+2711>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 <U+275E>
                                                                                             <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2721><U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2720>
                                                                                                 <U+2721>                                                                                                                                                                                     <U+271F>
                                                                                                 <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2660>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2759>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2711>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2721><U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+270E>
                                                                                                                                      <U+271D>                                                                           <U+275B><U+270E>                                <U+2701><U+2706>                <U+270F><U+275D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+275B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2716><U+2713>
                                                                     <U+270F><U+275D>
                                                                                                                                      <U+273E>                                                         <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+275B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+271F>                                 <U+273E>                 <U+2711>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2711>                                       <U+2712><U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+270F><U+270E>                                        <U+270F>                     <U+275B><U+270E>                                                      <U+275B>                                   <U+2711><U+2720>
                                                                         <U+270C>                                                                          <U+270D>                                       <U+270F>                     <U+270C>                                                       <U+2715>
                                                                     <U+2711>                                                                              <U+270C><U+261E>                                          <U+270C><U+2713>                                                                        <U+270D>                                       <U+270C>
                                                                     <U+2711>                                                                                                                      <U+2663>                     <U+2716>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2660>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+270E><U+2713>                                      <U+271F><U+2720>
                                                                         <U+275B>                                                                          <U+261B>                                                             <U+270E>                                                       <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+271D>
                                                                         <U+2715>                                                                          <U+2721>                                           <U+2716>                 <U+270D>                                                                                           <U+270F>
                                                                         <U+270D>                                                                                                                                                                                            <U+2663>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2666>
                                                                                                                                                                                                <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                                                                <U+270D>                 <U+261E><U+270C>                                                  <U+270F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+261B>                                                   <U+2711>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2721>                                                       <U+275B><U+2713>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2660>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+270E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2666>
                                                                                                                                                                                                     <U+276F>                                <U+2713>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+270C>
                          <U+271D>                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                                                                     <U+2761>
                          <U+273E>
                          <U+2706>
                                                                                                                                                                                                         <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                         <U+2666>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                                             <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                     <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2716>
                                                                                                                                                                             <U+25BC>
                                                                                                                                                                             <U+2761>
                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+275B>
                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+270C><U+2713>
                                                                                                                                                                             <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                                     <U+270F><U+270E>
                                                                                                                                                                                 <U+2748>
                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                                                 <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+261B>

                                                           <U+2701> <U+2701>
<removed-date>
                          <U+2713>                                          <U+2711>
                          <U+270C>                                              <U+2721><U+2720>
                          s
<removed-apn>
                          <U+275B>                                              <U+270E>
                          <U+270C>                                              <U+270D>
                  <U+2663>                         <U+270F><U+275D>                           <U+271E>
                                                                         <U+271F>        <U+270E>
                  <U+270F>                             <U+275B>                        <U+2721><U+2713>       <U+271E>
                          <U+271F>                 <U+2711>                                     <U+2721>
                          <U+271E>                     <U+2720><U+2761>                   <U+2663>            <U+2717>
                          <U+2721><U+275D>                <U+270F>                            <U+270C><U+2713>       <U+275B><U+275D>
                                                     <U+2711><U+2720>
                               <U+270F>                       <U+275B>                          <U+2713>
                               <U+270F>
                                   <U+270C>                   <U+2716>                          <U+270E><U+2721>
                                   <U+270D>                   <U+2721>                          <U+275B><U+2713>
              <U+271D>                    <U+2721><U+2713>                                                  <U+271D>
                                                                                           <U+274B>
                                                       <U+271F>             <U+2749>
                                                                                  <U+271E>    <U+2706>
              <U+271D>                <U+2663>                                                  <U+2761>    <U+271D>   <U+2704>
                                                                              <U+2712><U+2720>           <U+2702>
                                                                         <U+271E>
              <U+2706>                                                                        <U+2706>
                                                       <U+2720>
                                                                              <U+2711>            <U+274B>
                                                                     <U+276F>
                               <U+2749>
                                                                                  <U+2721>
                                                       <U+271E>
                                                                                  <U+270D>
                                   <U+271E>
                                                       <U+2710>
                               <U+276F>
                                                     <U+2711><U+2720>
                      <U+270E>                 <U+270F><U+275D>                               <U+270E>        <U+270E>
                      <U+271E>                                                  <U+271E>        <U+271E>
                  <U+2663><U+270E>                            <U+275B>                <U+2663><U+270E>               <U+2721>
                                        <U+2711>                                <U+271E>        <U+2717>
                      <U+271E>                         <U+2761><U+2720>                                <U+275B><U+275D>
                      <U+2721>                                                  <U+2721>
                      <U+2713>                 <U+270F>                                <U+2713>
                      <U+270C>                                                  <U+270C>
                  <U+2702>
                      <U+2720>                                          <U+2702>
                                                                         <U+2720>
                      <U+2716>                                                  <U+2716>

