Abstract
The present invention discloses a method for the detection of
dopamine with GO-PtCu nanohybrid enzyme mimic. GO-PtCu is
obtained through one-pot synthesis of graphene oxide (GO), H2PtCl6
and   CuCl 2 . The intrinsic  oxidase-like  activity of GO-PtCu   is
demonstrated to be dependent on pH and temperature. According to
the result, the optimum reaction temperature is 60 *C and the
optimal pH value of the reaction buffer is at 3.0. By using GO-PtCu
nano-enzyme, the detection assay of dopamine possess a wide
detection range with a good linear range from 5 to 300 pM.
                                   1

DESCRIPTION
TITLE
      A method for dopamine detection with GO-PtCu nano-enzyme
FIELD OF THE INVENTION
      The present invention relates to colorimetric detection of
dopamine by GO-PtCu nanohybrid enzyme mimics, which holds
significance  in nanoscience, analytical   chemistry, medical, and
biomedical fields.
BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
      Dopamine (DA) is a neurotransmitter, which is a chemical that
can help cells transmit pulses. It plays an important role in
cardiovascular and central nervous system, regulation of kidney
function and hormone secretion. The concentration of dopamine in
the human body will affect people's emotions and behavior,
especially low concentration of it in the brain may lead to brain
diseases, such as schizophrenia, Parkinson's disease, epilepsy, etc. At
present, the methods     of detecting dopamine are fluorescence,
electrochemical method, high performance liquid chromatography,
spectrophotometry,    chromatography,    etc.  These   methods     can
qualitatively and quantitatively detect dopamine, but they are
relatively cumbersome, time-consuming, and the equipments are
                                  I

considerably    expensive. Ultraviolet    spectrophotometry    is more
attractive   than other     methods    of detection   because    of less
requirements of the instrument, easily observation and analysis.
Polydopamine, produced by dopamine polymerization, has a broad
adsorbance at UV-Vis irradiation, which has been proven useful in a
broad field of biomedical research, ranging from drug delivery to
modulation of cell adhesion and biosensing.
     Nano-enzyme is a kind of mimic enzyme with unique properties
and catalytic function. Compared with the traditional analogue
enzyme, the catalytic efficiency of nano-enzyme is higher, and it also
has the characteristics of stable in heat, acid and alkali, and can be
prepared in large scale and low price. The catalytic reaction of
nano-enzymes, like natural enzymes, depends on pH, temperature
and substrate concentration. Nano enzymes are widely used in
diagnosis and treatment of tumor, blood glucose and uric acid test,
immune detection, unmarked tracer in the body, antibacterial,
environmental testing and sewage, pesticide and applied research in
the field of nerve agents monitoring.
     As a new type of carbon nanomaterial, graphene has unique
physical and chemical properties such as high mechanical strength,
good stability, large specific surface area and strong surface chemical
activity. Graphene oxide (GO) is the oxide of graphene. Its surface is
                                     2

rich in high activity oxygen-containing functional groups, with good
water solubility and volatile chemical activity. The existence of a
large number of functional groups for GO as a kind of high
performance adsorption material is provided for the rich adsorption
bit, which makes graphene a unique adsorption material. That's why
we choose GO as one kind of synthesis material of nano-enzyme.
      In this patent, it introduces a one-pot synthesis method to
prepare GO-PtCu nanohybrid enzyme mimics in water, and the
prepared nano-enzyme was used for the detection of dopamine
through accelerating its polymerization.
SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
      The object of the present invention is to provide a colorimetric
method for detecting dopamine using materials which possess better
stability in harsh environments, convenience to synthetize, and
flexibility of structure with low difficulty of modification.
         In order to solve the above problem, the present invention
discloses a new method to detect dopamine by using GO-PtCu
nanohybrid       enzyme     mimic.    The    preparation     of GO-PtCu
nanoparticles should match the following steps:
     A) 7.6 mL ultrapure water and 0.4 mL GO solution (2.0 mg/mL)
were added into the reaction flask.
                                     3

      B) Then 124 [tL H2PtCl6 (19.3 mmol/L) and 40 tL CuCl 2 (20.0
mmol/L) were added to the above solution.
      C) The mixture was stirred in the ice bath for 5 minutes.
      D) Prepare 0.4 mg/mL NaBH4 solution, then 500 [tL of the
prepared solution was added to the reaction flask with the speed of
10 s/drop.
      E) Once the addition of NaBH4 was finished, the solution was
stirred in the ice bath for another 1 h.
      The detection of dopamine includes following steps:
      The reactions were carried out at 60 C. 100uL of GO-PtCu
nano-enzyme mimicsand and 100 [tL of dopamine (50 mM) were
added in 0.6 mL phosphate buffer (pH 3.0).
      The mixture was further incubated at 60 'C for 120 min.
      The absorbance of the mixture was recorded at 440 nm.
DESCRIPTION OF DRAWING
      The following drawings are only for the purpose of description
and explanation but not for limitation, where in:
      Figure 1 TEM image of GO-PtCu nano-enzyme
                                    4

     Figure 2 Effect of different proportions : (A) pH          and (B)
temperature
     Figure 3 (A)The absorbance on the concentration of dopamine
from 0 [tM to 500 [tM, (B) the detecting rang of linear curve from 5
iiM to 300    M.
DESCRIPTION OF PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS
     The embodiment of the present invention will be explained in
details so that the present invention can be more readily understood.
     The present invention provides a new method to detect
dopamine, includes following:
     Step A:    Investigation  of oxidase-like    activity   of GO-PtCu
nano-enzyme dependent on pH value and temperature
     Step B: Determination of the detection range and linear range
     Step A:    Investigation  of oxidase-like    activity   of GO-PtCu
nano-enzyme mimics dependent on pH value and temperature
     pH value: 30 pL nano-enzyme was added to 0.5 mL buffer with
different pH value of 2.0, 3.0, 4.0, 5.0, 6.0, 7.0, 8.0, 9.0, then 10 liL
3,3',5,5'-tetramethylbenzidine (TMB) was added to each centrifuge
tube at room temperature. Meanwhile, the color change of each tube
was observed. 10 minutes later, the absorbance of the mixture was
                                    5

measured at 650 nm. All of the experiments were performed three
times and the standard deviation was plotted as the error bar.
According to Figure     2A, the optimal pH value for GO-PtCu
nano-enzyme was 3.0.
     Temperature: 10 pL TMB was added into 0.5 mL of pH 3.0 buffer.
The mixture was kept under the constant temperature for 10
minutes. After that, 30 [tL GO-PtCu nano-enzyme was added to the
mixture   and the reaction was still kept under the constant
temperature. After 10 minutes, the color change of the solution was
observed. The absorbance of the mixture was recorded at 650 nm.
The reactions were carried out at 0, 20, 30, 40, 50, 60, 70'C. All
of the experiments were performed three times and the standard
deviation was plotted as the error bar.
     According to Figure 2B, the optimal temperature for GO-PtCu
nano-enzyme was 60'C.
     Step B: Determination of the detection range and linear range
     For the detection of dopamine, measurements were carried out
as follows: 100 [iL of GO-PtCu nano-enzyme and 600 [tL of pH 3.0
buffer were mixed. Then 100          tL of dopamine with different
concentrations was added. The mixture was further incubated at 60'C
for 120 min. The absorbance of the mixture was recorded at 440 nm.
                                   6

The concentrations of dopamine were carried out at 1, 5, 7.5, 10, 15,
20, 30, 40, 50, 75, 100, 150, 200, 300, 500  M.
     GO-PtCu nano-enzyme can accelerate the polymerization of
dopamine,     and   the   produced    polydopamine shows   a   broad
absorption at UV-Vis irradiation with an absorption peak at 440 nm.
According to Figure 3A, the intensity of absorption peak at 440 nm
increased with the increasing concentration of dopamine from 0 to
500 [M. A good linear relationship was also obtained between the
intensity of absorbance and the concentration of dopamine from 5 to
300 [tM according to Figure 3B.
                                    7

CLAIM
     1. A colorimetric method for detecting dopamine using materials which
        possess better stability in harsh environments, convenience to synthetize,
        and flexibility of structure with low difficulty of modification, which uses
        GO-PtCu      nanohybrid     enzyme    mimic,     preparation   of  GO-PtCu
        nanoparticles should match the following steps:
         1)   7.6 mL ultrapure water and 0.4 mL GO solution (2.0 mg/mL) were
        added into the reaction flask;
         2)   Then 124 pL H 2 PtCl6 (19.3 mmol/L) and 40 pL CuCl 2 (20.0 mmol/L)
        were added to the above solution;
         3 ) The mixture was stirred in the ice bath for 5 minutes;
         4)   Prepare 0.4 mg/mL NaBH 4 solution, then 500 [L of the prepared
        solution was added to the reaction flask with the speed of 10 s/drop;
         5)   Once the addition of NaBH 4 was finished, the solution was stirred in
        the ice bath for another 1 h.
    2. As claim 1 said method, which in the detection of dopamine includes
        following steps:
         1)   The reactions were carried out at 60 'C.          100uL of GO-PtCu
        nano-enzyme mimicsand and 100 tL of dopamine (50 mM) were added
        in 0.6 mL phosphate buffer (pH 3.0);
        2)    The mixture was further incubated at 60 'C for 120 min;
        3)    The absorbance of the mixture was recorded at 440 nm.
                                        1

                  <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
1
    Figure.2   Figure.1

    <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
2
      Figure.3

