ABSTRACT
A medical device for implantation in a hip joint of a human patient, the natural hip joint having a ball
shaped caput femur as the proximal part of the femoral bone with a convex hip joint surface
towards the centre of the hip joint and a bowl shaped acetabulum as part of the pelvic bone with a
concave hip joint surface towards the centre of the hip joint, wherein the caput femur has a centrally
placed longitudinal extension, extending through the center of the caput and collum femur, aligned
with the collum femur, defined as the caput and collum femur center axis, the medical device
comprising; an artificial acetabulum, comprising a concave surface towards the centre of the hip
joint, wherein said artificial concave acetabulum is adapted to, when implanted be fixated to the
femoral bone of the human patient, and be in movable connection with an artificial caput femur
fixated to the pelvic bone of the patient, wherein the medical device comprises a fixating portion
adapted to be stabilized at least one of the cortical bone of the caput femur, from the outside of the
caput femur, or the cortical bone of the collum femur, from the outside of the collum femur, and
wherein said fixating portion comprises at least one cavity adapted to receive a mechanical fixation
element.

                                  Hip joint device and method
FIELD OF INVENTION
[0001]     The present invention relates generally to a medical device for implantation in a hip
joint, and a method of providing said medical device.
BACKGROUND ART
[0002]     Any discussion of the prior art throughout the specification should in no way be
considered as an admission that such prior art is widely known or forms part of common
general knowledge in the field.
[0003]     The hip joint is a synovial joint, joining the pelvis to the proximal portion of the
femoral bone. Synovial joints are the most common types of joints in mammals, and are typical
of nearly all limb joints. The contacting surfaces of said the pelvic, the acetabulum, and the
contacting surface of the femoral bone, the caput femur, are smooth and rounded, and
covered by articular cartilage. A synovial membrane, encapsulates the joint, forming a hip joint
cavity, which contains synovial fluid. Outside the synovial membrane is a fibrous capsule and
ligaments, forming an articular capsule.
[0004]     There are both natural and pathological processes leading to deteriorated joint
function. With age and wear, the articular cartilage becomes less effective as a shock absorber
and a lubricated surface. Different degenerative joint diseases, such as arthritis, osteoartrithis,
or osteoarthrosis, accelerate the deterioration.
[0005]     Hip joint Osteoarthritis is a syndrome in which low-grade inflammation results in pain
in the hip joints, caused by abnormal wearing of the Cartilage that acts as a cushion inside if
the hip joint. This abnormal wearing of the cartilage also results in a decrease of the joints
lubricating fluid called Synovial fluid. Hip joint Osteoarthritis is estimated to affect 80% of all
people over 65 years of age, in more or less serious forms.
[0006]     The present treatment for hip osteoarthritis comprises NSAID drugs, local injections
of Hyaluronic acid or Glucocorticoid to help lubricating the hip joint, and replacing parts of the
hip joint with a prosthesis through hip joint surgery.

[0007]       The replacing of parts of the hip joint is one of the most common surgeries to date
performed at hundreds of thousands of patients in the world every year. The most common
method comprises placing a metal prosthesis in Femur and a plastic bowl in Acetabulum. This
operation is done through an incision in the hip and upper thigh and through Fascia Lata and
the lateral muscles of the thigh. To get access to the joint, the supporting Capsule attached to
Femur and Ilium needs to be penetrated, making it difficult to get a fully functional joint after
the surgery. Femur is then cut at the neck with a bone saw and the prosthesis is placed in
femur either with bone cement or without. Acetabulum is slightly enlarged using an Acetabular
reamer, and the plastic bowl is positioned using screws or bone cement.
[0008]       The complications after hip joint surgery includes dislocation of the hip joint and
loosening of the prosthesis from its fixation in the femoral bone. The loosening and/or
dislocation of the prosthesis could be induced by an abnormal strain being placed on the hip
joint from e.g. the patient falling or making a rapid movement of the hip, or by a bodily
macrophage reaction.
SUMMARY
[0009]      Accordingly, the invention provides a medical device for implantation in a hip joint of
a human patient, the natural hip joint having a ball shaped caput femur as the proximal part of
the femoral bone with a convex hip joint surface towards the centre of the hip joint and a bowl
shaped acetabulum as part of the pelvic bone with a concave hip joint surface towards the
centre of the hip joint, the medical device comprising; an artificial caput femur, comprising a
convex surface towards the centre of the hip joint, wherein said artificial convex caput femur is
adapted to, when implanted:
        be fixated to the pelvic bone of the human patient, and
        be in movable connection with an artificial acetabulum surface fixated to the femoral
bone of the patient, thereby forming a ball and socket joint, wherein
        the medical device further comprises a fixation element comprising a fixation surface
adapted to be in contact with the surface of the acetabulum and adapted to fixate the artificial
convex caput femur to at least the acetabulum of the pelvic bone.
[0010]       Unless the context clearly requires otherwise, throughout the description and the
claims, the words "comprise", "comprising", and the like are to be construed in an inclusive
sense as opposed to an exclusive or exhaustive sense; that is to say, in the sense of
"including, but not limited to".

[0011]      Preferably, the invention provides a medical device for implantation in a hip joint of a
human patient is provided. The natural hip joint having a ball shaped caput femur as the
proximal part of the femoral bone with a convex hip joint surface towards the centre of the hip
joint and a bowl shaped acetabulum as part of the pelvic bone with a concave hip joint surface
towards the centre of the hip joint. The caput femur has a centrally placed longitudinal
extension, extending through the center of the caput and collum femur, aligned with the collum
femur, defined as the caput and collum femur center axis. The medical device comprising; an
artificial acetabulum, comprising a concave surface towards the centre of the hip joint. The
artificial concave acetabulum is adapted to, when implanted, be fixated to the femoral bone of
the human patient, and be in movable connection with an artificial caput femur fixated to the
pelvic bone of the patient.
[0012]      According to one embodiment the medical device comprises a fixating portion
adapted to be; stabilized by the cortical bone of the caput femur, from the inside of the caput
femur or stabilized by the cortical bone of the collum femur from the inside of the collum femur,
when at least one of the caput and collum femur has been surgically modified and opened.
[0013]      According to one embodiment the medical device comprises a fixating portion
adapted to be; stabilized by the cortical bone of the caput femur, substantially from the
proximal side of the cortical bone of the caput femur, or stabilized by the cortical bone of the
collum femur substantially from the proximal side of the cortical bone of collum femur, when at
least one of said caput and collum femur has been surgically modified having a cut through
corticalis edge of the caput or collum femur supporting said fixating portion.
[0014]      According to one embodiment, the medical device comprises a fixating portion
adapted to be; stabilized by the cortical bone of the caput femur, from the outside of the caput
femur or stabilized by the cortical bone of the collum femur, from the outside of the collum
femur.
[0015]      According to yet another preferred embodiment, the medical device comprises a
fixating portion adapted to be; stabilized by the cortical bone of the caput femur or collum
femur, substantially from the proximal side of a surgically modified cortical bone and from the
inside of the caput femur or the collum femur, when at least one of the caput and collum femur
has been surgically modified and opened.

[0016]      According to yet another preferred embodiment the medical device comprises a
fixating portion adapted to be; stabilized by the cortical bone of the caput or collum femur,
substantially from the proximal side of a surgically modified cortical bone and from the outside
of the caput or collum femur.
[0017]      According to yet another preferred embodiment the medical device comprises a
fixating portion adapted to be stabilized by the cortical bone of the caput or collum femur, from
the inside of caput or collum femur and from the outside of the caput or collum femur.
[0018]      The fixating portion could comprise at least one cavity adapted to receive a
mechanical fixation element.
[0019]      The medical device could in any of the embodiments herein further comprise a
mechanical fixation element adapted to be placed in at least one cavity of the medical device
and inside of the cortical bone of the caput or collum femur, when the medical device is
implanted.
[0020]      According to one preferred embodiment, the medical device comprises a mechanical
fixation element adapted to be placed inside of the cortical bone of the caput or collum femur
from the inside of the caput femur and/or from the outside of the caput femur.
[0021]      The mechanical fixation element could in any of the embodiments, be adapted to be
placed inside of the cortical bone of the caput or collum femur, substantially from the proximal
side of the caput femur.
[0022]      In any of the embodiments, the medical device could comprise a recess adapted to
receive a portion of the femoral bone.
[0023]      According to one embodiment, the mechanical fixating element could be adapted to
be placed partially inside of a first portion of said medical device, on a first side of said recess,
partially inside of the portion of the femoral bone placed in said recess, and partially inside of a
second portion of said medical device, on a second opposite side of said recess, for restraining
the portion of the femoral bone in said recess.
[0024]      According to another preferred embodiment, the medical device further comprises an
elongated element adapted to be placed in the collum femur from the proximal side thereof to
stabilize the medical device.

[0025]     According to yet another embodiment, the medical device comprises an elongated
element comprising a threaded portion. The threaded portion could be adapted to engage at
least one of: the cortical bone of the collum femur, the cancellous bone of the collum femur,
and an artificial material injected into the collum femur.
[0026]     According to another embodiment, the elongated element could comprise an
anchoring portion, and said anchoring portion could be adapted to engage at least one of: the
cortical bone of the collum femur, the cancellous bone of the collum femur, and an artificial
material injected into the collum femur.
[0027]     According to yet another embodiment the anchoring portion could have a first and
second state, and said anchoring portion could be adapted to, in said second state, further
engage at least one of: the cortical bone of the collum femur, the cancellous bone of the collum
femur, and an artificial material injected into the collum femur, for further fixating said medical
device to the femoral bone.
[0028]     According to yet another preferred embodiment, the medical device comprises a
fixating portion further comprising at least one groove adapted to stabilize a loop-shaped
fixating element along at least one portion thereof, when said medical device is implanted.
[0029]     The loop-shaped fixating element could be adapted to further stabilize the medical
device to the femoral bone. The loop shaped fixating element is could be elastic or the medical
device could comprise an elastic portion which could be adapted to clasp a portion of the
femoral bone and thereby fixate the medical device to the femoral bone.
[0030]     According to yet another embodiment, the medical device is adapted to pass beyond
the equator of the artificial caput femur placed in the medical device when implanted, thereby
clasping the artificial caput femur.
[0031]     According to yet another preferred embodiment the medical device further comprises
a locking member adapted to lock an artificial caput femur in the medical device.
[0032]     According to yet another embodiment, the locking member could comprise an elastic
portion which could be an elastic band adapted to encircle the artificial caput femur.
[0033]     According to yet another embodiment, the medical device has a first and second
state, and the medical device could be adapted to, in said first state, fixate the artificial caput

femur to the medical device, and in said second state, release the artificial caput femur from
the medical device. The medical device could be adapted to change from said first state to
said second state when a predetermined strain is placed on said medical device.
[0034]     The locking member of the medical device could comprise an elastic or flexible
portion, and the locking member could be adapted to change the medical device from the first
to the second state using the elasticity or flexibility of the elastic or flexible portion of the
locking member.
[0035]     According to yet another embodiment the medical device comprises a surface
adapted to be placed in contact with the cortical or cancellous bone of the femoral bone, when
implanted, and said surface could be adapted to adhere to the cortical or cancellous bone
using an adhesive.
[0036]     According to yet another embodiment, the medical device comprises a surface
adapted to promote in-growth of bone tissue for fixating said medical device to the femoral
bone, by means of for example a porous micro or nano structure.
[0037]     The fixating portion, adapted to stabilize the medical device to the femoral bone,
could in any of the embodiments herein be elastic or flexible.
[0038]     In some embodiments, the medical device comprises an elastic or flexible portion,
which could be adapted to clasp a portion of the femoral bone from the outside of the cortical
bone of caput or collum femur and thereby fixate the medical device to the femoral bone.
[0039]     The fixating portion adapted to clasp at least one portion of the femoral bone from
the outside of the cortical bone of caput or collum femur and thereby at least partly fixate the
medical device to the femoral bone.
[0040]     In some embodiments, the fixating portion is adapted to pass proximal beyond the
equator of caput femur aligned with the caput and collum center axis, when implanted and
engaging a surgically modified caput femur, thereby clasping the surgically modified caput
femur to stabilize the medical implant.
[0041]     The surgically modified caput or collum femur comprises a most proximal portion.
The fixating portion could be adapted to pass beyond the most proximal portion, on the outside

thereof, thus partially be placed more distal than the most proximal portion of the surgically
modified caput or collum femur.
[0042]     According to yet another embodiment a portion of the caput or collum femur is
placed at a largest distance from the caput and collum femur center axis, and wherein a
portion of said fixating portion is adapted to be placed at a distance from the caput and collum
center axis, being shorter than the largest distance from the caput and collum femur center
axis to the caput or collum femur.
[0043]      The fixating portion could according to one embodiment, be adapted to clasp a
portion of the caput or collum femur, said fixating portion thereby assisting in the fixation of the
medical device to the caput or collum femur. This could be done by the closest distance from
said fixating portion to said caput or collum center axis being shorter than the distance
between said center axis and the equator of the caput femur.
[0044]     According to another embodiment, the medical device further comprises an elastic
layer adapted to absorb chocks from the femoral bone. The elastic layer could be placed
between the femoral bone and the medical device, when said medical device is implanted, the
elastic layer could be an elastic polymer layer.
[0045]      The elastic polymer layer could for example be an elastic polymer layer selected
from a group consisting of: polyurethane, silicone, a combination of polyurethane and silicone,
parylene coated silicone, parylene coated polyurethane, and a parylene coated combination of
polyurethane and silicone.
[0046]     A method of replacing a natural hip joint with an artificial hip joint is further provided.
The method comprising the steps of: exposing the caput femur, opening the caput femur,
thereby exposing the cortical and cancellous bone of the caput femur, placing a medical device
comprises an artificial concave acetabulum surface in the caput femur and fixating the medical
device to the caput femur or collum femur.
[0047]     According to one embodiment, the step of fixating the medical device to the caput or
collum femur, comprises the step of fixating the medical device to the cortical bone from the
inside of the caput or collum femur and/or from the outside of the caput or collum femur and/or
from the proximal side of the caput or collum femur and/or from

[0048]     According to yet another embodiment, the medical device comprises an elastic
portion, and the step of fixating the medical device could further comprise the step of fixating
the medical device to the caput femur by the medical device clasping the caput femur using
the elastic portion.
[0049]     According to one embodiment, the medical device comprises an elongated member,
and the step of fixating the medical device comprises placing the elongated member in the
collum femur, substantially aligned with the caput and collum femur center axis, the elongated
member engaging at least one of: the cancellous bone of the collum femur, the cortical bone of
the collum femur and an artificial material placed inside of the collum femur.
[0050]     The elongated member could comprise a threaded portion, and the step of placing
the elongated member in the collum femur could comprise the step of screwing the elongated
into the collum femur.
[0051]     According to yet another embodiment, the elongated member could comprise an
anchoring portion, and the step of placing the elongated member in the collum femur could
comprise the step of placing the anchoring portion such that the anchoring portion engages at
least one of: the cancellous bone of the collum femur, the cortical bone of the collum femur
and an artificial material placed inside of the collum femur.
[0052]     According to another embodiment, the anchoring portion can be placed in a first and
second state, and said anchoring portion could be adapted to, in the second state, further
engage at least one of: the cancellous bone of the collum femur, the cortical bone of the collum
femur and an artificial material placed inside of the collum femur, for further stabilizing the
medical device.
[0053]     In yet another embodiment, the medical device further comprises applying an
adhesive to a surface of the inside of the caput or collum femur and placing the medical device
in contact with said adhesive, such that said adhesive adheres to the medical device.
[0054]     According to yet another embodiment, the step of fixating the medical device
comprises the step of fixating the medical device using a mechanical fixation element adapted
to engage the cortical bone of the caput or collum femur.

[0055]     In yet another embodiment, the step of fixating the medical device comprises the
step of fixating the medical device using a mechanical fixation element adapted to engage the
cortical bone of the caput or collum femur.
[0056]     In yet another embodiment, the step of fixating the medical device could comprise
the step of placing a mechanical fixation element in connection with the medical device,
clamping the medical device, and thus fixating the medical device to the caput femur.
[0057]     In other embodiments, the step of placing the mechanical fixation element comprises
the step of placing a loop shaped mechanical fixation element surrounding the medical device
and caput femur.
[0058]     In other embodiments, step of fixating the medical device to the caput or collum
femur, comprises fixating the medical device to the cortical bone of caput or collum femur from
at least one of; the outside, the inside and a proximal cut caput or collum femur and operating
the device to adjust the fixation to clamp the cortical bone of the caput or collum femur.
[0059]     According to one preferred embodiment, the fixating portion is adapted to be
operable to adjust the stabilization of the medical device towards the cortical bone of the caput
or collum femur, from at least one of; the inside of caput or collum femur, the outside of the
caput or collum femur and a cut proximal side of caput or collum femur.
[0060]     Please note that any embodiment or part of embodiment as well as any method or
part of method could be combined in any way. All examples herein should be seen as part of
the general description and therefore possible to combine in any way in general terms.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF DRAWINGS
[0061]     The invention is now described, by way of example, with reference to the
accompanying drawings, in which:
[0062]     fig. 1a shows the hip joint in section,
[0063]     fig. 1b shows the collum femur in section,
[0064]     fig. 2 shows the exposing of the caput femur through an incision in the thigh,

[0065]     fig. 3 shows the step of removing a proximal part of the caput femur,
[0066]     fig. 4 shows the reaming of the collum and caput femur,
[0067]     fig. 5 shows the collum and caput femur when a medical device gas been fixated,
[0068]     fig. 6 shows the reaming of the acetabulum,
[0069]     fig. 7 shows the injecting of an adhesive in the acetabulum,
[0070]     fig. 8 shows the fixation of a medical device in the acetabulum,
[0071]     fig. 9 shows an artificial hip joint, when connected,
[0072]     fig. 10 shows a medical device when anchored in the femoral bone,
[0073]     fig. 11 shows a frontal view of a human patient when incisions have been made in a
surgical method,
[0074]     fig. 12 shows a frontal view of a human patient when incisions have been made in a
arthroscopic method,
[0075]     fig. 13 shows the human patient in section when a medical device for creating a hole
in the pelvic bone is inserted,
[0076]     fig. 14 shows the hip joint in section when a medical device for creating a hole in the
pelvic bone is operating,
[0077]     fig. 15 shows the step of removing a proximal part of the caput femur,
[0078]     fig.16 shows the hip joint in section when a reamer is introduced to a hole in the
pelvic bone,
[0079]     fig. 17 shows the hip joint in section when an injecting member injects a fluid through
a hole in the pelvic bone.
[0080]     fig 18 shows the step of providing a medical device through a hole in the pelvic bone,

[0081]      fig.19 shows the medical device in further detail,
[0082]      fig. 20 shows the hip joint in section when a medical device has been provided,
[0083]      fig. 21 shows the hip joint in section when a prosthetic part is being provided,
[0084]      fig. 22 shows the hip joint in section when the medical device has been fixated,
[0085]      fig. 23 shows a second approach to reaming the caput femur,
[0086]      fig. 24 shows the hip joint in section when an injecting member injects a fluid through
a hole in the pelvic bone.
[0087]      fig. 25 shows a second approach to placing the medical device in the hip joint,
[0088]      fig. 26 shows a second approach to placing the medical device in the hip joint,
[0089]      fig. 27 shows the hip joint in section when a prosthetic part is being provided in a
second approach,
[0090]      fig. 28 shows the hip joint in section when the medical device has been fixated,
[0091]      fig. 29 shows a schematic view of the concave hip joint surface in section,
[0092]      fig. 30 shows an artificial concave acetabulum surface in section,
[0093]      fig. 31 shows the step of injecting a fluid into an area of the hip joint or its
surroundings.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION
[0094]      In the following a detailed description of preferred embodiments of the present
invention will be given. In the drawing figures, like reference numerals designate identical or
corresponding elements throughout the several figures. It will be appreciated that these figures
are for illustration only and are not in any way restricting the scope of the invention. Thus, any
references to direction, such as "up" or "down", are only referring to the directions shown in the
figures. Also, any dimensions etc. shown in the figures are for illustration purposes.

[0095]     Functional hip movements are to be understood as movements of the hip that at
least partly correspond to the natural movements of the hip. On some occasions the natural
movements of the hip joint might be somewhat limited or altered after hip joint surgery, which
makes the functional hip movements of a hip joint with artificial surfaces somewhat different
than the functional hip movements of a natural hip joint.
[0096]     The functional position of an implantable medical device or prosthesis is the position
in which the hip joint can perform functional hip movements. The final position is to be
understood as a functional position in which the medical device needs no further position
change.
[0097]     Arthroscopy is to be understood as key hole surgery performed in a joint, since the
arthroscopic procedure could be performed in the abdomen of the patient some of the steps of
this arthroscopic procedure is more laparoscopic, however for the purpose of this invention the
two terms arthroscopy and laparoscopy is used synonymously and for the purpose of this
invention the main purpose of these methods are is that they are minimally invasive.
[0098]     The medical device according to any of the embodiments could comprise at least
one material selected from a group consisting of: polytetrafluoroethylene (PTFE),
perfluoroalkoxy (PFA) and fluorinated ethylene propylene (FEP). It is furthermore conceivable
that the material comprises a metal alloy, such as cobalt-chromium-molybdenum or titanium or
stainless steel, or polyethylene, such as cross-linked polyethylene or gas sterilized
polyethylene. The use of ceramic material is also conceivable, in the contacting surfaces or the
entire medical device such as zirconium or zirconium dioxide ceramics or alumina ceramics.
The part of the medical device in contact with human bone for fixation of the medical device to
human bone could comprise a poorhouse structure which could be a porous micro or nano
structure adapted to promote the growth-in of human bone in the medical device for fixating
the medical device. The porous structure could be achieved by applying a hydroxy-apatite
(HA) coating, or a rough open-pored titanium coating, which could be produced by air plasma
spraying, a combination comprising a rough open-pored titanium coating and a HA top layer is
also conceivable. The contacting parts could be made of a self lubricated material such as a
waxy polymer, such as PTFE, PFA, FEP, PE and UHMWPE, or a powder metallurgy material
which could be infused with a lubricant, which preferably is a biocompatible lubricant such as a
Hyaluronic acid derivate. It is also conceivable that the material of contacting parts or surfaces
of the medical device herein is adapted to be constantly or intermittently lubricated. According
to some embodiments the parts or portions of the medical device could comprise a

combination of metal materials and/or carbon fibers and/or boron, a combination of metal and
plastic materials, a combination of metal and carbon based material, a combination of carbon
and plastic based material, a combination of flexible and stiff materials, a combination of
elastic and less elastic materials, Corian or acrylic polymers.
[0099]     Fig. 1a shows the hip joint of a human patient in section. The hip joint comprises a
caput femur 5 placed at the very top of collum femur 6 which is the top part of the femoral bone
7. The caput femur is in connection with the acetabulum 8, which is a bowl shaped part of the
pelvic bone 9. Both the caput femur surface 10 and the acetabulum surface 11 is covered with
articular cartilage 13 which acts as a cushion in the hip joint. In patients with hip joint
osteoarthritis, this articular cartilage 13 is abnormally worn down due to a low grade
inflammation. The hip joint is surrounded by the hip joint capsule 12 which provides support for
the joint and hinders luxation. After conventional hip joint surgery, penetrating the hip joint
capsule 12, the capsule 12 is dramatically weakened due to the limited healing possibilities of
its ligament tissue. By performing hip joint surgery without damaging the hip joint capsule 12
the patient can fully recover and place equal amount of strain on an artificial joint as is possible
on a natural one.
[0100]     Fig. 1b shows a section A - A of the collum femur, as shown in fig. 1. The section A
- A shows the collum femur comprising cortical bone 601, the outer more sclerotic bone, and
cancellous bone 602, the inner porous bone located in the bone marrow 603. Further, fig. 1b
shows a section B - B of the caput femur, perpendicular to the length axis of the collum 6 and
caput 5 femur.
[0101]     Fig. 2 shows a lateral view of a human patient when an incision in the thigh region
has been made. The femoral bone 7 comprising the collum femur 6 and the caput femur 5 has
been dislocated from its usual position in the hip joint, in connection with the acetabulum,
which is a part of the pelvic bone 9, the caput femur 5 being a part of the hip joint normally
being covered by the hip joint capsule.
[0102]     Fig. 3 shows the proximal part of the caput femur 5 being removed e.g. by means of
a bone saw. A surface of a section 102 is thus created perpendicularly to a length axis of the
collum femur 6
[0103]     Fig. 4a shows the reaming of the collum femur 6 and caput femur 5 using a reamer
40 connecting to an elongated member 21 by a connecting section 101. The reamer 40

creating a hemi-spherical cavity, having a concave surface 103, centrally placed in the caput 5
and collum femur 6.
[0104]      Fig. 4b shows the step of applying an adhesive 106 to the created hemi-spherical
cavity in the femoral bone using an injecting member 104 having an injecting nozzle 105. In
the embodiment shown in fig. 4b the injecting member is inserted into an area of the hip joint
through a hole 18 in the pelvic bone 9, however it is equally conceivable that the injecting
member is inserted through the hip joint capsule 12 or the femoral bone 7.
[0105]      Fig. 5 shows the femoral bone 7 when a medical device 109 having a concave
contacting surface has been provided to the hemi-spherical cavity, centrally placed in the caput
5 and collum femur. An elastic layer 109b adapted to absorb shocks from the femoral bone
has been placed between the surface 109c adapted to be in contact with the artificial caput
femur surface, and the femoral bone 7, 6. The elastic layer 109b could be an elastic polymer
layer, such as a polyurethane or silicone layer. Having a layer absorbing shocks in the hip joint
reduces the risk of fastening elements in contact with bone being affected by strains such that
the fastening elements are loosened from their respective fastening positions, it also increases
the comfort for the patient.
[0106]      Fig. 6a shows the femoral bone 7 when a medical device having a concave
contacting surface 110 has been provided to the hemi-spherical cavity, centrally placed in the
caput 5 and collum femur. The medical device has been fixated to the femoral bone 7 using
screws 121 placed aligned with the caput and collum femur center axis and entering the
cortical bone of the caput femur.
[0107]      Fig. 6b shows the femoral bone 7 when a medical device having a concave
contacting surface 110 has been provided to the hemi-spherical cavity, centrally placed in the
caput 5 and collum femur. The medical device comprises fixating portions 680 extending on
the outside of the surface of a section 102 of the surgically cut caput femur, comprising cortical
bone in the periphery thereof, thereby stabilizing the medical device with the artificial concave
acetabulum surface 110 in the surgically cut caput femur.
[0108]      Fig. 6c shows an alternative embodiment, in which the medical device has been
fixated to the surgically cut caput femur using screws 121 entering the cortical bone 601 of the
caput femur.

[0109]      Fig. 6d shows yet another embodiment, in which the medical device is fixated to the
femoral bone using fixating portions, in accordance with the embodiment described with
reference to fig. 6b, and an elongated member 681. The elongated member is according to this
embodiment a threaded member 681 extending along the collum and caput femur center axis,
in the cancellous bone 602 of the collum femur, and entering the cortical bone 601 of the
femoral bone, on the inside thereof, in the area of the greater trochanter. The threaded
elongated member 681 creates an axial force when pulled pressing the medical device
towards the surface of a section 102 of the surgically cut caput femur, thereby stabilizing and
fixating the medical device in the concave cavity created in the caput femur.
[0110]      Fig. 6e shows yet an alternative embodiment of the medical device in which the
fixating portions 680 are additionally fixated using screws 121 placed from the outside of the
surgically cut caput femur, perpendicularly to the collum and caput femur center axis.
[0111]      Fig. 7a shows the medical device in an embodiment in which the fixating portions
680 extends beyond the greatest circumference of the surgically cut caput femur and thereby
clasps the medical device to the surgically cut caput femur, fixating the medical device
thereon. The concave contacting surface 110 is also adapted to travel beyond the equator of
an artificial caput femur which is placed in the artificial acetabulum when mounted into a
functioning artificial hip joint, and clasping the artificial caput femur when mounted therein.
[0112]      Fig. 7b shows yet another embodiment where the medical device is additionally
fixated using a fixating band 683 encircling the fixating portions of the medical device and
thereby further clasping the medical device to the surgically cut caput femur.
[0113]      Fig. 7c shows three different embodiment of medical devices comprising fixating
portions 680 which are slightly tilted towards the collum and caput femur center axis, thereby
clasping a portion of the surgically cut caput femur for fixating the medical device to the
surgically cut caput femur. The three different embodiments shown is first, without screws 121,
second, with screws entering the cortical bone, and third, with screws penetrating the cortical
bone and entering the medical device on the inside of the concave cavity, which enables the
screws to squeeze a portion of the cortical bone for tight fixation of the medical device.
[0114]      Fig. 7d shows two embodiments in which the concave contacting surface 110 only
comprises the part placed inside of the concave cavity. The first embodiment shows the
acetabulum surface 110 fixated to the concave cavity using screws 121, whereas the second

embodiment shows the artificial acetabulum surface fixated without screws, such as using an
adhesive.
[0115]      Fig. 7e shows two embodiments in which the artificial acetabulum surface extends
into a portion placed on the surface of a section created when the caput femur is surgically cut.
In the first embodiment the medical device is fixated using screws entering the cortical bone,
whereas in the second embodiment the artificial contacting surface is fixated without screws,
such as using an adhesive.
[0116]      Fig. 7f describes an embodiment in which the medical device is further fixated using
an elongated member 681, fixating portions 680, and screws 121 placed between the fixating
portions 680 and the inside of the artificial acetabulum contacting surface 110. The elongated
member 681 is according to this embodiment a threaded member 681 and the first fig.
discloses the preparation of the cancellous bone 602 with a curing fluid 685, such as bone
cement, creating a sturdy base for the fixation of the threaded member 681.
[0117]      Fig. 8 shows the artificial acetabulum surface 110 in further detail when the artificial
acetabulum surface comprises a fixating portion 680 extending on the outside of the cortical
bone 601. The fixating portion 680 is further fixated using screws 121 placed from the outside,
through a hole in the medical device, penetrating the cortical bone 601 of the surgically cut
caput femur and entering the medical device placed in the concave cavity in the caput femur.
[0118]      Fig. 9 shows a section of the medical device according to the embodiment also
described with reference to fig. 7a, in further detail. The medical device according to the
embodiment in fig. 9 comprises fixating portions 680 which reaches on the outside of the
surgically cut caput femur and clasps the cortical bone of the caput femur. The medical device
clasps the caput femur since a distance 687, between the collum and caput femur center axis
CA and the fixating portion in shorter than a distance 686 between the collum and caput femur
center axis CA and a portion of the fixating portion placed more proximally when the medical
device is implanted. On the inside of the artificial concave acetabulum surface, the surface
extends beyond the equator of the artificial caput femur adapted to be placed therein. An
extending portion 682 clasps the artificial caput femur placed in the artificial acetabulum
surface 110 since a distance 688, between the collum and caput femur center axis CA and the
inside of the artificial acetabulum surface 110 is shorter than a distance 689 between the
collum and caput femur center axis CA and a point on the inside of the artificial acetabulum
contacting surface 110 being more distal when the medical device is implanted. In other

embodiments, the fixating portions 680 could be operable or adjustable for further fixating the
medical device to the cortical bone. The fixating portions 680 could be operable for example by
means of a screw for tightening the fixating portions 680 to the cortical bone, which could
squeeze the cortical bone between the fixating portions 680 and the part of the medical device
placed inside of the femoral bone.
[0119]      Fig. 10a shows the step of milling the periphery 690 of the cortical bone of the caput
femur after the caput femur has been surgically cut, using a milling device 688 adapted
therefor. The milling process creates a straighter edge which facilitates the fixation of a
medical device on the outside of the caput femur.
[0120]      Fig. 1Ob shows the milling of the inside of the cortical bone of the caput femur after
the caput femur has been surgically cut, using a milling device 689 adapted therefor, creating a
straighter edge which facilitates the fixation of a medical device on the inside of the caput
femur.
[0121]      Fig. 11 shows an artificial convex caput femur surface 112 adapted to be placed in
an artificial acetabulum surface according to any of the embodiments herein. After the artificial
convex caput femur surface has been placed in the artificial acetabulum surface it is locked
using a locking member 116 comprising a surface 117 adapted to be in contact with the
artificial convex hip joint surface 112. The locking member 116 further comprises fixating
members 115 which are adapted to assist in the fixation of the locking member 116 to the
caput femur 5 or collum femur 6, which in turns fixates the artificial convex hip joint surface
112. The fixating members comprises a fixating portion 680 which travels on the outside of the
surgically cut caput femur for radially stabilizing and fixating the locking member to the
surgically cut caput femur. The artificial convex hip joint surface 112 is fixated to an attachment
rod 113 comprising a thread 114.
[0122]      Fig. 12 shows the artificial convex caput femur surface 112 as disclosed with
reference to fig. 11 when mounted in an artificial acetabulum surface 109 placed in a concave
cavity in the femoral bone. The artificial acetabulum surface is according to this embodiment is
fixated to the femoral bone using an elongated member 681, here being a threaded member
placed aligned with the collum and caput center axis.
[0123]      Fig. 13 shows the artificial convex caput femur surface 112 as disclosed with
reference to fig. 11 when mounted in an artificial acetabulum surface 109 placed in a concave

cavity in the femoral bone. The artificial acetabulum surface is according to this embodiment is
fixated using screws 121 entering the cortical bone of the surgically cut caput femur.
[0124]      Fig. 14 shows the injection of an adhesive 106 in the acetabulum 8 in the pelvic bone
9 using an injecting member comprising an injecting nozzle 105, which is a preparation for the
fixation of a medical device to the pelvic bone 9.
[0125]      Fig. 15 shows the placing of a medical device in the reamed acetabulum 8 surface of
the pelvic bone 9. The medical device comprises a convex hip joint surface 112 fixated to a
fixation element 1301, which in turn is fixated to the acetabulum 8 using the injected fluid,
which could be assisted or replaced by a mechanical fixation element such as screws. The
medical device further comprises a pre-mounted locking member 116 for locking the convex
hip joint surface of the concave hip joint surface placed in the caput 5 and collum femur 6 for
hindering dislocation of the hip joint when the hip joint is in its functional position.
[0126]      Fig. 16a shows the step of creating a hole in the pelvic bone 9 from the acetabulum
side of the pelvic bone 9.
[0127]      Fig. 16b shows the medical device according to an embodiment in which the medical
device comprises a fixation element 1301 adapted to fixate the artificial convex caput femur
112 to the pelvic bone 9. The fixation element 1301 comprises a fixation surface 1334 which is
adapted to fit into the acetabulum 8. The fixation surface 1334 could be adapted to be fixated
against the acetabulum 8 using an adhesive, such as bone cement, applied to the fixation
surface 1334 and/or the acetabulum surface 8. The medical device further comprises an
elongated element 1310, here being an integrated part of the fixation element 1301. The
elongated element 1310 is inserted through the hole in the pelvic bone 9, such that said
elongated member 1310 is partially placed on the abdominal side of the pelvic bone 9. After
insertion of the elongated member 1310, the elongated member 1310 is structurally changed
on the abdominal side of the pelvic bone 9, such that said elongated member 1310 fixates the
fixation element 1301 to the pelvic bone 9. According to the embodiment of fig. 16b the
elongated member 1310 comprises an expandable portion 1311, and the structural change
comprises the expandable portion 1311 changing from a first, non-expanded state, in which
the elongated element 1310 is inserted into the hole in the pelvic bone 9 substantially along a
length axis of the elongated element 1310 into an expanded state, in which the expandable
portion 1311 is expanded in at least one away from the length axis, such that said elongated
element 1310 is placed in an expanded state, which fixates the fixation element 1301 to the

pelvic bone 9. The expandable portion 1311 according to the embodiment shown in fig. 16b
comprises a plurality of expanding elements in connection with an anvil member 1312. A
threaded member 1313 is placed centrally in the elongated element 1310 and is in one end
connected to an anvil member 1312 and in the other end connected to a threaded portion 1314
of the artificial caput femur 112. By the connection with the threaded member 1313, the anvil
member 1312 is adapted to press on the expanding elements following an action performed
from the acetabulum side of the pelvic bone 9, such that said expanding elements expand in at
least one direction substantially perpendicular to the length axis of the elongated element
1311. The fixation element shown in fig. 16b further comprises a flange 1315 adapted to
extend out of the acetabulum 8 and be placed in contact with the pelvic bone 9.
[0128]      Fig. 16c shows the expandable portion 1311 when the anvil member 1312 has
pressed the expandable elements in two directions perpendicular to the length axis of the
elongated element 1310 for fixating the elongated element 1310 and the entire artificial caput
femur 112 to the pelvic bone 9. The threaded part 1314, being a portion of the artificial caput
femur 112, has been partially inserted into the artificial caput femur 112, and thus the anvil
member 1312 is pulled towards the hole in the pelvic bone 9.
[0129]      Fig. 16d shows the elongated member 1311 in the wholly expanded state fixating the
artificial caput femur 112 to the pelvic bone 9. In this state the threaded member 1313 is
positioned further into the artificial caput femur 112 which is rotated to tighten the expandable
elongated element 1310. The locking member 116 is according to this embodiment pre
mounted onto the artificial caput femur 112 when the artificial caput femur 112 is implanted,
however, according to other embodiments it is equally conceivable that the locking member
116 is adapted to be mounted after the artificial caput femur 112 has been implanted in the hip
joint.
[0130]      Fig. 16e shows the medical device according to an embodiment in which the
implantable medical device comprises an elongated element 1320 comprising a movable
locking portion 1321 adapted to have a first and second state, wherein said movable locking
portion 1321, in said first state is adapted to be inserted into a hole in the pelvic bone 9, and in
said second state is adapted to hinder the elongated element 1320 from passing through said
hole in the pelvic bone 9 by said movable locking portion 1321 contacting the surface of the
pelvic bone 9 on the abdominal side. Fig. 8f shows the elongated element 1320 in its first state
after having passed through the hole in the pelvic bone 9.

[0131]      Fig. 16f shows the movable locking portion 1321 changing from the first to the
second state at the same time as the artificial caput femur 112, comprising a threaded part
1314, interacts with a corresponding threaded member 1323 being part of the elongated
element 1320. The movable locking portion 1321 is pivotally arranged at a pivot point 1322
and changes from the first to the second state using the pivot point 1322.
[0132]      Fig. 16g shows the medical device according to the embodiment of figs. 16e and 16f
when the movable member 1321 is placed in the second state, in which the artificial caput
femur 112 is fixated to the pelvic bone 9 by the movable member 1321 being in contact with
the abdominal side of the pelvic bone 9. The artificial caput femur 112 has been tightened
using the threaded part 1314 and corresponding threaded member 1323, such that the entire
medical device comprising the artificial caput femur 112 is securely fixated to the pelvic bone
9. Similar to the embodiments shown with reference to figs. 16b - 16d the fixation element
1301 could be further fixated to the acetabulum 8 using an adhesive, such as bone cement,
applied to the fixation surface and/or the acetabulum surface 8.
[0133]      Fig. 16h shows an embodiment in which the fixation element comprises a fixation
surface 1334 comprising two holes adapted to receive two mechanical fixation elements 1331.
In the embodiment of fig. 8i the mechanical fixation elements 1331 are expanding fixation
elements 1331, such as the expanding fixation elements described with reference to figs. 16b
- 16d, however in other embodiments it is equally conceivable that the mechanical fixation
elements are elements adapted to fixate the medical device to the internal periphery of the
holes, such as screws. Similar to the embodiments shown with reference to figs. 16b - 16g the
fixation element 1301 could be further fixated to the acetabulum using an adhesive, such as
bone cement, applied to the fixation surface and/or the acetabulum surface. Fig. 16h shows an
embodiment in which the medical device has a pre-mounted locking member 116, however, in
other embodiments it is equally conceivable that the locking member 116 is adapted to be
mounted after the artificial caput femur 112 has been implanted in the hip joint.
[0134]      Fig. 16i shows the artificial hip joint in section, when the medical device described
with reference to fig. 16h has been implanted. Furthermore an artificial acetabulum surface
1340 having a concave surface towards the center of the hip joint has been implanted. The
artificial acetabulum surface 1340 has been fixated to the femoral bone 7, and placed in
movable contact with the artificial caput femur surface 112, thus creating a functioning artificial
hip joint. The locking member 116 has been fixated to the femoral bone 7, thus locking the
artificial caput femur 112 in the artificial acetabulum surface 1340. The locking member 116 is

according to the embodiment shown in fig. 8j fixated using screws 121, however the screws
121 could be assisted or replaced by an adhesive, such as bone cement.
[0135]      Fig. 17a shows an assembled artificial hip joint with an artificial caput femur surface
112 fixated to the pelvic bone 9 using two fixating members adapted to expand inside of the
cortical bone of the pelvic bone 9. The fixating members comprises a screw 121 in connection
with an anvil member 1312 affecting an expandable portion 1311 pressing the expandable
members in two directions perpendicular to the length axis of the fixation members for fixating
the artificial caput femur 112 to the pelvic bone 9. The artificial acetabulum 1340 is fixated to
the femoral bone 7 using an elongated member 131 0b placed in the cancellous bone and
aligned with the caput and collum femur center axis. The elongated member comprises an
expandable portion 1311 b which is pressed by an anvil member 1312b connected to a
threaded member 1313b pressing the expandable members 1311 b in two directions
perpendicular to the length axis of the elongated member 131 Gb for fixating the artificial
acetabulum surface to the femoral bone 7.
[0136]      Fig. 17b shows an embodiment similar to the embodiment shown in fig. 17a with the
difference that the artificial acetabulum surface is fixated using an elongated member 131 Oc
which penetrates the cancellous bone of the collum femur and the cortical bone of the femoral
bone in the area of the greater trochanter 1695. The elongated member comprises a movable
locking portion 1321b, pivotally arranged at a pivot point 1322b. The movable locking portion
1321 b could change from a first to a second state around the pivot point 1322b. When the
movable locking portion 1321 b is placed in the second state it locks the elongated member on
the outside of the femoral bone 7 in the area of the greater trochanter 1695.
[0137]      Fig. 17c shows an embodiment similar to the embodiment shown in fig. 17a with the
difference that the artificial acetabulum surface is fixated using an elongated member 131 Gd
which penetrates the cancellous bone of the collum femur and enters the cortical bone of the
femoral bone in the area of the greater trochanter 1695 but never exits the bone but rather is
fixated inside of the bone 7.
[0138]      Fig. 18a shows an embodiment where the artificial acetabulum 1340 is fixated to the
femoral bone 7 using fixating portions 680 being part of the locking member 116. The fixating
portions 680 comprises portions 680' clasping the surgically cut femoral bone and thereby
fixating the artificial acetabulum surface to the femoral bone.

[0139]      Fig. 18b shows an embodiment similar to the embodiment described with reference
to fig. 18a with the difference that the locking member is fixated to the surgically cut caput
femur using screws 121.
[0140]      Fig. 19 shows the hip joint in section when the medical device is assembled and in
its functional position in the hip joint. The artificial caput femur surface 45 or convex hip joint
surface 112 is fixated to the fixation part 1301, which in turn is fixated to the acetabulum 8, The
locking member 116 locks the artificial convex caput femur surface 45 in the artificial concave
acetabulum surface in the caput 5 and collum femur 6.
[0141]      Fig. 20 shows a frontal view of a human patient when an incision for reaching an
area of the hip joint through the pelvic bone in a surgical method has been performed.
According to one embodiment the incision 1 is made in the abdominal wall of the human
patient. The incision 1 passes through the abdominal wall, preferably rectus abdominis and
peritoneum, in to the abdomen of the human patent. In a second embodiment the incision 2 is
conducted through the rectus abdominis and in to the pelvic area, below peritoneum.
According to a third embodiment the incision 3 is performed just between Illium and the
surrounding tissue, an incision 3 which could enable the pelvic bone to be dissected with very
little penetration of fascia and muscular tissue. According to a fourth embodiment the incision 4
is made in the inguinal channel. In all of the four embodiments the tissue surrounding the
pelvic bone 9 in the area opposite to acetabulum is removed or penetrated which enables the
surgeon to reach the pelvic bone 9. It is obvious that the methods described may both be
combined or altered reaching the same goal to dissect the pelvic bone on the opposite side of
the acetabulum.
[0142]      Fig. 21 shows a frontal view of a human patient when small incisions for reaching an
area of the hip joint through the pelvic bone in a arthroscopic method has been performed.
According to a first embodiment the incisions 14 is made in the abdominal wall of the human
patient. The small incisions enable the surgeon to insert arthroscopic trocars into the abdomen
of the human patient. According to the first embodiment the incisions 14 passes through the
abdomen, preferably rectus abdominis and peritoneum, in to the abdomen of the human
patent. According to a second embodiment the small incisions 15 is conducted through the
rectus abdominis and in to the pelvic area, below peritoneum. According to a third embodiment
the small incisions 16 is performed just between Illium and the surrounding tissue, an incision
16 which could enable the pelvic bone to be dissected with very little penetration of fascia and
muscular tissue. According to a fourth embodiment the incision 17 is made in the inguinal

channel. In all of the four embodiments the tissue surrounding the pelvic bone 9 in the area
opposite to acetabulum 8 is removed or penetrated which enables the surgeon to reach the
pelvic bone 9.
[0143]      Fig. 22 shows the human patient in section when a medical device for creating a
hole 18 in the pelvic bone 9 is inserted through an incision according to any of the
embodiments described above. An elongated member 21, which could comprise a part or
section adapted to be bent transfers force from an operating device (not shown) to the bone
contacting organ 22. The bone contacting organ 22 is placed in contact with the pelvic bone 9
and creates a hole through a drilling, sawing or milling process powered by a rotating, vibrating
or oscillating force distributed from the elongated member 21.
[0144]      Fig. 23 shows the hip joint in section after the medical device for creating a hole 18
in the pelvic bone 9 has created said hole 18. According to this embodiment the hole 18 is
created through the removal of a bone plug 31, however it is equally conceivable that said
medical device comprises a bone contacting organ 22 adapted to create small pieces of bone,
in which case the medical device could further comprise a system for transport of said small
pieces of bone.
[0145]      Fig. 24 shows how the medical device adapted to create a hole is inserted into the
hip joint and placed in contact with the caput femur 5. According to this embodiment the
medical device for creating a hole in the pelvic bone 9 and surgically cutting the caput femur 5
is the same medical device, however it is equally conceivable that there is a second medical
device particularly adapted to surgically cut the caput femur 5.
[0146]      Fig. 25 shows the hip joint in section when a second medical device 604 surgically
removes the most proximal portion of the caput femur 5. The second medical device 604
comprises a drilling portion in which a cutting member in a folded position 605a is placed.
[0147]      Fig. 26 shows the second medical device 604 when the drilling portion is positioned
inside of the femoral bone, and the cutting member is placed in a cutting position 605b for
cutting the proximal portion of the caput femur 5.
[0148]      Fig. 27 shows a medical device comprising an artificial convex hip joint surface 112.
The artificial convex hip joint surface 112 is adapted to be fixated to the pelvic bone 9, and is
adapted to be inserted through a hole 18 in the pelvic bone 9. The medical device comprises a

nut 120, comprising threads for securely fixating the medical device to the pelvic bone 9. The
medical device further comprises a prosthetic part 118 adapted to occupy the hole 18 created
in the pelvic bone 9 after the medical device has been implanted in the patient. The prosthetic
part 118 comprises supporting members 119 adapted to be in contact with the pelvic bone 9
and assist in the carrying of the load placed on the medical device from the weight of the
human patient in normal use. Normal use is defined as the same as a person would use a
natural hip joint. Further the medical device comprises a locking member 116 comprising a
surface 117 adapted to be in contact with the artificial convex hip joint surface 112. The locking
member 116 further comprises fixating members 115 which are adapted to assist in the
fixation of the locking member 116 to the caput femur 5 or collum femur 6, which in turns
fixates the artificial convex hip joint surface 112. The artificial convex hip joint surface 112 is
fixated to an attachment rod 113 comprising a thread 114 that corresponds to the thread of the
nut 120 in connection with the prosthetic part 118.
[0149]      Fig. 28 shows the hip joint in section when the artificial convex hip joint surface is
fixated in the medical device 109 comprising a concave hip joint surface 110. The convex hip
joint surface 112 is secured in place by the locking member 116 which is fixated to the caput
femur using screws 121. The surface of the locking member 117 and the concave hip joint
surface 117 is placed in connection with the convex hip joint surface and could be made of a
friction reducing material such as PTFE or a self lubricating powder material. However it is also
conceivable that the connecting surfaces are lubricated using an implantable lubrication
system adapted to lubricate the medical device after said medical device has been implanted
in the human patient.
[0150]      Fig. 29 shows the placing of a prosthetic part 118 adapted to occupy the hole 18
created in the pelvic bone 9. The prosthetic part 118 comprises supporting members 119
adapted to be in contact with the pelvic bone 9 and assist in the carrying of the load placed on
the medical device from the weight of the human patient. According to the embodiment shown
in fig. 12 the supporting members 119 are located on the abdominal side of the pelvic bone 9,
however it is equally conceivable the supporting members 119 are located on the acetabulum
side of the pelvic bone 9, in which case they are preferably displaceable for allowing insertion
of the prosthetic part 118 through the hole 18 in the pelvic bone 9. Furthermore fig. 12 shows
the fixation of a nut 120 to the attachment rod 113. According to the embodiment shown in fig.
12 the hole 18 in the pelvic bone 9 is adapted to be larger than the medical device allowing the
medical device to be inserted in its full functional size. According to other embodiments the
hole 18 is smaller in which case the medical device could comprise of several parts adapted to

be connected after insertion in the hip joint, or the medical device could be expandable for
insertion through a hole smaller than the full functional size of the medical device. The
expandable medical device could be enabled through the elements of the medical device
comprising elastic material.
[0151]     Fig. 30 shows the hip joint in section when all the elements of the medical device has
been fixated in the area of the hip joint or its surroundings. The prosthetic part 113 adapted to
occupy the hole 18 in the pelvic bone 9 is here fixated with screws 121, however these screws
121 could be assisted or replaced by an adhesive which could be applied to the surface S
between the prosthetic part and the pelvic bone 9.
[0152]     Fig. 31 shows the hip joint in section when the method of supplying the medical
device is conducted according to another embodiment. The proximal part of the caput femur
has been removed along the section created by the medical device for creating a hole. A
reaming member 40 adapted to create a concave surface 103 in the caput femur 5 is here
applied to a elongated member 206 which is inserted through a hole 205 going from the lateral
side of the thigh, penetrating the cortical bone of the femoral bone 7 propagating along a
length axis of the collum femur in the cancellous bone and entering the area of the hip joint.
The elongated member 206 is operated using an operating device 207 which could be an
electrically powered operating device, a hydraulically powered operating device or a
pneumatically powered operating device. The reaming in the caput femur and part of the
collum femur 6 is mainly performed in the cancellous bone, however that does not exclude the
possibility the some of the reaming needs to be performed in the cortical bone of the caput
femur 5 or the collum femur 6.
[0153]     Fig. 32 shows the step of applying an adhesive 106 to the concave surface created
by the reamer 40. The adhesive 106 is applied by an injecting member 104 comprising an
injecting nozzle 105. The adhesive 106 is preferably a biocompatible adhesive such as bone
cement. The injecting member 104 is in this embodiment adapted for introduction through a
hole 18 in the pelvic bone 9, through the injecting member 104 being bent.
[0154]     Fig. 33 shows the step of providing a medical device 109 comprising an artificial
concave hip joint surface 110. The medical device is according to this embodiment provided
with a hole positioned in the length axis of the collum femur 6. The medical device is through
the hole adapted to be guided by the elongated member 206 or a guiding rod placed in the
hole 205 along a length axis of the collum femur 6. Inserting the medical device into the hip

joint while the elongated member 206 or guiding rod runs through the hole of the medical
device facilitates the positioning of the medical device and ensures the different parts of the
medical device is centered for functioning as a unit. In the embodiment shown in fig. 33 the
medical device 109 is inserted into the hip joint as a single unit, however it is equally
conceivable that the medical device 109 is inserted in parts (not shown) which are then
connected to form the medical device after implantation in the patient. The artificial concave
hip joint surface 110 is fixated to the concave surface 103 created in the caput femur 5 and
collum femur 6. The medical device 109 comprises a fixation support 111 adapted to anchor
said artificial concave hip joint surface 110, to at least one of the caput femur 5 and the collum
femur 6. The medical device 109 is adapted to be introduced to the hip joint through a hole 18
in the pelvic bone 9 using a manipulation device 122 comprising a gripping member 123.
According to this embodiment the manipulation device 122 is bent and thereby adapted to
operate through a hole 18 in the pelvic bone 9. According to one embodiment the medical
device 109 comprises a self lubricating material such as PTFE, however it is also conceivable
that said medical device comprises: titanium, stainless steel, Corian, PE, or other acrylic
polymers, in which case the medical device could be adapted to be lubricated after insertion in
the hip joint.
[0155]      Fig. 34 shows the hip joint in section when the artificial convex hip joint surface is
fixated in the medical device 109 comprising a concave hip joint surface 110, the medical
device is guided using the elongated member 206 or a guiding rod. The convex hip joint
surface 112 is secured in place by the locking member 116 which is fixated to the caput femur
using screws 121, the convex hip joint surface is guided using the elongated member 206 or a
guiding rod. The surface of the locking member 117 and the concave hip joint surface 110 is
placed in connection with the convex hip joint surface and could be made of a friction reducing
material such as PTFE or a self lubricating powder material. However it is also conceivable
that the connecting surfaces are lubricated using an implantable lubrication system adapted to
lubricate the medical device after said medical device has been implanted in the human
patient. The elongated member or guiding rod 206 can be adapted to act as a centering rod for
centering the at least one artificial hip joint surface inside of the hip joint. According to the
embodiment shown the elongated member 206 is inserted through the femoral bone, however
according to other embodiments, not shown, the elongated member is positioned inside of the
hip joint from the acetabulum side.
[0156]      Fig. 35 shows the placing of a prosthetic part 118 adapted to occupy the hole 18
created in the pelvic bone 9. The prosthetic part 118 comprises supporting members 119

adapted to be in contact with the pelvic bone 9 and assist in the carrying of the load placed on
the medical device from the weight of the human patient. Furthermore fig. 35 shows the
fixation of a nut 120 to the attachment rod 113, which in turn is guided by the elongated
member 206 or a guiding rod.
[0157]       Fig. 36 shows the hip joint in section when all the elements of the medical device has
been fixated in the area of the hip joint or its surroundings. The prosthetic part 118 adapted to
occupy the hole 18 in the pelvic bone 9 is here fixated with screws 121, however these screws
121 could be assisted or replaced by an adhesive which could be applied to the surface S
between the prosthetic part and the pelvic bone 9. The elongated member 206 or guiding rod
has been retracted through the incision in the thigh.
[0158]       Fig. 37 shows an embodiment of a locking member 116, wherein the locking
member 116 comprises a surface adapted to be in contact with the artificial convex hip joint
surface 1353, the locking member 116 is adapted to, in a first state, lock the artificial caput
femur 112 to the artificial acetabulum surface 1340, and in a second state, release said
artificial caput femur 112 from said artificial acetabulum 1340. The locking member 116 is
adapted to change from the first to the second state when a predetermined amount of strain is
placed on the locking member 116. The locking member 116 according to the embodiment
shown in fig. 37, comprises four elastic portions 1351, and the locking member 116 is adapted
to change from the first to the second state using the elasticity of the elastic portions 1351. The
locking member 116 is adapted to be fixated to the femoral bone 7 using screws adapted to be
placed in holes 1352 adapted therefor.
[0159]       Fig. 38 shows the hip joint in section when a two state locking member 116 locks the
artificial caput femur 112 in the artificial acetabulum 1340. The two state locking member 116
is fixated to the femoral bone 7 using screws 121, and is here shown in its first state in which
the locking member 116 locks the artificial caput femur 112 to the artificial acetabulum 1340.
[0160]       Fig. 39 shows the hip joint in section according to the embodiment of fig 38, but
when the two state locking member 116 is in its second state, in which the locking ring 116
releases the artificial caput femur 112 from the artificial acetabulum surface 1340. The
construction with the releasing locking ring 116 reduces the risk of strain placed on the artificial
joint injuring the fixation points, i.e. the contact with bone; it further enables the artificial joint to
be non-invasively relocated in case of luxation.

[0161]     According to the above mentioned embodiments the medical device is adapted to be
inserted through a hole in the pelvic bone, however it is equally conceivable that the medical
device according to any of the embodiment above is adapted to be inserted through a hole in
the hip joint capsule or the femoral bone of the human patient.
[0162]     Please note that any embodiment or part of embodiment as well as any method or
part of method could be combined in any way. All examples herein should be seen as part of
the general description and therefore possible to combine in any way in general terms.
[0163]     This application is a divisional application of Australian patent application number
<removed-apn>, whose specification as originally filed is hereby incorporated by reference in its
entirety.

                                            29
CLAIMS
   1. A medical device for implantation in a hip joint of a human patient, the natural
      hip joint having a ball shaped caput femur as the proximal part of the femoral
      bone with a convex hip joint surface towards the centre of the hip joint and a
      bowl shaped acetabulum as part of the pelvic bone with a concave hip joint
      surface towards the centre of the hip joint, wherein the caput femur has a
      centrally placed longitudinal extension, extending through the center of the
      caput and collum femur, aligned with the collum femur, defined as the caput
      and collum femur center axis, the medical device comprising; an artificial
      acetabulum, comprising a concave surface towards the centre of the hip joint,
      wherein said artificial concave acetabulum is adapted to, when implanted:
           be fixated to the femoral bone of the human patient, and
           be in movable connection with an artificial caput femur fixated to the pelvic
      bone of the patient, wherein
      the medical device comprises a fixating portion adapted to be stabilized at
      least one of:
           the cortical bone of the caput femur, from the outside of the caput femur,
      or
           the cortical bone of the collum femur, from the outside of the collum femur,
      and wherein said fixating portion comprises at least one cavity adapted to
      receive a mechanical fixation element.
  2. The medical device according to claim 1, wherein said cavity is a through hole.
  3. The medical device according to any one of claims 1 and 2, wherein said
      cavity is adapted to receive a screw.
  4. The medical device according to any one of claims 1 - 3, wherein said
      medical device further comprises a mechanical fixation element adapted to be
      placed in said at least one cavity of the medical device and inside of the
      cortical bone of the caput or collum femur, when the medical device is
      implanted.

                                         30
5. The medical device according to claim 4, wherein said mechanical fixation
    element is a screw.
6. The medical device according to any one of claims 4 and 5, wherein said
    mechanical fixation element is adapted to be placed inside of the cortical bone
    of the caput or collum femur from the inside of the caput femur.
7. The medical device according to any one of claims 4 and 5, wherein said
    mechanical fixation element is adapted to be placed inside of the cortical bone
    of the caput or collum femur from the outside of the caput femur.
8. The medical device according to claim 7, wherein said mechanical fixation
    element is adapted to be placed in the through-hole in the fixating portion and
    extend through at least the cortical bone of the caput or collum femur, and
    thereafter enter into the medical device again.
9. The medical device according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein
    said fixating portion comprises a substantially annular portion.
10. The medical device according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein
    said fixating portion comprises a substantially annular flange.
11. The medical device according to claim 10, wherein said substantially annular
    flange comprises a plurality of through-holes.
12. The medical device according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein
    said fixating portion further comprises at least one groove adapted to stabilize
    a loop-shaped fixating element along at least one portion thereof, when said
    medical device is implanted.
13. The medical device according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein
    said medical device further comprises an elastic layer adapted to absorb
    shocks from the femoral bone.

                                        31
14.The medical device according to claim 13, wherein said elastic layer is placed
   between the femoral bone and the medical device, when said medical device
   is implanted.
15.The medical device according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein
   said fixating portion is adapted to be operable to adjust the stabilization of the
   medical device towards the cortical bone of the caput or collum femur, from at
   least one of; the inside of caput or collum femur, the outside of the caput or
   collum femur and a cut proximal side of caput or collum femur.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
