  Abstract
  Since polysaccharides cannot be sterilised by sterile filtration due to the high viscosity of
  their aqueous solutions, they are generally sterilised by means of gamma radiation or
  steam although this leads to degradation of the polymer chains. The present invention
5 provides a sterilisation method according to which an aqueous polysaccharide solution
  is stored in the presence of a lactone and a buffer system for a period of at least 24
  hours. The invention also provides a sterile polysaccharide solution produced in this
  way.

                                                    1
Method for sterilisation of aqueous polysaccharide solutions, and sterile aqueous
polysaccharide solutions
Cross Reference
The present application is a divisional application of Australian Patent Application No.
<removed-apn>, the content of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.
Australian Patent Application No. <removed-apn> claims priority from German Patent
Application no. DE102015226456.4, the entire contents of which are incorporated herein by
reference.
The subject matter of the invention is a method for sterilisation of aqueous polysaccharide
solutions as well as the polysaccharide solutions produced by means of said method.
Arthrosis (Arthrosis deformans) is a common degenerative disease of the joints. It involves
damage (erosion) to the cartilage surfaces, detachment of cartilage particles, and
inflammation of the synovial membrane caused by the cartilage particles. In cases of mild
and moderate arthrosis, attempts have been made in recent years to use an intra-articular
injection of hyaluronic acid (visco-supplementation) to improve the patients' pain status and
to concurrently reduce the progression of the arthrosis.
Hyaluronic acid is a natural ingredient of the synovial fluid (joint liquid). Hyaluronic acid acts
as a lubricant in the synovial fluid. It is particularly advantageous that aqueous hyaluronic
acid solutions are visco-elastic. This results in very good lubricant and gliding properties.
Based on the advantageous lubricant properties, hyaluronic acid solutions have been in use
for visco-supplementation for approximately the past two decades. The current state of the
prior art is the use of hyaluronic acid, which is produced by fermentation and is used in the
form of a sterile aqueous hyaluronic acid solution. Besides, the use of water-soluble
cellulose derivatives, such as carboxymethylcellulose and methylcellulose, starch
derivatives, such as hydroxyethyl starch, for visco-supplementation is also feasible on
principle.

                                                  2
   Thus far, it is common to sterilise aqueous hyaluronic acid solutions by exposure to
   gamma radiation. Doses of 25 kGy or more are common in this context. This
   sterilisation is done on finally packaged hyaluronic acid solution.
 5 However, the exposure to gamma radiation is associated with grave disadvantages. In
   addition to degradation of the polymer chains by means of which more or less low
   molecular degradation products are produced depending on the dose of gamma
   radiation, side reactions leading to the discolouration of the hyaluronic acid solutions
   can occur as well. Another disadvantage of the use of gamma radiation is that the
 0 common gamma sources have a spherical radiation field. As a result, the incident doss
   can vary as a function of the position of the object to be sterilised. This results in uneven
   polymer degradation, which possibly is associated with inhomogeneities of the final
   viscosity. A reproducible final viscosity of the sterilised hyaluronic acid solutions is
   virtually impossible to attain. Moreover, the gamma radiation can lead to brittling of the
 5 packaging means, which usually are disposable plastic syringes.
   Similar disadvantages are associated with steam sterilisation of aqueous hyaluronic
   acid solutions, which can lead to damage to the hyaluronic acid and the plastic
   packaging means.
 0
   Due to the relatively high viscosity of the solutions, sterile filtration of aqueous
   hyaluronic acid solutions is basically not feasible or only with an inordinate effort.
   Moreover, sterile filtration removes microbial life forms only from a certain size. Viruses
   cannot be removed or inactivated by sterile filtration.
25
   Aside from said physical methods, it is customary to use chemical compounds for
   sterilisation of medical products.
   These include formaldehyde, glutardialdehyde, o-phthaldialdehyde. The sterilisation
30 using aldehydes is disadvantageous in that these need to be removed again after the
   sterilisation order to prevent damage during the use in humans. This precludes
   sterilisation with aldehydes in the case of aqueous hyaluronic acid solutions in their final

                                                  3
   packages. Aldehydes cannot be removed again from hyaluronic acid solutions in their
   final packages.
   Oxidising agents, such as hydrogen peroxide, performic acid, peracetic acid,
 5 hypochloride, and hypochloride-releasing substances, such as chloramine T 2 or
   trichloroisocyanuric acid, are very effective sterilisation means. These agents are
   disadvantageous in that they cause significant oxidative degradation of the dissolved
   hyaluronic acid. Moreover, non-reacted residues of the oxidising agents may remain in
   the hyaluronic acid solution in its final packaging and may possibly have a local toxic
 0 effect.
   It is known from pharmaceutical industry that aqueous protein solutions, such as, e.g.,
   vaccines, are very sensitive to the effects of oxidising sterilisation agents and various
   physical sterilisation methods, for example sterilisation with gamma radiation. For this
 5 reason, these aqueous protein solutions are subjected to sterile filtration first and then
   have small amounts of p-propiolactone added to inactivate viruses. p-propiolactone
   acylates the amino groups of the DNA/RNA or proteins of the viruses. The water that is
   present as solvent is capable of slowly decomposing B-propiolactone such that no
   active B-propiolactone is present any longer in aqueous protein solutions after just a
 0 short period of time. It is known thus far that gaseous p-propiolactone can irreversibly
   inactivate endospores (R. K. Hoffmann, B. Warshowsky: Beta-Propiolactone Vapor as a
   Disinfectant. Apple. Microbiol. 1958 Sept.; 6(5): 358-362). Moreover, it is known that  p
   propiolactone inactivates endospores in non-aqueous organic monomers/monomer
   mixtures and pasty cements containing organic monomers (EP 2 596 812 B1).
25
   However, aside from the vegetative forms, micro-organisms also have generative forms,
   such as endospores. These generative survival forms of micro-organisms are formed by
   gram-positive bacteria, in particular of the Bacillus and Clostridium genera, as a means
   of persisting during unfavourable living conditions. In their resting state, endospores
30 have no active metabolism and possess a multi-layered spore capsule that largely
   protects the core of the spore from the action of chemicals and other environmental
   effects. This renders spores extremely resistant to the action of heat and chemicals

                                                   4
   (Borick, P. M.: Chemical sterilizers. Adv. Apple. Microbiol. 10 (1968) 291-312; Gould, G.
   W.: Recent advances in the understanding of resistance and dormancy in bacterial
   spores. J. Apple. Bacteriol. 42 (1977) 297-309; Gould, G. W.: Mechanisms of resistance
   and dormancy. p. 173-209. In Hurst, A. and Gould, G. W. (ed.), The bacterial spore. vol.
 5 2 Academic Press, Inc. New York, 1983). Due to their high resistance, endospores are
   used as bio-indicators for validation and control of the efficacy of sterilisation processes.
   This is based on the assumption that the inactivation of endospores is indicative of all
   vegetative microbial forms of life being killed. Endospores of gram-positive bacteria are
   classified in international resistance class Ill. Resistance classes I include non-spore
 0 forming bacteria and vegetative forms of spore-forming bacteria and resistance class 11
   includes spores that are killed within a few minutes in a flow of steam at 105      OC. In
   accordance with DAB 2008 (Deutsches Arzneimittelbuch), all micro-organisms of
   resistance classes I-Ill must be killed or inactivated irreversibly.
 5 The object of the invention is to develop a method for the sterilisation of aqueous
   polysaccharide solutions. Said method is to enable a sterilisation without significant
   degradation of the dissolved polysaccharide polymers.
   Moreover, the sterilisation method to be developed shall be suitable for sterilisation of
 0 aqueous polysaccharide solutions stored in their final packages, including the internal
   walls of the packaging means that contact the aqueous polysaccharide solution. The
   sterilisation methods to be developed shall safely inactivate microorganisms of
   resistance level Ill.
25 In the scope of the invention, sterility shall be understood to mean a state that is free of
   viable micro-organisms in accordance with EN 556-1:2001.
   The object of the invention is solved according to claim 1 through a method for the
30 sterilisation of aqueous polysaccharide solutions. According to the invention, a p-lactone is
   added to an aqueous solution of a polysaccharide in the presence of a buffer, and the mixture is
   stored at a temperature of 40C to 400C for a period of at least 24 hours.

                                                 5
   A preferred method is characterised by
   a)       dissolving at least one polysaccharide in water;
   b)       adding at least 0.5% by weight p-lactone to the aqueous polysaccharide solution
 5 produced in a)
   c)       storing the mixture at a temperature of 40C to 400C for a period of at least 24
   hours, whereby
   the aqueous solution contains a buffer system whose buffering capacity is sufficient to
   buffer the 3-hydroxypropanoic acid generated by hydrolysis of the p-lactone such that
 0 the pH value of the sterilised aqueous polysaccharide solution is equal to that of the
   unsterilised polysaccharide solution.
   The object is also met according to claim 14 through a sterile polysaccharide solution
   produced according to any one of the methods above.
 5
   It was evident, surprisingly, that an aqueous polysaccharide solution can be sterilised
   through the use of a method according to claim 1 with just minimal polymer degradation
   proceeding. This means that the ratio of the reduced specific viscosity of the sterilised
   polysaccharide solution and the reduced specific viscosity of the unsterile
 0 polysaccharide solution can be maintained at more than/equal to 0.8. In determining this
   ratio, it is of no importance whether the reduced specific viscosity, the dynamic viscosity
   or the kinematic viscosity is measured. In the case of aqueous polysaccharide solutions,
   that are amenable to gel permeation chromatography, the ratio of the number average
   molar mass of the sterilised polysaccharide and the number average molar mass of the
25 unsterilised polysaccharide can be maintained at more than/equal to 0.8. Moreover, the
   sterilisation method according to the invention does not cause any discolouration due to
   side reactions during the sterilisation process.
   Endospores of resistance level III suspended in aqueous polysaccharide solutions are
30 inactivated by means of the method according to the invention through the action of p
   lactone. In this context, the polysaccharide solutions contain a buffer of sufficient
   capacity to buffer the 3-hydroxypropionic acid released by the hydrolysis of the P-

                                                   6
   lactone such that the pH value of the sterilised polysaccharide solutions is equal to the
   pH value of the previously unsterile polysaccharide solutions. It is preferable in this
   context to use buffer in the same amount as the p-lactone.
 5 The invention is further based on finding, surprisingly, that p-lactone allows a
   sterilisation of aqueous polysaccharide solutions to be performed in the presence of a
   buffer without significant polymer degradation of the polysaccharides proceedings
   during the sterilisation. The special advantage of the sterilisation according to the
   invention is that the viscosity of the polysaccharide solutions before and after
 0 sterilisation stays equal. Referring to the use of aqueous polysaccharide solutions for
   visco-supplementation, this means that the viscosity of the solutions can be adjusted
   accurately before the sterilisation as there is no change of the viscosity due to the
   sterilisation process. As a result, sterile polysaccharide solutions that are accurately
   adjusted in terms of the viscosity and the other rheological properties can be provided
 5 for visco-supplementation. It is another advantage that there is no discolouration of the
   aqueous polysaccharide solutions due to the sterilisation.
   Polysaccharides are carbohydrates in which a large number (at least 10) of
   monosaccharides is connected to each other by means of a glycosidic bond. Water
 0 soluble polysaccharides in the scope of the present invention are polysaccharides that
   consist of monosaccharides, disaccharides, further oligomers thereof or derivatives and
   are linked to each other in the same manner.
   According to the invention, the polysaccharides are natural polysaccharides and
25 artificial polysaccharides. According to the invention, derivatives shall be understood to
   be salts, ethers, esters of the acids or esters, in particular alkali metal salts, particularly
   sodium and potassium salts. Examples include alginic acid, sodium alginate, hyaluronic
   acid, the sodium salt of hyaluronic acid, carboxymethylcellulose, the sodium salt of
   carboxymethylcellulose, hydroxyethylcellu lose, cellulose ether, starch, starch ether,
30 guar, chitin, chitosan.

                                                     7
   Preferably, the polysaccharide is selected from the group consisting of the sodium salt
   of hyaluronic acid, the sodium salt of carboxymethylcellulose, hydroxyethylcellulose,
   hydroxyethyl starch, methylcel Iulose, and oxidised cellulose.
 5 According to the invention, the polysaccharides can just as well be mixtures of the
   aforementioned polysaccharides.
   The polysaccharides are preferably used in an amount of at least 0.5% by weight.
   Moreover, there are preferably used in an amount of at most 5% by weight. It is
 0 particularly preferable to use polysaccharides in an amount of 1 to 2% by weight. The
   amount in each case refers to the amount of polysaccharide in water.
   The P-lactone can be a compound (al) that is represented by general formula (1)
                                              R4           R1
                                                   R3 R2
 5 . In said formula, R1, R2, R3, and R4, independently of each other, can represent H, a
   substituted or non-substituted alkyl residue, a halogen residue, a nitro residue or a cyano
   residue.
   The stereochemistry of compounds (al) is not limited in any way. Preferably, the scope of the
20 invention includes as compound (1) all isomers represented through general formula (I),
   regardless of their exact configuration.
   The alkyl residues can be substituted or non-substituted alkyl residues, independently of each
   other. The at least one substituent of a substituted alkyl residue is preferably selected from the
25 group consisting of halogen residues, nitro residues, and cyano residues.
   The alkyl residues can be saturated or unsaturated alkyl residues, independently of each other.
   Preferably, an unsaturated alkyl residue comprises at least one carbon-carbon double bond.
30 The alkyl residues can be branched or unbranched alkyl residues, independently of each other.
   It is preferable for alkyl residues R1, R2, R3, and R4 to be unbranched alkyl residues.

                                                   8
   Independently of each other, the alkyl residues have a main chain length in the range of 1 - 4
   carbon atoms, more preferably a main chain length in the range of 1 - 2 carbon atoms, and
   even more preferably one carbon atom.
 5
   Fluorine residues, chlorine residues, and bromine residues are preferred halogen residues in
   general formula (1). Said residues each can represent one or more of residues R1, R2, R3, and
   R4, independently of each other.
 0 According to a preferred embodiment, residues R1, R2, R3, and R4 each represent H.
   According to another preferred embodiment, residue R1 represents a methyl residue and
   residues R2, R3, and R4 represent H.
 5 According to another preferred embodiment, residues R1, R2, and R3 represent H and residue
   R4 represents a methyl residue.
   According to yet another preferred embodiment, residues R1 and R3 represent H and residues
   R2 and R4 represent a methyl residue.
 0
   According to a particularly preferred embodiment, compound (al) is B-propiolactone (CAS
   number 57-57-8).
   The B-propiolactone can just as well be a compound (a2) that is a dimer of any of compounds
25 (al). The stereochemistry of compounds (a2) is not limited in any way.
   According to the invention phosphate buffer with a pH value of 7.0-8.0 is preferred as
   buffer, whereby a phosphate buffer with a pH value of 7.4 is particularly preferred.
30 In particular the combination of potassium hydrogenphosphate and disodium
   hydrogenphosphate, the combination of sodium hydrogenphosphate and disodium
   hydrogenphosphate, the combination of disodium phosphate and phosphoric acid and
   the combination of trisodium phosphate and sodium hydrogenphosphate, and the

                                                    9
   combination of trisodium phosphate and phosphoric acid are well-suited for producing
   the phosphate buffer.
   Preferably, all of the components of the phosphate buffer together are dissolved in the
 5 aqueous polysaccharide solution at a concentration of more than/equal to 0.5% by
   weight.
   According to the invention, the 3-hydroxypropionic acid produced by the hydrolysis of
   the B-propiolactone is a component of the buffer.
 0
   According to the invention, the 3-hydroxypropanoic acid and the sodium salt of the
   hyaluronic acid or 3-hydroxypropanoic acid and the sodium salt of the
   carboxymethylcellulose form a buffer.
 5 It is essential to the invention that the sterilisation of the aqueous polysaccharide
   solution takes place inside the primary packaging. As a result, no additional effort such
   as gamma irradiation or irradiation with electrons or autoclaving is required. As a result,
   substantial production costs can be saved.
 0 It is important for successful sterilisation that the aqueous polysaccharide solution and
   B-propiolactone are mixed right before the aqueous polysaccharide solution is filled into
   the primary packaging means. This ensures that sufficient sterilisation agent is available
   for sterilisation of both the polysaccharide solution and the internal walls of the primary
   packaging means. In contrast, if the polysaccharide solution and the B-propiolactone
25 are mixed an extended period of time before the primary packaging means gets filled,
   there may be a loss of B-propiolactone due to hydrolysis generating 3-hydroxypropionic
   acid depending on the temperature and the time elapsed before the primary packaging
   means is being filled. This can, in particular, render the sterilisation of the internal walls
   of the primary packaging means questionable.
30
   The scope of the invention includes a sterile aqueous polysaccharide solution produced
   according to the method according to the invention. Said sterile polysaccharide solution

                                                 10
   is characterised in that the aqueous polysaccharide solution contains at least one
   polysaccharide that is at least partially soluble in water, water, and 3-hydroxypropionic
   acid, and a buffer system.
 5 Moreover, according to the invention, the sterile aqueous polysaccharide solution
   contains a buffer system consisting of sodium ions, dihydrogenphosphate ions,
   hydrogenphosphate ions, phosphate ions, 3-hydroxypropionic acid, and 3
   hydroxypropionate. Potassium ions may be contained therein as well.
 0 According to the invention, the ratio of the reduced viscosity of the sterilised
   polysaccharide solution and the reduced viscosity of the non-sterilised polysaccharide
   solution is more than 0.8.
   The scope of the invention also includes the use of the sterile aqueous polysaccharide
 5 solution as a means for visco-supplementation and as a pharmaceutical drug carrier in
   human and veterinary medicine.
   The invention is illustrated through the examples presented in the following, though
   without limiting the scope of the invention.
 0
   Examples
   The following polysaccharides and/or polysaccharide derivatives were used in the
   experiments described hereinafter:
   Sodium salt of hyaluronic acid (Mn ~ 1.3 million Dalton, Kraeber GmbH),
25 Sodium salt of carboxymethylcellulose (Mn ~ 90,000 Dalton, Sigma-Aldrich),
   Methylcellulose (SM-4000, Shin-Etsu-Chemical Co.),
   Hydroxyethylcellulose (60SH-4000, Shin-Etsu-Chemical. Co)
   A phosphate buffer with a pH value of 7.4 was produced. For this purpose, 1.65 g
30 potassium hydrogenphosphate and 9.71 g disodium hydrogenphosphate dihydrate were
   dissolved in 1 litre of distilled water.

                                                 11
   Example 1
   Solutions of the polysaccharides were produced using 30 mL phosphate buffer (pH
   value 7.4) each.
   Polysaccharide                                    Concentration of the polysaccharide in
                                                     the phosphate buffer
                                                     [wt.%]
   Sodium salt of hyaluronic acid                    0.25
   Sodium salt of carboxymethylcellulose             2.00
   Methylcellulose (SM-4000)                         1.00
   Hydroxyethylcellulose (60SH-4000)                 1.00
 5 A total of 106 cfu of a spore suspension of Bacillus atropheus were added to 5 mL each
   of the polysaccharide solutions in a sterile 25 mL plastic tube. Then the spores were
   suspended homogeneously using a vortex mixer. Subsequently, 0.5% by weight, 1.0%
   by weight, and 2.0% p-propiolactone were added to 5 mL each of the polysaccharide
   solutions previously mixed with the spores. The sample was then homogenised again in
 0 a vortex mixer. Polysaccharide solutions not treated with p-propiolactone were used as
   positive control. After 48 hours of storage at room temperature, the of the
   polysaccharide solutions were tested for sterility in accordance with DIN EN ISP 11737,
   part 2. The assays were done in duplicate.
15
   Polysaccharide       Concentration of    Result of the test of sterility
                        the polysaccharide  Concentration p-propiolactone [wt.%]
                        in the phosphate    0.0             0.5            1.0     2.0
                        buffer              (Positive
                        [wt.%]              control)
   Sodium salt of       0.25                +/+             +/-            -/-     -/
   hyaluronic acid
   Sodium salt of       2.00                +/+             -/-            -/-     -/
   carboxymethylcell
   ulose
   Methylcellulose      1.00                +/+             -/-            -/-     -/-

                                                 12
   (SM-4000)
   Hydroxyethylcellu   1.00                  +/+          -/-        -/-         -/
   lose
   (60SH-4000)
   (+) growth (-) no growth)
   The polysaccharide solutions sterilised with p-propiolactone show no discolouration
   whatsoever as compared to the untreated polysaccharide solutions used as positive
 5 control.
   Example 2
   The following polysaccharides were used in the experiments described hereinafter:
   NaHya 1: Sodium salt of hyaluronic acid (Mn ~ 1.0 million Dalton, Sigma-Aldrich)
 0 NaHya 2: Sodium salt of hyaluronic acid (Mn ~ 1.3 million Dalton, Kraeber GmbH),
   NaHya 3: Sodium salt of hyaluronic acid (Mn ~ 200,000 Dalton, hyaluronic acid
   degraded with chlorine dioxide)
   The hyaluronic acids were dissolved in phosphate buffer pH 7.4 to be at a concentration
 5 of 1% by weight each. A total of 5 mL each of the hyaluronic acid solutions were mixed
   with 100 pl p-propiolactone and stored at room temperature for 48 hours. In parallel,
   hyaluronic acid solutions not treated with p-propiolactone were also stored as controls.
   In an additional comparison, hyaluronic acid solutions not treated with p-propiolactone
   were sterilised with gamma radiation. The gamma sterilisation of the hyaluronic acid
20 solutions was done by BBF Sterilisationsservice GmbH using a C0 60 source at a dose of
   25.2 kGy.
   The hyaluronic acid solutions in unsterile condition had a pH value of 7.4, and the pH
   was also 7.4 after the sterilisation with p-propiolactone. The hyaluronic acid solution
25 sterilised with P-propiolactone show no discolouration whatsoever as compared to the
   unsterile hyaluronic acid solutions. Both the unsterile hyaluronic acid solutions and the
   hyaluronic acid solution sterilised with p-propiolactone were clear to the eye and

                                                 13
   colourless. In contrast, the hyaluronic acid solutions sterilised by gamma irradiation
   showed a slight yellow discolouration.
   The molecular masses and the molecular mass distribution of the hyaluronic acid samples were
 5 determined by means of gel permeation chromatography using pullulan standards. A refractive
   index detector (RI detector) was used as the detector. The measures were done in duplicate
   using a GPC facility from Jasco.
   Polysaccharide          Condition                Mn          Mw              D
   solution                                         RI          RI              RI
   NaHya 1                 unsterile                923,300     5,714,500       6.39
                           p-Propiolactone-         1,078,900 6,493,300         6.60
                           sterilised
                           Gamma-sterilised         11,950      8,791           1.60
   NaHya 2                 unsterile                1,283,600 6,577,900         5.23
                           p-Propiolactone-         1,325,400 6,260,600         4.73
                           sterilised
                           Gamma-sterilised         10,250      7,587           1.56
   NaHya 3                 unsterile                218,400     479,000         2.24
                           p-Propiolactone-         216,100     485,200         2.25
                           sterilised
                           Gamma-sterilised         10,132      7,475           1.57
   Mn: number average molar mass
10 M,: weight average molar mass
   D: Polydispersity
   The sterilisation of the polysaccharide solutions with p-propiolactone did not effect
   polymer degradation. By comparison, gamma sterilisation led to significant polymer
   degradation.
15

                                                 14
   Example 3
   The following polysaccharide derivatives were used in the experiments described
   hereinafter:
   Sodium salt of carboxymethylcellulose (Mw ~ 90,000 Dalton, Sigma-Aldrich),
 5 Hydroxyethylcellulose (60SH-4000, Shin-Etsu-Chemical. Co)
   Solutions of the polysaccharides were produced using 30 mL phosphate buffer (pH
   value 7.4) each.
   Polysaccharide                                   Concentration of the polysaccharide in
                                                    the phosphate buffer
                                                    [wt.%]
   Sodium salt of carboxymethylcellulose            2.00
   Methylcellulose (60SH-4000)                      1.00
 0 A total of 100 mg p-propiolactone were added to 5 mL of the polysaccharide solutions
   each, mixed, and stored at room temperature for 48 hours. Untreated polysaccharide
   solutions were used as control. For the viscosimetric measurements on the solutions,
   the solutions were diluted to a polysaccharide concentration of 0.2% by weight and
   0.4% by weight. Due to the high degree of polymer degradation, the polysaccharide
 5 solutions sterilised by gamma irradiation were measured without diluting.
   The hyaluronic acid solution sterilised with p-propiolactone show no discolouration
   whatsoever as compared to the unsterile polysaccharide solutions.
20 The diluted polysaccharide solutions were measured using an Ubbelohde viscosimeter
   (capillary I, K = 0.010257) at 250C (5-fold measurement).
    Sample                Condition         Concentration           kinematic viscosity
                                            [wt.%] %                 [mm 2/s]
    Carboxymethylcellu    unsterile         0.4                     2.311 ± 0.0004
    lose, sodium salt     p-Propiolactone-  0.4                     2.317 ± 0.002
                          sterilised

                                                   15
                            Gamma-            2.0                     1.503 ± 0.001
                            sterilised
    Hydroxyethylcellulo      unsterile        0.2                     3.659 ± 0.003
    se (60SH-4000)           p-Propiolactone- 0.2                     3.590 ± 0.003
                            sterilised
                            Gamma-             1.0                    1.169 ±0.001
                            sterilised
   Remark: Methylcellulose solutions that were clear to the eye were used. However, it
   cannot be excluded that transparent gel particles may have been present in the
   methylcellulose solution. This might explain the slightly higher kinematic viscosity of the
 5 sterilised methylcellulose solution as compared to the non-sterilised methylcellulose
   solution. It is likely that there was a gel particle present in the sterilised methylcellulose
   solution.
   The kinematic viscosity of the polysaccharide solutions sterilised with p-propiolactone is
 0 basically the same as the kinematic viscosity of the unsterile polysaccharide solutions.
   The sterilisation of the polysaccharide solutions with p-propiolactone is not associated
   with polymer degradation. In contrast, gamma sterilisation leads to considerable
   polymer degradation as is evident from the comparison of the kinematic viscosity of the
   gamma-sterilised polysaccharide solutions and the kinematic viscosity of the unsterile
15 polysaccharide solutions.

                                                  16
   Disclosed herein are the following forms:
      1. Method for sterilisation of aqueous polysaccharide solutions,
 5       characterised in that
         a p-lactone is added to an aqueous solution of a polysaccharide in the presence of a
         buffer, and the mixture is stored at a temperature of 40C to 400C for a period of at least
         24 hours.
 0    2. Method according to form 1, characterised in that
         the p-lactone is selected from compounds (al) that are represented by general formula
         (1),
                                           R4        -- R1
                                                 R3R2
         whereby R1, R2, R3, and R4, independently of each other, represent H, a substituted or
 5       non-substituted alkyl residue, halogen residue, nitro residue or cyano residue, and
         compounds (a2) that are selected from the group consisting of dimers of compounds
         (al).
      3. Method according to form 2, characterised in that
20       the p-lactone is p-propiolactone (CAS number 57-57-8).
      4. Method according to any one of the forms 1 to 3
         characterised in that
         the P-lactone is added in an amount of more than/equal to 0.5% by weight,
25       relative to the amount of the aqueous polysaccharides is.
      5. Method according to any one of the forms 1 to 4, characterised in that
         the polysaccharide is selected from the group consisting of the sodium salt of
         hyaluronic acid, the sodium salt of carboxymethylcellulose,

                                                17
       hydroxyethylcellulose, hydroxyethyl starch, methylcellulose, and oxidised
       cellulose.
   6. Method according to any one of the forms 1 to 5, characterised in that
 5     phosphate buffer with a pH value of 7.0-8.0, preferably with a pH value of 7.4, is
       used as buffer system.
   7. Method according to form 6, characterised in that
       the phosphate buffer is selected from the group consisting of the combination of
 0     potassium hydrogenphosphate and disodium hydrogenphosphate, the combination of
       sodium hydrogenphosphate and disodium hydrogenphosphate, the combination of
       disodium phosphate and phosphoric acid, the combination of trisodium phosphate and
       sodium hydrogenphosphate, and the combination of trisodium phosphate and
       phosphoric acid.
 5
   8. Method according to forms 1 to 3, characterised in that the 3-hydroxypropionic
       acid produced by the hydrolysis of the B-propiolactone is a component of the
       buffer system.
 0 9. Method according to forms 1 to 3, characterised in that the 3-hydroxypropanoic
       acid and the sodium salt of the hyaluronic acid or 3-hydroxypropanoic acid and
       the sodium salt of the carboxymethylcellulose form a buffer system.
   10. Method according to any one of the forms 1 to 5, characterised in that
25     all of the components of the buffer together are dissolved in the aqueous polysaccharide
       solution at a concentration of more than/equal to 0.5% by weight.
   11. Method according to any one of the forms 1 to 8, characterised in that the
       sterilisation of the aqueous polysaccharide solution takes place inside a primary
30     packaging means.
   12. Method according to form 9, characterised in that the aqueous polysaccharide
       solution and the B-lactone are mixed right before the aqueous polysaccharide
       solution is filled into the primary packaging means.

                                              18
   13. Method according to any one of the forms 1 to 9,
       characterised by
       a)      dissolving at least one polysaccharide in water;
 5     b)      adding at least 0.5% by weight p-lactone to the aqueous polysaccharide
       solution produced in a)
       c)      storing the mixture at a temperature of 40C to 400C for a period of at least
       24 hours, whereby
       the aqueous solution contains a buffer system whose buffering capacity is
 0     sufficient to buffer the 3-hydroxypropanoic acid generated by hydrolysis of the p
       lactone such that the pH value of the sterilised aqueous polysaccharide solution
       is equal to that of the unsterilised polysaccharide solution.
   14. Sterile polysaccharide solution produced according to a method of forms 1 to 11,
 5     characterised in that the aqueous polysaccharide solution contains at least one
       polysaccharide that is at least partially soluble in water, water, and 3
       hydroxypropionic acid, and a buffer system.
   15. Sterile polysaccharide solution according to form 12, characterised in that
 0     the buffer system contains sodium ions, dihydrogenphosphate ions,
       hydrogenphosphate ions, phosphate ions, 3-hydroxypropionic acid, and 3
       hydroxypropionate.
   16. Use of a sterile polysaccharide solution produced with the method according to
25     forms 1 to 11 as a means for visco-supplementation and as a pharmaceutical
       drug carrier in human and veterinary medicine.
30

                                               19
CLAIMS:
  1. Sterile package means according to EN556-1:2001 comprising a sterile aqueous
  polysaccharide solution comprising at least one polysaccharide that is at least partially
  soluble in water, water, 3-hydroxypropionic acid in an amount of more than/equal to 0.5 % by
  weight relative to the amount of the aqueous polysaccharides and a buffer system.
  2. Sterile package means according to claim 1, wherein
  the polysaccharide is selected from the group consisting of the sodium salt of hyaluronic
  acid, the sodium salt of carboxymethylcellulose, hydroxyethylcellulose, hydroxyethyl starch,
  methylcellulose, and oxidised cellulose.
  3. Sterile package means according to claim 1 or claim 2, wherein
  phosphate buffer with a pH value of 7.0-8.0 is used as buffer system.
  4. Sterile package means according to any one of claims 1 to 3, wherein
  phosphate buffer with a pH value of 7.4 is used as buffer system.
  5. Sterile package means according to claim 3 or claim 4, wherein
  the phosphate buffer is selected from the group consisting of the combination of potassium
  hydrogenphosphate and disodium hydrogenphosphate, the combination of sodium hy
  drogenphosphate and disodium hydrogenphosphate, the combination of disodium phosphate
  and phosphoric acid, the combination of trisodium phosphate and sodium hydrogenphos
  phate, and the combination of trisodium phosphate and phosphoric acid.
  6. Use of a sterile polysaccharide solution stored in a sterile package means as defined in
  one of claims 1 to 5 for visco-supplementation or as a pharmaceutical drug carrier in human
  or veterinary medicine.
                                    Heraeus Medical GmbH
                    Patent Attorneys for the Applicant/Nominated Person
                                   SPRUSON & FERGUSON

