                                        ABSTRACT
Methods are described for predicting ancestral sequences for viruses or portions thereof.
Also described are predicted ancestral sequences for adeno-associated virus (AAV) capsid
polypeptides. The disclosure also provides methods of gene transfer and methods of
vaccinating subjects by administering a target antigen operably linked to the AAV capsid
polypeptides.

            METHODS OF PREDICTING ANCESTRAL VIRUS
                        SEQUENCES AND USES THEREOF
                                        TECHNICAL FIELD
           This disclosure generally relates to viruses.
 5
                                           BACKGROUND
           Circumventing and avoiding a neutralizing or toxic immune response against a gene
   therapy vector is a major challenge with all gene transfer vector types. Gene transfer to date
   is most efficiently achieved using vectors based on viruses circulating in humans and
10 animals, e.g., adenovirus and adeno-associated virus (AAV). However, if subjects have been
   naturally infected with a virus, a subsequent treatment with a vector based on that virus leads
   to increased safety risks and decreased efficiency of gene transfer due to cellular and humoral
   immune responses. Capsid antigens are primarily responsible for the innate and/or adaptive
   immunity toward virus particles, however, viral gene-encoded polypeptides also can be
15 immunogenic.
                                              SUMMARY
           This disclosure describes methods of predicting and synthesizing ancestral viral
   sequences or portions thereof, and also describes virus particles containing such ancestral
   viral sequences. The methods described herein were applied to adeno-associated virus
20 (AAV); thus, this disclosure describes predicted ancestral AAV sequences and AAV virus
   particles containing such ancestral AAV sequences. This disclosure also describes the
   reduced seroprevalance exhibited by virus particles containing ancestral sequences relative to
   virus particles containing contemporary sequences.
           In one aspect, this disclosure includes adeno-associated virus (AAV) capsid
25 polypeptides, e.g., synthetic and/or artificial AAV capsid polypeptides, having an amino acid
   sequence selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NOs: 1, 3, 5, 7, 9, 11, 13, 15 and 17.
   In some implementations, the AAV capsid polypeptides or virus particles comprising the
   AAV capsid polypeptides exhibit a lower seroprevalence than do an AAV2 capsid
                                                    1

   polypeptide or a virus particle comprising an AAV2 capsid polypeptide, and the AAV capsid
   polypeptides or virus particles comprising the AAV capsid polypeptides exhibit about the
   same or a lower seroprevalence than do an AAV8 capsid polypeptide or a virus particle
   comprising an AAV8 capsid polypeptide. In some embodiments, the AAV capsid
 5 polypeptides or virus particles comprising the AAV capsid polypeptides are neutralized to a
   lesser extent by human serum than is an AAV2 capsid polypeptide or a virus particle
   comprising an AAV2 capsid polypeptide, and the AAV capsid polypeptides or virus particles
   comprising the AAV capsid polypeptides are neutralized to a similar or lesser extent by
   human serum as is an AAV8 capsid polypeptide or a virus particle comprising an AAV8
10 capsid polypeptide. In some embodiments, the AAV capsid polypeptides are purified. The
   AAV capsid polypeptides provided herein can be encoded by a nucleic acid sequence
   selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NOs: 2, 4, 6, 8, 10, 12, 14, 16, and 18.
            In one aspect, the disclosure provides nucleic acid molecules, e.g., synthetic and/or
   artificial nucleic acid molecules, encoding an adeno-associated virus (AAV) capsid
15 polypeptide having a nucleic acid sequence selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID
   NOs: 2, 4, 6, 8, 10, 12, 14, 16, and 18. Also provided are vectors that includes such a nucleic
   acid, and a host cell that includes such a vector.
            In another aspect, the disclosure provides purified virus particles that include an AAV
   capsid polypeptide described herein. In some embodiments, the virus particles include a
20 transgene.
            In other aspects, the disclosure provides adeno-associated virus (AAV) capsid
   polypeptides, e.g., synthetic and/or artificial AAV capsid polypeptides, having at least 95%
   (e.g., 97, 98, 99, or 100%) sequence identity to an amino acid sequence selected from the
   group consisting of SEQ ID NOs: 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25 and 26. In some embodiments,
25 the AAV capsid polypeptides or virus particles comprising the AAV capsid polypeptide
   exhibit a lower seroprevalence than does an AAV2 capsid polypeptide or a virus particle
   comprising an AAV2 capsid polypeptide, and the AAV capsid polypeptide or a virus particle
   comprising the AAV capsid polypeptide exhibit about the same or a lower seroprevalence
   than does an AAV8 capsid polypeptide or a virus particle comprising an AAV8 capsid
30 polypeptide. In some embodiments, the AAV capsid polypeptides or virus particles
   comprising the AAV capsid polypeptide are neutralized to a lesser extent by human serum
                                                    2

   than is an AAV2 capsid polypeptide or a virus particle comprising an AAV2 capsid
   polypeptide, and the AAV capsid polypeptide or a virus particle comprising the AAV capsid
   polypeptide is neutralized to a similar or lesser extent by human serum as is an AAV8 capsid
   polypeptide or a virus particle comprising an AAV8 capsid polypeptide. In some
 5 embodiments, the AAV capsid polypeptides are purified.
           In another aspect, the AAV capsid polypeptides described herein can be encoded by
   nucleic acid sequences as described herein. In one implementation, the disclosure provides
   nucleic acid molecules encoding an adeno-associated virus (AAV) capsid polypeptide,
   wherein the nucleic acid molecules have at least 95% (e.g., 97, 98, 99, or 100%) sequence
10 identity to a nucleic acid sequence as shown herein. The disclosure also provides vectors
   including such nucleic acid molecules, as are host cells that include such a vector.
           In one aspect, the disclosure provides virus particles that include at least one of the
   AAV capsid polypeptides described herein. In some embodiments, the virus particles
   include a transgene.
15         In certain aspects, the disclosure provides methods of administering a virus particle as
   described herein to a subject in need of gene transfer or vaccination. In some embodiments,
   the virus particles exhibit less seroprevalence than does an AAV2 virus particle. In some
   embodiments, the virus particles exhibit about the same or less seroprevalence than does an
   AAV8 virus particle. In some embodiments, the virus particles are neutralized to a lesser
20 extent by human serum than is an AAV2 virus particle, and the AAV virus particles are
   neutralized to a similar or lesser extent by human serum than is an AAV8 virus particle.
           In one aspect, the disclosure provides methods of administering a target antigen
   operably linked to an AAV capsid polypeptide as described herein to a subject in need of
   vaccination. In some embodiments, the AAV capsid polypeptides exhibit less
25 seroprevalence than does an AAV2 capsid polypeptide. In some embodiments, the AAV
   capsid polypeptide exhibits about the same or less seroprevalence than does an AAV8 capsid
   polypeptide. In some embodiments, the AAV capsid polypeptides are neutralized to a lesser
   extent by human serum than is an AAV2 capsid polypeptide, and the AAV capsid
   polypeptide is neutralized to a similar or lesser extent by human serum than is an AAV8
30 capsid polypeptide.
                                                    3

            In another aspect, the disclosure provides in silico methods of predicting a sequence
   of an ancestral virus or portion thereof. Such methods typically include providing nucleotide
   or amino acid sequences from a plurality of contemporary viruses or portions thereof;
   aligning the sequences using a multiple sequence alignment (MSA) algorithm; modeling
 5 evolution to obtain a predicted ancestral phylogeny of the plurality of contemporary viruses
   or portions thereof; estimating, at a phylogenic node of the predicted ancestral phylogeny, the
   evolutionary probability of a particular nucleotide or amino acid residue at each position of
   the sequence; and predicting, based on the estimated probability at each position, a sequence
   of an ancestral virus or portion thereof.
10          In some embodiments, one or more, or all, of the steps are performed using a
   computer processor. In some embodiments, the MSA algorithm uses phylogenetic
   information to predict if a gap in the alignment is a result of a deletion or an insertion. In
   some embodiments, the MSA algorithm is a Probabilistic Alignment Kit (PRANK). In some
   embodiments, the model used for modeling evolution is selected using Aikake Information
15 Criterion (AIC). In some embodiments, the predicted ancestral phylogeny is obtained using
   a JTT model with a Gamma distribution model ("+G") and a frequency calculation of ni
   ("+F"). In some embodiments, the modeling the evolution step is performed using a
   JTT+G+F model. In some embodiments, the methods include synthesizing, based on the
   predicted sequence, the ancestral virus or portion thereof. In some embodiments, the
20 methods include assembling the ancestral virus or portion thereof into an ancestral virus
   particle.
            In some embodiments, the methods also include screening the ancestral virus particle
   for at least one of the following: (a) replication; (b) gene transfer properties; (c) receptor
   binding; or (d) seroprevalence. In some embodiments, the ancestral virus particles exhibit
25 less seroprevalence than does a virus particle assembled from at least one of the plurality of
   contemporary viruses or portions thereof. In some embodiments, the ancestral virus particle
   is neutralized to a lesser extent by human serum than is a virus particle assembled from at
   least one of the plurality of contemporary viruses or portions thereof. In some embodiments,
   the plurality of contemporary viruses or portions thereof belong to a family selected from the
30 group consisting of adenovirus (AV), human immunodeficiency virus (HIV), retrovirus,
                                                    4

   lentivirus, herpes simplex virus (HSV), vaccinia virus, pox virus, influenza virus, respiratory
   syncytial virus, parainfluenza virus, and foamy virus.
            Thus, the present disclosure provides ancestral viruses or portions thereof that exhibit
   reduced susceptibility to pre-existing immunity in current day human populations than do
 5 contemporary viruses or portions thereof. Generally, the reduced susceptibility to pre
   existing immunity exhibited by the ancestral viruses or portions thereof in current day human
   populations is reflected as a reduced susceptibility to neutralizing antibodies.
            Unless otherwise defined, all technical and scientific terms used herein have the same
   meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which the methods
10 and compositions of matter belong. Although methods and materials similar or equivalent to
   those described herein can be used in the practice or testing of the methods and compositions
   of matter, suitable methods and materials are described below. In addition, the materials,
   methods, and examples are illustrative only and not intended to be limiting. All publications,
   patent applications, patents, and other references mentioned herein are incorporated by
15 reference in their entirety.
                                  DESCRIPTION OF DRAWINGS
            The patent or application file contains at least one drawing executed in color. Copies
   of this patent or patent application publication with color drawings will be provided by the
   Office upon request and payment of the necessary fee.
20          Figure 1 is a schematic showing the relationships between ancestral/contemporary
   viral infections and ancestral/contemporary host immune response.
            Figures 2A to 2D are a series of schematics showing an example of an ancestral
   reconstruction procedure. Data shown are excerpted from a full dataset and represent
   residues 564-584 (AAV2-VP1 numbering).
25          Figures 3A to 3C together illustrate a phylogenetic tree of AAV contemporary
   sequences generated using the methods described herein.
            Figures 4A and 4B together illustrate an alignment of ancestral AAV VP 1
   polypeptides.
            Figures 5A and 5B together illustrate an alignment of functional ancestral AAV VP 1
30 polypeptides and contemporary AAV VP1 polypeptides.
                                                    5

            Figure 6 is an electrophoretic gel demonstrating that ancestral AAV VP1 sequences
   are transcribed and alternately spliced in a manner similar to that for contemporary AAV
   VP1 sequences.
            Figure 7 is a graph showing the luciferase activity in HEK293 cells transduced with
 5 ancestral AAV vectors.
            Figure 9 is a graph showing the sequence comparison (% up from diagonal, # of aa
   differences below) between the Anc80 library and Anc80L65.
            Figures 1 OA-D are images of experimental results demonstrating that Anc80L65 is
   capable of assembling and yielding particles of high titer. Panel A shows that Anc80L65 is
10 able to produce vector yields equivalent to AAV2; Panel B is a TEM image of virus particles
   that include Anc80L65; Panel C shows that virus particles that include Anc80L65 are able to
   produce AAV cap VP1, 2 and 3 proteins based on SDS-PAGE gel under denaturing
   conditions; and Panel D shows a Western blot of Anc80L65 using the AAV capsid antibody,
   Bl.
15          Figures 11 A-C are images of experimental results demonstrating that Anc80L65 is
   able to infect cells in vitro on HEK293 cells using GFP as readout (Panel A) or luciferase
   (Panel B) versus AAV2 and/or AAV8 controls and also is efficient at targeting liver
   following an IV injection of AAV encoding a nuclear LacZ transgene (top row, Panel C:
   liver), following direct IM injection of an AAV encoding GFP (middle row, Panel C:
20 muscle), and following sub-retinal injection with AAV encoding GFP (bottom row, Panel C:
   retina).
            Figures 13A and 13B are sequence identity matrices producing using MAFFT that
   show the amino acid sequences of the VP 1 proteins of ancestral vectors aligned with those of
   representative extant AAVs (Figure 13A), and the amino acid sequences of the VP3 proteins
25 of ancestral vectors aligned with those of representative extant AAVs (Figure 13B).
            Figure 14 is a graph that demonstrates that AAV vectors were produced in triplicate
   in small scale (6-well dishes). Crude viruses were assessed via qPCR to determine the
   absolute production of each vector.
            Figure 15 is a table showing the titers of each vector, averaged and compared, to
30 those of AAV8.
                                                    6

            Figure 16 are photographs that show the results of experiments in which 1.9E3
   GC/cell of each vector was added to HEK293 cells (except for Anc126, in which case MOIs
   of 2.5E2 - 3. 1E2 GC/cell were achieved). Sixty hours later, infectivity was assessed using
   fluorescence microscopy.
 5          Figure 17 is a graph showing the results of experiments in which the same cells from
   Figure 16 were lysed and assayed for luciferase expression. As in Figure 16, Anc126 was
   not titer controlled with the other vectors, but rather ranged from an MOI of 2.5E2 - 3.1E2
   GC/cell.
            Figure 18 is a table showing the luminescence of cells transduced by each vector,
10 which were averaged and compared to those of AAV8.
            Figure 19 is a chart that provides a summary of in vitro experiments to determine the
   relative production and infectivity of the ancestral AAV vectors described herein.
                                     DETAILED DESCRIPTION
            Gene transfer, either for experimental or therapeutic purposes, relies upon a vector or
15 vector system to shuttle genetic information into target cells. The vector or vector system is
   considered the major determinant of efficiency, specificity, host response, pharmacology, and
   longevity of the gene transfer reaction. Currently, the most efficient and effective way to
   accomplish gene transfer is through the use of vectors or vector systems based on viruses that
   have been made replication-defective.
20          Seroprevalence studies, however, indicate that significant proportions of worldwide
   human populations have been pre-exposed (e.g., by natural infection) to a large number of
   the viruses currently used in gene transfer and, therefore, harbor pre-existing immunity.
   Neutralizing antibodies toward the viral vector in these pre-exposed individuals are known to
   limit, sometimes significantly, the extent of gene transfer or even re-direct the virus away
25 from the target. See, for example, Calcedo et al. (2009, J. Infect. Dis., 199:381-90) and
   Boutin et al. (2010, Human Gene Ther., 21:704-12). Thus, the present disclosure is based on
   the recognition that ancestral viruses or portions thereof exhibit reduced susceptibility to pre
   existing immunity (e.g., reduced susceptibility to neutralizing antibodies) in current day
   human populations than do contemporary viruses or portions thereof.
                                                    7

           Figure 1 is a schematic showing the relationships between ancestral and
   contemporary viral infections and ancestral and contemporary host immune response. Figure
   1 shows how ancestral AAVs can be refractory to contemporary pre-existing immunity. A
   contemporary, extant virus (Vc) is presumed to have evolved from an ancestral species
 5 (Vanc), primarily under evolutionary pressures of host immunity through mechanisms of
   immune escape. Each of these species, Vanc and Vc, have the ability to induce adaptive
   immunity including B and T cell immunity (Ianc and Ic, respectively). It was hypothesized,
   and confirmed herein, that immunity induced by contemporary viruses does not necessarily
   cross-react with an ancestral viral species, which can be substantially different in terms of
10 epitope composition than the extant virus.
           This disclosure provides methods of predicting the sequence of an ancestral virus or a
   portion thereof. One or more of the ancestral virus sequences predicted using the methods
   described herein can be generated and assembled into a virus particle. As demonstrated
   herein, virus particles assembled from predicted ancestral viral sequences can exhibit less,
15 sometimes significantly less, seroprevalence than current-day, contemporary virus particles.
   Thus, the ancestral virus sequences disclosed herein are suitable for use in vectors or vector
   systems for gene transfer.
   Methods of Predicting and Synthesizing an Ancestral Viral Sequence
20         To predict an ancestral viral sequence, nucleotide or amino acid sequences first are
   compiled from a plurality of contemporary viruses or portions thereof. While the methods
   described herein were exemplified using adeno-associated virus (AAV) capsid sequences, the
   same methods can be applied to other sequences from AAV (e.g., the entire genome, rep
   sequences, ITR sequences) or to any other virus or portion thereof. Viruses other than AAV
25 include, without limitation, adenovirus (AV), human immunodeficiency virus (HIV),
   retrovirus, lentivirus, herpes simplex virus (HSV), measles, vaccinia virus, pox virus,
   influenza virus, respiratory syncytial virus, parainfluenza virus, foamy virus, or any other
   virus to which pre-existing immunity is considered a problem.
           Sequences from as few as two contemporary viruses or portions thereof can be used,
30 however, it is understood that a larger number of sequences of contemporary viruses or
   portions thereof is desirable so as to include as much of the landscape of modern day
                                                    8

   sequence diversity as possible, but also because a larger number of sequences can increase
   the predictive capabilities of the algorithms described and used. For example, sequences
   from 10 or more contemporary viruses or portions thereof can be used, sequences from 50 or
   more contemporary viruses or portions thereof can be used, or sequences from 100 or more
 5 contemporary viruses or portions thereof can be used.
            Such sequences can be obtained, for example, from any number of public databases
   including, without limitation, GenBank, UniProt, EMBL, International Nucleotide Sequence
   Database Collaboration (INSDC), or European Nucleotide Archive. Additionally or
   alternatively, such sequences can be obtained from a database that is specific to a particular
10 organism (e.g., HIV database). The contemporary sequences can correspond to the entire
   genome, or only a portion of the genome can be used such as, without limitation, sequences
   that encode one or more components of the viral capsid, the replication protein, or the ITR
   sequences.
            Next, the contemporary sequences are aligned using a multiple sequence alignment
15 (MSA) algorithm. Figure 2(a) is a schematic showing an alignment of multiple sequences.
   MSA algorithms are well known in the art and generally are designed to be applied to
   different size datasets and different inputs (e.g., nucleic acid or protein), and to align the
   sequences in a particular manner (e.g., dynamic programming, progressive, heuristic) and
   apply different scoring schemes in the alignment (e.g., matrix-based or consistency-based,
20 e.g., minimum entropy, sum of pairs, similarity matrix, gap scores). Well known MSA
   algorithms include, for example, ClustalW (Thompson et al., 1994, Nuc. Acids Res.,
   22:4673-90), Kalign (Lassmann et al., 2006, Nuc. Acids Res., 34:W596-99), MAFFT (Katoh
   et al., 2005, Nuc. Acids Res., 33:511-8), MUSCLE (Edgar, 2004, BMC Bioinform., 5:113),
   and T-Coffee (Notredame et al., 2000, J. Mol. Biol., 302:205-17).
25          As described herein, one of the main features when selecting a MSA algorithm for
   use in the methods described herein is the manner in which the algorithm treats a gap in the
   alignment. Gaps in a sequence alignment can be assigned a penalty value that is either
   dependent or independent on the size of the gap. In the present methods, it is preferred that
   the MSA algorithm used in the methods described herein apply phylogenetic information to
30 predict whether a gap in the alignment is a result of a deletion or an insertion as opposed to a
   biased, non-phylogenetic treatment of gaps due to, e.g., insertions and/or deletions. A
                                                    9

   suitable method of treating gaps in alignments and evolutionary analysis is described in
   Loytynoja and Goldman, 2008, Science, 320:1632-5, and commercially available algorithms
   that apply gaps in alignments in a manner that is suitable for use in the methods described
   herein is a Probabilistic Alignment Kit (PRANK; Goldman Group Software; Loytynoja and
 5 Goldman, 2005, PNAS USA, 102:10557-62), and variations of the PRANK algorithm.
            An evolutionary model is then applied to the resulting alignment to obtain a predicted
   ancestral phylogeny (see Figure 2(b)). There are a number of evolutionary models available
   in the art, each of which apply slightly different matrices of replacement rates for amino
   acids. Without limitation, algorithms for applying models of evolution include the Dayhoff
10 models (e.g., PAM120, PAM160, PAM250; Dayhoff et al., 1978, In Atlas ofProtein
   Sequence and Structure (ed. Dayhoff), pp. 345-52, National Biomedical Research
   Foundation, Washington D.C.), the JTT model (Jones et al., 1992, Comp. Appl. Biosci.,
   8:275-82), the WAG model (Whelan and Goldman, 2001, Mol. Biol. Evol., 18:691-9), and
   the Blosum models (e.g., Blosum45, Blosum62, Blosum80; Henikoff and Henikoff, 1992,
15 PNAS USA, 89:10915-9).
            In addition, the constraints that structure and function impose on an evolutionary
   model can themselves be modeled, for example, by considering that some positions are
   invariant ("+I"; Reeves, 1992, J. Mol. Evol., 35:17-3 1), that some positions undergo different
   rates of change ("+G"; Yang, 1993, Mol. Biol. Evol., 10:1396-1401), and/or that equilibrium
20 frequencies of nucleotides or amino acids are the same as those in the alignment ("+F"; Cao
   et al., 1994, J. Mol. Evol., 39:519-27).
            The fitness of one or more models of evolution can be evaluated using the Aikake
   Information Criterion (AIC; Akaike, 1973, In Second InternationalSymposium on
   Information Theory, Petrov and Csaki, eds., pp 267-8 1, Budapest, Akademiai Kiado), the
25 Bayesian Information Criterion (BIC; Schwarz, 1978, Ann. Statist. 6:461-4), or variations or
   combinations thereof. In addition, AIC, BIC, or variations or combinations thereof can be
   used to evaluate the relative importance of including one or more parameters (e.g., the
   constraints discussed above) in the evolutionary model.
            As explained in the Example section below, ProTest3 (Darriba et al., 2011,
30 Bioinformatics, 27(8):1164-5) can be used to determine, based on the lowest AIC, that a
   JTT+G+F algorithm was the most suitable model for AAV evolution. It would be
                                                     10

   understood by a skilled artisan that a JTT+G+F algorithm also may be used to predict
   ancestral viral sequences other than AAV capsid polypeptides, however, it also would be
   understood by a skilled artisan that, depending on the dataset and the fitness score, a different
   model of evolution may be more suitable.
 5          Once a model of evolution has been selected and its fitness determined, a
   phylogenetic tree of the virus sequences or portions thereof can be constructed. Constructing
   phylogenetic trees is known in the art and typically employs maximum likelihood methods
   such as those implemented by PhyML (Guindon and Gascuel, 2003, Systematic Biology,
   52:696-704)), MOLPHY (Adachi and Hasegawa, 1996, ed. Tokyo Institute of Statistical
10 Mathematics), BioNJ (Gascuel, 1997, Mol. Biol. Evol., 14:685-95), or PHYLIP (Felsenstein,
   1973, Systematic Biology, 22:240-9). A skilled artisan would understand that a balance
   between computational complexity and the goodness of fit is desirable in a model of amino
   acid substitutions.
            If desired, the phylogenetic tree can be assessed for significance. A number of
15 statistical methods are available and routinely used to evaluate the significance of a model
   including, without limitation, bootstrap, jackknife, cross-validation, permutation tests, or
   combinations or variations thereof. Significance also can be evaluated using, for example, an
   approximate likelihood-ratio test (aLRT; Anisimova and Gascuel, 2006, Systematic Biology,
   55:539-52)).
20          At any phylogenetic node of the phylogeny (e.g., an interior phylogenetic node), the
   sequence can be reconstructed by estimating the evolutionary probability of a particular
   nucleotide or amino acid residue at each position of the sequence (Figure 2(c)). A
   phylogenic node refers to an intermediate evolutionary branch point within the predicted
   ancestral phylogeny. As used herein, "evolutionary probability" refers to the probability of
25 the presence of a particular nucleotide or amino acid at a particular position based on an
   evolutionary model as opposed to a model that does not take into account, for example, an
   evolutionary shift in the codon usage. Exemplary models that take into account the
   evolutionary probability of a particular nucleotide or amino acid residue at a particular
   position can be estimated using, for example, any number of maximum likelihood methods
30 including, without limitation, Phylogenetic Analysis by Maximum Likelihood (PAML;
                                                    11

   Yang, 1997, Comp. Applic. BioSci., 13:555-6) or Phylogenetic Analysis Using Parsimony
   (PAUP; Sinauer Assoc., Inc., Sunderland, MA).
           Based on the estimated evolutionary probability of a particular nucleotide or amino
   acid residue at each position, the predicted sequence of an ancestral virus or portion thereof
 5 can be assembled to form a complete or partial synthetic nucleic acid or polypeptide
   sequence. If desired, the likelihood that any residue was in a given state at a given node
   along the node can be calculated, and any position along the sequence having a calculated
   posterior probability beneath a particular threshold can be identified (Figure 2(d)). In this
   manner, an ancestral scaffold sequence can be generated, which can include variations at
10 those positions having a probability below the particular threshold.
           If the ancestral sequence that is predicted using the methods herein is a nucleic acid
   sequence, the sequence then can be codon optimized so that it can be efficiently translated
   into an amino acid sequence. Codon usage tables for different organisms are known in the
   art. Optionally, however, a codon usage table can be designed based on one or more
15 contemporary sequences that has homology (e.g., at least 90% sequence identity) to the
   ancestral scaffold sequence, and an ancestral sequence as described herein can be codon
   optimized toward mammalian (e.g., human) codon usage.
           Any or all of the steps outlined herein for predicting an ancestral viral sequence can
   be performed or simulated on a computer (e.g., in silico) using a processor or a
20 microprocessor.
   Ancestral Adeno-Associated Virus (AAV) Scaffold Sequences
           The methods described herein were applied to adeno-associated virus (AAV) using
   contemporary capsid sequences (described in detail in the Examples below). AAV is widely
25 considered as a therapeutic gene transfer vector and a genetic vaccine vehicle, but exhibits a
   high seroprevalence in human populations. Using the methods described herein, a
   phylogenetic tree was assembled using contemporary AAV sequences (see Figures 3A-3C)
   and predicted ancestral scaffold sequences were obtained at the designated phylogenic node
   (Table 1). As used herein, an ancestral scaffold sequence refers to a sequence that is
30 constructed using the methods described herein (e.g., using evolutionary probabilities and
   evolutionary modeling) and is not known to have existed in nature. As used herein, the
                                                    12

   ancestral scaffold sequences are different from consensus sequences, which are typically
   constructed using the frequency of nucleotides or amino acid residues at a particular position.
                                                Table 1.
                                Node       Polypeptide     Nucleic Acid
                                          (SEQ ID NO)      (SEQ ID NO)
                               Anc80             1               2
                               Anc81            3                4
                               Anc82            5                6
                               Anc83            7                8
                               Anc84            9               10
                               Anc94            11              12
                               Anc113           13              14
                               Anc126           15              16
                               Anc127           17              18
 5         The scaffold sequence of the Anc80 polypeptide is shown in SEQ ID NO:1, which is
   encoded by the scaffold sequence of the Anc80 nucleic acid shown in SEQ ID NO:2. The
   scaffold sequence of Anc80 contains 11 positions at which either of two residues were
   probable. Therefore, the Anc80 scaffold sequence represents 2048 (2") different sequences.
           To demonstrate the effectiveness of the methods described herein for predicting the
10 ancestral sequence of a virus or portion thereof, a library of the 2048 predicted ancestral
   sequences at the AAV Anc80 node was generated and, as described herein, demonstrated to
   form viable virus particles exhibiting less seroprevalence, in some instances, significantly
   less seroprevalance, than virus particles assembled with contemporary capsid polypeptides.
15 Methods of Making Ancestral Virus Particles
           After the predicted ancestral sequence of a virus or portion thereof has been obtained,
   the actual nucleic acid molecule and/or polypeptide(s) can be generated, e.g., synthesized.
   Methods of generating an artificial nucleic acid molecule or polypeptide based on a sequence
   obtained, for example, in silico, are known in the art and include, for example, chemical
20 synthesis or recombinant cloning. Additional methods for generating nucleic acid molecules
   or polypeptides are known in the art and are discussed in more detail below.
           Once an ancestral polypeptide has been produced, or once an ancestral nucleic acid
   molecule has been generated and expressed to produce an ancestral polypeptide, the ancestral
                                                   13

   polypeptide can be assembled into an ancestral virus particle using, for example, a packaging
   host cell. The components of a virus particle (e.g., rep sequences, cap sequences, inverted
   terminal repeat (ITR) sequences) can be introduced, transiently or stably, into a packaging
   host cell using one or more vectors as described herein. One or more of the components of a
 5 virus particle can be based on a predicted ancestral sequence as described herein, while the
   remaining components can be based on contemporary sequences. In some instances, the
   entire virus particle can be based on predicted ancestral sequences.
            Such ancestral virus particles can be purified using routine methods. As used herein,
   "purified" virus particles refer to virus particles that are removed from components in the
10 mixture in which they were made such as, but not limited to, viral components (e.g., rep
   sequences, cap sequences), packaging host cells, and partially- or incompletely-assembled
   virus particles.
            Once assembled, the ancestral virus particles can be screened for, e.g., the ability to
   replicate; gene transfer properties; receptor binding ability; and/or seroprevalence in a
15 population (e.g., a human population). Determining whether a virus particle can replicate is
   routine in the art and typically includes infecting a host cell with an amount of virus particles
   and determining if the virus particles increase in number over time. Determining whether a
   virus particle is capable of performing gene transfer also is routine in the art and typically
   includes infecting host cells with virus particles containing a transgene (e.g., a detectable
20 transgene such as a reporter gene, discussed in more detail below). Following infection and
   clearance of the virus, the host cells can be evaluated for the presence or absence of the
   transgene. Determining whether a virus particle binds to its receptor is routine in the art, and
   such methods can be performed in vitro or in vivo.
            Determining the seroprevalence of a virus particle is routinely performed in the art
25 and typically includes using an immunoassay to determine the prevalence of one or more
   antibodies in samples (e.g., blood samples) from a particular population of individuals.
   Seroprevalence is understood in the art to refer to the proportion of subjects in a population
   that is seropositive (i.e., has been exposed to a particular pathogen or immunogen), and is
   calculated as the number of subjects in a population who produce an antibody against a
30 particular pathogen or immunogen divided by the total number of individuals in the
   population examined. Immunoassays are well known in the art and include, without
                                                     14

   limitation, an immunodot, Western blot, enzyme immunoassays (EIA), enzyme-linked
   immunosorbent assay (ELISA), or radioimmunoassay (RIA). As indicated herein, ancestral
   virus particles exhibit less seroprevalence than do contemporary virus particles (i.e., virus
   particles assembled using contemporary virus sequences or portions thereof). Simply by way
 5 of example, see Xu et al. (2007, Am. J. Obstet. Gynecol., 196:43.e l-6); Paul et al. (1994, J.
   Infect. Dis., 169:801-6); Sauerbrei et al. (2011, Eurosurv., 16(44):3); and Sakhria et al. (2013,
   PLoS Negl. Trop. Dis., 7:e2429), each of which determined seroprevalence for a particular
   antibody in a given population.
           As described herein, ancestral virus particles are neutralized by a person's, e.g.,
10 patient's, immune system to a lesser extent than are contemporary virus particles. Several
   methods to determine the extent of neutralizing antibodies in a serum sample are available.
   For example, a neutralizing antibody assay measures the titer at which an experimental
   sample contains an antibody concentration that neutralizes infection by 50% or more as
   compared to a control sample without antibody. See, also, Fisher et al. (1997, Nature Med.,
15 3:306-12) and Manning et al. (1998, Human Gene Ther., 9:477-85).
           With respect to the ancestral AAV capsid polypeptides exemplified herein, the
   seroprevalence and/or extent of neutralization can be compared, for example, to an AAV8
   capsid polypeptide or virus particle that includes an AAV8 capsid polypeptide, or an AAV2
   capsid polypeptide or virus particle that includes an AAV2 capsid polypeptide. It is
20 generally understood in the art that AAV8 capsid polypeptides or virus particles exhibit a
   seroprevalance, and a resulting neutralization, in the human population that is considered
   low, while AAV2 capsid polypeptide or virus particles exhibit a seroprevalance, and a
   resulting neutralization, in the human population that is considered high. Obviously, the
   particular seroprevalence will depend upon the population examined as well as the
25 immunological methods used, but there are reports that AAV8 exhibits a seroprevalence of
   about 22% up to about 38%, while AAV2 exhibits a seroprevalence of about 43.5% up to
   about 72%. See, for example, Boutin et al., 2010, "Prevalence of serum IgG and neutralizing
   factors against AAV types 1, 2, 5, 6, 8 and 9 in the healthy population: implications for gene
   therapy using AAV vectors," Hum. Gene Ther., 21:704-12. See, also, Calcedo et al., 2009, J.
30 Infect. Dis., 199:381-90.
                                                   15

   Predicted Adeno-Associated Virus (AA V) Ancestral Nucleic Acid and Polypeptide
   Sequences
            A number of different clones from the library encoding predicted ancestral capsid
   polypeptides from the Anc80 node were sequenced, and the amino acid sequences of
 5 representative AAV predicted ancestral capsid polypeptides are shown in SEQ ID NO: 19
   (Anc80L27); SEQ ID NO: 20 (Anc80L59); SEQ ID NO: 21 (Anc80L60); SEQ ID NO: 22
   (Anc80L62); SEQ ID NO: 23 (Anc80L65); SEQ ID NO: 24 (Anc80L33); SEQ ID NO: 25
   (Anc80L36); and SEQ ID NO:26 (Anc80L44). Those skilled in the art would appreciate that
   the nucleic acid sequence encoding each amino acid sequence can readily be determined.
10          In addition to the predicted ancestral capsid polypeptides having the sequences shown
   in SEQ ID NOs: 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25 or 26, polypeptides are provided that have at least
   95% sequence identity (e.g., at least 96%, at least 97%, at least 98%, at least 99% or 100%
   sequence identity) to the predicted ancestral capsid polypeptides having the sequences shown
   in SEQ ID NOs: 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, or 26. Similarly, nucleic acid molecules are
15 provided that have at least 95% sequence identity (e.g., at least 96%, at least 97%, at least
   98%, at least 99% or 100% sequence identity) to the nucleic acid molecules encoding the
   ancestral capsid polypeptides (i.e., having at least 95% sequence identity).
            In calculating percent sequence identity, two sequences are aligned and the number of
   identical matches of nucleotides or amino acid residues between the two sequences is
20 determined. The number of identical matches is divided by the length of the aligned region
   (i.e., the number of aligned nucleotides or amino acid residues) and multiplied by 100 to
   arrive at a percent sequence identity value. It will be appreciated that the length of the
   aligned region can be a portion of one or both sequences up to the full-length size of the
   shortest sequence. It also will be appreciated that a single sequence can align with more than
25 one other sequence and hence, can have different percent sequence identity values over each
   aligned region.
            The alignment of two or more sequences to determine percent sequence identity can
   be performed using the algorithm described by Altschul et al. (1997, Nucleic Acids Res.,
   25:3389 3402) as incorporated into BLAST (basic local alignment search tool) programs,
30 available at ncbi.nlm.nih.gov on the World Wide Web. BLAST searches can be performed
   to determine percent sequence identity between a sequence (nucleic acid or amino acid) and
                                                    16

   any other sequence or portion thereof aligned using the Altschul et al. algorithm. BLASTN
   is the program used to align and compare the identity between nucleic acid sequences, while
   BLASTP is the program used to align and compare the identity between amino acid
   sequences. When utilizing BLAST programs to calculate the percent identity between a
 5 sequence and another sequence, the default parameters of the respective programs generally
   are used.
           Representative alignments are shown in Figures 4A and 4B and Figures 5A and 5B.
   Figures 4A and 4B show an alignment of ancestral AAV VP1 capsid polypeptides,
   designated Anc80L65 (SEQ ID NO: 23), Anc80L27 (SEQ ID NO: 19), Anc80L33 (SEQ ID
10 NO: 24), Anc80L36 (SEQ ID NO: 25), Anc80L44 (SEQ ID NO: 26), Anc80L59 (SEQ ID
   NO: 20), Anc80L60 (SEQ ID NO: 21), and Anc80L62 (SEQ ID NO: 22). The alignment
   shown in Figures 4A and 4B confirms the predicted variation at each of the 11 sites, and a
   single non-synonymous mutation at position 609E of Anc80L60 (SEQ ID NO: 21), which
   may be a cloning artifact. Figures 5A and 5B shows an alignment between ancestral AAV
15 VP1 capsid polypeptides (Anc80L65 (SEQ ID NO: 23), Anc80L27 (SEQ ID NO: 19),
   Anc80L33 (SEQ ID NO: 24), Anc80L36 (SEQ ID NO: 25), Anc80L60 (SEQ ID NO: 21),
   Anc80L62 (SEQ ID NO: 22), Anc80L44 (SEQ ID NO: 26), and Anc80L59 (SEQ ID NO:
   20)) and contemporary AAV VP1 capsid polypeptides (AAV8 (SEQ ID NO: 27), AAV9
   (SEQ ID NO: 28), AAV6 (SEQ ID NO: 29), AAV1 (SEQ ID NO: 30), AAV2 (SEQ ID NO:
20 31), AAV3 (SEQ ID NO: 32), AAV3B (SEQ ID NO: 33), and AAV7 (SEQ ID NO: 34)).
   The alignment in Figures 5A and 5B shows that the ancestral AAV sequences have between
   about 85% and 91% sequence identity to contemporary AAV sequences.
           Vectors containing nucleic acid molecules that encode polypeptides also are
   provided. Vectors, including expression vectors, are commercially available or can be
25 produced by recombinant technology. A vector containing a nucleic acid molecule can have
   one or more elements for expression operably linked to such a nucleic acid molecule, and
   further can include sequences such as those encoding a selectable marker (e.g., an antibiotic
   resistance gene), and/or those that can be used in purification of a polypeptide (e.g., 6xHis
   tag). Elements for expression include nucleic acid sequences that direct and regulate
30 expression of nucleic acid coding sequences. One example of an expression element is a
   promoter sequence. Expression elements also can include one or more of introns, enhancer
                                                  17

   sequences, response elements, or inducible elements that modulate expression of a nucleic
   acid molecule. Expression elements can be of bacterial, yeast, insect, mammalian, or viral
   origin and vectors can contain a combination of expression elements from different origins.
   As used herein, operably linked means that elements for expression are positioned in a vector
 5 relative to a coding sequence in such a way as to direct or regulate expression of the coding
   sequence.
            A nucleic acid molecule, e.g., a nucleic acid molecule in a vector (e.g., an expression
   vector, a viral vector) can be introduced into a host cell. The term "host cell" refers not only
   to the particular cell(s) into which the nucleic acid molecule has been introduced, but also to
10 the progeny or potential progeny of such a cell. Many suitable host cells are known to those
   skilled in the art; host cells can be prokaryotic cells (e.g., E. coli) or eukaryotic cells (e.g.,
   yeast cells, insect cells, plant cells, mammalian cells). Representative host cells can include,
   without limitation, A549, WEHI, 3T3, 1OT1/2, BHK, MDCK, COS 1, COS 7, BSC 1, BSC
   40, BMT 10, VERO, W138, HeLa, 293 cells, Saos, C2C12, L cells, HT1080, HepG2 and
15 primary fibroblast, hepatocyte and myoblast cells derived from mammals including human,
   monkey, mouse, rat, rabbit, and hamster. Methods for introducing nucleic acid molecules
   into host cells are well known in the art and include, without limitation, calcium phosphate
   precipitation, electroporation, heat shock, lipofection, microinjection, and viral-mediated
   nucleic acid transfer (e.g., transduction).
20          With respect to polypeptides, "purified" refers to a polypeptide (i.e., a peptide or a
   polypeptide) that has been separated or purified from cellular components that naturally
   accompany it. Typically, the polypeptide is considered "purified" when it is at least 70%
   (e.g., at least 75%, 80%, 85%, 90%, 95%, or 99%) by dry weight, free from the polypeptides
   and naturally occurring molecules with which it is naturally associated. Since a polypeptide
25 that is chemically synthesized is, by nature, separated from the components that naturally
   accompany it, a synthetic polypeptide is considered "purified," but further can be removed
   from the components used to synthesize the polypeptide (e.g., amino acid residues). With
   respect to nucleic acid molecules, "isolated" refers to a nucleic acid molecule that is
   separated from other nucleic acid molecules that are usually associated with it in the genome.
30 In addition, an isolated nucleic acid molecule can include an engineered nucleic acid
   molecule such as a recombinant or a synthetic nucleic acid molecule.
                                                    18

            Polypeptides can be obtained (e.g., purified) from natural sources (e.g., a biological
   sample) by known methods such as DEAE ion exchange, gel filtration, and/or hydroxyapatite
   chromatography. A purified polypeptide also can be obtained, for example, by expressing a
   nucleic acid molecule in an expression vector or by chemical synthesis. The extent of purity
 5 of a polypeptide can be measured using any appropriate method, e.g., column
   chromatography, polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis, or HPLC analysis. Similarly, nucleic
   acid molecules can be obtained (e.g., isolated) using routine methods such as, without
   limitation, recombinant nucleic acid technology (e.g., restriction enzyme digestion and
   ligation) or the polymerase chain reaction (PCR; see, for example, PCR Primer: A
10 Laboratory Manual, Dieffenbach & Dveksler, Eds., Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press,
   1995). In addition, isolated nucleic acid molecules can be chemically synthesized.
   Methods of Using Ancestral Viruses or Portions Thereof
            An ancestral virus or portion thereof as described herein, particularly those that
15 exhibit reduced seroprevalence relative to contemporary viruses or portions thereof, can be
   used in a number of research and/or therapeutic applications. For example, an ancestral virus
   or portion thereof as described herein can be used in human or animal medicine for gene
   therapy (e.g., in a vector or vector system for gene transfer) or for vaccination (e.g., for
   antigen presentation). More specifically, an ancestral virus or portion thereof as described
20 herein can be used for gene addition, gene augmentation, genetic delivery of a polypeptide
   therapeutic, genetic vaccination, gene silencing, genome editing, gene therapy, RNAi
   delivery, cDNA delivery, mRNA delivery, miRNA delivery, miRNA sponging, genetic
   immunization, optogenetic gene therapy, transgenesis, DNA vaccination, or DNA
   immunization.
25          A host cell can be transduced or infected with an ancestral virus or portion thereof in
   vitro (e.g., growing in culture) or in vivo (e.g., in a subject). Host cells that can be transduced
   or infected with an ancestral virus or portion thereof in vitro are described herein; host cells
   that can be transduced or infected with an ancestral virus or portion thereof in vivo include,
   without limitation, brain, liver, muscle, lung, eye (e.g., retina, retinal pigment epithelium),
30 kidney, heart, gonads (e.g., testes, uterus, ovaries), skin, nasal passages, digestive system,
                                                     19

   pancreas, islet cells, neurons, lymphocytes, ear (e.g., inner ear), hair follicles, and/or glands
   (e.g., thyroid).
            An ancestral virus or portion thereof as described herein can be modified to include a
   transgene (in cis or trans with other viral sequences). A transgene can be, for example, a
 5 reporter gene (e.g., beta-lactamase, beta-galactosidase (LacZ), alkaline phosphatase,
   thymidine kinase, green fluorescent polypeptide (GFP), chloramphenicol acetyltransferase
   (CAT), or luciferase, or fusion polypeptides that include an antigen tag domain such as
   hemagglutinin or Myc) or a therapeutic gene (e.g., genes encoding hormones or receptors
   thereof, growth factors or receptors thereof, differentiation factors or receptors thereof,
10 immune system regulators (e.g., cytokines and interleukins) or receptors thereof, enzymes,
   RNAs (e.g., inhibitory RNAs or catalytic RNAs), or target antigens (e.g., oncogenic antigens,
   autoimmune antigens)).
            The particular transgene will depend, at least in part, on the particular disease or
   deficiency being treated. Simply by way of example, gene transfer or gene therapy can be
15 applied to the treatment of hemophilia, retinitis pigmentosa, cystic fibrosis, leber congenital
   amaurosis, lysosomal storage disorders, inborn errors of metabolism (e.g., inborn errors of
   amino acid metabolism including phenylketonuria, inborn errors of organic acid metabolism
   including propionic academia, inborn errors of fatty acid metabolism including medium
   chain acyl-CoA dehydrogenase deficiency (MCAD)), cancer, achromatopsia, cone-rod
20 dystrophies, macular degenerations (e.g., age-related macular degeneration), lipopolypeptide
   lipase deficiency, familial hypercholesterolemia, spinal muscular atrophy, Duchenne's
   muscular dystrophy, Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, obesity, inflammatory bowel
   disorder, diabetes, congestive heart failure, hypercholesterolemia, hearing loss, coronary
   heart disease, familial renal amyloidosis, Marfan's syndrome, fatal familial insomnia,
25 Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease, sickle-cell disease, Huntington's disease, fronto-temporal lobar
   degeneration, Usher syndrome, lactose intolerance, lipid storage disorders (e.g., Niemann
   Pick disease, type C), Batten disease, choroideremia, glycogen storage disease type II
   (Pompe disease), ataxia telangiectasia (Louis-Bar syndrome), congenital hypothyroidism,
   severe combined immunodeficiency (SCID), and/or amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS).
30          A transgene also can be, for example, an immunogen that is useful for immunizing a
   subject (e.g., a human, an animal (e.g., a companion animal, a farm animal, an endangered
                                                   20

   animal). For example, immunogens can be obtained from an organism (e.g., a pathogenic
   organism) or an immunogenic portion or component thereof (e.g., a toxin polypeptide or a
   by-product thereof). By way of example, pathogenic organisms from which immunogenic
   polypeptides can be obtained include viruses (e.g., picornavirus, enteroviruses,
 5 orthomyxovirus, reovirus, retrovirus), prokaryotes (e.g., Pneumococci, Staphylococci,
   Listeria, Pseudomonas), and eukaryotes (e.g., amebiasis, malaria, leishmaniasis, nematodes).
   It would be understood that the methods described herein and compositions produced by
   such methods are not to be limited by any particular transgene.
           An ancestral virus or portion thereof, usually suspended in a physiologically
10 compatible carrier, can be administered to a subject (e.g., a human or non-human mammal).
   Suitable carriers include saline, which may be formulated with a variety of buffering
   solutions (e.g., phosphate buffered saline), lactose, sucrose, calcium phosphate, gelatin,
   dextran, agar, pectin, and water. The ancestral virus or portion thereof is administered in
   sufficient amounts to transduce or infect the cells and to provide sufficient levels of gene
15 transfer and expression to provide a therapeutic benefit without undue adverse effects.
   Conventional and pharmaceutically acceptable routes of administration include, but are not
   limited to, direct delivery to an organ such as, for example, the liver or lung, orally,
   intranasally, intratracheally, by inhalation, intravenously, intramuscularly, intraocularly,
   subcutaneously, intradermally, transmucosally, or by other routes of administration. Routes
20 of administration can be combined, if desired.
           The dose of the ancestral virus or portion thereof administered to a subject will
   depend primarily on factors such as the condition being treated, and the age, weight, and
   health of the subject. For example, a therapeutically effective dosage of an ancestral virus or
   portion thereof to be administered to a human subject generally is in the range of from about
25 0.1 ml to about 10 ml of a solution containing concentrations of from about 1 x 101 to 1 x
   1012 genome copies (GCs) of ancestral viruses (e.g., about 1 x 103 to 1 x 109 GCs).
   Transduction and/or expression of a transgene can be monitored at various time points
   following administration by DNA, RNA, or protein assays. In some instances, the levels of
   expression of the transgene can be monitored to determine the frequency and/or amount of
30 dosage. Dosage regimens similar to those described for therapeutic purposes also may be
   utilized for immunization.
                                                    21

            The methods described herein also can be used to model forward evolution, so as to
   modify or ablate one or more immunogenic domains of a virus or portion thereof.
            In accordance with the present invention, there may be employed conventional
 5 molecular biology, microbiology, biochemical, and recombinant DNA techniques within the
   skill of the art. Such techniques are explained fully in the literature. The invention will be
   further described in the following examples, which do not limit the scope of the methods and
   compositions of matter described in the claims.
10                                           EXAMPLES
   Example 1 -      Computational Prediction of Ancestral Sequences
            A set of 75 different amino acid sequences of AAV capsids was obtained from a
   number of public databases including GenBank, and the sequences were aligned using the
   PRANK-MSA algorithm, version 121002, with the option "-F".
15          ProtTest3 (see, for example, Darriba et al., 2011, Bioinformatics, 27(8):1164-5;
   available at darwin.uvigo.es/software/prottest3 on the World Wide Web) was used to
   evaluate different models of polypeptide evolution (e.g., those included in ProTest3, namely,
   JTT, LG, WAG, VT, CpRev, RtRev, Dayhoff, DCMut, FLU, Blosum62, VT, HIVb, MtArt,
   MtMam) under different conditions (e.g., those included in ProTest3, namely, "+I", "+F",      "+
20 G", and combinations thereof). The JTT model (Jones et al., 1992, Comp. Appl. Biosci.,
   8:275-82) with +G and +F (Yang, 1993, Mol. Biol. Evol., 10:1396-1401; and Cao et al.,
   1994, J. Mol. Evol., 39:519-27) was selected based on its Aikake Information Criterion (AIC;
   Hirotugu, 1974, IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, 19:716-23) score as implemented
   in ProTest3.
25          A phylogeny of AAV evolution was constructed using PhyML (Guindon and
   Gascuel, 2003, Systematic Biology, 52:696-704)). See Figure 3. The tree was generated
   using the JTT + F substitution model with 4 discrete substitution categories and an estimated
   Gamma shape parameter. The resultant trees were improved via Nearest Neighbor
   Interchange (NNI) and Subtree Pruning and Re-Grafting (SPR), and assessed for significance
30 via bootstrap and approximate likelihood-ratio test (aLRT; Anisimova and Gascuel, 2006,
   Systematic Biology, 55:539-52)) using the "SH-Like" variant.
                                                  22

            The phylogenic tree constructed above was then used to estimate the ancestral states
   of the AAV capsid at every node interior to the phylogeny. The ancestral capsid sequences
   were reconstructed using maximum likelihood principles through the Phylogenetic Analysis
   by Maximum Likelihood (PAML) software (Yang, 1997, Comp. Applic. BioSci., 13:555-6;
 5 available at abacus.gene.ucl.ac.uk/software/paml.html on the World Wide Web) wrapped in
   Lazarus (Sourceforge at sf.net). More specifically, the Lazarus/PAML reconstruction was set
   to generate an amino acid reconstruction using the JTT+F substitution model using 4 gamma
   distributed categories. AAV5 was used as an outgroup. Finally, the "1"option was added to
   place indels (i.e., coded binarily and placed via Maximum Parsimony using Fitch's
10 algorithm) after the PAML reconstruction was done.
            Because the reconstruction was done in a maximum-likelihood fashion, the likelihood
   that any residue was in a given position at a given node can be calculated. To do this, an
   additional script was written to identify all positions along the sequence with a calculated
   posterior probability beneath a certain threshold. A threshold of 0.3 was selected, meaning
15 that any amino acid with a calculated posterior probability of greater than 0.3 was included in
   the synthesis of the library. These residues were selected to be variants of interest in the
   library.
            To finalize the sequence, an additional utility had to be coded to select codons. A
   script was written to derive codons similar to those of another AAV sequence (AVVRh10,
20 which has about 92% sequence identity to the Anc80 scaffold sequence) and apply a novel
   algorithm to substitute codons where there were sequence mismatches based on a codon
   substitution matrix. The novel algorithm is shown below:
                    Given: amino acid sequence, Pt, with corresponding nucleotide
            sequence, Nt, where Nt codes for Pt; and protein sequence, Pi, where Pi
25          exhibits strong homology to Pt.
                    Align Pi with Pt using Needleman-Wunsch using the Blosum62
            table for scoring. Generate a new nucleotide sequence, Ni, by stepping
            through the protein alignment, using the corresponding codon from Nt,
                            where the amino acid in Pt exactly matches that in Pi,
30                          the "best scoring" codon from the Codon-PAM matrix
            (Schneider et al., 2005, BMC Bioinform., 6:134) where there is a
            substitution,
                            a gap where there exists a gap in Pi aligned against an
            amino-acid in Pt, and
                                                   23

                           the most frequently occurring nucleotide in the Nt (coding
           for a given amino acid) where there exists an amino-acid in Pi aligned
           against a gap in Pt.
 5         In addition, two single nucleotide changes were made to ablate transcription of
   assembly-activating protein (AAP), which is encoded out of frame within the AAV capsid
   gene in the wild type AAV. Since the coding of AAP (contemporary or ancestral) was not a
   part of this reconstruction, the expression of AAP was ablated by making a synonymous
   mutation in the cap sequence, and the AAP sequence was provided in trans during viral
10 production.
   Example 2 -     Expression of Ancestral AAV VP1 Sequences
           Experiments were performed to determine whether predicted ancestral AAV capsid
   sequences can be used to make viral vectors.
15         A number of the predicted ancestral AAV capsid sequences were cloned. The library
   of ancestral capsids was transferred to a rep-cap expression plasmid to enable viral particle
   formation in transient transfection. To maintain appropriate expression levels and splicing of
   VP1, VP2, and VP3, library cap genes were cloned by cutting HindIII, located 5' of cap in
   the rep coding sequence, and SpeI, which was engineered between the cap stop codon and
20 the polyadenylation signal. Consequently, to clone the ancestral capsids into a more
   conventional "REP/CAP" construct, the passaging-plasmid was digested with HindIII and
   SpeI, gel purified, and ligated into a similarly digested rep/cap plasmid.
           The expressed polypeptides were resolved on a 10% SDS gel. As shown in Figure 6,
   the capsid polypeptides were appropriately expressed and spliced into VP1, VP2, and VP3
25 from a number of ancestral AAV sequences (Anc80L44, Anc80L27, and Anc80L65) as well
   as from a contemporary AAV sequence, AAV2/8.
   Example 3 -     Viral Titration
           AAV was produced in HEK293 cells via transient co-transfection of plasmids
30 encoding all elements required for viral particle assembly. Briefly, HEK293 cells were grown
   to 90% confluency and transfected with (a) the viral genome plasmid encoding the luciferase
   transgene (expressed by the CMV promoter) flanked by AAV2 ITRs, (b) the AAV packaging
                                                    24

   plasmid encoding AAV2 rep and the synthesized capsid proteins disclosed herein, (c) AAV2
   AAP expressing capsid, and (d) adenoviral helper genes needed for AAV packaging and
   assembly. Cells were incubated at 37'C for 2 days, and cells and media were harvested and
   collected.
 5         The cell-media suspension was lysed by 3 consecutive freeze-thaw cycles. Next, the
   lysate was cleared by centrifugation and treated with an enzyme under conditions to perform
   exhaustive DNA digestion, here Benzonase TM, to digest any DNA present outside of the virus
   particle. The AAV preparation was diluted to fall within the linear measurement range of a
   control DNA template, in this case linearized plasmid with identical TaqMan TM primer and
10 probe binding sequence as compared to the vector genome. TaqMan TM PCR was performed
   with primers and probe annealing to the viral vector genome of choice. Titer was calculated
   based on the TaqManTM measurement in genome copies (GC) per milliliter (ml) as shown in
   Table 2 below.
                                                Table 2
                         Titers (GC/ml)       Small scale #1      Small scale #2
                            AAV2/2              1.12 x 109           1.99 x 109
                            AAV2/8             4.17 x 1010          5.91 x 1010
                           Anc80L27             8.01 x 108           1.74 x 109
                           Anc80L44             1.52 x 109           1.43 x 109
                           Anc80L65             1.42 x 109          2.05 x 109
                       No capsid control        5.23 x 10'           7.25 x 10'
15
            Small scale vector production results on ancestrally reconstructed AAV capsid
   particles demonstrated yields that were similar to AAV2, but reduced relative to AAV8, both
   of which are vector preparations based on contemporary AAVs.
20 Example 4 -     In Vitro Viral Transduction
           In vitro viral transductions were performed to evaluate the ability of viruses
   containing the predicted ancestral AAV sequences to infect cells.
           Following high throughput vector production using the Anc80 library of sequences,
   HEK293 cells were transduced with each viral vector. In addition to an Anc80 sequence,
25 each viral vector contained a luciferase transgene. Luciferase was measured by
   quantification of bioluminescence in a 96 well plate reader following addition of luciferin
                                                   25

   substrate to the transduced cells or cell lysate. Following quantification, a heat map of
   luciferase expression in four concatenated 96-well plates was produced (excluding a column
   of controls in each plate). Due to the large number of insertions, deletions, and transitions
   associated with the process of high throughput vector production, many of the vectors were
 5 non-functional. For purposes herein, only viruses that were functional in this assay (i.e., able
   to transduce HEK293 cells and express the transgene) were evaluated further.
           HEK293 cells were transduced, at equal multiplicity of infection (MOI) of 1 x 104
   genome copies (GC) per cell, with two contemporary AAV vectors (AAV2/2 and AAV2/8)
   and three predicted ancestral AAV vectors (Anc80L27, Anc80L44, and Anc80L65). Each
10 vector contained either a luciferase-encoding transgene or an eGFP-encoding transgene.
   Cells were imaged 60 hours later using the GFP channel of an AMG EvosF1 Optical
   Microscope. Figure 7 shows the luciferase expression following the in vitro transduction.
   Each of the ancestral AAV viruses demonstrated efficient transduction of HEK293 cells.
15 Example 5 -     In Vivo Retinal Transduction
           Retinal transductions were performed to determine whether or not the ancestral AAV
   vectors are able to target murine retinal cells in vivo.
           Murine eyes were transduced with 2 x 108 genome copies (GC) of three different
   ancestral AAVs (Anc80L27, Anc80L44, and Anc80L65) and a contemporary AAV
20 (AAV2/8), all of which included an eGFP-encoding transgene. For transductions, each AAV
   vector was surgically delivered below the retina by generating a space between the
   photoreceptor and retinal pigment epithelium layer through delivery of a vector bolus with an
   injection device. The vector bolus was left in the sub-retinal space and the sub-retinal
   detachment resolved over time. GFP expression was monitored non-invasively by fundus
25 photography of the retina of the animal following pupil dilation with Tropicamide TM . All of
   the presented retinas demonstrated varying degrees of successful targeting of ancestral AAVs
   to the retina.
           Retinal histology also was performed and visualized under fluorescent microscopy to
   identify the transduced cell type(s). Histology was performed on a murine retina transduced
30 with the Anc80L65 ancestral AAV vector as described above. Anc80L65-mediated eGFP
   expression was evident in the outer nuclear layer (ONL), the inner segments (IS), and the
                                                    26

   retinal pigment epithelium (RPE), indicating that the ancestral Anc80L65 vector targets
   murine photoreceptors and retinal pigment epithelial cells.
   Example 6 -     Neutralizing Antibody Assay
 5          Neutralizing antibody assays were performed to evaluate whether or not an ancestral
   AAV virus is more resistant to antibody-neutralization than a contemporary AAV virus.
   Neutralizing antibody assays measure the antibody concentration (or the titer at which an
   experimental sample contains an antibody concentration) that neutralizes an infection by
   50% or more as compared to a control in the absence of the antibody.
10          Serum samples or IVIG stock solution (200 mg/ml) were serially diluted by 2-fold,
   and undiluted and diluted samples were co-incubated with an ancestral AAV virus,
   Anc80L65, and a contemporary AAV virus, AAV2/8, at a MOI of 104 for about 30 minutes
   at 37'C. Each virus included a luciferase transgene. The admixed vector and an antibody
   sample then were transduced into HEK293 cells. For these experiments, the antibody sample
15 used was intravenous immunoglobulin (IVIG), pooled IgGs extracted from the plasma of
   over one thousand blood donors (sold commercially, for example, as GammagardTM (Baxter
   Healthcare; Deerfield, IL) or Gamunex TM (Grifols; Los Angeles, CA)). 48 hours following
   initiation of transduction, cells were assayed by bioluminescence to detect luciferase.
   Neutralizing antibody titer was determined by identifying the dilution of sample for which
20 50% or more neutralization (transduction of sample/ transduction of control virus in absence
   of sample) was reached.
   Example 7 -      Characterization of Anc80
            Based on the methods described herein, the most probable Anc80 sequence (as
25 determined through posterior probability) was obtained and designated Anc80L1 (SEQ ID
   NO:35 shows the nucleic acid sequence of the Anc80L1 capsid and SEQ ID NO:36 shows
   the amino acid sequence of the Anc80L1 VP1 polypeptide). The Anc80 probabilistic library
   also was synthesized using the sequences described herein by a commercial company and
   sub-cloned into expression vectors.
                                                  27

           The Anc80 library was clonally evaluated for vector yield and infectivity in combined
   assays. Out of this screening, Anc80L65 (SEQ ID NO:23), as well as several other variants,
   were further characterized.
           The Anc80 library and Anc80L65 were compared in terms of sequence difference
 5 (Figure 9; % up from diagonal, # of amino acid differences below). Using NCBI-BLAST,
   the closest publically available sequence to Anc80L65 is rhl0 (GenBank Accession No.
   AA088201.1).
           Figure 10 shows that Anc80L65 produced vector yields equivalent to AAV2 (Panel
   A), generated virus particles under Transmission Electroscopy (TEM) (Panel B), and
10 biochemically produced the AAV cap and the VP1, 2 and 3 proteins based on SDS page
   under denaturing conditions (Panel C) and Western Blotting using the AAV capsid antibody,
   BI (Panel D). These experiments are described in more detail in the following paragraphs.
           Briefly, AAV2/8, AAV2/2, AAV2/Anc8OL27, AAV2/Anc8OL44, and
   AAV2/Anc8OL65 vectors were produced in small scale containing a reporter construct
15 comprised of eGFP and firefly luciferase under a CMV promoter were produced in small
   scale. Titers of these small scale preparations of viruses were then obtained via qPCR.
   Based on these experiments, Anc80L27, Anc80L44, and Anc80L65 vectors were found to
   produce viral levels comparable to that of AAV2 (Figure 10A).
           To confirm that the Anc80L65 capsid proteins assembled into intact virus-like
20 particles of the proper size and conformation, micrographs were obtained using transmission
   electron microscopy (TEM). A large scale, purified preparation of Anc80-L065 was loaded
   onto polyvinyl formal (Formvar@) coated copper grids and was then stained with uranyl
   acetate. Micrographs revealed intact, hexagonal particles with diameters between 20 and 25
   nm (Figure 10B).
25         In order to determine whether the synthetic ancestral capsid genes were properly
   processed (i.e. spliced and expressed), large-scale purified preparations of AAV2/8, AAV2/2,
   and AAV2/Anc8OL65 vectors were loaded onto an SDS-PAGE gel (1E 10 GC/well) under
   denaturing conditions. Bands representing viral capsid proteins VP 1, VP2, and VP3 were
   clearly present for each vector preparation (Figure 10C). Western blotting with the AAV
30 capsid antibody BI further confirmed that these bands represented the predicted proteins
   (Figure 1OD).
                                                  28

            In addition, Figure 11 shows that Anc80L65 infected mammalian tissue and cells in
   vitro on HEK293 cells at MOI 10E4 GC/cell using GFP as readout (Panel A) or luciferase
   (Panel B) versus AAV2 and/or AAV8 controls. Anc80L65 also was efficient at targeting
   liver following an IV injection of the indicated AAV encoding a nuclear LacZ transgene (top
 5 row, Panel C), following direct intramuscular (IM) injection of the indicated AAV encoding
   GFP (middle row, Panel C), and following subretinal injection with the indicated AAV
   encoding GFP (bottom row, Panel C). These experiments are described in more detail in the
   following paragraphs.
            To obtain a relative measure of the infectivity of ancestral virions, crude preparations
10 of AAV2/2, AAV2/8, AAV2/Anc8OL65, AAV2/Anc8OL44, AAV2/Anc8OL27,
   AAV2/Anc8OL121, AAV2/Anc80L122, AAV2/Anc8OL123, AAV2/Anc80L124, and
   AAV2/Anc8OL125 containing a bi-cistronic reporter construct that includes an eGFP and
   firefly luciferase sequences under control of a CMV promoter were produced. 96-well plates
   confluent with HEK293 cells were then subjected to transduction with each vector at an MOI
15 of 1E4 GC/cell (titers obtained via qPCR as above). 48 hours later, fluorescent microscopy
   confirmed the presence of GFP in transduced cells (Figure 11 A). Cells were then assayed for
   the presence of luciferase (Figure 1 IB), which determined that expression of luciferase in
   cells transduced with Anc80-derived vectors was in-between that of cells transduced with
   AAV8 (lower level of transduction) and AAV2 (higher level of transduction).
20          To assess the relative efficiency of gene transfer in an in vivo context, purified high
   titer preparations of AAV2/2, AAV2/8, and AAV2/Anc8OL65 were obtained. 3.9E10 GC of
   each vector, encapsidating a transgene encoding nuclear LacZ under control of a TBG
   promoter, were injected into C57BL/6 mice (3 mice per condition) via IP injection following
   general anesthetization. 28 days post-injection, mice were sacrificed and tissues were
25 collected. Livers were sectioned via standard histological techniques and stained for beta
   galactosidase. Sections were then imaged under a microscope and representative images are
   shown in Figure 1 IC, top row.
            Vectors of the same serotypes were then obtained containing a bicistronic transgene
   encoding eGFP and hA1AT under control of a pCASI promoter. To assess the ability of
30 Anc80L65 to transduce murine skeletal muscle, 1E1O GC of each vector was injected into
   skeletal muscle of C57BL/6 mice (5 mice per condition) following general anesthetization.
                                                   29

   28 days post-injection, mice were sacrificed, tissues were cryosectioned, and the presence of
   eGFP was assessed using fluorescent confocal microscopy (blue is DAPI, green is eGFP).
   Representative images are shown in Figure 1 IC, middle row. These experiments
   demonstrated that Anc80L65 vectors were capable of transducing murine skeletal muscle via
 5 intramuscular injection.
            Vectors of the same serotypes were obtained, this time encapsidating constructs
   encoding only an eGFP transgene under control of a CMV promoter. 2E9 particles were
   injected sub-retinally into C57BL/6 mice following general anesthetization. 28 days post
   injection, mice were sacrificed and the eyes were collected, cryosectioned, and the presence
10 of eGFP was assessed using fluorescent confocal microscopy (blue is DAPI, green is eGFP).
   Representative images are shown in Figure 1 IC, bottom row. These experiments
   demonstrate that Anc80L65 vectors are able to transduce murine retina at a level that is
   comparable to AAV8 vectors.
15          Briefly, purified, high titer preparations of AAV2/8, AAV2/2, AAV2/rh32.33, and
   AAV2/Anc8OL65 viral vectors encapsidating a bicistronic transgene that includes eGFP and
   firefly luciferase under control of a CMV promoter were obtained. These vectors were then
   either incubated with two-fold serial dilutions of IVIG (10mg, 5mg, 2.5mg, etc.) or incubated
   without IVIG (1E9 GC per condition). Following incubation, vectors were used to transduce
20 HEK293 cells at an MOI of 1E4 per well (one dilution per well).
   Example 8 -     Generation of Additional Ancestral AAV Capsids
            The most probable ancestral AAV capsid sequences (as determined through posterior
   probability) were then synthesized through a commercial lab (Gen9) and provided as linear
25 dsDNA. These amino acid sequences were then compared to those of extant AAVs in order
   to ascertain the degree to which they differ (Figure 13). Each ancestral VP1 protein differs
   from those of selected representative extant AAVs by between 3.6% and 9.3% (Figure 13A),
   while the ancestral VP3 proteins differ by between 4.2 and 9.4% (Figure 13B). These
   capsids were each subcloned into AAV production plasmids (pAAVector2/Empty) via
30 restriction enzyme digestion (HindlIl & Spel) and T4 ligation. These clones were confirmed
                                                     30

   via restriction digestion and Sanger sequencing, and medium scale preparations of plasmid
   DNA were then produced.
           Each of these plasmids were then used to produce AAV vectors containing a reporter
   gene encoding both eGFP and firefly luciferase. These vectors were produced in triplicate in
 5 small scale as previously described. Crude preparations of the virus were then titered via
   qPCR and were found to produce between 2.710% and 183.1 % viral particles relative to
   AAV8 (Figures 14 and 15). These titers were then used to set up a titer controlled
   experiment to assess relative infectivity. Anc 126 was not titer controlled due to its
   significantly depressed production, and consequently, the data regarding the infectivity of
10 Anc126 cannot be accurately compared to the infectivity of the other viruses in the
   experiment. The other vectors were used to transduce HEK293 cells at a multiplicity of
   infection (MOI) of 1.9E3 GC/cell.
           60 hours post transduction, cells were assessed for GFP expression via fluorescence
   microscopy. eGFP positive cells were detected under each of the conditions except for the
15 negative control (Figure 16). This indicates that each of the ancestral sequences that were
   predicted, synthesized, and cloned is capable of producing viable, infectious virus particles.
   To get an idea of the relative levels of infectivity, luciferase assays also were performed on
   the same cells. The results indicate that each of the ancestral vectors is capable of
   transducing HEK293 cells between 28.3% and 850.8% relative to AAV8 (Figures 17 and
20 18). It is noted that Anc126 was excluded from the analysis of relative transduction since it
   was not titer-controlled.
           In summary, eight novel ancestral AAV capsid genes were synthesized and used in
   the production of functional viral vectors along with AAV8, AAV2, and the previously
   described Anc80L65 vectors. Production and infectivity were assessed in vitro and a
25 summary of those findings is shown in Figure 19.
   Example 9 -     Vectored Immunoprophylaxis
           In vectored immunoprophylaxis, gene therapy vehicles (such as AAV) are used to
   deliver transgenes encoding broadly neutralizing antibodies against infectious agents. See,
30 for example, Balazs et al. (2013, Nat. Biotechnol., 31:647-52); Limberis et al. (2013, Sci.
   Transl. Med., 5:187ra72); Balazs et al. (2012, Nature, 481:81-4); and Deal et al. (2014,
                                                    31

   PNAS USA, 111:12528-32). One advantage of this treatment is that the host produces the
   antibodies in their own cells, meaning that a single administration has the potential to confer
   a lifetime of protection against etiologic agents.
 5 Example 10 -Drug        Delivery Vehicles
            LUCENTIS@ (ranibizumab) and AVASTIN@ (bevacizumab) are both anti
   angiogenesis agents based on the same humanized mouse monoclonal antibodies against
   vascular endothelial growth factor A (VEGF-A). Although bevacizumab is a full antibody
   and ranibizumab is a fragment (Fab), they both act to treat wet age-related macular
10 degeneration through the same mechanism - by antagonizing VEGF. See, for example, Mao
   et al. (2011, Hum. Gene Ther., 22:1525-35); Xie et al. (2014, Gynecol. Oncol., doi:
   10.1016/j.ygyno.2014.07.105); and Watanabe et al. (2010, Gene Ther., 17:1042-5 1).
   Because both of these molecules are proteins, they can be encoded by DNA and produced in
   cells transduced with vectors containing a transgene, and are small enough to be packaged
15 into AAV vectors.
                                       OTHER EMBODIMENTS
            It is to be understood that, while the methods and compositions of matter have been
   described herein in conjunction with a number of different aspects, the foregoing description
20 of the various aspects is intended to illustrate and not limit the scope of the methods and
   compositions of matter. Other aspects, advantages, and modifications are within the scope of
   the following claims.
      Disclosed are methods and compositions that can be used for, can be used in conjunction
           with, can be used in preparation for, or are products of the disclosed methods and
25      compositions. These and other materials are disclosed herein, and it is understood that
       combinations, subsets, interactions, groups, etc. of these methods and compositions are
         disclosed. That is, while specific reference to each various individual and collective
      combinations and permutations of these compositions and methods may not be explicitly
         disclosed, each is specifically contemplated and described herein. For example, if a
30     particular composition of matter or a particular method is disclosed and discussed and a
         number of compositions or methods are discussed, each and every combination and
                                                    32

  permutation of the compositions and the methods are specifically contemplated unless
specifically indicated to the contrary. Likewise, any subset or combination of these is also
                           specifically contemplated and disclosed.
                                              33

                                APPENDIX A
   SEQ ID NO:1: Anc80 polypeptide
   MAADGYLPDWLEDNLSEGIREWWDLKPGAPKPKANQQKQDDGRGLVLPGYKYLGPFNGLDKGEPVNAA
 5 DAAALEHDKAYDQQLKAGDNPYLRYNHADAEFQERLQEDTSFGGNLGRAVFQAKKRVLEPLGLVEEGA
   KTAPGKKRPVEQSPQEPDSSSGIGKKGQQPAX1KRLNFGQTGDSESVPDPQPLGEPPAAPSGVGSNTM
   X2AGGGAPMADNNEGADGVGNASGNWHCDSTWLGDRVITTSTRTWALPTYNNHLYKQISSQSGX3STN
   DNTYFGYSTPWGYFDFNRFHCHFSPRDWQRLINNNWGFRPKX4LNFKLFNIQVKEVTTNDGTTTIANN
   LTSTVQVFTDSEYQLPYVLGSAHQGCLPPFPADVFMIPQYGYLTLNNGSQAVGRSSFYCLEYFPSQML
10 RTGNNFX5FSYTFEDVPFHSSYAHSQSLDRLMNPLIDQYLYYLSRTQTTSGTAGNRX6LQFSQAGPSS
   MANQAKNWLPGPCYRQQRVSKTX7NQNNNSNFAWTGATKYHLNGRDSLVNPGPAMATHKDDEDKFFPM
   SGVLIFGKQGAGNSNVDLDNVMITX8EEEIKTTNPVATEX9YGTVATNLQSX10NTAPATGTVNSQGA
   LPGMVWQX11RDVYLQGPIWAKIPHTDGHFHPSPLMGGFGLKHPPPQILIKNTPVPANPPTTFSPAKF
   ASFITQYSTGQVSVEIEWELQKENSKRWNPEIQYTSNYNKSTNVDFAVDTNGVYSEPRPIGTRYLTRN
15 L
   Xl = K/R; X2 = A/S; X3 = A/G; X4 = R/K; X5 = E/Q; X6 = T/E; X7 =
   A/T; X8 = S/N; X9 = Q/E; X10 = S/A; Xl  = N/D
20 SEQ ID NO:2: Anc80 DNA
   ATGGCTGCCGATGGTTATCTTCCAGATTGGCTCGAGGACAACCTCTCTGAGGGCATTCGCGAGTGGTG
   GGACTTGAAACCTGGAGCCCCGAAACCCAAAGCCAACCAGCAAAAGCAGGACGACGGCCGGGGTCTGG
   TGCTTCCTGGCTACAAGTACCTCGGACCCTTCAACGGACTCGACAAGGGGGAGCCCGTCAACGCGGCG
   GACGCAGCGGCCCTCGAGCACGACAAGGCCTACGACCAGCAGCTCAAAGCGGGTGACAATCCGTACCT
25 GCGGTATAACCACGCCGACGCCGAGTTTCAGGAGCGTCTGCAAGAAGATACGTCTTTTGGGGGCAACC
   TCGGGCGAGCAGTCTTCCAGGCCAAGAAGCGGGTTCTCGAACCTCTCGGTCTGGTTGAGGAAGGCGCT
   AAGACGGCTCCTGGAAAGAAGAGACCGGTAGAGCAATCACCCCAGGAACCAGACTCCTCTTCGGGCAT
   CGGCAAGAAAGGCCAGCAGCCCGCGXXXlAAGAGACTCAACTTTGGGCAGACAGGCGACTCAGAGTCA
   GTGCCCGACCCTCAACCACTCGGAGAACCCCCCGCAGCCCCCTCTGGTGTGGGATCTAATACAATGXX
30 X2GCAGGCGGTGGCGCTCCAATGGCAGACAATAACGAAGGCGCCGACGGAGTGGGTAACGCCTCAGGA
   AATTGGCATTGCGATTCCACATGGCTGGGCGACAGAGTCATCACCACCAGCACCCGAACCTGGGCCCT
   CCCCACCTACAACAACCACCTCTACAAGCAAATCTCCAGCCAATCGGGAXXX3AGCACCAACGACAAC
   ACCTACTTCGGCTACAGCACCCCCTGGGGGTATTTTGACTTTAACAGATTCCACTGCCACTTCTCACC
   ACGTGACTGGCAGCGACTCATCAACAACAACTGGGGATTCCGGCCCAAGXXX4CTCAACTTCAAGCTC
35 TTCAACATCCAGGTCAAGGAGGTCACGACGAATGATGGCACCACGACCATCGCCAATAACCTTACCAG
   CACGGTTCAGGTCTTTACGGACTCGGAATACCAGCTCCCGTACGTCCTCGGCTCTGCGCACCAGGGCT
   GCCTGCCTCCGTTCCCGGCGGACGTCTTCATGATTCCTCAGTACGGGTACCTGACTCTGAACAATGGC
   AGTCAGGCCGTGGGCCGTTCCTCCTTCTACTGCCTGGAGTACTTTCCTTCTCAAATGCTGAGAACGGG
   CAACAACTTTXXX5TTCAGCTACACGTTTGAGGACGTGCCTTTTCACAGCAGCTACGCGCACAGCCAA
40 AGCCTGGACCGGCTGATGAACCCCCTCATCGACCAGTACCTGTACTACCTGTCTCGGACTCAGACCAC
   GAGTGGTACCGCAGGAAATCGGXXX6TTGCAATTTTCTCAGGCCGGGCCTAGTAGCATGGCGAATCAG
   GCCAAAAACTGGCTACCCGGGCCCTGCTACCGGCAGCAACGCGTCTCCAAGACAXXX7AATCAAAATA
   ACAACAGCAACTTTGCCTGGACCGGTGCCACCAAGTATCATCTGAATGGCAGAGACTCTCTGGTAAAT
   CCCGGTCCCGCTATGGCAACCCACAAGGACGACGAAGACAAATTTTTTCCGATGAGCGGAGTCTTAAT
45 ATTTGGGAAACAGGGAGCTGGAAATAGCAACGTGGACCTTGACAACGTTATGATAACCXXX8GAGGAA
   GAAATTAAAACCACCAACCCAGTGGCCACAGAAXXX9TACGGCACGGTGGCCACTAACCTGCAATCGX
   XX10AACACCGCTCCTGCTACAGGGACCGTCAACAGTCAAGGAGCCTTACCTGGCATGGTCTGGCAGX
   XX11CGGGACGTGTACCTGCAGGGTCCTATCTGGGCCAAGATTCCTCACACGGACGGACACTTTCATC
   CCTCGCCGCTGATGGGAGGCTTTGGACTGAAACACCCGCCTCCTCAGATCCTGATTAAGAATACACCT
50 GTTCCCGCGAATCCTCCAACTACCTTCAGTCCAGCTAAGTTTGCGTCGTTCATCACGCAGTACAGCAC
   CGGACAGGTCAGCGTGGAAATTGAATGGGAGCTGCAGAAAGAAAACAGCAAACGCTGGAACCCAGAGA
                                    34

   TTCAATACACTTCCAACTACAACAAATCTACAAATGTGGACTTTGCTGTTGACACAAATGGCGTTTAT
   TCTGAGCCTCGCCCCATCGGCACCCGTTACCTCACCCGTAATCTG
   XXX1 = AAG/AAA; XXX2 = GCA/AGC; XXX3 = GCA/GGC; XXX4 = AGA/AAG; XXX5
 5 = GAG/CAG; XXX6 = ACG/GAG; XXX7 = GCG/ACC; XXX8 = AGT/AAC; XXX9 =
   CAG/GAG; XXX10 = TCA/GCC; XXXii = AAC/GAC
   SEQ ID NO:3: Anc8l polypeptide
   MAADGYLPDWLEDNLSEGIREWWDLKPGAPKPKANQQKQDDGRGLVLPGYKYLGPFNGLDKGEPVNAA
10 DAAALEHDKAYDQQLKAGDNPYLRYNHADAEFQERLQEDTSFGGNLGRAVFQAKKRVLEPLGLVEEGA
   KTAPGKKRPVEQSPQEPDSSXlGIGKKGQQPAX2KRLNFGQTGDSESVPDPQPLGEPPAAPSGVGSNT
   MAAGGGAPMADNNEGADGVGNASGNWHCDSTWLGDRVITTSTRTWALPTYNNHLYKQISX3X4QSGGS
   TNDNTYFGYSTPWGYFDFNRFHCHFSPRDWQRLINNNWGFRPKX5LNFKLFNIQVKEVTTNDGTTTIA
   NNLTSTVQVFTDSEYQLPYVLGSAHQGCLPPFPADVFMIPQYGYLTLNNGSQAVGRSSFYCLEYFPSQ
15 MLRTGNNFX6FSYTFEDVPFHSSYAHSQSLDRLMNPLIDQYLYYLSRTQTTGGTAGNX7X8LQFSQAG
   PSSMANQAKNWLPGPCYRQQRVSKTTNQNNNSNFAWTGATKYHLNGRDSLVNPGVAMATHKDDEDRFF
   PSSGVLIFGKQGAGNX9NVDX10X11NVMITX12EEEIKTTNPVATEEYGX13VATNLQSX14NTAPQ
   TGTVNSQGALPGMVWQNRDVYLQGPIWAKIPHTDGNFHPSPLMGGFGLKHPPPQILIKNTPVPANPPT
   TFX15PAKFASFITQYSTGQVSVEIEWELQKENSKRWNPEIQYTSNYNKSTNVDFAVDTEGVYSEPRP
20 IGTRYLTRNL
   X1=T/S; X2=K/R; X3=N/S; X4=S/H; X5=R/K; X6=E/Q; X7=R/Q; X8=T/E;
   X9=D/S; X1O=L/Y; X11=D/S; X12=S/N; X13=V/I; X14=A/S; X15=S/T
25 SEQ ID NO:4: Anc8l DNA
   ATGGCTGCCGATGGTTATCTTCCAGATTGGCTCGAGGACAACCTCTCTGAGGGCATTCGCGAGTGGTG
   GGACTTGAAACCTGGAGCCCCGAAACCCAAAGCCAACCAGCAAAAGCAGGACGACGGCCGGGGTCTGG
   TGCTTCCTGGCTACAAGTACCTCGGACCCTTCAACGGACTCGACAAGGGGGAGCCCGTCAACGCGGCG
   GACGCAGCGGCCCTCGAGCACGACAAGGCCTACGACCAGCAGCTCAAAGCGGGTGACAATCCGTACCT
30 GCGGTATAACCACGCCGACGCCGAGTTTCAGGAGCGTCTGCAAGAAGATACGTCTTTTGGGGGCAACC
   TCGGGCGAGCAGTCTTCCAGGCCAAGAAGCGGGTTCTCGAACCTCTCGGTCTGGTTGAGGAAGGCGCT
   AAGACGGCTCCTGGAAAGAAGAGACCGGTAGAGCAATCACCCCAGGAACCAGACTCCTCTXXX1GGCA
   TCGGCAAGAAAGGCCAGCAGCCCGCGXXX2AAGAGACTCAACTTTGGGCAGACTGGCGACTCAGAGTC
   AGTGCCCGACCCTCAACCACTCGGAGAACCCCCCGCAGCCCCCTCTGGTGTGGGATCTAATACAATGG
35 CTGCAGGCGGTGGCGCTCCAATGGCAGACAATAACGAAGGCGCCGACGGAGTGGGTAATGCCTCAGGA
   AATTGGCATTGCGATTCCACATGGCTGGGCGACAGAGTCATCACCACCAGCACCCGAACCTGGGCCCT
   CCCCACCTACAACAACCACCTCTACAAGCAAATCTCCXXX3XXX4CAATCGGGAGGAAGCACCAACGA
   CAACACCTACTTCGGCTACAGCACCCCCTGGGGGTATTTTGACTTTAACAGATTCCACTGCCACTTCT
   CACCACGTGACTGGCAGCGACTCATCAACAACAACTGGGGATTCCGGCCCAAGXXX5CTCAACTTCAA
40 GCTCTTCAACATCCAGGTCAAGGAGGTCACGACGAATGATGGCACCACGACCATCGCCAATAACCTTA
   CCAGCACGGTTCAGGTCTTTACGGACTCGGAATACCAGCTCCCGTACGTCCTCGGCTCTGCGCACCAG
   GGCTGCCTGCCTCCGTTCCCGGCGGACGTCTTCATGATTCCTCAGTACGGGTACCTGACTCTGAACAA
   TGGCAGTCAGGCCGTGGGCCGTTCCTCCTTCTACTGCCTGGAGTACTTTCCTTCTCAAATGCTGAGAA
   CGGGCAACAACTTTXXX6TTCAGCTACACGTTTGAGGACGTGCCTTTTCACAGCAGCTACGCGCACAG
45 CCAAAGCCTGGACCGGCTGATGAACCCCCTCATCGACCAGTACCTGTACTACCTGTCTCGGACTCAGA
   CCACGGGAGGTACCGCAGGAAATXXX7XXX8TTGCAATTTTCTCAGGCCGGGCCTAGTAGCATGGCGA
   ATCAGGCCAAAAACTGGCTACCCGGGCCCTGCTACCGGCAGCAACGCGTCTCCAAGACAACGAATCAA
   AATAACAACAGCAACTTTGCCTGGACCGGTGCCACCAAGTATCATCTGAATGGCAGAGACTCTCTGGT
   AAATCCCGGTGTCGCTATGGCAACCCACAAGGACGACGAAGACCGATTTTTTCCGTCCAGCGGAGTCT
50 TAATATTTGGGAAACAGGGAGCTGGAAATXXX9AACGTGGACXXX10XXX11AACGTTATGATAACCX
   XX12GAGGAAGAAATTAAAACCACCAACCCAGTGGCCACAGAAGAGTACGGCXXX13GTGGCCACTAA
                                     35

   CCTGCAATCGXXX14AACACCGCTCCTCAAACAGGGACCGTCAACAGTCAAGGAGCCTTACCTGGCAT
   GGTCTGGCAGAACCGGGACGTGTACCTGCAGGGTCCTATCTGGGCCAAGATTCCTCACACGGACGGAA
   ACTTTCATCCCTCGCCGCTGATGGGAGGCTTTGGACTGAAACACCCGCCTCCTCAGATCCTGATTAAG
   AATACACCTGTTCCCGCGAATCCTCCAACTACCTTCXXX15CCAGCTAAGTTTGCGTCGTTCATCACG
 5 CAGTACAGCACCGGACAGGTCAGCGTGGAAATTGAATGGGAGCTGCAGAAAGAAAACAGCAAACGCTG
   GAACCCAGAGATTCAATACACTTCCAACTACAACAAATCTACAAATGTGGACTTTGCTGTTGACACAG
   AAGGCGTTTATTCTGAGCCTCGCCCCATCGGCACCCGTTACCTCACCCGTAATCTG
   XXX1 = ACG/AGC; XXX2 = AAA/AAG; XXX3 = AAC/AGT; XXX4 = AGC/CAC; XXX5
10 = AGA/AAG; XXX6 = GAG/CAG; XXX7 = CGG/CAG; XXX8 = ACG/GAG; XXX9 =
   GAC/AGC; XXX10 = CTT/TAC; XXX11 = GAC/AGC; XXX12 = AGT/AAC; XXX13 =
   GTG/ATC; XXX14 = GCA/AGC; XXX15 = AGT/ACC
   SEQ ID NO:5: Anc82 polypeptide
15 MAADGYLPDWLEDNLSEGIREWWDLKPGAPKPKANQQKQDDGRGLVLPGYKYLGPFNGLDKGEPVNAA
   DAAALEHDKAYDQQLKAGDNPYLRYNHADAEFQERLQEDTSFGGNLGRAVFQAKKRVLEPLGLVEEGA
   KTAPGKKRPVEQSPQREPDSSXlGIGKKGQQPAX2KRLNFGQTGDSESVPDPQPLGEPPAAPSGVGSN
   TMAAGGGAPMADNNEGADGVGNSSGNWHCDSTWLGDRVITTSTRTWALPTYNNHLYKQISNGTSGGST
   NDNTYFGYSTPWGYFDFNRFHCHFSPRDWQRLINNNWGFRPKRLNFKLFNIQVKEVTTNEGTKTIANN
20 LTSTVQVFTDSEYQLPYVLGSAHQGCLPPFPADVFMIPQYGYLTLNNGSQAVGRSSFYCLEYFPSQML
   RTGNNFQFSYTFEDVPFHSSYAHSQSLDRLMNPLIDQYLYYLSRTQTTGGTAGTQTLQFSQAGPSSMA
   NQAKNWLPGPCYRQQRVSTTTNQNNNSNFAWTGATKYHLNGRDSLVNPGVAMATHKDDEDRFFPSSGV
   LIFGKQGAGNDNVDYSNVMITX3EEEIKTTNPVATEEYGVVATNLQSANTAPQTGTVNSQGALPGMVW
   QNRDVYLQGPIWAKIPHTDGNFHPSPLMGGFGLKHPPPQILIKNTPVPADPPTTFNQAKLNSFITQYS
25 TGQVSVEIEWELQKENSKRWNPEIQYTSNYYKSTNVDFAVNTEGVYSEPRPIGTRYLTRNL
   X1=T/S; X2=K/R; X3=S/N
   SEQ ID NO:6: Anc82 DNA
30 ATGGCTGCCGATGGTTATCTTCCAGATTGGCTCGAGGACAACCTCTCTGAGGGCATTCGCGAGTGGTG
   GGACCTGAAACCTGGAGCCCCGAAACCCAAAGCCAACCAGCAAAAGCAGGACGACGGCCGGGGTCTGG
   TGCTTCCTGGCTACAAGTACCTCGGACCCTTCAACGGACTCGACAAGGGGGAGCCCGTCAACGCGGCG
   GACGCAGCGGCCCTCGAGCACGACAAGGCCTACGACCAGCAGCTCAAAGCGGGTGACAATCCGTACCT
   GCGGTATAATCACGCCGACGCCGAGTTTCAGGAGCGTCTGCAAGAAGATACGTCTTTTGGGGGCAACC
35 TCGGGCGAGCAGTCTTCCAGGCCAAGAAGCGGGTTCTCGAACCTCTCGGTCTGGTTGAGGAAGGCGCT
   AAGACGGCTCCTGGAAAGAAGAGACCGGTAGAGCAGTCACCACAGCGTGAGCCCGACTCCTCCXXX1G
   GCATCGGCAAGAAAGGCCAGCAGCCCGCCXXX2AAGAGACTCAATTTCGGTCAGACTGGCGACTCAGA
   GTCAGTCCCCGACCCTCAACCTCTCGGAGAACCTCCAGCAGCGCCCTCTGGTGTGGGATCTAATACAA
   TGGCTGCAGGCGGTGGCGCACCAATGGCAGACAATAACGAAGGTGCCGACGGAGTGGGTAATTCCTCG
40 GGAAATTGGCATTGCGATTCCACATGGCTGGGCGACAGAGTCATCACCACCAGCACCCGAACCTGGGC
   CCTGCCCACCTACAACAACCACCTCTACAAGCAAATCTCCAACGGGACCTCGGGAGGCAGCACCAACG
   ACAACACCTACTTTGGCTACAGCACCCCCTGGGGGTATTTTGACTTTAACAGATTCCACTGCCACTTC
   TCACCACGTGACTGGCAGCGACTCATCAACAACAACTGGGGATTCCGGCCCAAGAGACTCAACTTCAA
   GCTCTTCAACATCCAGGTCAAAGAGGTCACGACGAATGAAGGCACCAAGACCATCGCCAATAACCTCA
45 CCAGCACCGTCCAGGTGTTTACGGACTCGGAATACCAGCTGCCGTACGTCCTCGGCTCTGCCCACCAG
   GGCTGCCTGCCTCCGTTCCCGGCGGACGTCTTCATGATTCCTCAGTACGGCTACCTGACTCTCAACAA
   CGGTAGTCAGGCCGTGGGACGTTCCTCCTTCTACTGCCTGGAGTACTTCCCCTCTCAGATGCTGAGAA
   CGGGCAACAACTTTCAATTCAGCTACACTTTCGAGGACGTGCCTTTCCACAGCAGCTACGCGCACAGC
   CAGAGTTTGGACAGGCTGATGAATCCTCTCATCGACCAGTACCTGTACTACCTGTCAAGAACCCAGAC
50 TACGGGAGGCACAGCGGGAACCCAGACGTTGCAGTTTTCTCAGGCCGGGCCTAGCAGCATGGCGAATC
   AGGCCAAAAACTGGCTGCCTGGACCCTGCTACAGACAGCAGCGCGTCTCCACGACAACGAATCAAAAC
                                    36

   AACAACAGCAACTTTGCCTGGACTGGTGCCACCAAGTATCATCTGAACGGCAGAGACTCTCTGGTGAA
   TCCGGGCGTCGCCATGGCAACCCACAAGGACGACGAGGACCGCTTCTTCCCATCCAGCGGCGTCCTCA
   TATTTGGCAAGCAGGGAGCTGGAAATGACAACGTGGACTATAGCAACGTGATGATAACCXXX3GAGGA
   AGAAATCAAGACCACCAACCCCGTGGCCACAGAAGAGTATGGCGTGGTGGCTACTAACCTACAGTCGG
 5 CAAACACCGCTCCTCAAACGGGGACCGTCAACAGCCAGGGAGCCTTACCTGGCATGGTCTGGCAGAAC
   CGGGACGTGTACCTGCAGGGTCCTATTTGGGCCAAGATTCCTCACACAGATGGCAACTTTCACCCGTC
   TCCTTTAATGGGCGGCTTTGGACTTAAACATCCGCCTCCTCAGATCCTCATCAAAAACACTCCTGTTC
   CTGCGGATCCTCCAACAACGTTCAACCAGGCCAAGCTGAATTCTTTCATCACGCAGTACAGCACCGGA
   CAAGTCAGCGTGGAGATCGAGTGGGAGCTGCAGAAGGAGAACAGCAAGCGCTGGAACCCAGAGATTCA
10 GTATACTTCCAACTACTACAAATCTACAAATGTGGACTTTGCTGTTAATACTGAGGGTGTTTACTCTG
   AGCCTCGCCCCATTGGCACTCGTTACCTCACCCGTAATCTG
   XXX1 = ACG/AGC; XXX2 = AAA/AGA; XXX,3 = AGC/AAC
15 SEQ ID NO:7: Anc83 polypeptide
   MAADGYLPDWLEDNLSEGIREWWDLKPGAPKPKANQQKQDDGRGLVLPGYKYLGPFNGLDKGEPVNAA
   DAAALEHDKAYDQQLKAGDNPYLRYNHADAEFQERLQEDTSFGGNLGRAVFQAKKRVLEPLGLVEEGA
   KTAPGKKRPVEQSPQREPDSSXlGIGKKGQQPAX2KRLNFGQTGDSESVPDPQPLGEPPAAPSGVGSN
   TMAAGGGAPMADNNEGADGVGSSSGNWHCDSTWLGDRVITTSTRTWALPTYNNHLYKQISNGTSGGST
20 NDNTYFGYSTPWGYFDFNRFHCHFSPRDWQRLINNNWGFRPKRLX3FKLFNIQVKEVTQNEGTKTIAN
   NLTSTIQVFTDSEYQLPYVLGSAHQGCLPPFPADVFMIPQYGYLTLNNGSQAVGRSSFYCLEYFPSQM
   LRTGNNFX4FSYTFEDVPFHSSYAHSQSLDRLMNPLIDQYLYYLSRTQTTGGTAGTQTLQFSQAGPSX
   5MANQAKNWLPGPCYRQQRVSTTTSQNNNSNFAWTGATKYHLNGRDSLVNPGVAMATHKDDEX7RFFP
   SSGX7LIFGKQGAGKDNVDYSNVMLTSEEEIKTTNPVATEEYGVVADNLQQQNTAPQX8GTVNSQGAL
25 PGMVWQNRDVYLQGPIWAKIPHTDGNFHPSPLMGGFGLKHPPPQILIKNTPVPADPPTTFNQAKLNSF
   ITQYSTGQVSVEIEWELQKENSKRWNPEIQYTSNYYKSTNVDFAVNTEGVYSEPRPIGTRYLTRNL
   X1=T/S; X2=R/K; X3=N/S; X4=Q/E; X5=N/T/S; X6=D/E; X7=I/V; X8=I/V
30 SEQ ID NO:8: Anc83 DNA
   ATGGCTGCCGATGGTTATCTTCCAGATTGGCTCGAGGACAACCTCTCTGAGGGCATTCGCGAGTGGTG
   GGACCTGAAACCTGGAGCCCCGAAACCCAAAGCCAACCAGCAAAAGCAGGACGACGGCCGGGGTCTGG
   TGCTTCCTGGCTACAAGTACCTCGGACCCTTCAACGGACTCGACAAGGGGGAGCCCGTCAACGCGGCG
   GACGCAGCGGCCCTCGAGCACGACAAGGCCTACGACCAGCAGCTCAAAGCGGGTGACAATCCGTACCT
35 GCGGTATAATCACGCCGACGCCGAGTTTCAGGAGCGTCTGCAAGAAGATACGTCTTTTGGGGGCAACC
   TCGGGCGAGCAGTCTTCCAGGCCAAGAAGCGGGTTCTCGAACCTCTCGGTCTGGTTGAGGAAGGCGCT
   AAGACGGCTCCTGGAAAGAAGAGACCGGTAGAGCAGTCACCACAGCGTGAGCCCGACTCCTCCXXX1G
   GCATCGGCAAGAAAGGCCAGCAGCCCGCCXXX2AAGAGACTCAATTTCGGTCAGACTGGCGACTCAGA
   GTCAGTCCCCGACCCTCAACCTCTCGGAGAACCTCCAGCAGCGCCCTCTGGTGTGGGATCTAATACAA
40 TGGCTGCAGGCGGTGGCGCACCAATGGCAGACAATAACGAAGGTGCCGACGGAGTGGGTAGTTCCTCG
   GGAAATTGGCATTGCGATTCCACATGGCTGGGCGACAGAGTCATCACCACCAGCACCCGAACCTGGGC
   CCTGCCCACCTACAACAACCACCTCTACAAGCAAATCTCCAACGGGACCTCGGGAGGCAGCACCAACG
   ACAACACCTACTTTGGCTACAGCACCCCCTGGGGGTATTTTGACTTTAACAGATTCCACTGCCACTTC
   TCACCACGTGACTGGCAGCGACTCATCAACAACAACTGGGGATTCCGGCCCAAGAGACTCXXX3TTCA
45 AGCTCTTCAACATCCAGGTCAAAGAGGTCACGCAGAATGAAGGCACCAAGACCATCGCCAATAACCTC
   ACCAGCACCATCCAGGTGTTTACGGACTCGGAATACCAGCTGCCGTACGTCCTCGGCTCTGCCCACCA
   GGGCTGCCTGCCTCCGTTCCCGGCGGACGTCTTCATGATTCCTCAGTACGGCTACCTGACTCTCAACA
   ACGGTAGTCAGGCCGTGGGACGTTCCTCCTTCTACTGCCTGGAGTACTTCCCCTCTCAGATGCTGAGA
   ACGGGCAACAACTTTXXX4TTCAGCTACACTTTCGAGGACGTGCCTTTCCACAGCAGCTACGCGCACA
50 GCCAGAGTTTGGACAGGCTGATGAATCCTCTCATCGACCAGTACCTGTACTACCTGTCAAGAACCCAG
   ACTACGGGAGGCACAGCGGGAACCCAGACGTTGCAGTTTTCTCAGGCCGGGCCTAGCXXX5ATGGCGA
                                    37

   ATCAGGCCAAAAACTGGCTGCCTGGACCCTGCTACAGACAGCAGCGCGTCTCCACGACAACGTCGCAA
   AACAACAACAGCAACTTTGCCTGGACTGGTGCCACCAAGTATCATCTGAACGGCAGAGACTCTCTGGT
   GAATCCGGGCGTCGCCATGGCAACCCACAAGGACGACGAGXXX6CGCTTCTTCCCATCCAGCGGCXXX
   7CTCATATTTGGCAAGCAGGGAGCTGGAAAAGACAACGTGGACTATAGCAACGTGATGCTAACCAGCG
 5 AGGAAGAAATCAAGACCACCAACCCCGTGGCCACAGAAGAGTATGGCGTGGTGGCTGATAACCTACAG
   CAGCAAAACACCGCTCCTCAAXXX8GGGACCGTCAACAGCCAGGGAGCCTTACCTGGCATGGTCTGGC
   AGAACCGGGACGTGTACCTGCAGGGTCCTATTTGGGCCAAGATTCCTCACACAGATGGCAACTTTCAC
   CCGTCTCCTTTAATGGGCGGCTTTGGACTTAAACATCCGCCTCCTCAGATCCTCATCAAAAACACTCC
   TGTTCCTGCGGATCCTCCAACAACGTTCAACCAGGCCAAGCTGAATTCTTTCATCACGCAGTACAGCA
10 CCGGACAAGTCAGCGTGGAGATCGAGTGGGAGCTGCAGAAGGAGAACAGCAAGCGCTGGAACCCAGAG
   ATTCAGTATACTTCCAACTACTACAAATCTACAAATGTGGACTTTGCTGTTAATACTGAGGGTGTTTA
   CTCTGAGCCTCGCCCCATTGGCACTCGTTACCTCACCCGTAATCTG
   XXX1 = ACG/AGC; XXX2 = AGA/AAG; XXX3 = AAC/AGC; XXX4 = CAA/GAA;
15 XXX,5 = AAC/ACC/AGC; XXX,6 = GAC/GAG; XXX7 = ATC/GTC; XXX8 = ATA/GTA
   SEQ ID NO:9: Anc84 polypeptide
   MAADGYLPDWLEDNLSEGIREWWDLKPGAPKPKANQQKQDDGRGLVLPGYKYLGPFNGLDKGEPVNAA
   DAAALEHDKAYDQQLKAGDNPYLRYNHADAEFQERLQEDTSFGGNLGRAVFQAKKRVLEPLGLVEEGA
20 KTAPGKKRPVEPSPQRSPDSSTGIGKKGQQPAX1KRLNFGQTGDSESVPDPQPIGEPPAAPSGVGSGT
   MAAGGGAPMADNNEGADGVGSSSGNWHCDSTWLGDRVITTSTRTWALPTYNNHLYKQISNGTSGGSTN
   DNTYFGYSTPWGYFDFNRFHCHFSPRDWQRLINNNWGFRPKRLX2FKLFNIQVKEVTQNEGTKTIANN
   LTSTIQVFTDSEYQLPYVLGSAHQGCLPPFPADVFMIPQYGYLTLNNGSQAVGRSSFYCLEYFPSQML
   RTGNNFEFSYTFEDVPFHSSYAHSQSLDRLMNPLIDQYLYYLSRTQSTGGTAGTQQLLFSQAGPSNMS
25 AQAKNWLPGPCYRQQRVSTTLSQNNNSNFAWTGATKYHLNGRDSLVNPGVAMATHKDDEX3RFFPSSG
   X4LMFGKQGAGKDNVDYSNVMLTSEEEIKTTNPVATEQYGVVADNLQQQNTAPIVGAVNSQGALPGMV
   WQNRDVYLQGPIWAKIPHTDGNFHPSPLMGGFGLKHPPPQILIKNTPVPADPPTTFNQAKLNSFITQY
   STGQVSVEIEWELQKENSKRWNPEIQYTSNYYKSTNVDFAVNTEGVYSEPRPIGTRYLTRNL
30 X1=R/K; X2=N/S; X3=D/E; X4=I/V
   SEQ ID NO:10: Anc84 DNA
   ATGGCTGCCGATGGTTATCTTCCAGATTGGCTCGAGGACAACCTCTCTGAGGGCATTCGCGAGTGGTG
   GGACCTGAAACCTGGAGCCCCGAAACCCAAAGCCAACCAGCAAAAGCAGGACGACGGCCGGGGTCTGG
35 TGCTTCCTGGCTACAAGTACCTCGGACCCTTCAACGGACTCGACAAGGGGGAGCCCGTCAACGCGGCG
   GACGCAGCGGCCCTCGAGCACGACAAGGCCTACGACCAGCAGCTCAAAGCGGGTGACAATCCGTACCT
   GCGGTATAATCACGCCGACGCCGAGTTTCAGGAGCGTCTGCAAGAAGATACGTCTTTTGGGGGCAACC
   TCGGGCGAGCAGTCTTCCAGGCCAAGAAGCGGGTTCTCGAACCTCTCGGTCTGGTTGAGGAAGGCGCT
   AAGACGGCTCCTGGAAAGAAGAGACCGGTAGAGCCGTCACCACAGCGTTCCCCCGACTCCTCCACGGG
40 CATCGGCAAGAAAGGCCAGCAGCCCGCCXXX1AAGAGACTCAATTTCGGTCAGACTGGCGACTCAGAG
   TCAGTCCCCGACCCTCAACCTATCGGAGAACCTCCAGCAGCGCCCTCTGGTGTGGGATCTGGTACAAT
   GGCTGCAGGCGGTGGCGCACCAATGGCAGACAATAACGAAGGTGCCGACGGAGTGGGTAGTTCCTCGG
   GAAATTGGCATTGCGATTCCACATGGCTGGGCGACAGAGTCATCACCACCAGCACCCGAACCTGGGCC
   CTGCCCACCTACAACAACCACCTCTACAAGCAAATCTCCAACGGGACCTCGGGAGGCAGCACCAACGA
45 CAACACCTACTTTGGCTACAGCACCCCCTGGGGGTATTTTGACTTTAACAGATTCCACTGCCACTTCT
   CACCACGTGACTGGCAGCGACTCATCAACAACAACTGGGGATTCCGGCCCAAGAGACTCXXX2TTCAA
   GCTCTTCAACATCCAGGTCAAAGAGGTCACGCAGAATGAAGGCACCAAGACCATCGCCAATAACCTCA
   CCAGCACCATCCAGGTGTTTACGGACTCGGAATACCAGCTGCCGTACGTCCTCGGCTCTGCCCACCAG
   GGCTGCCTGCCTCCGTTCCCGGCGGACGTCTTCATGATTCCTCAGTACGGCTACCTGACTCTCAACAA
50 CGGTAGTCAGGCCGTGGGACGTTCCTCCTTCTACTGCCTGGAGTACTTCCCCTCTCAGATGCTGAGAA
   CGGGCAACAACTTTGAGTTCAGCTACACTTTCGAGGACGTGCCTTTCCACAGCAGCTACGCGCACAGC
                                    38

   CAGAGTTTGGACAGGCTGATGAATCCTCTCATCGACCAGTACCTGTACTACCTGTCAAGAACCCAGTC
   TACGGGAGGCACAGCGGGAACCCAGCAGTTGCTGTTTTCTCAGGCCGGGCCTAGCAACATGTCGGCTC
   AGGCCAAAAACTGGCTGCCTGGACCCTGCTACAGACAGCAGCGCGTCTCCACGACACTGTCGCAAAAC
   AACAACAGCAACTTTGCCTGGACTGGTGCCACCAAGTATCATCTGAACGGCAGAGACTCTCTGGTGAA
 5 TCCGGGCGTCGCCATGGCAACCCACAAGGACGACGAGXXX3CGCTTCTTCCCATCCAGCGGCXXX4CT
   CATGTTTGGCAAGCAGGGAGCTGGAAAAGACAACGTGGACTATAGCAACGTGATGCTAACCAGCGAGG
   AAGAAATCAAGACCACCAACCCCGTGGCCACAGAACAGTATGGCGTGGTGGCTGATAACCTACAGCAG
   CAAAACACCGCTCCTATTGTGGGGGCCGTCAACAGCCAGGGAGCCTTACCTGGCATGGTCTGGCAGAA
   CCGGGACGTGTACCTGCAGGGTCCTATTTGGGCCAAGATTCCTCACACAGATGGCAACTTTCACCCGT
10 CTCCTTTAATGGGCGGCTTTGGACTTAAACATCCGCCTCCTCAGATCCTCATCAAAAACACTCCTGTT
   CCTGCGGATCCTCCAACAACGTTCAACCAGGCCAAGCTGAATTCTTTCATCACGCAGTACAGCACCGG
   ACAAGTCAGCGTGGAGATCGAGTGGGAGCTGCAGAAGGAGAACAGCAAGCGCTGGAACCCAGAGATTC
   AGTATACTTCCAACTACTACAAATCTACAAATGTGGACTTTGCTGTTAATACTGAGGGTGTTTACTCT
   GAGCCTCGCCCCATTGGCACTCGTTACCTCACCCGTAATCTG
15
   XXX,1  = AGA/AAA; XXX2 = AAC/AGC; XXX3 = GAC/GAG; XXX4 = ATC/GTC
   SEQ ID NO:11: Anc94 polypeptide
   MAADGYLPDWLEDNLSEGIREWWDLKPGAPKPKANQQKQDDGRGLVLPGYKYLGPFNGLDKGEPVNAA
20 DAAALEHDKAYDQQLKAGDNPYLRYNHADAEFQERLQEDTSFGGNLGRAVFQAKKRVLEPLGLVEEGA
   KTAPGKKRPVEPSPQRSPDSSTGIGKKGQQPAKKRLNFGQTGDSESVPDPQPIGEPPAGPSGLGSGTM
   AAGGGAPMADNNEGADGVGSSSGNWHCDSTWLGDRVITTSTRTWALPTYNNHLYKQISNGTSGGSTND
   NTYFGYSTPWGYFDFNRFHCHFSPRDWQRLINNNWGFRPKRLNFKLFNIQVKEVTQNEGTKTIANNLT
   STIQVFTDSEYQLPYVLGSAHQGCLPPFPADVFMIPQYGYLTLNNGSQAVGRSSFYCLEYFPSQMLRT
25 GNNFEFSYTFEDVPFHSSYAHSQSLDRLMNPLIDQYLYYLSRTQSTGGTAGTQQLLFSQAGPX1NMSA
   QAKNWLPGPCYRQQRVSTTLSQNNNSNFAWTGATKYHLNGRDSLVNPGVAMATHKDDEERFFPSSGVL
   MFGKQGAGKDNVDYSSVMLTSEEEIKTTNPVATEQYGVVADNLQQQNTAPIVGAVNSQGALPGMVWQN
   RDVYLQGPIWAKIPHTDGNFHPSPLMGGFGLKHPPPQILIKNTPVPADPPTTFSQAKLASFITQYSTG
   QVSVEIEWELQKENSKRWNPEIQYTSNYYKSTNVDFAVNTEGTYSEPRPIGTRYLTRNL
30
   X1=S/N
   SEQ ID NO:12: Anc94 DNA
   ATGGCTGCCGATGGTTATCTTCCAGATTGGCTCGAGGACAACCTCTCTGAGGGCATTCGCGAGTGGTG
35 GGACTTGAAACCTGGAGCCCCGAAACCCAAAGCCAACCAGCAAAAGCAGGACGACGGCCGGGGTCTGG
   TGCTTCCTGGCTACAAGTACCTCGGACCCTTCAACGGACTCGACAAGGGGGAGCCCGTCAACGCGGCG
   GACGCAGCGGCCCTCGAGCACGACAAGGCCTACGACCAGCAGCTCAAAGCGGGTGACAATCCGTACCT
   GCGGTATAACCACGCCGACGCCGAGTTTCAGGAGCGTCTGCAAGAAGATACGTCTTTTGGGGGCAACC
   TCGGGCGAGCAGTCTTCCAGGCCAAGAAGCGGGTTCTCGAACCTCTCGGTCTGGTTGAGGAAGGCGCT
40 AAGACGGCTCCTGGAAAGAAGAGACCGGTAGAGCCATCACCCCAGCGTTCTCCAGACTCCTCTACGGG
   CATCGGCAAGAAAGGCCAGCAGCCCGCGAAAAAGAGACTCAACTTTGGGCAGACTGGCGACTCAGAGT
   CAGTGCCCGACCCTCAACCAATCGGAGAACCCCCCGCAGGCCCCTCTGGTCTGGGATCTGGTACAATG
   GCTGCAGGCGGTGGCGCTCCAATGGCAGACAATAACGAAGGCGCCGACGGAGTGGGTAGTTCCTCAGG
   AAATTGGCATTGCGATTCCACATGGCTGGGCGACAGAGTCATCACCACCAGCACCCGAACCTGGGCCC
45 TCCCCACCTACAACAACCACCTCTACAAGCAAATCTCCAACGGGACTTCGGGAGGAAGCACCAACGAC
   AACACCTACTTCGGCTACAGCACCCCCTGGGGGTATTTTGACTTTAACAGATTCCACTGCCACTTCTC
   ACCACGTGACTGGCAGCGACTCATCAACAACAACTGGGGATTCCGGCCCAAGAGACTCAACTTCAAGC
   TCTTCAACATCCAGGTCAAGGAGGTCACGCAGAATGAAGGCACCAAGACCATCGCCAATAACCTTACC
   AGCACGATTCAGGTCTTTACGGACTCGGAATACCAGCTCCCGTACGTCCTCGGCTCTGCGCACCAGGG
50 CTGCCTGCCTCCGTTCCCGGCGGACGTCTTCATGATTCCTCAGTACGGGTACCTGACTCTGAACAATG
   GCAGTCAGGCCGTGGGCCGTTCCTCCTTCTACTGCCTGGAGTACTTTCCTTCTCAAATGCTGAGAACG
                                     39

   GGCAACAACTTTGAGTTCAGCTACACGTTTGAGGACGTGCCTTTTCACAGCAGCTACGCGCACAGCCA
   AAGCCTGGACCGGCTGATGAACCCCCTCATCGACCAGTACCTGTACTACCTGTCTCGGACTCAGTCCA
   CGGGAGGTACCGCAGGAACTCAGCAGTTGCTATTTTCTCAGGCCGGGCCTXXXAACATGTCGGCTCAG
   GCCAAAAACTGGCTACCCGGGCCCTGCTACCGGCAGCAACGCGTCTCCACGACACTGTCGCAAAATAA
 5 CAACAGCAACTTTGCCTGGACCGGTGCCACCAAGTATCATCTGAATGGCAGAGACTCTCTGGTAAATC
   CCGGTGTCGCTATGGCAACCCACAAGGACGACGAAGAGCGATTTTTTCCGTCCAGCGGAGTCTTAATG
   TTTGGGAAACAGGGAGCTGGAAAAGACAACGTGGACTATAGCAGCGTTATGCTAACCAGTGAGGAAGA
   AATTAAAACCACCAACCCAGTGGCCACAGAACAGTACGGCGTGGTGGCCGATAACCTGCAACAGCAAA
   ACACCGCTCCTATTGTAGGGGCCGTCAACAGTCAAGGAGCCTTACCTGGCATGGTCTGGCAGAACCGG
10 GACGTGTACCTGCAGGGTCCTATCTGGGCCAAGATTCCTCACACGGACGGAAACTTTCATCCCTCGCC
   GCTGATGGGAGGCTTTGGACTGAAACACCCGCCTCCTCAGATCCTGATTAAGAATACACCTGTTCCCG
   CGGATCCTCCAACTACCTTCAGTCAAGCTAAGCTGGCGTCGTTCATCACGCAGTACAGCACCGGACAG
   GTCAGCGTGGAAATTGAATGGGAGCTGCAGAAAGAAAACAGCAAACGCTGGAACCCAGAGATTCAATA
   CACTTCCAACTACTACAAATCTACAAATGTGGACTTTGCTGTTAACACAGAAGGCACTTATTCTGAGC
15 CTCGCCCCATCGGCACCCGTTACCTCACCCGTAATCTG
   XXX1 = AGT/AAT
   SEQ ID NO:13: Ancll3 polypeptide
20 MAADGYLPDWLEDNLSEGIREWWDLKPGAPKPKANQQKQDDGRGLVLPGYKYLGPFNGLDKGEPVNAA
   DAAALEHDKAYDQQLKAGDNPYLRYNHADAEFQERLQEDTSFGGNLGRAVFQAKKRVLEPLGLVEEGA
   KTAPGKKRPVEXlSPQRSPDSSTGIGKKGQQPAX2KRLNFGQTGDSESVPDPQPLGEPPAAPSGVGSG
   TMAAGGGAPMADNNEGADGVGNASGNWHCDSTWLGDRVITTSTRTWALPTYNNHLYKQISSQSAGSTN
   DNTYFGYSTPWGYFDFNRFHCHFSPRDWQRLINNNWGFRPKKLX3FKLFNIQVKEVTTNDGVTTIANN
25 LTSTVQVFSDSEYQLPYVLGSAHQGCLPPFPADVFMIPQYGYLTLNNGSQSVGRSSFYCLEYFPSQML
   RTGNNFEFSYTFEDVPFHSSYAHSQSLDRLMNPLIDQYLYYLARTQSTTGGTAGNRELQFX4QAGPST
   MAEQAKNWLPGPCYRQQRVSKTLDQNNNSNFAWTGATKYHLNGRNSLVNPGVAMATHKDDEDRFFPSS
   GVLIFGKTGAANKTTLENVLMTX5EEEIKTTNPVATEEYGX6VSSNLQSX7NTAPQTQTVNSQGALPG
   MVWQNRDVYLQGPIWAKIPHTDGNFHPSPLMGGFGLKHPPPQILIKNTPVPANPPEVFTPAKFASFIT
30 QYSTGQVSVEIEWELQKENSKRWNPEIQYTSNYDKSTNVDFAVDSEGVYSEPRPIGTRYLTRNL
   X,1=P/Q; X,2=K/R; X,3=R/N; X4=Y/H; X,5=N/S; X,6=V/I; X,7=A/S
   SEQ ID NO:14: Ancll3 DNA
35 ATGGCTGCCGATGGTTATCTTCCAGATTGGCTCGAGGACAACCTCTCTGAGGGCATTCGCGAGTGGTG
   GGACCTGAAACCTGGAGCCCCGAAACCCAAAGCCAACCAGCAAAAGCAGGACGACGGCCGGGGTCTGG
   TGCTTCCTGGCTACAAGTACCTCGGACCCTTCAACGGACTCGACAAGGGGGAGCCCGTCAACGCGGCG
   GACGCAGCGGCCCTCGAGCACGACAAGGCCTACGACCAGCAGCTCAAAGCGGGTGACAATCCGTACCT
   GCGGTATAACCACGCCGACGCCGAGTTTCAGGAGCGTCTGCAAGAAGATACGTCATTTGGGGGCAACC
40 TCGGGCGAGCAGTCTTCCAGGCCAAGAAGCGGGTTCTCGAACCTCTCGGTCTGGTTGAGGAAGGCGCT
   AAGACGGCTCCTGGAAAGAAGAGACCGGTAGAGXXXlTCACCTCAGCGTTCCCCCGACTCCTCCACGG
   GCATCGGCAAGAAAGGCCAGCAGCCCGCCXXX2AAGAGACTCAATTTCGGTCAGACTGGCGACTCAGA
   GTCAGTCCCCGACCCTCAACCTCTCGGAGAACCTCCAGCAGCGCCCTCTGGTGTGGGATCTGGTACAA
   TGGCTGCAGGCGGTGGCGCACCAATGGCAGACAATAACGAAGGTGCCGACGGAGTGGGTAATGCCTCA
45 GGAAATTGGCATTGCGATTCCACATGGCTGGGCGACAGAGTCATTACCACCAGCACCCGAACCTGGGC
   CCTGCCCACCTACAACAACCACCTCTACAAGCAAATCTCCAGTCAAAGTGCAGGTAGTACCAACGACA
   ACACCTACTTCGGCTACAGCACCCCCTGGGGGTATTTTGACTTTAACAGATTCCACTGCCACTTCTCA
   CCACGTGACTGGCAGCGACTCATCAACAACAACTGGGGATTCCGGCCCAAGAAGCTGXXX3TTCAAGC
   TCTTCAACATCCAGGTCAAGGAGGTCACGACGAATGACGGCGTTACGACCATCGCTAATAACCTTACC
50 AGCACGGTTCAGGTATTCTCGGACTCGGAATACCAGCTGCCGTACGTCCTCGGCTCTGCGCACCAGGG
   CTGCCTGCCTCCGTTCCCGGCGGACGTCTTCATGATTCCTCAGTACGGCTACCTGACTCTCAACAATG
                                    40

   GCAGTCAGTCTGTGGGACGTTCCTCCTTCTACTGCCTGGAGTACTTCCCCTCTCAGATGCTGAGAACG
   GGCAACAACTTTGAGTTCAGCTACACCTTCGAGGACGTGCCTTTCCACAGCAGCTACGCACACAGCCA
   GAGCCTGGACCGGCTGATGAATCCCCTCATCGACCAGTACTTGTACTACCTGGCCAGAACACAGAGTA
   CCACAGGAGGCACAGCTGGCAATCGGGAACTGCAGTTTXXX4CAGGCCGGGCCTTCAACTATGGCCGA
 5 ACAAGCCAAGAATTGGTTACCTGGACCTTGCTACCGGCAACAAAGAGTCTCCAAAACGCTGGATCAAA
   ACAACAACAGCAACTTTGCTTGGACTGGTGCCACCAAATATCACCTGAACGGCAGAAACTCGTTGGTT
   AATCCCGGCGTCGCCATGGCAACTCACAAGGACGACGAGGACCGCTTTTTCCCATCCAGCGGAGTCCT
   GATTTTTGGAAAAACTGGAGCAGCTAACAAAACTACATTGGAAAATGTGTTAATGACAXXX5GAAGAA
   GAAATTAAAACTACTAATCCTGTAGCCACGGAAGAATACGGGXXX6GTCAGCAGCAACTTACAATCGX
10 XX7AATACTGCACCCCAGACACAAACTGTCAACAGCCAGGGAGCCTTACCTGGCATGGTCTGGCAGAA
   CCGGGACGTGTACCTGCAGGGTCCCATCTGGGCCAAGATTCCTCACACGGATGGCAACTTTCACCCGT
   CTCCTTTGATGGGCGGCTTTGGACTTAAACATCCGCCTCCTCAGATCCTGATCAAGAACACTCCCGTT
   CCCGCTAATCCTCCGGAGGTGTTTACTCCTGCCAAGTTTGCTTCGTTCATCACACAGTACAGCACCGG
   ACAAGTCAGCGTGGAAATCGAGTGGGAGCTGCAGAAGGAAAACAGCAAGCGCTGGAACCCGGAGATTC
15 AGTACACCTCCAACTATGATAAGTCGACTAATGTGGACTTTGCCGTTGACAGCGAGGGTGTTTACTCT
   GAGCCTCGCCCTATTGGCACTCGTTACCTCACCCGTAATCTG
   XXX1 = CCG/CAG; XXX2 = AAA/AGA; XXX3 = CGG/AAC;  XXX4 = TAC/CAC; XXX5
   = AAT/AGT; XXX6 = GTA/ATA; XXX7 = GCT/TCT
20
   SEQ ID NO:15: Anc126 polypeptide
   MAADGYLPDWLEDNLSEGIREWWDLKPGAPKPKANQQKQDDGRGLVLPGYKYLGPFNGLDKGEPVNAA
   DAAALEHDKAYDQQLKAGDNPYLRYNHADAEFQERLQEDTSFGGNLGRAVFQAKKRVLEPLGLVEEGA
   KTAPGKKRPVEQSPQEPDSSSGIGKX1GQQPAX2KRLNFGQTGDSESVPDPQPLGEPPAAPSGVGSNT
25 MASGGGAPMADNNEGADGVGNX3SGNWHCDSTWLGDRVITTSTRTWALPTYNNHLYKQISSQSGASND
   NHYFGYSTPWGYFDFNRFHCHFSPRDWQRLINNNWGFRPKX4LNFKLFNIQVKEVTTNDGTTTIANNL
   TSTVQVFTDSEYQLPYVLGSAHQGCLPPFPADVFMIPQYGYLTLNNGSQAVGRSSFYCLEYFPSQMLR
   TGNNFX5FSYTFEDVPFHSSYAHSQSLDRLMNPLIDQYLYYLX6RTQTTSGTAQNRELX7FSQAGPSS
   MX8NQAKNWLPGPCYRQQRVSKTANDNNNSNFAWTGATKYHLNGRDSLVNPGPAMASHKDDEDKFFPM
30 SGVLIFGKQGAGASNVDLDNVMITDEEEIKTTNPVATEQYGTVATNLQSSNTAPATGTVNSQGALPGM
   VWQDRDVYLQGPIWAKIPHTDGHFHPSPLMGGFGLKHPPPQILIKNTPVPANPPTTFSPAKFASFITQ
   YSTGQVSVEIEWELQKENSKRWNPEIQYTSNYNKSX9NVDFTVDTNGVYSEPRPIGTRYLTRNL
   X1=S/T; X2=K/R; X3=A/S;  X4=R/K; X5=T/Q; X6=S/N; X7=Q/L; X8=A/S;
35 X9=A/T
   SEQ ID NO:16: Anc126 DNA
   ATGGCTGCCGATGGTTATCTTCCAGATTGGCTCGAGGACAACCTCTCTGAGGGCATTCGCGAGTGGTG
   GGACTTGAAACCTGGAGCCCCGAAACCCAAAGCCAACCAGCAAAAGCAGGACGACGGCCGGGGTCTGG
40 TGCTTCCTGGCTACAAGTACCTCGGACCCTTCAACGGACTCGACAAGGGGGAGCCCGTCAACGCGGCG
   GATGCAGCGGCCCTCGAGCACGACAAGGCCTACGACCAGCAGCTCAAAGCGGGTGACAATCCGTACCT
   GCGGTATAACCACGCCGACGCCGAGTTTCAGGAGCGTCTGCAAGAAGATACGTCTTTTGGGGGCAACC
   TCGGGCGAGCAGTCTTCCAGGCCAAGAAGAGGGTTCTCGAACCTCTTGGTCTGGTTGAGGAAGGTGCT
   AAGACGGCTCCTGGAAAGAAACGTCCGGTAGAGCAGTCGCCACAAGAGCCAGACTCCTCCTCGGGCAT
45 TGGCAAGXXX1GGCCAGCAGCCCGCTXXX2AAGAGACTCAATTTTGGTCAGACTGGCGACTCAGAGTC
   AGTCCCCGACCCACAACCTCTCGGAGAACCTCCAGCAGCCCCCTCTGGTGTGGGATCTAATACAATGG
   CTTCAGGCGGTGGCGCACCAATGGCAGACAATAACGAAGGCGCCGACGGAGTGGGTAATXXX3TCAGG
   AAATTGGCATTGCGATTCCACATGGCTGGGCGACAGAGTCATCACCACCAGCACCCGAACATGGGCCT
   TGCCCACCTATAACAACCACCTCTACAAGCAAATCTCCAGTCAATCAGGGGCCAGCAACGACAACCAC
50 TACTTCGGCTACAGCACCCCCTGGGGGTATTTTGATTTCAACAGATTCCACTGCCATTTCTCACCACG
   TGACTGGCAGCGACTCATCAACAACAATTGGGGATTCCGGCCCAAGXXX4CTCAACTTCAAGCTCTTC
                                     41

   AACATCCAAGTCAAGGAGGTCACGACGAATGATGGCACCACGACCATCGCTAATAACCTTACCAGCAC
   GGTTCAAGTCTTCACGGACTCGGAGTACCAGTTGCCGTACGTCCTCGGCTCTGCGCACCAGGGCTGCC
   TCCCTCCGTTCCCGGCGGACGTGTTCATGATTCCGCAGTACGGCTACCTAACGCTCAACAATGGCAGC
   CAGGCAGTGGGACGGTCATCCTTTTACTGCCTGGAATATTTCCCATCGCAGATGCTGAGAACGGGCAA
 5 TAACTTTXXX5TTCAGCTACACCTTCGAGGACGTGCCTTTCCACAGCAGCTACGCGCACAGCCAGAGC
   CTGGACCGGCTGATGAATCCTCTCATCGACCAGTACCTGTATTACCTGXXX6AGAACTCAGACTACGT
   CCGGAACTGCCCAAAACAGGGAGTTGXXX7TTTAGCCAGGCGGGTCCATCTAGCATGXXX8AATCAGG
   CCAAAAACTGGCTACCTGGACCCTGTTACCGGCAGCAGCGCGTTTCTAAAACAGCAAATGACAACAAC
   AACAGCAACTTTGCCTGGACTGGTGCTACAAAATATCACCTTAATGGGCGTGATTCTTTAGTCAACCC
10 TGGCCCTGCTATGGCCTCACACAAAGACGACGAAGACAAGTTCTTTCCCATGAGCGGTGTCTTGATTT
   TTGGAAAGCAGGGCGCCGGAGCTTCAAACGTTGATTTGGACAATGTCATGATCACAGACGAAGAGGAA
   ATCAAAACCACTAACCCCGTGGCCACCGAACAATATGGGACTGTGGCAACCAATCTCCAGAGCAGCAA
   CACAGCCCCTGCGACCGGAACTGTGAATTCTCAGGGAGCCTTACCTGGAATGGTGTGGCAAGACAGAG
   ACGTATACCTGCAGGGTCCTATTTGGGCCAAAATTCCTCACACGGATGGACACTTTCACCCGTCTCCT
15 CTCATGGGCGGCTTTGGACTTAAGCACCCGCCTCCTCAGATCCTCATCAAAAACACGCCTGTTCCTGC
   GAATCCTCCGACAACGTTTTCGCCTGCAAAGTTTGCTTCATTCATCACCCAGTATTCCACAGGACAAG
   TGAGCGTGGAGATTGAATGGGAGCTGCAGAAAGAAAACAGCAAACGCTGGAATCCCGAAATACAGTAT
   ACATCTAACTATAATAAATCTXXX9AACGTTGATTTCACTGTGGACACCAATGGAGTTTATAGTGAGC
   CTCGCCCCATTGGCACCCGTTACCTCACCCGTAACCTG
20
   XXX1 = TCA/ACA; XXX2 = AAA/AGA; XXX3 = GCC/TCC; XXX4 = AGA/AAA; XXX5
   = ACC/CAG; XXX6 = AGC/AAC; XXX7 = CAG/CTG; XXX8 = GCT/TCT; XXX9 =
   GCC/ACC
25 SEQ ID NO:17: Anc127 polypeptide
   MAADGYLPDWLEDNLSEGIREWWDLKPGAPQPKANQQHQDDXlRGLVLPGYKYLGPFNGLDKGEPVNE
   ADAAALEHDKAYDQQLKAGDNPYLKYNHADAEFQERLQEDTSFGGNLGRAVFQAKKRVLEPLGLVEEA
   AKTAPGKKRPVEQSPQEPDSSSGIGKSGQQPAX2KRLNFGQTGDSESVPDPQPLGEPPAAPSGVGSNT
   MASGGGAPMADNNEGADGVGNSSGNWHCDSTWLGDRVITTSTRTWALPTYNNHLYKQISSQSGASNDN
30 HYFGYSTPWGYFDFNRFHCHFSPRDWQRLINNNWGFRPKX3LNFKLFNIQVKEVTQNDGTTTIANNLT
   STVQVFTDSEYQLPYVLGSAHQGCLPPFPADVFMIPQYGYLTLNNGSQAVGRSSFYCLEYFPSQMLRT
   GNNFX4FSYTFEDVPFHSSYAHSQSLDRLMNPLIDQYLYYLX5RTQTTSGTTQQSRLX6FSQAGPSSM
   X7QQAX8NWLPGPCYRQQRVSKTANDNNNSNFAWTX9ATKYHLNGRDSLVNPGPAMASHKDDEEKFFP
   MHGX10LIFGKQGTGASNVDLDNVMITDEEEIRTTNPVATEQYGTVATNLQSSNTAPATGTVNSQGAL
35 PGMVWQDRDVYLQGPIWAKIPHTDGHFHPSPLMGGFGLKHPPPQILIKNTPVPANPPTTFSPAKFASF
   ITQYSTGQVSVEIEWELQKENSKRWNPEIQYTSNYNKSVNVDFTVDTNGVYSEPRPIGTRYLTRNL
   X1=G/S; X2=R/K; X3=K/R;  X4=T/Q; X5=S/R; X6=Q/L; X7=A/S; X8=K/R;
   X9=G/A; X10=V/N
40
   SEQ ID NO:18: Anc127 DNA
   ATGGCTGCTGACGGTTATCTTCCAGATTGGCTCGAGGACAACCTTTCTGAAGGCATTCGTGAGTGGTG
   GGATCTGAAACCTGGAGCCCCTCAACCCAAAGCGAACCAACAACACCAGGACGACXXXlCGGGGTCTT
   GTGCTTCCGGGTTACAAATACCTCGGACCCTTTAACGGACTCGACAAAGGAGAGCCGGTCAACGAGGC
45 GGACGCGGCAGCCCTCGAACACGACAAAGCTTACGACCAGCAGCTCAAGGCCGGTGACAACCCGTACC
   TCAAGTACAACCACGCCGACGCCGAGTTTCAGGAGCGTCTTCAAGAAGATACGTCTTTTGGGGGCAAC
   CTTGGCAGAGCAGTCTTCCAGGCCAAAAAGAGGGTCCTTGAGCCTCTTGGTCTGGTTGAGGAAGCAGC
   TAAAACGGCTCCTGGAAAGAAGAGGCCTGTAGAACAGTCTCCTCAGGAACCGGACTCATCATCTGGTA
   TTGGCAAATCGGGCCAACAGCCTGCCXXX2AAAAGACTAAATTTCGGTCAGACTGGAGACTCAGAGTC
50 AGTCCCAGACCCTCAACCTCTCGGAGAACCACCAGCAGCCCCCTCAGGTGTGGGATCTAATACAATGG
   CTTCAGGCGGTGGCGCACCAATGGCAGACAATAACGAGGGTGCCGATGGAGTGGGTAATTCCTCAGGA
                                     42

   AATTGGCATTGCGATTCCACATGGCTGGGCGACAGAGTCATCACCACCAGCACCAGAACCTGGGCCCT
   GCCCACTTACAACAACCATCTCTACAAGCAAATCTCCAGCCAATCAGGAGCTTCAAACGACAACCACT
   ACTTTGGCTACAGCACCCCTTGGGGGTATTTTGACTTTAACAGATTCCACTGCCACTTCTCACCACGT
   GACTGGCAGCGACTCATTAACAACAACTGGGGATTCCGGCCCAAGXXX3CTCAACTTCAAGCTCTTCA
 5 ACATCCAAGTTAAAGAGGTCACGCAGAACGATGGCACGACGACTATTGCCAATAACCTTACCAGCACG
   GTTCAAGTGTTTACGGACTCGGAGTATCAGCTCCCGTACGTGCTCGGGTCGGCGCACCAAGGCTGTCT
   CCCGCCGTTTCCAGCGGACGTCTTCATGATCCCTCAGTATGGATACCTCACCCTGAACAACGGAAGTC
   AAGCGGTGGGACGCTCATCCTTTTACTGCCTGGAGTACTTCCCTTCGCAGATGCTAAGGACTGGAAAT
   AACTTCXXX4TTCAGCTATACCTTCGAGGATGTACCTTTTCACAGCAGCTACGCTCACAGCCAGAGTT
10 TGGATCGCTTGATGAATCCTCTTATTGATCAGTATCTGTACTACCTGXXX5AGAACGCAAACAACCTC
   TGGAACAACCCAACAATCACGGCTGXXX6TTTAGCCAGGCTGGGCCTTCGTCTATGXXX7CAGCAGGC
   CXXX8AATTGGCTACCTGGGCCCTGCTACCGGCAACAGAGAGTTTCAAAGACTGCTAACGACAACAAC
   AACAGTAACTTTGCTTGGACAXXX9GCCACCAAATATCATCTCAATGGCCGCGACTCGCTGGTGAATC
   CAGGACCAGCTATGGCCAGTCACAAGGACGATGAAGAAAAATTTTTCCCTATGCACGGCXXX10CTAA
15 TATTTGGCAAACAAGGGACAGGGGCAAGTAACGTAGATTTAGATAATGTAATGATTACGGATGAAGAA
   GAGATTCGTACCACCAATCCTGTGGCAACAGAGCAGTATGGAACTGTGGCAACTAACTTGCAGAGCTC
   AAATACAGCTCCCGCGACTGGAACTGTCAATAGTCAGGGGGCCTTACCTGGCATGGTGTGGCAAGATC
   GTGACGTGTACCTTCAAGGACCTATCTGGGCAAAGATTCCTCACACGGATGGACACTTTCATCCTTCT
   CCTCTGATGGGAGGCTTTGGACTGAAACATCCGCCTCCTCAAATCTTGATCAAAAATACTCCGGTACC
20 GGCAAATCCTCCGACGACTTTCAGCCCGGCCAAGTTTGCTTCATTTATCACTCAGTACTCCACTGGAC
   AGGTCAGCGTGGAAATTGAGTGGGAGCTACAGAAAGAAAACAGCAAACGTTGGAATCCAGAGATTCAG
   TACACTTCCAACTACAACAAGTCTGTTAATGTGGACTTTACTGTAGACACTAATGGTGTTTATAGTGA
   ACCTCGCCCTATTGGAACCCGGTATCTCACACGAAACTTG
25 XXX,1 = GGT/AGT; XXX2 = AGA/AAA; XXX3    =  AAA/AGA; XXX4 = ACA/CAG;
   XXX5 = AGC/AGA; XXX6 = CAA/CTC; XXX7   =   GCT/TCT; XXX8 = AAA/AGA; XXX9
   = GGG/GCG; XXX10 = GTT/GAC
30 SEQ ID NO:19: Anc80L27 polypeptide
   MAADGYLPDWLEDNLSEGIREWWDLKPGAPKPKANQQKQDDGRGLVLPGYKYLGPFNGLDKGEPVNAA
   DAAALEHDKAYDQQLKAGDNPYLRYNHADAEFQERLQEDTSFGGNLGRAVFQAKKRVLEPLGLVEEGA
   KTAPGKKRPVEQSPQEPDSSSGIGKKGQQPARKRLNFGQTGDSESVPDPQPLGEPPAAPSGVGSNTMA
   AGGGAPMADNNEGADGVGNASGNWHCDSTWLGDRVITTSTRTWALPTYNNHLYKQISSQSGGSTNDNT
35 YFGYSTPWGYFDFNRFHCHFSPRDWQRLINNNWGFRPKRLNFKLFNIQVKEVTTNDGTTTIANNLTST
   VQVFTDSEYQLPYVLGSAHQGCLPPFPADVFMIPQYGYLTLNNGSQAVGRSSFYCLEYFPSQMLRTGN
   NFEFSYTFEDVPFHSSYAHSQSLDRLMNPLIDQYLYYLSRTQTTSGTAGNRTLQFSQAGPSSMANQAK
   NWLPGPCYRQQRVSKTANQNNNSNFAWTGATKYHLNGRDSLVNPGPAMATHKDDEDKFFPMSGVLIFG
   KQGAGNSNVDLDNVMITNEEEIKTTNPVATEQYGTVATNLQSANTAPATGTVNSQGALPGMVWQDRDV
40 YLQGPIWAKIPHTDGHFHPSPLMGGFGLKHPPPQILIKNTPVPANPPTTFSPAKFASFITQYSTGQVS
   VEIEWELQKENSKRWNPEIQYTSNYNKSTNVDFAVDTNGVYSEPRPIGTRYLTRNL
   SEQ ID NO:20: Anc80L59 polypeptide
   MAADGYLPDWLEDNLSEGIREWWDLKPGAPKPKANQQKQDDGRGLVLPGYKYLGPFNGLDKGEPVNAA
45 DAAALEHDKAYDQQLKAGDNPYLRYNHADAEFQERLQEDTSFGGNLGRAVFQAKKRVLEPLGLVEEGA
   KTAPGKKRPVEQSPQEPDSSSGIGKKGQQPAKKRLNFGQTGDSESVPDPQPLGEPPAAPSGVGSNTMA
   SGGGAPMADNNEGADGVGNASGNWHCDSTWLGDRVITTSTRTWALPTYNNHLYKQISSQSGASTNDNT
   YFGYSTPWGYFDFNRFHCHFSPRDWQRLINNNWGFRPKRLNFKLFNIQVKEVTTNDGTTTIANNLTST
   VQVFTDSEYQLPYVLGSAHQGCLPPFPADVFMIPQYGYLTLNNGSQAVGRSSFYCLEYFPSQMLRTGN
50 NFQFSYTFEDVPFHSSYAHSQSLDRLMNPLIDQYLYYLSRTQTTSGTAGNRELQFSQAGPSSMANQAK
   NWLPGPCYRQQRVSKTTNQNNNSNFAWTGATKYHLNGRDSLVNPGPAMATHKDDEDKFFPMSGVLIFG
                                      43

   KQGAGNSNVDLDNVMITNEEEIKTTNPVATEEYGTVATNLQSANTAPATGTVNSQGALPGMVWQNRDV
   YLQGPIWAKIPHTDGHFHPSPLMGGFGLKHPPPQILIKNTPVPANPPTTFSPAKFASFITQYSTGQVS
   VEIEWELQKENSKRWNPEIQYTSNYNKSTNVDFAVDTNGVYSEPRPIGTRYLTRNL
 5 SEQ ID NO:21: Anc80L60 polypeptide
   MAADGYLPDWLEDNLSEGIREWWDLKPGAPKPKANQQKQDDGRGLVLPGYKYLGPFNGLDKGEPVNAA
   DAAALEHDKAYDQQLKAGDNPYLRYNHADAEFQERLQEDTSFGGNLGRAVFQAKKRVLEPLGLVEEGA
   KTAPGKKRPVEQSPQEPDSSSGIGKKGQQPARKRLNFGQTGDSESVPDPQPLGEPPAAPSGVGSNTMA
   AGGGAPMADNNEGADGVGNASGNWHCDSTWLGDRVITTSTRTWALPTYNNHLYKQISSQSGGSTNDNT
10 YFGYSTPWGYFDFNRFHCHFSPRDWQRLINNNWGFRPKRLNFKLFNIQVKEVTTNDGTTTIANNLTST
   VQVFTDSEYQLPYVLGSAHQGCLPPFPADVFMIPQYGYLTLNNGSQAVGRSSFYCLEYFPSQMLRTGN
   NFEFSYTFEDVPFHSSYAHSQSLDRLMNPLIDQYLYYLSRTQTTSGTAGNRELQFSQAGPSSMANQAK
   NWLPGPCYRQQRVSKTTNQNNNSNFAWTGATKYHLNGRDSLVNPGPAMATHKDDEDKFFPMSGVLIFG
   KQGAGNSNVDLDNVMITSEEEIKTTNPVATEEYGTVATNLQSSNTAPATGTVNSQGALPGMVWQERDV
15 YLQGPIWAKIPHTDGHFHPSPLMGGFGLKHPPPQILIKNTPVPANPPTTFSPAKFASFITQYSTGQVS
   VEIEWELQKENSKRWNPEIQYTSNYNKSTNVDFAVDTNGVYSEPRPIGTRYLTRNL
   SEQ ID NO:22: Anc80L62 polypeptide
   MAADGYLPDWLEDNLSEGIREWWDLKPGAPKPKANQQKQDDGRGLVLPGYKYLGPFNGLDKGEPVNAA
20 DAAALEHDKAYDQQLKAGDNPYLRYNHADAEFQERLQEDTSFGGNLGRAVFQAKKRVLEPLGLVEEGA
   KTAPGKKRPVEQSPQEPDSSSGIGKKGQQPARKRLNFGQTGDSESVPDPQPLGEPPAAPSGVGSNTMA
   SGGGAPMADNNEGADGVGNASGNWHCDSTWLGDRVITTSTRTWALPTYNNHLYKQISSQSGGSTNDNT
   YFGYSTPWGYFDFNRFHCHFSPRDWQRLINNNWGFRPKKLNFKLFNIQVKEVTTNDGTTTIANNLTST
   VQVFTDSEYQLPYVLGSAHQGCLPPFPADVFMIPQYGYLTLNNGSQAVGRSSFYCLEYFPSQMLRTGN
25 NFEFSYTFEDVPFHSSYAHSQSLDRLMNPLIDQYLYYLSRTQTTSGTAGNRELQFSQAGPSSMANQAK
   NWLPGPCYRQQRVSKTTNQNNNSNFAWTGATKYHLNGRDSLVNPGPAMATHKDDEDKFFPMSGVLIFG
   KQGAGNSNVDLDNVMITSEEEIKTTNPVATEEYGTVATNLQSANTAPATGTVNSQGALPGMVWQDRDV
   YLQGPIWAKIPHTDGHFHPSPLMGGFGLKHPPPQILIKNTPVPANPPTTFSPAKFASFITQYSTGQVS
   VEIEWELQKENSKRWNPEIQYTSNYNKSTNVDFAVDTNGVYSEPRPIGTRYLTRNL
30
   SEQ ID NO:23: Anc80L65 polypeptide
   MAADGYLPDWLEDNLSEGIREWWDLKPGAPKPKANQQKQDDGRGLVLPGYKYLGPFNGLDKGEPVNAA
   DAAALEHDKAYDQQLKAGDNPYLRYNHADAEFQERLQEDTSFGGNLGRAVFQAKKRVLEPLGLVEEGA
   KTAPGKKRPVEQSPQEPDSSSGIGKKGQQPARKRLNFGQTGDSESVPDPQPLGEPPAAPSGVGSNTMA
35 AGGGAPMADNNEGADGVGNASGNWHCDSTWLGDRVITTSTRTWALPTYNNHLYKQISSQSGGSTNDNT
   YFGYSTPWGYFDFNRFHCHFSPRDWQRLINNNWGFRPKKLNFKLFNIQVKEVTTNDGTTTIANNLTST
   VQVFTDSEYQLPYVLGSAHQGCLPPFPADVFMIPQYGYLTLNNGSQAVGRSSFYCLEYFPSQMLRTGN
   NFQFSYTFEDVPFHSSYAHSQSLDRLMNPLIDQYLYYLSRTQTTSGTAGNRTLQFSQAGPSSMANQAK
   NWLPGPCYRQQRVSKTTNQNNNSNFAWTGATKYHLNGRDSLVNPGPAMATHKDDEDKFFPMSGVLIFG
40 KQGAGNSNVDLDNVMITNEEEIKTTNPVATEEYGTVATNLQSANTAPATGTVNSQGALPGMVWQDRDV
   YLQGPIWAKIPHTDGHFHPSPLMGGFGLKHPPPQILIKNTPVPANPPTTFSPAKFASFITQYSTGQVS
   VEIEWELQKENSKRWNPEIQYTSNYNKSTNVDFAVDTNGVYSEPRPIGTRYLTRNL
   SEQ ID NO:24: Anc80L33 polypeptide
45 MAADGYLPDWLEDNLSEGIREWWDLKPGAPKPKANQQKQDDGRGLVLPGYKYLGPFNGLDKGEPVNAA
   DAAALEHDKAYDQQLKAGDNPYLRYNHADAEFQERLQEDTSFGGNLGRAVFQAKKRVLEPLGLVEEGA
   KTAPGKKRPVEQSPQEPDSSSGIGKKGQQPAKKRLNFGQTGDSESVPDPQPLGEPPAAPSGVGSNTMA
   AGGGAPMADNNEGADGVGNASGNWHCDSTWLGDRVITTSTRTWALPTYNNHLYKQISSQSGGSTNDNT
   YFGYSTPWGYFDFNRFHCHFSPRDWQRLINNNWGFRPKKLNFKLFNIQVKEVTTNDGTTTIANNLTST
50 VQVFTDSEYQLPYVLGSAHQGCLPPFPADVFMIPQYGYLTLNNGSQAVGRSSFYCLEYFPSQMLRTGN
   NFEFSYTFEDVPFHSSYAHSQSLDRLMNPLIDQYLYYLSRTQTTSGTAGNRTLQFSQAGPSSMANQAK
                                    44

   NWLPGPCYRQQRVSKTANQNNNSNFAWTGATKYHLNGRDSLVNPGPAMATHKDDEDKFFPMSGVLIFG
   KQGAGNSNVDLDNVMITSEEEIKTTNPVATEQYGTVATNLQSSNTAPATGTVNSQGALPGMVWQNRDV
   YLQGPIWAKIPHTDGHFHPSPLMGGFGLKHPPPQILIKNTPVPANPPTTFSPAKFASFITQYSTGQVS
   VEIEWELQKENSKRWNPEIQYTSNYNKSTNVDFAVDTNGVYSEPRPIGTRYLTRNL
 5
   SEQ ID NO:25: Anc80L36 polypeptide
   MAADGYLPDWLEDNLSEGIREWWDLKPGAPKPKANQQKQDDGRGLVLPGYKYLGPFNGLDKGEPVNAA
   DAAALEHDKAYDQQLKAGDNPYLRYNHADAEFQERLQEDTSFGGNLGRAVFQAKKRVLEPLGLVEEGA
   KTAPGKKRPVEQSPQEPDSSSGIGKKGQQPAKKRLNFGQTGDSESVPDPQPLGEPPAAPSGVGSNTMA
10 SGGGAPMADNNEGADGVGNASGNWHCDSTWLGDRVITTSTRTWALPTYNNHLYKQISSQSGGSTNDNT
   YFGYSTPWGYFDFNRFHCHFSPRDWQRLINNNWGFRPKKLNFKLFNIQVKEVTTNDGTTTIANNLTST
   VQVFTDSEYQLPYVLGSAHQGCLPPFPADVFMIPQYGYLTLNNGSQAVGRSSFYCLEYFPSQMLRTGN
   NFEFSYTFEDVPFHSSYAHSQSLDRLMNPLIDQYLYYLSRTQTTSGTAGNRTLQFSQAGPSSMANQAK
   NWLPGPCYRQQRVSKTANQNNNSNFAWTGATKYHLNGRDSLVNPGPAMATHKDDEDKFFPMSGVLIFG
15 KQGAGNSNVDLDNVMITSEEEIKTTNPVATEEYGTVATNLQSSNTAPATGTVNSQGALPGMVWQNRDV
   YLQGPIWAKIPHTDGHFHPSPLMGGFGLKHPPPQILIKNTPVPANPPTTFSPAKFASFITQYSTGQVS
   VEIEWELQKENSKRWNPEIQYTSNYNKSTNVDFAVDTNGVYSEPRPIGTRYLTRNL
   SEQ ID NO:26: Anc80L44 polypeptide
20 MAADGYLPDWLEDNLSEGIREWWDLKPGAPKPKANQQKQDDGRGLVLPGYKYLGPFNGLDKGEPVNAA
   DAAALEHDKAYDQQLKAGDNPYLRYNHADAEFQERLQEDTSFGGNLGRAVFQAKKRVLEPLGLVEEGA
   KTAPGKKRPVEQSPQEPDSSSGIGKKGQQPAKKRLNFGQTGDSESVPDPQPLGEPPAAPSGVGSNTMA
   SGGGAPMADNNEGADGVGNASGNWHCDSTWLGDRVITTSTRTWALPTYNNHLYKQISSQSGGSTNDNT
   YFGYSTPWGYFDFNRFHCHFSPRDWQRLINNNWGFRPKKLNFKLFNIQVKEVTTNDGTTTIANNLTST
25 VQVFTDSEYQLPYVLGSAHQGCLPPFPADVFMIPQYGYLTLNNGSQAVGRSSFYCLEYFPSQMLRTGN
   NFQFSYTFEDVPFHSSYAHSQSLDRLMNPLIDQYLYYLSRTQTTSGTAGNRELQFSQAGPSSMANQAK
   NWLPGPCYRQQRVSKTTNQNNNSNFAWTGATKYHLNGRDSLVNPGPAMATHKDDEDKFFPMSGVLIFG
   KQGAGNSNVDLDNVMITNEEEIKTTNPVATEQYGTVATNLQSANTAPATGTVNSQGALPGMVWQDRDV
   YLQGPIWAKIPHTDGHFHPSPLMGGFGLKHPPPQILIKNTPVPANPPTTFSPAKFASFITQYSTGQVS
30 VEIEWELQKENSKRWNPEIQYTSNYNKSTNVDFAVDTNGVYSEPRPIGTRYLTRNL
   SEQ ID NO:27: AAV8 VP1 polypeptide  (YP 077180.1)
   MAADGYLPDWLEDNLSEGIREWWALKPGAPKPKANQQKQDDGRGLVLPGYKYLGPFNGLDKGEPVNAA
   DAAALEHDKAYDQQLQAGDNPYLRYNHADAEFQERLQEDTSFGGNLGRAVFQAKKRVLEPLGLVEEGA
35 KTAPGKKRPVEPSPQRSPDSSTGIGKKGQQPARKRLNFGQTGDSESVPDPQPLGEPPAAPSGVGPNTM
   AAGGGAPMADNNEGADGVGSSSGNWHCDSTWLGDRVITTSTRTWALPTYNNHLYKQISNGTSGGATND
   NTYFGYSTPWGYFDFNRFHCHFSPRDWQRLINNNWGFRPKRLSFKLFNIQVKEVTQNEGTKTIANNLT
   STIQVFTDSEYQLPYVLGSAHQGCLPPFPADVFMIPQYGYLTLNNGSQAVGRSSFYCLEYFPSQMLRT
   GNNFQFTYTFEDVPFHSSYAHSQSLDRLMNPLIDQYLYYLSRTQTTGGTANTQTLGFSQGGPNTMANQ
40 AKNWLPGPCYRQQRVSTTTGQNNNSNFAWTAGTKYHLNGRNSLANPGIAMATHKDDEERFFPSNGILI
   FGKQNAARDNADYSDVMLTSEEEIKTTNPVATEEYGIVADNLQQQNTAPQIGTVNSQGALPGMVWQNR
   DVYLQGPIWAKIPHTDGNFHPSPLMGGFGLKHPPPQILIKNTPVPADPPTTFNQSKLNSFITQYSTGQ
   VSVEIEWELQKENSKRWNPEIQYTSNYYKSTSVDFAVNTEGVYSEPRPIGTRYLTRNL
45 SEQ ID NO:28: AAV9 VP1 polypeptide  (AAS99264.1)
   MAADGYLPDWLEDNLSEGIREWWALKPGAPQPKANQQHQDNARGLVLPGYKYLGPGNGLDKGEPVNAA
   DAAALEHDKAYDQQLKAGDNPYLKYNHADAEFQERLKEDTSFGGNLGRAVFQAKKRLLEPLGLVEEAA
   KTAPGKKRPVEQSPQEPDSSAGIGKSGAQPAKKRLNFGQTGDTESVPDPQPIGEPPAAPSGVGSLTMA
   SGGGAPVADNNEGADGVGSSSGNWHCDSQWLGDRVITTSTRTWALPTYNNHLYKQISNSTSGGSSNDN
50 AYFGYSTPWGYFDFNRFHCHFSPRDWQRLINNNWGFRPKRLNFKLFNIQVKEVTDNNGVKTIANNLTS
   TVQVFTDSDYQLPYVLGSAHEGCLPPFPADVFMIPQYGYLTLNDGSQAVGRSSFYCLEYFPSQMLRTG
                                    45

   NNFQFSYEFENVPFHSSYAHSQSLDRLMNPLIDQYLYYLSKTINGSGQNQQTLKFSVAGPSNMAVQGR
   NYIPGPSYRQQRVSTTVTQNNNSEFAWPGASSWALNGRNSLMNPGPAMASHKEGEDRFFPLSGSLIFG
   KQGTGRDNVDADKVMITNEEEIKTTNPVATESYGQVATNHQSAQAQAQTGWVQNQGILPGMVWQDRDV
   YLQGPIWAKIPHTDGNFHPSPLMGGFGMKHPPPQILIKNTPVPADPPTAFNKDKLNSFITQYSTGQVS
 5 VEIEWELQKENSKRWNPEIQYTSNYYKSNNVEFAVNTEGVYSEPRPIGTRYLTRNL
   SEQ ID NO:29: AAV6 VP1 polypeptide  (AAB95450.1)
   MAADGYLPDWLEDNLSEGIREWWDLKPGAPKPKANQQKQDDGRGLVLPGYKYLGPFNGLDKGEPVNAA
   DAAALEHDKAYDQQLKAGDNPYLRYNHADAEFQERLQEDTSFGGNLGRAVFQAKKRVLEPFGLVEEGA
10 KTAPGKKRPVEQSPQEPDSSSGIGKTGQQPAKKRLNFGQTGDSESVPDPQPLGEPPATPAAVGPTTMA
   SGGGAPMADNNEGADGVGNASGNWHCDSTWLGDRVITTSTRTWALPTYNNHLYKQISSASTGASNDNH
   YFGYSTPWGYFDFNRFHCHFSPRDWQRLINNNWGFRPKRLNFKLFNIQVKEVTTNDGVTTIANNLTST
   VQVFSDSEYQLPYVLGSAHQGCLPPFPADVFMIPQYGYLTLNNGSQAVGRSSFYCLEYFPSQMLRTGN
   NFTFSYTFEDVPFHSSYAHSQSLDRLMNPLIDQYLYYLNRTQNQSGSAQNKDLLFSRGSPAGMSVQPK
15 NWLPGPCYRQQRVSKTKTDNNNSNFTWTGASKYNLNGRESIINPGTAMASHKDDKDKFFPMSGVMIFG
   KESAGASNTALDNVMITDEEEIKATNPVATERFGTVAVNLQSSSTDPATGDVHVMGALPGMVWQDRDV
   YLQGPIWAKIPHTDGHFHPSPLMGGFGLKHPPPQILIKNTPVPANPPAEFSATKFASFITQYSTGQVS
   VEIEWELQKENSKRWNPEVQYTSNYAKSANVDFTVDNNGLYTEPRPIGTRYLTRPL
20 SEQ ID NO:30: AAV1 VP1 polypeptide  (NP 049542.1)
   MAADGYLPDWLEDNLSEGIREWWDLKPGAPKPKANQQKQDDGRGLVLPGYKYLGPFNGLDKGEPVNAA
   DAAALEHDKAYDQQLKAGDNPYLRYNHADAEFQERLQEDTSFGGNLGRAVFQAKKRVLEPLGLVEEGA
   KTAPGKKRPVEQSPQEPDSSSGIGKTGQQPAKKRLNFGQTGDSESVPDPQPLGEPPATPAAVGPTTMA
   SGGGAPMADNNEGADGVGNASGNWHCDSTWLGDRVITTSTRTWALPTYNNHLYKQISSASTGASNDNH
25 YFGYSTPWGYFDFNRFHCHFSPRDWQRLINNNWGFRPKRLNFKLFNIQVKEVTTNDGVTTIANNLTST
   VQVFSDSEYQLPYVLGSAHQGCLPPFPADVFMIPQYGYLTLNNGSQAVGRSSFYCLEYFPSQMLRTGN
   NFTFSYTFEEVPFHSSYAHSQSLDRLMNPLIDQYLYYLNRTQNQSGSAQNKDLLFSRGSPAGMSVQPK
   NWLPGPCYRQQRVSKTKTDNNNSNFTWTGASKYNLNGRESIINPGTAMASHKDDEDKFFPMSGVMIFG
   KESAGASNTALDNVMITDEEEIKATNPVATERFGTVAVNFQSSSTDPATGDVHAMGALPGMVWQDRDV
30 YLQGPIWAKIPHTDGHFHPSPLMGGFGLKNPPPQILIKNTPVPANPPAEFSATKFASFITQYSTGQVS
   VEIEWELQKENSKRWNPEVQYTSNYAKSANVDFTVDNNGLYTEPRPIGTRYLTRPL
   SEQ ID NO:31: AAV2 VP1 polypeptide  (YP 680426.1)
   MAADGYLPDWLEDTLSEGIRQWWKLKPGPPPPKPAERHKDDSRGLVLPGYKYLGPFNGLDKGEPVNEA
35 DAAALEHDKAYDRQLDSGDNPYLKYNHADAEFQERLKEDTSFGGNLGRAVFQAKKRVLEPLGLVEEPV
   KTAPGKKRPVEHSPVEPDSSSGTGKAGQQPARKRLNFGQTGDADSVPDPQPLGQPPAAPSGLGTNTMA
   TGSGAPMADNNEGADGVGNSSGNWHCDSTWMGDRVITTSTRTWALPTYNNHLYKQISSQSGASNDNHY
   FGYSTPWGYFDFNRFHCHFSPRDWQRLINNNWGFRPKRLNFKLFNIQVKEVTQNDGTTTIANNLTSTV
   QVFTDSEYQLPYVLGSAHQGCLPPFPADVFMVPQYGYLTLNNGSQAVGRSSFYCLEYFPSQMLRTGNN
40 FTFSYTFEDVPFHSSYAHSQSLDRLMNPLIDQYLYYLSRTNTPSGTTTQSRLQFSQAGASDIRDQSRN
   WLPGPCYRQQRVSKTSADNNNSEYSWTGATKYHLNGRDSLVNPGPAMASHKDDEEKFFPQSGVLIFGK
   QGSEKTNVDIEKVMITDEEEIRTTNPVATEQYGSVSTNLQRGNRQAATADVNTQGVLPGMVWQDRDVY
   LQGPIWAKIPHTDGHFHPSPLMGGFGLKHPPPQILIKNTPVPANPSTTFSAAKFASFITQYSTGQVSV
   EIEWELQKENSKRWNPEIQYTSNYNKSVNVDFTVDTNGVYSEPRPIGTRYLTRNL
45
   SEQ ID NO:32: AAV3 VP1 polypeptide  (NP 043941.1)
   MAADGYLPDWLEDNLSEGIREWWALKPGVPQPKANQQHQDNRRGLVLPGYKYLGPGNGLDKGEPVNEA
   DAAALEHDKAYDQQLKAGDNPYLKYNHADAEFQERLQEDTSFGGNLGRAVFQAKKRILEPLGLVEEAA
   KTAPGKKGAVDQSPQEPDSSSGVGKSGKQPARKRLNFGQTGDSESVPDPQPLGEPPAAPTSLGSNTMA
50 SGGGAPMADNNEGADGVGNSSGNWHCDSQWLGDRVITTSTRTWALPTYNNHLYKQISSQSGASNDNHY
   FGYSTPWGYFDFNRFHCHFSPRDWQRLINNNWGFRPKKLSFKLFNIQVRGVTQNDGTTTIANNLTSTV
                                    46

   QVFTDSEYQLPYVLGSAHQGCLPPFPADVFMVPQYGYLTLNNGSQAVGRSSFYCLEYFPSQMLRTGNN
   FQFSYTFEDVPFHSSYAHSQSLDRLMNPLIDQYLYYLNRTQGTTSGTTNQSRLLFSQAGPQSMSLQAR
   NWLPGPCYRQQRLSKTANDNNNSNFPWTAASKYHLNGRDSLVNPGPAMASHKDDEEKFFPMHGNLIFG
   KEGTTASNAELDNVMITDEEEIRTTNPVATEQYGTVANNLQSSNTAPTTGTVNHQGALPGMVWQDRDV
 5 YLQGPIWAKIPHTDGHFHPSPLMGGFGLKHPPPQIMIKNTPVPANPPTTFSPAKFASFITQYSTGQVS
   VEIEWELQKENSKRWNPEIQYTSNYNKSVNVDFTVDTNGVYSEPRPIGTRYLTRNL
   SEQ ID NO:33: AAV3B VP1 polypeptide  (3KIC A)
   MAADGYLPDWLEDNLSEGIREWWALKPGVPQPKANQQHQDNRRGLVLPGYKYLGPGNGLDKGEPVNEA
10 DAAALEHDKAYDQQLKAGDNPYLKYNHADAEFQERLQEDTSFGGNLGRAVFQAKKRILEPLGLVEEAA
   KTAPGKKRPVDQSPQEPDSSSGVGKSGKQPARKRLNFGQTGDSESVPDPQPLGEPPAAPTSLGSNTMA
   SGGGAPMADNNEGADGVGNSSGNWHCDSQWLGDRVITTSTRTWALPTYNNHLYKQISSQSGASNDNHY
   FGYSTPWGYFDFNRFHCHFSPRDWQRLINNNWGFRPKKLSFKLFNIQVKEVTQNDGTTTIANNLTSTV
   QVFTDSEYQLPYVLGSAHQGCLPPFPADVFMVPQYGYLTLNNGSQAVGRSSFYCLEYFPSQMLRTGNN
15 FQFSYTFEDVPFHSSYAHSQSLDRLMNPLIDQYLYYLNRTQGTTSGTTNQSRLLFSQAGPQSMSLQAR
   NWLPGPCYRQQRLSKTANDNNNSNFPWTAASKYHLNGRDSLVNPGPAMASHKDDEEKFFPMHGNLIFG
   KEGTTASNAELDNVMITDEEEIRTTNPVATEQYGTVANNLQSSNTAPTTRTVNDQGALPGMVWQDRDV
   YLQGPIWAKIPHTDGHFHPSPLMGGFGLKHPPPQIMIKNTPVPANPPTTFSPAKFASFITQYSTGQVS
   VEIEWELQKENSKRWNPEIQYTSNYNKSVNVDFTVDTNGVYSEPRPIGTRYLTRNL
20
   SEQ ID NO:34: AAV7 VP1 polypeptide  (YP 077178.1)
   MAADGYLPDWLEDNLSEGIREWWDLKPGAPKPKANQQKQDNGRGLVLPGYKYLGPFNGLDKGEPVNAA
   DAAALEHDKAYDQQLKAGDNPYLRYNHADAEFQERLQEDTSFGGNLGRAVFQAKKRVLEPLGLVEEGA
   KTAPAKKRPVEPSPQRSPDSSTGIGKKGQQPARKRLNFGQTGDSESVPDPQPLGEPPAAPSSVGSGTV
25 AAGGGAPMADNNEGADGVGNASGNWHCDSTWLGDRVITTSTRTWALPTYNNHLYKQISSETAGSTNDN
   TYFGYSTPWGYFDFNRFHCHFSPRDWQRLINNNWGFRPKKLRFKLFNIQVKEVTTNDGVTTIANNLTS
   TIQVFSDSEYQLPYVLGSAHQGCLPPFPADVFMIPQYGYLTLNNGSQSVGRSSFYCLEYFPSQMLRTG
   NNFEFSYSFEDVPFHSSYAHSQSLDRLMNPLIDQYLYYLARTQSNPGGTAGNRELQFYQGGPSTMAEQ
   AKNWLPGPCFRQQRVSKTLDQNNNSNFAWTGATKYHLNGRNSLVNPGVAMATHKDDEDRFFPSSGVLI
30 FGKTGATNKTTLENVLMTNEEEIRPTNPVATEEYGIVSSNLQAANTAAQTQVVNNQGALPGMVWQNRD
   VYLQGPIWAKIPHTDGNFHPSPLMGGFGLKHPPPQILIKNTPVPANPPEVFTPAKFASFITQYSTGQV
   SVEIEWELQKENSKRWNPEIQYTSNFEKQTGVDFAVDSQGVYSEPRPIGTRYLTRNL
   SEQ ID NO:37:
35 Glu Ile Lys Ala Thr Asn Pro Val Ala Thr Glu Arg Phe Gly Thr Val Ala
   Val Asn Phe Gln
   SEQ ID NO:38:
   Glu Ile Lys Ala Thr Asn Pro Val Ala Thr Glu Arg Phe Gly Thr Val Ala
40 Val Asn Leu Gln
   SEQ ID NO:39:
   Glu Ile Arg Thr Thr Asn Pro Val Ala Thr Glu Gln Tyr Gly Ser Val Ser
   Thr Asn Leu Gln
45
   SEQ ID NO:40:
   Glu Ile Arg Thr Thr Asn Pro Val Ala Thr Glu Gln Tyr Gly Thr Val Ala
   Asn Asn Leu Gln
50
                                    47

   SEQ ID NO:41:
   Glu Ile Arg Thr Thr Asn Pro Val Ala Thr Glu Gln Tyr Gly Thr Val Ala
   Thr Asn Leu Gln
 5 SEQ ID NO:42:
   Glu Ile Lys Thr Thr Asn Pro Val Ala Thr Glu Gln Tyr Gly Thr Val Ala
   Thr Asn Leu Gln
   SEQ ID NO:43:
10 Glu Ile Lys Thr Thr Asn Pro Val Ala Thr Glu Gln Tyr Gly Thr Val Ala
   Thr Asn Leu Gln
   SEQ ID NO:44:
   His His His His His His
15
                                    48

WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
         1.     An adeno-associated virus (AAV) capsid polypeptide having the amino acid
sequence shown in SEQ ID NO: 5.
        2.      The AAV capsid polypeptide of claim 1, wherein the AAV capsid polypeptide or
a virus particle comprising the AAV capsid polypeptide:
                exhibits a lower seroprevalence than does an AAV2 capsid polypeptide or a virus
particle comprising an AAV2 capsid polypeptide, and wherein the AAV capsid polypeptide or a
virus particle comprising the AAV capsid polypeptide exhibits about the same or a lower
seroprevalence than does an AAV8 capsid polypeptide or a virus particle comprising an AAV8
capsid polypeptide; and/or
                is neutralized to a lesser extent by human serum than is an AAV2 capsid
polypeptide or a virus particle comprising an AAV2 capsid polypeptide, and wherein the AAV
capsid polypeptide or a virus particle comprising the AAV capsid polypeptide is neutralized to a
similar or lesser extent by human serum than is an AAV8 capsid polypeptide or a virus particle
comprising an AAV8 capsid polypeptide.
        3.      The AAV capsid polypeptide of claim 1 or 2, wherein the AAV capsid
polypeptide is purified.
        4.      The AAV capsid polypeptide of any one of claims I to 3, encoded by the nucleic
acid sequence shown in SEQ ID NO: 6.
        5.      A nucleic acid molecule encoding an adeno-associated virus (AAV) capsid
polypeptide having the nucleic acid sequence shown in SEQ ID NO: 6.
        6.      A vector comprising the nucleic acid molecule of claim 5.
        7.      An isolated host cell comprising the vector of claim 6.
                                                   49

       8.      A purified virus particle comprising the AAV capsid polypeptide of any one of
claims I to 4.
       9.      The purified virus particle of claim 8, further comprising a transgene.
                                                 50

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                      1/19

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           2/19

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                       3/19

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           4/19

                   <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
5/21
       FIGURE 5A                              5/19

                   <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
6/21                                          6/19
       FIGURE 5B

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                       7/19

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                       8/19

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                       9/19

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           10/19

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                       11/19

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                       12/19

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                       13/19

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                      14/19

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                    15/19

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                     16/19

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                       17/19

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                       18/19

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                       19/19

