                                              Abstract
The present invention discloses a fruit picker with non-slip components comprising a telescopic
rod; the bottom of the telescopic rod is provided with a non-slip rubber sleeve and the top is
provided with a fixing head; the lower of the upper of the telescopic rod close to the fixing head is
provided with a telescopic rod fixing sleeve; the fixing head is provided with a skeleton on the left
and the bottom of the left side of the fixing head close to the skeleton is provided with a fruit
storage net pocket; the lower of the fruit storage net pocket is provided with a fruit guide net; the
inside of the skeleton are equidistantly provided with a first skeleton shaft, a second skeleton shaft
and a third skeleton shaft; designing the round skeleton of traditional fruit picker with non-slip
components as collapsible allows the round skeleton of the fruit picker with non-slip components to
collapse when there is no need to use the fruit picker with non-slip components and then the volume
of the skeleton to become smaller after collapsing, thereby facilitating to carry.
                                                   5

   3g4      5
              6
     \        8
1\
   Fig. 1
          6

                                            Specification
                       A FRUIT PICKER WITH NON-SLIP COMPONENTS
Technical Field
      The invention relates to the technical field of agricultural equipment, in particular to a fruit
picker with non-slip components.
Background
      Agricultural machinery refers to the various kinds of machinery used in the process of crop
cultivation and animal husbandry as well as the initial processing and processing of agricultural and
livestock products. Agricultural machinery includes agricultural power machinery, farmland
construction machinery, soil tillage machinery, planting and fertilizing machinery, plant protection
machinery, farmland irrigation and drainage machinery, crop harvesting machinery, agricultural
product processing machinery, animal husbandry machinery               and agricultural transportation
machinery etc.. Broadly speaking, agricultural machinery further includes other rural sideline
machinery, such as forestry machinery, fishery machinery and silkworm mulberry, beekeeping,
edible mushroom cultivation. Agricultural machinery is a relative concept, referring to the general
term for all machinery in agriculture, animal husbandry, forestry and fisheries. Agricultural
machinery belongs to the category of agricultural machine. Promotion for using agricultural
machinery is known as agricultural mechanization.
      However, the conventional agricultural machinery used fruit picker with non-slip components
has defects in use, wherein the larger opening of the fruit picker with non-slip components causes
the machine to become less portable and be inconvenient to carry.
Content of Invention
      The purpose of the present invention is to provide a fruit picker with non-slip components for
solving the problem proposed in above background, i.e. the conventional agricultural machinery
used fruit picker with non-slip components has defects in use, wherein the larger opening of the
fruit picker with non-slip components causes the machine to become less portable and be
inconvenient to carry.
      To achieve above purpose, the present invention provides following technical solution: a fruit
picker with non-slip components comprising a telescopic rod, wherein the bottom of the telescopic
rod is provided with a non-slip rubber sleeve and the top is provided with a fixing head; the lower
of the upper of the telescopic rod close to the fixing head is provided with a telescopic rod fixing
sleeve; the fixing head is provided with a skeleton on the left and the bottom of the left side of the
fixing head close to the skeleton is provided with a fruit storage net pocket; the lower of the fruit
storage net pocket is provided with a fruit guide net; the inside of the skeleton are equidistantly
provided with a first skeleton shaft, a second skeleton shaft and a third skeleton shaft; a skeleton
                                                     I

                                               Specification
fixing rod and a skeleton fixing sleeve are arranged at the connecting location between the skeleton
and the skeleton fixing rod respectively; the inside of the skeleton fixing sleeve is provided with the
skeleton fixing rod.
      Preferably, the non-slip rubber sleeve is fixed at the bottom of the telescopic rod by bolts.
      Preferably, the skeleton comprises four sections, which are connected by the rotation of the
first skeleton shaft, the second skeleton shaft and the third skeleton shaft respectively.
      Preferably, the skeleton fixing rod passes through the inside of the skeleton fixing sleeve, and
the surface of the skeleton fixing rod is covered with threads uniformly.
      Preferably, the inside of the telescopic rod fixing sleeve is provided with an elastic tab.
      Preferably, the fixing head is fixed with the telescopic rod through thread connection.
      Preferably, the fruit storage net pocket is fixed with the fruit guide net through thread
connection.
      Preferably, the fruit guide net is a mesh structure.
      Compared with the prior art, the beneficial effects of the present invention are: designing the
round skeleton of traditional fruit picker with non-slip components as collapsible, which allows the
round skeleton of the fruit picker with non-slip components to collapse when it is no need to use the
fruit picker with non-slip components and then the volume of the skeleton to become smaller after
collapsing, thereby facilitating to carry.
Brief Description of the Drawings
      Fig. 1 is a structure diagram of the invention;
      Fig. 2 is a top view of the skeleton of the invention;
      Fig. 3 is a view illustrating that the skeleton of the invention collapses;
      In figures, 1-fruit guide net, 2-fruit storage net pocket, 3-skeleton, 4-skeleton fixing sleeve,
5-skeleton fixing rod, 6-fixing head, 7- telescopic rob fixing sleeve, 8-telescopic rod, 9-non-slip
rubber sleeve, 10-first skeleton shaft, 11-second skeleton shaft, 12-third skeleton shaft.
Detailed Description of the Embodiments
      The technical solutions of the embodiments of the present invention are clearly and completely
described below with reference to the accompanying drawings in the embodiments of the present
invention, it is apparent that the described embodiments are only a part of embodiments of the
present invention, instead of all the embodiments. Based on the embodiments of the present
invention, all the other embodiments obtained by those of ordinary skill in the art without inventive
effort are within the scope of the present invention.
      With reference to Fig. 1-3, the present invention provides a technical solution: a fruit picker
with non-slip components comprises a telescopic rod 8, wherein the bottom of the telescopic rod 8
                                                      2

                                              Specification
is provided with a non-slip rubber sleeve 9 and the top of the telescopic rod 8 is provided with a
fixing head 6; the lower of the upper of the telescopic rod 8 close to the fixing head 6 is provided
with a telescopic rod fixing sleeve 7; the fixing head 6 is provided with a skeleton 3 on the left and
the bottom of the left side of the fixing head 6 close to the skeleton 3 is provided with a fruit storage
net pocket 2; the lower of the fruit storage net pocket 2 is provided with a fiuit guide net 1; the
inside of the skeleton 3 are equidistantly provided with a first skeleton shaft 10, a second skeleton
shaft II and a third skeleton shaft 12; a skeleton fixing rod 5 and a skeleton fixing sleeve 4 are
arranged at the connecting location between the skeleton 3 and the skeleton fixing rod 5
respectively; the inside of the skeleton fixing sleeve 4 is provided with the skeleton fixing rod 5.
     In this embodiment, preferably, the non-slip rubber sleeve 9 is fixed at the bottom of the
telescopic rod 8 by bolts.
     In this embodiment, preferably, the skeleton 3 comprises four sections, which are connected by
the rotation of the first skeleton shaft 10, the second skeleton shaft 11 and the third skeleton shaft 12
respectively.
     In this embodiment, preferably, the skeleton fixing rod 5 passes through the inside of the
skeleton fixing sleeve 4, and the surface of the skeleton fixing rod 5 is covered with threads
uniformly.
     In this embodiment, preferably, the inside of the telescopic rod fixing sleeve 7 is provided with
an elastic tab.
     In this embodiment, preferably, the fixing head 6 is fixed with the telescopic rod 8 through
thread connection.
     In this embodiment, preferably, the fruit storage net pocket 2 is fixed with the fruit guide net I
through thread connection.
     In this embodiment, preferably, the fruit guide net 1 is a mesh structure.
     The working principle and operation flow of the present invention are: when the fruit picker
with non-slip components is carried after being used, each part of the machine can be disassembled,
that is, to disassemble the fixing head 6 by rotation, then the skeleton fixing rod 5 can be
disassembled from the side of the fixing head 6 by rotating the skeleton 3;
     thus the skeleton 3 can be collapsed, then the skeleton fixing rod 5 is pulled out from the inside
of the skeleton fixing sleeve 4 so as to rotate through the first skeleton shaft 10, second skeleton
shaft 11 and third skeleton shaft 12 to collapse the skeleton 3 as the shape as shown in Fig. 3, thus
decreasing significantly the volume of the skeleton 3 to facilitate carrying.
                                                     3

The claims defining the invention are as follows:
       1. A fruit picker with non-slip components comprising a telescopic rod, characterized in that:
the bottom of the telescopic rod is provided with a non-slip rubber sleeve and the top of the
telescopic rod is provided with a fixing head; the lower of the upper of the telescopic rod close to
the fixing head is provided with a telescopic rod fixing sleeve; the fixing head is provided with a
skeleton on the left and the bottom of the left side of the fixing head close to the skeleton is
provided with a fruit storage net pocket; the lower of the fruit storage net pocket is provided with a
fruit guide net; the inside of the skeleton are equidistantly provided with a first skeleton shaft, a
second skeleton shaft and a third skeleton shaft; a skeleton fixing rod and a skeleton fixing sleeve
are arranged at the connecting location of the skeleton and the skeleton fixing rod respectively; the
inside of the skeleton fixing sleeve is provided with the skeleton fixing rod, the non-slip rubber
sleeve is fixed at the bottom of the telescopic rod by bolts.
       2. The fruit picker with non-slip components according to Claim 1, characterized in that: the
skeleton comprises four sections, which are connected by the rotation of the first skeleton shaft, the
second skeleton shaft and the third skeleton shaft respectively.
       3. The fruit picker with non-slip components according to Claim 1, characterized in that: the
skeleton fixing rod passes through the inside of the skeleton fixing sleeve, and the surface of the
skeleton fixing rod is covered with threads uniformly.
                                                     4

         <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
<U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E> <U+2706>

                  <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
<U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E> <U+2702>   <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E> <U+2701>

