                           INTERACTIVE VENUE ASSISTANT
                                          ABSTRACT
        Methods and systems for assisting a user at an event and venue are described. A user
is guided or navigated to different points of interest at a venue. The points of interest include
seat locations or surrounding services and facilities, such as restaurants, shops, and restrooms.
Advertisements and promotions associated with surrounding services may be displayed to the
user. The user may be notified of the presence of friends and family at the same venue, and
be provided with real-time information about the event.

                            INTERACTIVE VENUE ASSISTANT
                             Dong XU, Fr6d6ric TU, and Meijie XIA
CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATION
[0001] This application claims priority to U.S. Application No. 14/185,772 filed February 20,
2014, which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.
BACKGROUND
Field of the Invention
[0002] The present invention generally relates to providing an augmented reality experience
and location-based services for a user at an event, such as a sports game, theater event, or
concert.
Related Art
[0003] An individual attending a real-time event in person may desire information related to
the real-time event, such as the services available at the location or venue of the real-time
event and any friends that are present at the location of the real-time event. Further, the
individual may desire that information in such a way as to augment his or her viewing of the
environment at the event. Conventionally, the desired information may be provided in a
venue map or guide with details regarding food offerings, merchandise stores, restrooms, and
ATM locations. This information, however, is not presented to the user in a useful form, and
is not catered to the user's personal choices. Accordingly, it would be beneficial to deliver
more personalized information to the user to assist the user at an event and venue.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE FIGURES
[0004] FIG. 1 is a is a block diagram of a networked system suitable for implementing the
methods described herein according to an embodiment of the present disclosure;
[0005] FIG. 2 is a block diagram of a computer system suitable for implementing one or
more components in FIG. 1 according to one embodiment of the present disclosure; and
[0006] FIG. 3 is a flowchart showing a method of assisting a user at an event according to an
embodiment of the present disclosure.
[0007] Embodiments of the present disclosure and their advantages are best understood by
referring to the detailed description that follows. It should be appreciated that like reference
                                                 -1-

numerals are used to identify like elements illustrated in one or more of the figures, wherein
showings therein are for purposes of illustrating embodiments of the present disclosure and
not for purposes of limiting the same.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION
[0008] The present disclosure describes techniques for assisting a user at a venue with an
augmented reality environment. Augmented reality provides a user with a live view of a
physical, real-world environment, augmented with artificial computer-generated sound, video
and/or graphic information. A device typically displays the live view of the physical, real
world environment on a screen or the like, and the artificial, computer-generated information
is overlaid on the user's live view of the physical, real-world environment.
[0009] Augmented reality can be incorporated and used on smartphones and other user
devices. Mobile devices, especially wearable ones that may be in the form of eyewear (e.g.,
Google Glass®), mobile-enabled wrist watches, or head-mounted displays, are available to
provide augmented reality experiences to users. Such devices typically include display
technology by which computer information is overlaid on the scene in front of the user.
[0010] In an augmented reality environment, relevant information regarding a location,
event, and/or venue can be rendered or presented to the user so as to augment the user's view
of the location, event, and/or venue. Such information or data can be about a person, place,
or object that is in or near a particular geographical location. Further the device can assist the
user at the venue by providing information that is relevant to a specific time (e.g., before,
during, or after the event). For example, the device may determine that a break or
intermission is coming up and recommend a bathroom or snack break to the user.
[0011] The present disclosure provides systems and methods that guide or navigate users to
points of interest at a venue for an event and/or provide other relevant information. For
example, the methods may provide directions to the user, wherein the directions are overlaid
on the user's view of the environment. In other examples, the methods and systems help
users discover surrounding restaurants, shops, restrooms, and other services and facilities at a
venue. In some embodiments, the contacts in the user's social network that are present at the
venue can be automatically detected, and the user can share his or her experience and view
his or her contacts' experience. In addition, the methods and systems may provide real-time
information about the event in the venue and recommend product and/or services with
coupons, discounts, or other promotions.
                                                 -2-

[0012] In various embodiments, when a user requests information regarding a specific point
of interest, the methods and systems take the information for that point of interest and
anticipate what the user may request next. For example, if the user asks the device for a
restaurant that is kid-friendly, the device may also display information associated with kid
friendly activities at the venue, such as playgrounds or parks. In another example, if the user
has requested a place that serves drinks, the device may note the nearest restroom when the
user passes by or when a break is close.
[0013] Beginning with FIG. 1, an exemplary embodiment of a computing system adapted for
implementing one or more processes involving assisting a user at an event is illustrated in
block diagram format. As shown, computing system 100 may comprise or implement a
plurality of servers and/or software components that operate to perform various
methodologies in accordance with the described embodiments. Exemplary servers may
include, for example, stand-alone and enterprise-class servers operating a server OS such as a
MICROSOFT® OS, a UNIX® OS, a LINUX® OS, or other suitable server-based OS. It can
be appreciated that the servers illustrated in FIG. 1 may be deployed in other ways and that
the operations performed and/or the services provided by such servers may be combined or
separated for a given implementation and may be performed by a greater number or fewer
number of servers. One or more servers may be operated and/or maintained by the same or
different entities.
[0014] Computing system 100 can include, among various devices, servers, databases and
other elements, a user 102 that may comprise or employ one or more user devices 104, such
as a mobile computing device, a wearable computing device such as a smart watch or smart
goggles, a PC, and/or any other computing device having computing and/or communications
capabilities in accordance with the described embodiments. User devices 104 generally may
provide one or more user programs 106, such as system programs and application programs
to perform various computing and/or communications operations. Exemplary system
programs may include, without limitation, an operating system (e.g., MICROSOFT® OS,
UNIX@ OS, LINUX® OS, Symbian OSTM, Embedix OS, Binary Run-time Environment for
Wireless (BREW) OS, JavaOS, a Wireless Application Protocol (WAP) OS, and others),
device drivers, programming tools, utility programs, software libraries, application
programming interfaces (APIs), and so forth. Exemplary application programs may include,
without limitation, a web browser application, messaging applications (e.g., e-mail, IM, SMS,
MMS, telephone, voicemail, VoIP, video messaging), contacts application, calendar
application, electronic document application, database application, media application (e.g.,
                                                -3-

music, video, television), location-based services (LBS) application (e.g., GPS, mapping,
directions, point-of-interest, locator), and so forth. One or more of user programs 106 may
display various graphical user interfaces (GUIs) to present information to and/or receive
information from one or more of user devices 104.
[0015] User device 104, in one embodiment, includes a geo-location component adapted to
monitor and provide an instant geographical location (i.e., geo-location) of the user device
104. In one implementation, the geo-location of the user device 104 may include global
positioning system (GPS) coordinates, zip-code information, area-code information, street
address information, and/or various other generally known types of geo-location information.
In one example, the geo-location information may be directly entered into the user device 104
by a user via a user input component, such as a keyboard, touch display, and/or voice
recognition microphone. In another example, the geo-location information may be
automatically obtained and/or provided by the user device 104 via an internal or external GPS
monitoring component. In other embodiments, the geo-location can be automatically
obtained without the use of GPS. In some instances, cell signals or wireless signals are used.
This helps to save battery life and to allow for better indoor location where GPS typically
does not work.
[0016] In one aspect, when interfacing with the user device 104, the user 102 may elect to
provide or may be prompted to provide permission for the release of geo-location
information. Accordingly, the user 102 may have exclusive authority to allow transmission
of geo-location information from the user device 104 to the network-based system 110. In
any instance, the network-based system 110 may communicate with the user device 104 via
the network 108 and request permission to acquire geo-location information from the user
device 104 for geo-location based mobile commerce.
[0017] As shown, user 102 can be communicatively coupled via one or more networks 108 to
a network-based system 110 managed by an online service provider, such as, for example,
StubHub, Inc. of San Francisco, California. Network-based system 110 may be structured,
arranged, and/or configured to allow user 102 to establish one or more communication
sessions with network-based system 110 using various computing devices 104 and/or user
programs 106. Accordingly, a communication session between user 102 and network-based
system 110 may involve the unidirectional and/or bidirectional exchange of information and
may occur over one or more types of networks 108 depending on the mode of
communication. While the embodiment of FIG. 1 illustrates a computing system 100
deployed in a user-server operating environment, it is to be understood that other suitable
                                                 -4-

operating environments and/or architectures may be used in accordance with the described
embodiments.
[0018] Data and/or voice communications between user 102 and the network-based system
110 may be sent and received over one or more networks 108 such as the Internet, a WAN, a
WWAN, a WLAN, a mobile telephone network, a landline telephone network, a VoIP
network, as well as other suitable networks. For example, user 102 may communicate with
network-based system 110 over the Internet or other suitable WAN by sending and or
receiving information via interaction with a web site, e-mail, IM session, and/or video
messaging session. Any of a wide variety of suitable communication types between user 102
and system 110 can take place, as will be readily appreciated.
[0019] In various embodiments, computing system 100 can include, among other elements, a
third party 112, which may comprise or employ a third-party server 114 hosting a third-party
application 116. In various implementations, third-party server 114 and/or third-party
application 116 may host a web site associated with or employed by a third party 112. For
example, third-party server 114 and/or third-party application 116 may enable network-based
system 110 to provide user 102 with additional services and/or information, such as
additional ticket inventory. In some embodiments, one or more of user programs 106 may be
used to access network-based system 110 via third party 112. For example, user 102 may use
a web user to access and/or receive content from network-based system 110 after initially
communicating with a web site of third-party 112.
[0020] Network-based system 110 may comprise one or more communication servers 120 to
provide suitable interfaces that enable communication using various modes of
communication and/or via one or more networks 108. Communication servers 120 can
include a web server 122, an API server 124, and/or a messaging server 126 to provide
interfaces to one or more application servers 130. Application servers 130 of network-based
system 110 may be structured, arranged, and/or configured to provide various online
marketplace and/or ticket fulfillment services to users that access network-based system 110.
In various embodiments, user 102 may communicate with application servers 130 of
network-based system 110 via one or more of a web interface provided by web server 122, a
programmatic interface provided by API server 124, and/or a messaging interface provided
by messaging server 126. It can be appreciated that web server 122, API server 124, and
messaging server 126 may be structured, arranged, and/or configured to communicate with
various types of user devices 104 and/or user programs 106 and may interoperate with each
other in some implementations.
                                              -5-

[0021] Web server 122 may be arranged to communicate with web users and/or applications
such as a web browser, web browser toolbar, desktop widget, mobile widget, web-based
application, web-based interpreter, virtual machine, and so forth. API server 124 may be
arranged to communicate with various user programs 106 and/or a third-party application 116
comprising an implementation of API for network-based system 110. Messaging server 126
may be arranged to communicate with various messaging users and/or applications such as e
mail, IM, SMS, MMS, telephone, VoIP, video messaging, and so forth, and messaging server
126 may provide a messaging interface to enable access by user 102 and/or third party 112 to
the various services and functions provided by application servers 130.
[0022] When implemented as an online ticket marketplace, application servers 130 of
network-based system 110 may provide various online marketplace and ticket fulfillment
services including, for example, account services, buying services, selling services, listing
catalog services, dynamic content management services, delivery services, payment services,
and notification services. Application servers 130 may include an account server 132, a
buying server 134, a selling server 136, a listing catalog server 138, a dynamic content
management server 140, a payment server 142, a notification server 144, and/or a delivery
server 146 structured and arranged to provide such online marketplace and ticket fulfillment
services. Application servers 130 are adapted to receive ticket information associated with an
event, provide a user with information on a specific point of interest based on the ticket
information, and navigate the user to the specific point of interest. Points of interest include
the location of friends and/or family, restaurants, restrooms, and/or attractions at a venue.
Based on the points of interest, application servers 130 can propose and recommend user
actions at the venue.
[0023] Application servers 130 may be coupled to and capable of accessing one or more
databases 150 including a subscriber database 152, an active events database 154, and/or a
transaction database 156. Databases 150 generally may store and maintain various types of
information for use by application servers 130 and may comprise or be implemented by
various types of computer storage devices (e.g., servers, memory) and/or database structures
(e.g., relational, object-oriented, hierarchical, dimensional, network) in accordance with the
described embodiments.
[0024] Continuing with FIG. 2, an exemplary computer system 200 suitable for
implementing one or more devices of the computing system in FIG. 1 is depicted in block
diagram format. In various implementations, a device that includes computer system 200
may comprise a personal computing device (e.g., a smartphone, a computing tablet, a
                                                  -6-

personal computer, laptop, PDA, Bluetooth device, key FOB, badge, etc.) that is capable of
communicating with a network. The service provider may utilize a network computing
device (e.g., a network server) capable of communicating with the network. It should be
appreciated that each of the devices utilized by users and service providers may be
implemented as computer system 200 in a manner as follows.
[0025] Computer system 200 can include a bus 202 or other communication mechanism for
communicating information data, signals, and information between various components of
computer system 200. Components include an input/output (1/0) component 204 that
processes a user action, such as selecting keys from a keypad/keyboard, selecting one or more
buttons or links, etc., and sends a corresponding signal to bus 202. I/O component 204 may
also include an output component, such as a display 211 and a cursor control 213 (such as a
keyboard, keypad, mouse, etc.). An optional audio input/output component 205 may also be
included to allow a user to use voice for inputting information by converting audio signals.
Audio 1/0 component 205 may allow the user to hear audio. A transceiver or network
interface 206 transmits and receives signals between computer system 200 and other devices,
such as another user device, a merchant server, or a payment provider server via a network.
In one embodiment, the transmission is wireless, although other transmission mediums and
methods may also be suitable. A processor 212, which can be a micro-controller, digital
signal processor (DSP), or other processing component, processes these various signals, such
as for display on computer system 200 or transmission to other devices over a network 260
via a communication link 218. Processor 212 may also control transmission of information,
such as cookies or IP addresses, to other devices.
[0026] Components of computer system 200 also include a system memory component 214
(e.g., RAM), a static storage component 216 (e.g., ROM), and/or a disk drive 217. Computer
system 200 performs specific operations by processor 212 and other components by
executing one or more sequences of instructions contained in system memory component
214. Logic may be encoded in a computer readable medium, which may refer to any medium
that participates in providing instructions to processor 212 for execution. Such a medium
may take many forms, including but not limited to, non-volatile media, volatile media, and
transmission media. In various implementations, non-volatile media includes optical or
magnetic disks, volatile media includes dynamic memory, such as system memory
component 214, and transmission media includes coaxial cables, copper wire, and fiber
optics, including wires that comprise bus 202. In one embodiment, the logic is encoded in
non-transitory computer readable medium. In one example, transmission media may take the
                                                -7-

form of acoustic or light waves, such as those generated during radio wave, optical, and
infrared data communications.
[0027] Some common forms of computer readable media includes, for example, floppy disk,
flexible disk, hard disk, magnetic tape, any other magnetic medium, CD-ROM, any other
optical medium, punch cards, paper tape, any other physical medium with patterns of holes,
RAM, PROM, EPROM, FLASH-EPROM, any other memory chip or cartridge, or any other
medium from which a computer is adapted to read.
[0028] In various embodiments of the present disclosure, execution of instruction sequences
to practice the present disclosure may be performed by computer system 200. In various
other embodiments of the present disclosure, a plurality of computer systems 200 coupled by
communication link 218 to the network (e.g., such as a LAN, WLAN, PTSN, and/or various
other wired or wireless networks, including telecommunications, mobile, and cellular phone
networks) may perform instruction sequences to practice the present disclosure in
coordination with one another.
[0029] Where applicable, various embodiments provided by the present disclosure may be
implemented using hardware, software, or combinations of hardware and software. Also,
where applicable, the various hardware components and/or software components set forth
herein may be combined into composite components comprising software, hardware, and/or
both without departing from the spirit of the present disclosure. Where applicable, the
various hardware components and/or software components set forth herein may be separated
into sub-components comprising software, hardware, or both without departing from the
scope of the present disclosure. In addition, where applicable, it is contemplated that
software components may be implemented as hardware components and vice-versa.
[0030] Software, in accordance with the present disclosure, such as program code and/or
data, may be stored on one or more computer readable mediums. It is also contemplated that
software identified herein may be implemented using one or more general purpose or specific
purpose computers and/or computer systems, networked and/or otherwise.
[0031] The various features and steps described herein may be implemented as systems
comprising one or more memories storing various information described herein and one or
more processors coupled to the one or more memories and a network, wherein the one or
more processors are operable to perform steps as described herein, as non-transitory machine
readable medium comprising a plurality of machine-readable instructions which, when
executed by one or more processors, are adapted to cause the one or more processors to
perform a method comprising steps described herein, and methods performed by one or more
                                               -8-

devices, such as a hardware processor, user device, server, and other devices described
herein.
[0032] Referring now to FIG. 3, a flowchart of a method 300 for assisting a user at an event
is illustrated according to an embodiment of the present disclosure. It should be appreciated
that the method illustrated in the embodiment of FIG. 3 may be implemented by the systems
illustrated in FIGS. 1 and/or 2 according to one or more embodiments.
[0033] The method 300 begins at step 302, where the user 102 provides ticket information
associated with an event to a service provider. Ticket information includes, but is not limited
to, the event, the venue, the time, artist, duration of the event, seat information (e.g., section,
row and number), etc. For example, the user 102 can open up a mobile application or "app"
run by the service provider, and choose a specific ticket from a list, or the user 102 may scan
a physical ticket to provide the ticket information.
[0034] At step 304, the service provider determines a location of the user 102 through the
user device 104. The user device 104, in one embodiment, includes a location determination
device (e.g., a GPS device, a cell tower triangulation system device, and/or a variety of other
location determination devices known in the art) that is operable to determine a current
location of user device 104.
[0035] The user 102 may release geo-location information to the service provider by, for
example, setting release parameters. In one aspect, the user geo-location information
includes user information related to a physical location or position of the user device 104,
which is passed to the network-based system 110 via the network 108. The user geo-location
information may include GPS coordinates (e.g., longitude and latitude) inherent to the user
device 104, such as a mobile cellular phone, and/or zip-code information. The user geo
location information may include user identifier information identifying the user 102. The
user 102 may manually set geo-location information, such as a zip code and/or longitude and
latitude coordinates.
[0036] At step 306, the service provider navigates or guides the user 102 to his or her seat.
The service provider may have earlier received from the user 102 the user's seating at the
venue to use as needed, or may have obtained the user 102's seating by having access to seats
purchased by the user 102. In an embodiment, the user 102 requests the service provider,
through the mobile application, to take the user 102 to his or her seat. In another
embodiment, the application automatically pops up on the user device 104 when the user 102
enters the venue and asks the user 102 if the user wants to be taken to his or her seat.
                                                  -9-

[0037] In one embodiment, the user 102 may use the camera of user device 104 such as an
iPhone or an iPad to receive directions. For example, the display of the user device 104 may
show arrows or a map to augment the user's view of the venue. In one example, a two
dimensional indoor map of the venue augments the user 102's view of the venue on the user
device 104, along with arrows that point in the direction the user 102 should be walking. In
still another embodiment, directions may be provided based on the user's preferences
previously sent to the system 110. For instance, if the user 102 requires elevators, the
directions will point the user 102 in the direction that includes elevators. If the user 102
needs a ramp, the directions point the user 102 to the ramps. Otherwise the mobile
application may be free to point out directions using stairs.
[0038] In some embodiments, service provider overlays the time left and distance to the seat
on the user 102's view. For example, the distance left to get to the seat may be displayed as
150 meters, and the time to get to the seat may be displayed as 2 minutes. As the user 102
gets closer to his or her seat, the time and distance decrease. In various embodiments, the
service provider determines the walking speed of the user 102, and employs this information
to provide an estimate of how much longer and how much farther it will take for the user 102
to get to his or her seat. In one or more embodiments, a radar map is also overlaid on the user
102's view.
[0039] The route or directions for the user 102 to get to the seat may vary depending on
different factors, such as time remaining before the event starts, time remaining before doors
close, congestion along one or more areas along a potential route, etc. For example, the user
102 may be provided a longer route in terms of distance, but shorter in terms of time required
to get to the seat based on the longer route having less congestion along the way, especially if
the event is about to start or doors are about to close. If there is plenty of time before the user
102 should be at the seat, the route may provide suggestions for restrooms and/or concession
stands that are less congested along the way to the seat. This may prompt the user 102 to go
to the restroom and/or make a food/drink purchase because the user 102 is made aware and
realizes there is time before the event starts. As such, the route may depend on the user's
current location, the location of the seat, time until the event, estimated time for the user to
arrive at the seat, and congestion along a route or at restrooms, concession stands, or other
areas along a route.
[0040] When the service provider detects that the user 102 has arrived at his or her seat, the
mobile application may display a message or icon on the user device 104 to remind the user
102 that he or she has arrived at the seat, and prompt the user 102 to take a picture of the
                                                -10-

view from the seat. The app may then suggest sharing the picture on the user 102's social
networks.
[0041] At step 308, based on the location (e.g., venue) of the user device 104, the event at the
venue, and/or the time, the service provider provides information regarding points of interest
at the specific venue. Points of interest include where contacts (e.g., friends or family) are
seated or located, food service providers or retail stores, surrounding facilities (e.g.,
restrooms, ATMs, pay phones, water fountains, etc.), attractions (e.g., displays, shows,
presentations, etc.), and landmarks.
[0042] In one embodiment, an iPhone or iPad may function as a "set of eyeglasses,"
providing the user 102 with information relevant to the user's personal choices as the user
102 moves the user device 104 from place to place within the venue. For instance, as the user
102 walks out of the user's seating section, the user device 104 may show the location of
places that the user 102 may be interested in, for example the closest bathroom, the bathroom
with the shortest lines that is still nearby the user, or a bathroom that is outfitted for the
handicapped, and guide the user 102 to the place(s). The guidance or route may depend on
factors, such as described earlier. For example, if the event is still going on (e.g., not during
an intermission or stoppage of play), the user 102 may be directed to locations that will
enable the user 102 to get back to the seat as soon as possible, such as restrooms and/or
concession stands that may be a bit farther, but have much shorter lines or no lines. If the
user 102 is leaving during an intermission or stoppage of play, the system may estimate how
long before the event resumes in order to provide a more intelligent route. For example, if
the user 102 is leaving at the start of halftime of a football game, the user 102 may be
provided a route that is not as time sensitive as if the user 102 is leaving a baseball game
between innings. This can be done by the camera of the user device 104.
[0043] The user 102 can configure the app to provide information based on previously
provided information regarding the user 102 and specific points of interest. For example, the
user 102 may indicate whether there are any infants, children, disabled, or elderly people in
the party. The user 102 may also have input specific points of interest before entering the
venue, such as type and location of a restaurant (e.g., kid-friendly, handicap accessible, etc.),
bathrooms, handicapped bathrooms, an exit closest to where the user 102 is parked, and the
like. The user 102 may then send the system 110 a request for the desired information to
augment the reality of his or her view of the venue.
[0044] In another embodiment, the user 102 can request the information in real-time. For
example, as the user 102 walks away from his or her seat and towards concessions or
                                                 -11-

restrooms, the user 102 can request general information (e.g., "Let me see all the restrooms"
or "Let me see all the restaurants"), or specific information ("Notify me when I am within
100 meters of a place that sells food"). In response to the general request, the service
provider can display a list of restrooms at the venue, their distance from the user 102, and
whether they are busy or vacant. The service provider can also display a list of food service
providers at the venue, their distance from the user 102, and any promotions (e.g., coupons,
deals, sales, etc.) associated with the food service provider. In an embodiment, the
information is arranged and displayed based on the distance from the user 102.
[0045] In one embodiment, the service provider provides information to the user 102 based
on the user 102's position in the venue. For example, as the user 102 walks by a restaurant
within the venue, a message relating to the restaurant can be presented on the user device
104, including any related advertising.
[0046] Other embodiments may include the user 102 requesting the service provider to
display the shortest path out of the venue to where the user 102 parked his or her car. The
service provider may receive a feed of road traffic, and the user 102 could request the parking
lot exit from which to leave in order to encounter the least traffic, the fastest way home, or
the route that has the least traffic, or the route that passes a particular restaurant, or that
passes several restaurants on the way home, and the service provider could respond with that
information for display on the user device 104.
[0047] Another embodiment may show the user 102, for example by arrows, where friends of
the user 102 are seated in the stands of the venue, and show the distance to the friends' seats.
This may be implemented, as one example, by the user 102 sending the service provider a
query for the seat location of a friend. Responsive to this query, the service provider may
read the friend's phone number from the user's cell phone contact list and, in conjunction
with a GPS satellite system, determine the seat location, generally or specifically, of the cell
phone that has the friend's phone number. The service provider may then respond to the user
102 with information as to the friend's seat location, including, if desired, placing an arrow
on the display of the user device 104 pointing to the location of the friend's seat, augmenting
the viewer's personal reality of viewing the venue live.
[0048] In an alternate embodiment, instead of GPS technology, the service provider may
have stored in its database the names of people who purchased the various seats for the event,
and may then, upon request for the seating of a particular person, search for the name of that
person to find the person's seat location. Again, if desired, an arrow pointing to the seat
                                                  -12-

location may be placed upon the image of the user device 104 in order to augment the reality
of the live viewing of the venue.
[0049] In yet another embodiment, the friend may have posted on a social network such as
Facebook the section, row, and seat number where that friend will be sitting. The user 102
may then read this seating off the friend's Facebook wall and send that information to the
service provider, for use by the service provider in augmenting the user device 104 by, as one
example, pointing on the device's display to the point in the venue where that seating is
located.
[0050] Advantageously, the app can determine what information to provide and display to
the user 102, based not only on the venue and event, but also on the time. Because the
service provider knows what event the user 102 is at, the service provider understands event
timing (e.g., before the event, during the event, intermission/interlude/interval, after the
event, etc.). Because the service provider knows what venue the user 102 is located in, the
service provider knows what services and products are available to the user 102. Combining
knowledge of the particular venue, event, and time, the app can recommend or push
information relevant to the user 102 for that specific time, specific event, and specific
location.
[0051] For example, assume the user 102 requests the app to find a place to grab a snack
during a concert. The app determines the time of the request (e.g., during the concert), and
because most concert-goers are enjoying the concert and not buying food, the app directs and
navigates the user 102 to the closest concession stand. In another embodiment, the user 102
requests the app to find a place to eat, but the request is received during intermission in the
concert. In this case, the app may direct the user 102 away from food services that are closest
to the seats, away from the crowds.
[0052] In various embodiments, the app determines the current time and pushes notifications
and/or advertisements to the user 102. The app can guess what the user 102 can do at a
certain time and provide promotions that are relevant for that time. For example, the app
determines that the user 102 has free time because there is an intermission. The app can
present opportunities to fill the time, such as shopping, dining, visiting the restroom, making
a call, etc. The app can also provide promotions that can be used during that time (e.g., 20%
discount on hot dogs before the start of the third basketball quarter). In another example, the
user 102 is a big fan of a sports team, the game has not started yet, and the user 102 is passing
by a souvenir shop so the app proposes that the user 102 stop and spend some time browsing
in the shop.
                                                -13-

[0053] In other embodiments, the app can guess what the user 102 wants to do, based on
information it has received from the user 102 at the venue. For example, suppose that the
user 102 has requested a place that provides drinks a few times, and the user 102 has
purchased a couple of sodas. The app can suggest the nearest restroom when the user 102
passes by, or when a break or intermission is close.
[0054] The app can further provide real-time event information and updates to the user 102,
such as sports scores. In the specific example of a car racing event, the real-time information
can include: the current ranking; number of laps remaining; participants still in the race;
participants no longer in the race; fastest lap of the current leader or of anyone of the
participants; average speed of the current leader or of anyone of the participants, among
others; present speed of any one of the participants; and Revolutions Per Minute (RPM) of
the engine of anyone of the participants.
[0055] Although the foregoing invention has been described in detail by way of illustration
and example for purposes of clarity and understanding, it will be recognized that the above
described invention may be embodied in numerous other specific variations and
embodiments without departing from the spirit or essential characteristics of the invention.
Various changes and modifications may be practiced, and it is understood that the invention
is not to be limited by the foregoing details, but rather is to be defined by the scope of the
claims.
                                                -14-

WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
1.       A system comprising:
         one or more memory devices or storage components adapted to store instructions; and
one or more processors in communication with the one or more memory devices or storage
components and adapted to execute the instructions to perform or to control performance of
one or more operations, the one or more operations comprising:
         determine a location of a user device;
         determine the location is within a venue associated with an event and a user;
         in response to the determination that the user device is within the venue, provide, to
the user via the user device, information regarding at least one point of interest, the
information based on the location of the user device and a seat location for the user; and
         provide, to the user via the user device, directions to the at least one point of interest.
2.       The system of claim 1, wherein the one or more operations further comprise provide,
to the user via the user device, directions to the seat location.
3.       The system of claim 1, wherein the information regarding the at least one point of
interest is further based on a current location of the user, time to start of the event, estimated
time to the at least one point of interest, congestion along a route or at the at least one point of
interest, or a combination thereof.
4.       The system of claim 1, wherein the one or more operations further comprise
determine a current time.
5.       The system of claim 4, wherein the one or more operations further comprise
recommend a user action based on the current time, the event, and the venue.
6.       The system of claim 5, wherein the user action comprises shopping, dining, visiting a
restroom, or a combination thereof.
7.       The system of claim 1, wherein the one or more operations further comprise provide,
to the user via the user device, a seat location at the venue of a friend of the user.
                                                -15-

8.       The system of claim 1, wherein the one or more operations further comprise receive a
request, from the user via the user device, for information regarding a specific point of
interest.
9.       The system of claim 8, wherein the one or more operations further comprise, based on
the request, anticipate a further request from the user.
10.      A method for assisting a user at an event, comprising:
determining a location of a user device;
         receiving, by one or more hardware processors of a service provider, determining that
the user device has arrived at a seat location associated with an event, a venue, and a user;
in response to the determination that the user device arrived at the seat location, providing, to
the user via the user device, information regarding at least one point of interest, the
information based on the location of the user device and the seat location; and
         navigating providing, to the user via the user device, directions to the at least one
point of interest.
11.      The method of claim 10, wherein the directions to the at least one point of interest are
based on a current location of the user, the seat location, time to start of the event, estimated
time to the at least one point of interest, congestion along a route or the at least one point of
interest, or a combination thereof.
12.      The method of claim 10, further comprising determining a walking distance to the at
least one point of interest.
13.      The method of claim 12, further comprising providing, to the user via the user device,
the walking distance and time left to walk to the at least one point of interest.
14.      The method of claim 10, further comprising providing, to the user via the user device,
real-time event information.
15.      The method of claim 10, further comprising determining a current time.
                                                -16-

16.     The method of claim 15, further comprising recommending a user action based on the
current time, the event, and the venue.
17.     A non-transitory machine-readable medium comprising a plurality of machine
readable instructions which, when executed by one or more processors, are adapted to cause a
system to perform operations, the operations comprising:
        receiving seat location associated with an event and a user determining a location of a
user device;
determining a current time;
providing, to a user via the user device, directions to a seat location associated with an event,
a venue, and the user, based on the current time;
determining that the user device arrived at the seat location;
        in response to the determination that the user device arrived at the seat location,
providing, to the user via the user device, information regarding at least one point of interest;
and
        navigating providing, to the user via the user device, directions to the at least one
point of interest.
18.     The non-transitory machine-readable medium of claim 17, wherein the at least one
point of interest comprises a restaurant, a retail store, or a restroom.
19.     The non-transitory machine-readable medium of claim 17, wherein the operations
further comprise providing real-time event information.
operations further comprise recommending products, services, or both, that are associated
with coupons, discounts, or other promotions.
                                                -17-

                                              1/3
                                                                                         100
<removed-date>
              CLIENT DEVICE(S)
                    104                 102                   THIRD-PARTY SERVER
                                                                      114                      112
               Client Program(s)
                      106                                         Third-Party
                                                                 Application 116
<removed-apn>
                                      NETWORK(S)
                                         108
                                                                 110
                                   COMMUNICATIONS SERVER(S) 120
                Web Server 122            API Server 124         Messaging Server 126
                (Web Interface)         (Program Interface)      (Messaging Interface)
                                     APPLICATION SERVER(S) 130
                Account Server
                     132                  Listing Catalog              Notification
                                            Server 138                 Server 144
                 Selling Server
                       134               Dynamic Content           Delivery Server
                                          Management                     146
                                           Server 140
                 Buying Server
                     136                  Payment Server           Rewards Server
                                              142                      148
                                         DATABASE(S) 150
                    Subscriber           Events Database               Transaction
                   Database 152                154                     Database 156
                                              FIG. 1

             DISPLAY 211           MEMORY 214        STORAGE 216             DISK DRIVE 217
          INPUT/OUTPUT 204                               BUS 202
2/3
        AUDIO/VISUAL I/O 205
         CURSOR CONTROL                                                      NETWORK INTERFACE
                                   PROCESSOR 212
              213                                                                  206
                                                   COMMUNICATIONS LINK 218
                                                                                  TO
                                                                                  NETWORK
                                                                                  260
                200
                                                   FIG. 2
      <removed-date>          <removed-apn>

                      300
                                 User provides ticket information associated with   302
                                           an event to service provider
                                                                                    304
                                 Determine location of user through user device
                                                                                    306
                                              Navigate user to seat
3/3
                             Provide information regarding points of interest at    308
                                                the venue
                                                     FIG. 3
      <removed-date>   <removed-apn>

