                            Abstract
  An implant, including a web structure having a space truss
  with two or more planar truss units having a plurality of
5 struts joined at nodes is used to join two separated bone
  portions. The web structure is configured to be disposed
  in the space between the separated bone portions to
  enhance fusion. In some embodiments, the implant comprises
  a non-planar surface.

                  11/17
    2900                 2910
           29300
                              2920
                 FIG. 6A
      2900
                             2910
2930b
                 FIG. 6B

        TITLE:          METHOD OF LENGTH PRESERVATION DURING BONE REPAIR
                                             BACKGROUND
 5  1.      Field of the Invention
    [0001] The present invention relates generally to medical devices and, more specifically, to
    implants.
    2.      Description of the Related Art
 0  [0002] Implants may be used in human and/or animals to support and/or secure one or more
    bones. For example, implants may be used in the spine to support and/or replace damaged tissue
    between the vertebrae in the spine.     Once implanted between two vertebrae, the implant may
    provide support between the two vertebrae and bone growth may take place around and through
    the implant to at least partially fuse the two vertebrae for long-term support.      Implants may
 5  include relatively large rims with solid material that may cover, for example, 50% of the area that
    interacts with the endplate.   The rim may provide a contact area between the implant and the
    vertebral endplates.    Large rims may have several drawbacks.        For example, large rims may
    impede bone growth and reduce the size of the bone column fusing the superior and inferior
    vertebral bodies.
 '0 [0003] Spinal implants may include open channels through the center of the supporting rims in a
    superior/inferior direction. The open channel design may require members of the implant that
    separate the rims that interact with the vertebral endplates to absorb the compressive forces
    between the vertebral endplates. This may increase the pressure on smaller areas of the vertebral
    endplates and may potentially lead to stress risers in the vertebral endplates. Further, while bone
25  graft material is often used in conjunction with implants to encourage bone growth, the open
    column design of implants may reduce the likelihood of bone graft material from securing itself
    to the implant which could result in a bio-mechanical cooperation that is not conducive to
    promoting good fusion.
    [0004] Bone graft material may be packed into the implant in a high-pressure state to prevent
30  bone graft material from exiting the implant while being placed between the vertebral endplates.
    The high-pressure state may also reduce the potential for the bone graft material loosening due to
    motion between the implant and the vertebral endplates or compressive forces experienced
    during settling of the implant. In addition, a high-pressure environment may allow the bone graft
                                                       1

    material to re-model and fuse at greater strength. High-pressure states, however, may be difficult
    to create and maintain for the bone graft material in an implant.
                                                  SUMMARY
 5  [0005] Various embodiments of implant systems and related apparatus, and methods of operating
    the same are described herein. In various embodiments, provided is an implant for interfacing
    with a bone structure includes a web structure, including a space truss, configured to interface
    with human bone tissue.        The space truss includes two or more planar truss units having a
    plurality of struts joined at nodes.
 0  [0006] In certain embodiments, an implant includes a web structure configured to interface with
    human bone tissue. The implant includes a space truss and an external truss. The space truss
    includes two or more planar truss units having a plurality of struts joined at nodes. The external
    truss includes one or more planar trusses having two or more adjacent planar truss units that lie in
    substantially the same plane.
 5  [0007] In some embodiments, the planar truss units include a planar triangular truss unit having
    three substantially straight struts and three nodes in a triangular configuration. The space truss
    may include a plurality of planar truss units coupled to one another, wherein each of the truss
    units lies in a plane that is not substantially parallel to a plane of an adjacent truss unit that shares
    at least one strut.
 '0 [0008] In some embodiments, at least one strut passes through the central portion of the implant.
    At least one strut may connect two or more opposing vertices of the square shaped common truss
    unit. At least one strut may connect two opposed vertices of the octahedron.
    [0009] In one embodiment, an implant is composed of a web structure that includes a plurality
    of planar truss units coupled to each other, the planar truss units comprising a plurality of struts
25  coupled to a plurality of nodes, wherein one or more angles defined by two struts and a node of
    one or more planar truss units are different than one or more corresponding angles defined by
    two struts and a node of one or more other planar truss units, wherein connecting exterior surface
    struts couple the nodes of the non-equivalent angle planar truss units to each other, defining a
    non-planar surface.
30  [0010] In an embodiment, the plurality of planar truss units comprise one or more planar
    triangular truss units having three substantially straight struts and three nodes in a triangular
    configuration. The plurality of planar truss units may be coupled to one another such that one or
    more planar truss units lie in a plane that is not substantially parallel to a plane of a planar truss
    unit that shares at least one strut with the one or more planar truss units. In some embodiments, a
                                                        2

    plurality of planar truss units defines an exterior surface of the web structure. The plurality of
    planar truss units may include a first planar triangular truss unit coupled to a second planar
    triangular truss unit, wherein the first and second planar triangular truss units are coupled in an
    opposing manner with a single node defining the apex of each planar triangular truss unit.
 5  [0011] In an embodiment, at least some of the connecting struts define triangular trusses having
    at least one node shared by two different triangular planar truss units having different
    corresponding angles. The connecting struts may define a non-planar contact surface of the
    implant. In some embodiments, the non-planar surface is a substantially rounded surface.
    Opposing surfaces of the implant may be non-planar and/or rounded. In some embodiments, ne
 0  or more of the connecting exterior surface struts are curved to form a rounded exterior surface of
    the implant.
    [0012] In another embodiment, an implant is composed of a web structure, wherein the web
    structure includes a plurality of polar struts extending from one surface of the implant to the
    opposing surface of the implant; and a plurality of connecting struts, coupled to the ends of the
 5  polar struts, together defining a plurality of planar truss units, wherein at least two of the polar
    struts have different lengths such that the web structure has at least one non-planar surface
    defined by the ends of the polar struts.
    [0013] In an embodiment, the plurality of planar truss units comprise one or more planar
    triangular truss units having three substantially straight struts and three nodes in a triangular
 '0 configuration. The plurality of planar truss units may be coupled to one another such that one or
    more planar truss units lie in a plane that is not substantially parallel to a plane of a planar truss
    unit that shares at least one strut with the one or more planar truss units. In some embodiments, a
    plurality of planar truss units defines an exterior surface of the web structure. The exterior
    surface of the web structure defined by the plurality of planar truss units is substantially parallel
25  to the longitudinal axis of the polar struts. The plurality of planar truss units may include a first
    planar triangular truss unit coupled to a second planar triangular truss unit, wherein the first and
    second planar triangular truss units are coupled in an opposing manner with a single node
    defining the apex of each planar triangular truss unit.
    [0014] In some embodiments, at least some of the connecting struts define triangular trusses
30  having at least one node at the end of a polar strut. The non-planar surface may have a
    substantially rounded surface. In some embodiments, opposing surfaces of the implant are
    rounded. At least a portion of the struts coupled to a node at the end of a polar strut may be
    curved to form a rounded exterior surface of the implant.
                                                        3

    [0015] In an embodiment, an implant comprises a web structure, the web structure comprising:
    a plurality of planar truss units coupled to each other, the planar truss units comprising a plurality
    of struts coupled to a plurality of nodes; wherein one or more angles defined by two struts and a
    node of one or more planar truss units are different than one or more corresponding angles
 5  defined by two struts and a node of one or more other planar truss units, wherein connecting
    exterior surface struts couple the nodes of the non-equivalent angle planar truss units to each
    other, defining a non-planar surface. The implant may be made by a method that includes
    applying a layer of material to a support, converting the applied material into a solid, wherein the
    solid material forms a portion of one or more planar truss units; and removing the implant from
 0  the support.
    [0016] In one embodiment, converting the applied layer into a solid comprises moving a
    directed energy source relative to the support to melt a portion of the material, wherein the
    directed energy source is moved in a pattern determined from a three-dimensional model of at
    least a portion of the web structure.
 5  [0017] In an embodiment, a method of length preservation in a separated bone includes forming
    a contact surface on a first side of the separated bone; forming a contact surface on a second side
    of the separated bone; placing an implant in contact with the first and second contact surfaces of
    the separated bone; wherein the implant comprises: a web structure comprising a space truss
    comprising two or more planar truss units having a plurality of struts joined at nodes. In an
 '0 embodiment, the implant comprises opposing non-planar surfaces. In an embodiment, the
    method also includes forming a groove in one of the contact surfaces of the separated bone. The
    method further includes aligning the implant with a groove formed in one of the contact surfaces
    of the separated bone. In some embodiments the method includes attaching a coupling member
    to the separated bone such that the coupling member couples the first side of the separated bone
25  with the second side of the separated bone.
    [0018] In an embodiment, the implant used in the length preservation process includes a
    plurality of polar struts extending from one surface of the implant to the opposing surface of the
    implant; and a plurality of connecting struts, coupled to the ends of the polar struts, together
    defining a plurality of planar truss units, wherein at least two of the polar struts have different
30  lengths defining the opposing non-planar surfaces. In another embodiment, the implant used in
    the length preservation process includes a plurality of planar truss units coupled to each other, the
    planar truss units comprising a plurality of struts coupled to a plurality of nodes; wherein one or
    more angles defined by two struts and a node of one or more planar truss units are different than
    one or more corresponding angles defined by two struts and a node of one or more other planar
                                                       4

    truss units, wherein the nodes of the non-equivalent angle planar truss units are coupled to each
    other with one or more exterior struts, the exterior struts defining a non-planar surface.
    [0019] In an embodiment, a method of length preservation in a first metatarsal phalangeal
    arthrodesis includes: reaming the metatarsal side of the joint such that a non-planar surface is
 5  formed on the metatarsal side of the joint; reaming the phalangeal side of the joint such that a
    non-planar surface is formed on the phalangeal side of the joint; placing an implant in contact
    with the non-planar surface of the metatarsal side of the joint and the non-planar surface of the
    phalangeal side of the joint; wherein the implant comprises: a web structure comprising a space
    truss comprising two or more planar truss units having a plurality of struts joined at nodes,
 0  wherein the implant comprises opposing non-planar surfaces; wherein the non-planar surface of
    the phalangeal side of the joint is substantially complementary with a first non-planar surface of
    the implant; and wherein the non-planar surface of the metatarsal side of the joint is substantially
    complementary with a second non-planar surface of the implant, opposite the first non-planar
    surface of the implant.
 5  [0020] In an embodiment, an implant is composed of a web structure, wherein the web structure
    includes a plurality of side surface planar truss units defining an exterior side surface of the
    implant, the side surface planar truss units comprising a plurality of struts coupled to a plurality
    of nodes; a plurality of surface struts extending from one or more of the nodes of one or more of
    the side surface planar truss units toward the interior portion of the implant, wherein the angle
 '0 between the surface struts and the struts defining the side surface planar truss units is
    substantially greater than, or substantially less than 90 ; and a plurality of interior nodes coupling
    the surface struts to each other to define an exterior surface of the implant.
    [0021] In an embodiment, an implant is composed of a web structure that includes a space truss
    comprising two or more planar truss units having a plurality of struts joined at nodes, wherein the
25  implant has at least one non-planar surface.
    [0022] In an embodiment, a method includes installing, between two separated bone portions, a
    web structure comprising a space truss comprising two or more planar truss units having a
    plurality of struts joined at nodes.
30                            BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
    [0023] A better understanding of the present invention may be obtained when the following
    detailed description is considered in conjunction with the following drawings, in which:
    [0024] FIGS. 1A-1B illustrate views of an implant with lordosis, according to an embodiment;
                                                        5

    [0025] FIGS. 2A-2D       illustrate views of an implant without lordosis, according to an
    embodiment;
    [0026] FIGS. 3A-3C illustrate progressive sectioned views of the implant showing the internal
    structure of the implant, according to an embodiment;
 5  [0027] FIG. 3D illustrates an isometric view of the implant, according to an embodiment;
    [0028] FIGS. 4A-4D illustrate another configuration of the web structure, according to an
    embodiment;
    [0029] FIG. 5 illustrates a flowchart of a method for making an implant, according to an
    embodiment;
 0  [0030] FIGS. 6A-6C depict an embodiment of an implant having non-planar surfaces;
    [0031] FIGS. 7A and 7B depict an embodiment of an implant having a convex upper surface and
    a concave lower surface;
    [0032] FIGS. 8A and 8B depict an embodiment of an alternate implant having a convex upper
    surface and a concave lower surface;
 5  [0033] FIGS. 9A-9E depict perspective views of implants positioned between bone portions to
    fuse the bone portions;
    [0034] FIG. 10 depicts a perspective view of an alternate embodiment of a tapered implant;
    [0035] FIG. 11 depicts an alternative embodiment of an Evan's wedge; and
    [0036] FIG. 12 depicts an alternate embodiment of an implant having a non-planar surface.
 '0 [0037] FIG. 13 illustrates a truss structure disposed on an implant, according to an embodiment;
    [0038] While the invention is susceptible to various modifications and alternative forms, specific
    embodiments thereof are shown by way of example in the drawings and will herein be described
    in detail. It should be understood, however, that the drawings and detailed description thereto are
    not intended to limit the invention to the particular form disclosed, but on the contrary, the
25  intention is to cover all modifications, equivalents, and alternatives falling within the spirit and
    scope of the present invention as defined by the appended claims. Note, the headings are for
    organizational purposes only and are not meant to be used to limit or interpret the description or
    claims.
30                      DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE EMBODIMENTS
    [0039] FIGS. 1A-1B illustrate views of implant 100, according to an embodiment. Implant 100
    may be used, for example, in anterior lumbar inter-body fusion (ALIF) or posterior lumbar inter
    body fusion (PLIF). In some embodiments, implant 100 may include a web structure 101 with
    one or more trusses 102 (e.g., planar and space trusses). Implant 100 and its web structure 101
                                                      6

    may be used in various types of implants for humans or animals such as spinal implants (e.g., see
    FIGS. 1A-2D and 3A-4D)) and corpectomy devices (e.g., see FIGS. 2C-2D). Other implant uses
    are also contemplated.
     [0040] As used herein a "truss" is a structure having one or more elongate struts connected at
 5  joints referred to as nodes. Trusses may include variants of a pratt truss, king post truss, queen
    post truss, town's lattice truss, planar truss, space truss, and/or a vierendeel truss (other trusses
    may also be used). Each unit (e.g., region having a perimeter defined by the elongate struts) may
    be referred to as a "truss unit."
     [0041] As used herein a "planar truss" is a truss structure where all of the struts and nodes lie
 0  substantially within a single two-dimensional plane. A planar truss, for example, may include
    one or more "truss units" where each of the struts is a substantially straight member such that the
    entirety of the struts and the nodes of the one or more truss units lie in substantially the same
    plane. A truss unit where each of the struts is a substantially straight member such that the
    entirety of the struts and the nodes of the truss units lie in substantially the same plane is referred
 5  to as a "planar truss unit."
     [0042] As used herein a "space truss" is a truss having struts and nodes that are not substantially
    confined in a single two-dimensional plane. A space truss may include two or more planar
    trusses (e.g., planar truss units) wherein at least one of the two or more planar trusses lies in a
    plane that is not substantially parallel to a plane of at least one or more of the other two or more
 '0 planar trusses. A space truss, for example, may include two planar truss units adjacent to one
    another (e.g., sharing a common strut) wherein each of the planar truss units lie in separate planes
    that are angled with respect to one another (e.g., not parallel to one another).
     [0043] As used herein a "triangular truss" is a structure having one or more triangular units that
    are formed by three straight struts connected at joints referred to as nodes.          For example, a
25  triangular truss may include three straight elongate strut members that are coupled to one another
    at three nodes to from a triangular shaped truss. As used herein a "planar triangular truss" is a
    triangular truss structure where all of the struts and nodes lie substantially within a single two
    dimensional plane.      Each triangular unit may be referred to as a "triangular truss unit."         A
    triangular truss unit where each of the struts is a substantially straight member such that the
30  entirety of the struts and the nodes of the triangular truss units lie in substantially the same plane
    is referred to as a "planar triangular truss unit." As used herein a "triangular space truss" is a
    space truss including one or more triangular truss units.
     [0044] As used herein a "quadrilateral truss" is a structure having one or more quadrilateral units
    that are formed by four straight struts connected at joints referred to as nodes. For example, a
                                                       7

    quadrilateral truss may include four straight elongate strut members that are coupled to four
    nodes to from a quadrilateral shaped truss.       As used herein a "planar quadrilateral truss" is a
    quadrilateral truss structure where all of the struts and nodes lie substantially within a single two
    dimensional plane. Each quadrilateral unit may be referred to as a "quadrilateral truss unit." A
 5  quadrilateral truss unit where each of the struts is a substantially straight member such that the
    entirety of the struts and the nodes of the triangular truss units lie in substantially the same plane
    is referred to as a "planar quadrilateral truss unit." As used herein a "quadrilateral space truss" is
    a space truss including one or more quadrilateral truss units.
    [0045] In various embodiments, the trusses 102 of web structure 101 may include one or more
 0  planar truss units (e.g., planar triangular truss units) constructed with straight or curved/arched
    members (e.g., struts) connected at various nodes. In some embodiments, the trusses 102 may be
    micro-trusses. A "micro-truss" may include a truss having dimensions sufficiently small enough
    such that a plurality of micro-trusses can be assembled or other wise coupled to one another to
    form a web structure having a small enough overall dimension (e.g., height, length and width)
 5  such that substantially all of the web structure can be inserted into an implant location (e.g.,
    between two vertebra).       Such a web structure and its micro-trusses can thus be employed to
    receive and distribute throughout the web structure loading forces of the surrounding tissue (e.g.,
    vertebra, bone, or the like). In one embodiment, the diameters of the struts forming the micro
    truss may be between about 0.25 millimeters (mm) and 5mm in diameter (e.g., a diameter of
 '0 about 0.25mm, 0.5 mm, 0.6 mm, 0.7 mm, 0.8 mm, 0.9 mm, 1 mm, 2 mm, 3 mm, 4 mm, or 5
    mm). In one embodiment, a micro-truss may have an overall length or width of less than about 1
    inch (e.g., a length less than about 0.9 in, 0.8 in, 0.7 in, 0.6 in, 0.5 in, 0.4 in, 0.3 in, 0.2 in, 0.1 in).
    [0046] As depicted, for example, in FIGS. 1A-1B, web structure 101 may extend throughout
    implant 100 (including the central portion of implant 100) to provide support throughout implant
25  100. Trusses 102 of implant 100 may thus support implant 100 against tensile, compressive, and
    shear forces. The web structure of trusses 102 may also reinforce implant 100 along multiple
    planes.    The external truss structure may, for example, provide support against tensile and
    compressive forces acting vertically through the implant, and the internal web structure may
    provide support against tensile, compressive, and shear forces along the various planes
30  containing the respective trusses. In some embodiments, the web structure includes trusses 102
    that form a triangulated web structure with multiple struts (e.g., struts 103a-f) (struts are
    generally referred to herein as "struts 103").
    [0047] In one embodiment, web structure 101 of the implant 100 may include an internal web
    structure that is at least partially enclosed by an external truss structure. For example, in one
                                                         8

    embodiment, web structure 101 may include an internal web structure that includes a space truss
    having at least a portion of the space truss surrounded by an external truss structure that includes
    one or more planar trusses formed with a plurality of planar truss units that lie substantially in a
    single plane. FIG. 1A depicts an embodiment of implant 100 and web structure 101 that includes
 5  internal web structure 104 and an external truss structure 105. In the illustrated embodiment,
    internal web structure 104 includes a space truss defined by a plurality of planar truss units 106
    coupled at an angle with respect to one another such that each adjacent truss unit is not co-planar
    with each adjacent truss units. Adjacent truss units may include two truss units that share a strut
    and the respective two nodes at the ends of the shared strut.
 0  [0048] In one embodiment, external truss structure 105 includes a plurality of planar trusses that
    are coupled about an exterior, interior or other portion of the implant. For example, in the
    illustrated embodiment, the external truss structure 105 includes a series of planar trusses 107a,b
    that are coupled to one another. Each planar truss 107a,b includes a plurality of planar truss units
    108 that are coupled to one another and lie substantially in the same plane. As depicted, planar
 5  truss 107a includes four triangular planar truss units 108 having a common vertex 110 and
    arranged to form a generally rectangular structure that lies in a single common plane 109. In
    other words, the four truss units are arranged to form a substantially rectangular structure having
    "X" shaped struts extend from one corner of the rectangular structure to the opposite corner of
    the rectangular structure.    As depicted, the substantially rectangular structure may include a
 '0 trapezoidal shape. As described in more detail below, the trapezoidal shape may be conducive to
    providing an implant including lordosis. Lordosis may include an angled orientation of surfaces
    (e.g., top and bottom) of an implant that provides for differences in thickness in anterior and
    posterior regions of the implant such that the implant is conducive for supporting the curvature of
    a vertebral column.
25  [0049] In one embodiment, the planar trusses that form the external truss are coupled to one
    another, and are aligned along at least one axis. For example, in FIG. 1A, planar truss section
    107a is coupled to an adjacent planar truss 107b. Planer truss sections 107a,b are not parallel in
    all directions. Planar truss sections 107a,b are, however, arranged parallel to one another in at
    least one direction (e.g., the vertical direction between the top and the bottom faces of implant
30  100). For example, planar trusses 107a,b and the additional planar trusses are arranged in series
    with an angle relative to one another to form a generally circular or polygon shaped enclosure
    having substantially vertical walls defined by the planar trusses and the planar truss units
    arranged in the vertical direction.
                                                       9

    [0050] In one embodiment, the external truss portion may encompass the sides, top, and/or
    bottom of the implant. For example, in one embodiment, the external truss portion may include a
    top region, side regions, and/or a bottom region. FIG. 1A depicts an embodiment of implant 100
    wherein external truss portion 105 includes a top 111, bottom 112 and a side region 113.            As
 5  described above, side region 113 includes a series of planar trusses arranged vertically to form a
    circular/polygon ring-like structure that completely or at least partially surrounds the perimeter of
    the space truss disposed in the central portion of implant 100. In the depicted embodiment, top
    portion 111 of external truss structure 105 includes a plurality of truss units coupled to one
    another to form a planar truss that cover substantially the entire top region of internal web
 0  structure 104.     In the illustrated embodiment, the top portion 111 spans entirely the region
    between top edges of the side portion 113 of external truss structure 105.          In the illustrated
    embodiment, top portion 111 is formed from a single planar truss that includes a plurality of truss
    units that lie in substantially the same plane. In other words, the planar truss of top portion 111
    defines a generally flat surface. Although difficult to view in FIG. 1, the underside of implant
 5  100 may include the bottom portion 112 having a configuration similar to that of the top portion
    111.    In other embodiments, external truss structure 105 may include a partial side, top and/or
    bottom external truss portions. Or may not include one or more of the side, top and bottom
    external truss portions.     For example, as described in more detail below, FIG. 2C depicts an
    embodiment of implant 100 than includes an internal web structure 104 that includes a space
 '0 truss, and does not have an external truss structure.
    [0051] In some embodiments, implant 100 may be composed of a biocompatible material such as
    a    titanium    alloy   (e.g.,  yTitanium   Aluminides),    cobalt,   chromium,     stainless   steel,
    Polyetheretherketone (PEEK), ceramics, etc.          Other materials are also contemplated. For
    example, biodegradable polymers (e.g., poly(lactic-co-glycolic acid) or synthetic bone materials
25  (e.g., hydroxyapatite) may be used. In some embodiments, implant 100 may be made through a
    rapid prototyping process (e.g., electron beam melting (EBM) process) as further described
    below. Other processes are also possible (e.g., injection molding, casting, sintering, selective
    laser sintering (SLS), Direct Metal Laser Sintering (DMLS), etc).           SLS may include laser
    sintering of high-performance polymers such as that provided by EOS of North America, Inc.,
30  headquartered in Novi, Michigan, U.S.A. High-performance polymers may include various forms
    of PEEK (e.g., HP3 having a tensile strength of up to about 95 mega Pascal (MPa) and a Young's
    modulus of up to about 4400 MPa and continuous operating temperature between about 180 'C
    (356 F) and 260 'C (500 F)). Other materials may include PA 12 and PA 11 provided by EOS
    of North America, Inc.
                                                      10

    [0052] As depicted in FIG. 1B, implant 100 may include lordosis (e.g., an angle in top and/or
    bottom surfaces 115a,b approximately in a range of 4 to 15 degrees (such as 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10,
    11, 12, 13, 14, or 15 degrees)) to further support the adjacent vertebrae when implanted. As
    described above, lordosis may include an angled orientation of surfaces (e.g., top and bottom)
 5  that provide for differences in thickness in the anterior and posterior portions of the implant such
    that the implant is conducive for supporting the curvature of a vertebral column.             In the
    illustrated embodiment, the thickness of implant 100 is greater at or near the anterior portion 118
    and lesser at or near the posterior portion 120 of the implant. In the illustrated embodiment, the
    side portions of external truss structure 105 are arranged substantially vertically, and the lordosis
 0  is formed by the angles of the top portion 111 and bottom portion 112 of external truss structure
    105.    For example, in the illustrated embodiment, top portion 111 and bottom portion 112 of
    external truss structure 105 are not perpendicular to the vertical plane defined by the side portion
    113.    Rather, the top portion 111 and bottom portion 112 are arranged with an acute angle
    relative to the vertical plane of side portion 113 at or near the anterior region 118 of implant 100
 5  and with an obtuse angle relative to the vertical plane of side portion 113 at or near posterior
    region 120 of implant 100. As depicted, the vertical struts 103 that form the planar truss of side
    portion 113 of external truss structure 105 proximate posterior region 120 of implant 100 are
    shorter than struts 103 that form side portion 113 of external truss structure 105 proximate
    anterior region 118 of implant 100. In the illustrated embodiment, in which the vertical trusses
 '0 103 are substantially evenly spaced, the struts 103 forming the "X" cross members of the side
    planar trusses proximate the posterior region 120 of implant 100 are shorter than struts forming
    the "X" cross members of the side planar trusses proximate the anterior region 118 of implant
    100.    Other embodiments may include variations in the arrangement of the trusses to provide
    various configurations of the implant. For example, in some embodiments only one or neither of
25  the top and bottom external truss portions may be non-perpendicular to the side portions of the
    external truss proximate the anterior and posterior portions of the implant. Further, the side, top,
    and/or bottom portions may include multiple planar trusses angled relative to one another in any
    orientation.   For example, the top or bottom portions may include four planar trusses, each
    formed of multiple truss units, such that the portion(s) includes a pyramidal like shape.
30  [0053] In some embodiments, the implant may not include lordosis. For example, FIGS. 2A-2B
    illustrate two views of an embodiment of an implant 200 without lordosis.                   In some
    embodiments, the top surface and bottom surface may not include connecting struts.               For
    example, FIGS. 2C-2D illustrate two views of implant 250 without outer struts (e.g., without
    external truss portions formed of planar trusses).      In the illustrated embodiment, implant 250
                                                      11

    includes internal web structure 104 (e.g., a space truss) and does not include an external truss
    structure.   For example, in the illustrated embodiment, the exterior faces of implant 250 are
    defined by a plurality of truss units that are angled relative to each of its adjacent truss units. The
    relative alignment of the truss units results in a non-planar exterior that includes a plurality of
 5  pointed junctions. The pointed junctions (e.g., pointed junction 201) may operate to dig into the
    surrounding bone to hold the implant in place (for example, if the implant is being used in a
    corpectomy device).
    [0054] FIGS. 3A-3C illustrate progressive sectioned views of implant 100 showing the internal
    structure of implant 100, according to an embodiment. FIG. 3A illustrates a sectioned view of a
 0  lower portion of implant 100. Bottom surface 105b is shown with various struts (e.g., struts 103)
    extending upward from bottom surface 105b. FIG. 3B illustrates a sectioned view approximately
    mid-way through implant 100.         Struts, such as struts 103e, 103f, shared by various stacked
    tetrahedrons in the web structure are shown. Some struts extend through central portion 501a
    and/or 501b of implant 100. FIG. 3B also shows central portions 501a,b of implant 100. In some
 5  embodiments, central portion 501a may include a rectangular region that has a width of
    approximately 50% of the implant width, a height of approximately 50% of the implant height,
    and a length of approximately 50% of the implant length and located in the center of implant 100.
    In some embodiments, central portion 501b may encompass a region (e.g., a spherical region,
    square region, etc.) of approximately a radius of approximately 1/8 to 1/4 of the width of implant
 '0 100 around a position located approximately at one half the width, approximately one half the
    length, and approximately one-half the height of implant 100 (i.e., the center of implant 100).
    Other central portions are also contemplated. For example, the central portion may include a
    square region with a length of one of the sides of the square region approximately          1/4 to 12 the
    width of implant 100 around a position approximately at one half the width, approximately one
25  half the length, and approximately one half the height of the implant. An example height 502a,
    width 502b, and length 502c, is shown in FIG. 3D. In some embodiments, the height may be up
    to about 75mm or more. In some embodiments, such as those used for long bone reconstruction,
    the width and/or length could be approximately 7 inches or longer. In some embodiments, the
    width, length, and/or height may vary along implant 100 (e.g., the height may vary if the implant
30  includes lordosis). The height may be taken at one of the opposing sides, the middle, and/or may
    be an average of one or more heights along the length of implant 100. The web structure may
    extend through central portion 501a,b of the implant (e.g., at least one strut of the web structure
    may pass at least partially through central portion 501a,b). FIG. 3C illustrates another sectioned
                                                       12

    view showing sectioned views of top tetrahedrons in the web structure.           FIG. 3D shows a
    complete view of implant 100 including top surface 115 a with vertices 301a-d.
    [0055] FIGS. 4A-4D illustrate alternate embodiments of implant 100. In some embodiments,
    different sections of the hexahedron-shaped geometric design may be used. For example, as seen
 5  in FIG. 4A, the bottom half of the hexahedron-shaped geometric design may be used (primarily
    including the lower tetrahedron structures). If using the bottom half of the design, design 600
    may be expanded proportionately to have similar overall dimensions as the hexahedron-shaped
    geometric design (e.g., the tetrahedrons may be expanded to approximately twice the height of
    the tetrahedrons in the hexahedron-shaped geometric design to give design 600 a height
 0  approximately the same as the hexahedron-shaped geometric design).          In some embodiments,
    design 600 may also be angled (e.g., on top surface 601a and/or bottom surface 601b) to provide
    design 600 with lordosis to, in some embodiments, have a better fit between the vertebral
    endplates.    Top surface 601a and/or bottom surface 601b may also include struts to connect
    nodes of design 600 (e.g., see the strut network on the top surface in FIG. 4A). Other patterns of
 5  struts for top surface 601a and/or bottom surface 601b may also be used. In some embodiments,
    design 600 may not include negative angles between struts and may thus be easier to create
    through a casting or molding process.
    [0056] FIGS. 4C-4D illustrate another alternate embodiment of implant 100.               In some
    embodiments, approximately the middle 40 to 60 percent of the hexahedron-shaped geometric
 '0 design may be used.      For example, if an overall height of the hexahedron-shaped geometric
    design is approximately 37 mm, approximately the bottom 10 mm and approximately the top 10
    mm of the design may be removed and approximately the middle 17 mm of the design may be
    used for the implant. Middle portion design 650 may then be expanded proportionately such that
    the approximate height of the expanded design may be approximately 37 mm (or a different
25  height as needed). Top surface 65 1a and bottom surface 65 1b may include a network of struts
    (e.g., see the struts on top surface 651a of FIG. 4C) (other networks of struts are also
    contemplated). Other portions of the design for the implant are also contemplated (e.g., the top
    half of the design shown in FIG. 1A, the bottom half of the design shown in FIG. 1A, etc).
    Design portions may be proportionately expanded to meet specified dimensions (e.g., specified
30  height, width, and length).    In some embodiments, the amount of struts may be reduced or
    material in the implant may be redistributed so that some struts may have a larger diameter and
    some may have a smaller diameter (e.g., the different diameters may reinforce against different
    directional forces). In some embodiments, a partial-design cage may be used (e.g., with half of
    the web structure so that the structure includes a tetrahedron. Further, in some embodiments, the
                                                     13

    implant may include angled surfaces (e.g., an angled top surface 651a and/or angled bottom
    surface 65 1b) to provide lordosis for implants to be implanted between the vertebral endplates.
    [0057] In some embodiments, the web structure of implant 100 may distribute forces throughout
    implant 100 when implanted.       For example, the connecting struts of the web structure may
 5  extend throughout the core of implant 100, and the interconnectivity of struts 103 may disperse
    the stress of compressive forces throughout implant 100 to reduce the potential of stress risers
    (the distribution of forces throughout implant 100 may prevent concentration of stress on one or
    more portions of the vertebrae that may otherwise result in damage to the vertebrae).
    [0058] In some embodiments, the web structure of implant 100 (e.g., the external and internal
 0  struts of implant 100) may also provide surface area for bone graft fusion. For example, the web
    structure extending throughout implant 100 may add additional surface areas (e.g., on the surface
    of the struts making up implant 100) to fuse to the bone graft material and prevent bone graft
    material from loosening or migrating from implant 100. In some embodiments, the web structure
    may also support bone in-growth. For example, when implanted, adjacent bone (e.g., adjacent
 5  vertebrae if the implant is used as a spinal implant) may grow over at least a portion of struts 103
    of implant 100. The bone growth and engagement between the bone growth and implant 100
    may further stabilize implant 100. In some embodiments, the surfaces of implant 100 may be
    formed with a rough surface to assist in bone in-growth adhesion.
    [0059] In some embodiments, struts 103 may have a diameter approximately in a range of about
 '0 0.025 to 5 millimeters (mm) (e.g., 1.0 mm, 1.5 mm, 3 mm, etc).           Other diameters are also
    contemplated (e.g., greater than 5 mm).       In some embodiments, the struts may have a length
    approximately in a range of 0.5 to 20 mm (e.g., depending on the implant size needed to, for
    example, fit a gap between vertebral endplates). As another example, struts may have a length
    approximately in a range of 30-40 mm for a hip implant. In some embodiments, the reduced
25  strut size of the web structure may allow the open cells in implant 100 to facilitate bone growth
    (e.g., bone may grow through the open cells once implant 100 is implanted in the body).
    Average subsidence for implants may be approximately 1.5 mm within the first 3 weeks post op
    (other subsidence is also possible (e.g., approximately between 0.5 to 2.5 mm)). A strut size that
    approximately matches the subsidence (e.g., a strut size of approximately 1.5 mm in diameter and
30  a subsidence of approximately 1.5 mm) may result in a net 0 impedance (e.g., the bone growth
    growing around the struts) after implant 100 has settled in the implanted position. The net 0
    impedance throughout the entire surface area of the implant/vertebrae endplate interface may
    result in a larger fusion column of bone that may result in more stable fusion. Other fusion
    column sizes are also contemplated. The configuration of the implant 100 may redistribute the
                                                      14

    metal throughout the implant 100. In some embodiments, a rim may not be included on the
    implant 100 (in some embodiments, a rim may be included). The resulting bone growth (e.g.,
    spinal column) may grow through the implant 100.
    [0060] In some embodiments, greater than 50% of the interior volume of implant 100 may be
 5  open. In some embodiments, greater than 60%, greater than 70%, and/or greater than 80% of
    implant 100 may be open (e.g., 95%). In some embodiments, the open volume may be filled
    with bone growth material. For example, cancellous bone may be packed into an open/intemal
    region of implant 100.
    [0061] In some embodiments, at least a portion of the surfaces of implant 100 may be
 0  coated/treated with a material intend to promote bone growth and/or bone adhesion and/or an
    anitmicrobial agent to prevent infections. For example, in some embodiments, the surface of the
    struts (e.g., struts 103 forming the web structure) may be coated with a biologic and/or a bone
    growth factor. In some embodiments, a biologic may include a coating, such as hydroxyapatite,
    bone morphaginic protein (BMP), insulinlike growth factors I and II, transforming growth factor
 5  beta, acidic and basic fibroblast growth factor, platelet-derived growth factor, and/or similar bone
    growth stimulant that facilitates good biological fixation between the bone growth and a surface
    of the implant. In some embodiments, a bone growth factor may include a naturally occurring
    substance capable of stimulating cellular growth, proliferation and cellular differentiation (e.g., a
    protein or steroid hormone).
 '0 [0062] In some embodiments, a biologic and/or growth factor may be secured to a central region
    of implant 100.      For example, in some embodiments, a biologic or growth factor may be
    provided on at least a portion of a strut that extends through central portion 501a and/or 501b of
    implant 100. Such an embodiment may enable the delivery of a biologic and or a growth factor
    to a central portion of an implant. For example, the biologic or growth factor may be physically
25  secured to a strut in a central portion of implant 100 as opposed to being packed into an open
    volume that does not include a strut provided therein for the physical attachment of the biologic
    and/or growth factor.
    [0063] As implant 100 settles into the implant site, subsidence may place additional pressure on
    the bone graft material (which may already be under compressive forces in implant 100) and act
30  to push the bone graft material toward the sides of implant 100 (according to Boussinesq's theory
    of adjacent material, when a force is applied to a member that is adjacent to other materials (such
    as sand, dirt, or bone graft material) the force against the member creates a zone of increased
    pressure (e.g., 60 degrees) in the adjacent material). Struts 103 of the web structure may resist
    bone graft material protrusion from the sides of the web structure and may increase the pressure
                                                      15

    of the bone graft material. Bone graft material may need to be implanted in a higher-pressure
    environment to create an environment conducive to strong bone growth (e.g., according to
    Wolf s law that bone in a healthy person or animal will adapt to the loads it is placed under).
    The web structure may thus increase the chance of stronger fusion.
 5  [0064] FIG. 5 illustrates a flowchart of a method for making implant 100. In some embodiments,
    implant 100 may be made through rapid prototyping (e.g., electron beam melting, laser sintering,
    etc). It should be noted that in various embodiments of the methods described below, one or
    more of the elements described may be performed concurrently, in a different order than shown,
    or may be omitted entirely. Other additional elements may also be performed as desired. In
 0  some embodiments, a portion or the entire method may be performed automatically by a
    computer system.
    [0065] At 1001, a three dimensional model of implant 100 may be generated and stored in a
    storage medium accessible to a controller operable to control the implant production process. At
    1003, a layer of material (e.g., a powder, liquid, etc.) may be applied to a support.     In some
 5  embodiments, the powder may include yTiAl (yTitanium Aluminides) which may be a high
    strength/low weight material. Other materials may also be used. The powder may be formed
    using a gas atomization process and may include granules with diameters approximately in a
    range of 20 to 200 micrometers (tim) (e.g., approximately 80 tim). The powder may be delivered
    to the support through a distributer (e.g., delivered from a storage container).   The distributer
 '0 and/or the support may move during distribution to apply a layer (e.g., of powder) to the support.
    In some embodiments, the layer may be approximately a uniform thickness (e.g., with an average
    thickness of 20 to 200 micrometers (pim)).     In some embodiments, the distributer and support
    may not move (e.g., the material may be sprayed onto the support). At 1005, the controller may
    move a directed energy source (e.g., an electron beam, laser, etc.) relative to the material layer.
25  In some embodiments, the directed energy source generator may be moved, and in some
    embodiments the support may be moved.           If the material is yTiAl, a melting temperature
    approximately in a range of 1200 to 1800 degrees Celsius (e.g., 1500 degrees Celsius) may be
    obtained between the directed energy source and the material. At 1007, between each directed
    energy source pass, additional material may be applied by the distributer. At 1009, the unmelted
30  material may be removed and implant 100 may be cooled (e.g., using a cool inert gas). In some
    embodiments, the edges of the implant may be smoothed to remove rough edges (e.g., using a
    diamond sander).     In some embodiments, the implant may include rough edges to increase
    friction between the implant and the surrounding bone to increase adhesion of the implant to the
    bone.
                                                     16

    [0066] Other methods of making implant 100 are also contemplated. For example, implant 100
    may be cast or injection molded. In some embodiments, multiple parts may be cast or injection
    molded and joined together (e.g., through welding, melting, etc).         In some embodiments,
    individual struts 103 forming implant 100 may be generated separately (e.g., by casting, injection
 5  molding, etc.) and welded together to form implant 100.          In some embodiments, multiple
    implants of different sizes may be constructed and delivered in a kit.          A medical health
    professional may choose an implant (e.g., according to a needed size) during the surgery. In
    some embodiments, multiple implants may be used at the implant site.
    [0067] In some embodiments, the implant may be customized. For example, three dimensional
 0  measurements and/or shape of the implant may be used to construct an implant that distributes
    the web structure throughout a three-dimensional shape design. As noted in FIG. 5, the three
    dimensional shape design of the implant may be entered into a computer system/controller that
    may control the directed energy source melting process. In some embodiments, the truss design
    and orientation may be preset or predetermined by the computer system/controller.         In some
 5  embodiments, a user may select the truss design to use and/or may select the orientation of the
    trusses in the implant. In some embodiments, the user may enter the outer dimensions of the
    three dimensional shape and the computer system/controller may generate a three-dimensional
    design that includes the truss design and orientation.      The computer system/controller may
    generate the three-dimensional design by providing a uniform distribution of the truss design
 '0 throughout a three-dimensional shape with the outer dimensions provided by the user. In some
    embodiments, the heights and widths of the trusses used in the design may be proportional to the
    overall height and width of the three-dimensional shape (e.g., the trusses may have heights
    approximately equal to    12 the overall height and a width of approximately 1/16 the overall
    width). Other heights and widths are also contemplated. In some embodiments, the user may
25  provide the height and width and/or the computer system/controller may have default heights and
    widths to use.
    [0068] In some embodiments, a truss/web structure may be disposed on at least a portion of an
    implant to facilitate coupling of the implant to an adjacent structure. For example, where an
    implant is implanted adjacent a bony structure, one or more truss structures may be disposed on
30  and/or extend from a surface (e.g., an interface plate) of the implant that is intended to contact,
    and at least partially adhere to, the bony structure during use. In some embodiments, such as
    those including an intervertebral implant disposed between the end plates of two adjacent
    vertebrae during, one or more truss structures may be disposed on a contact surface of the
    intervertebral implant to facilitate bone growth that enhances coupling of the intervertebral
                                                    17

    implant to the bony structure. For example, a truss structure may include one or more struts that
    extend from the contact surface to define an open space for bone growth therethrough, thereby
    enabling bone through growth to interlock the bone structure and the truss structure with one
    another to couple the implant to the bony structure at or near the contact face. Such interlocking
 5  bone through growth may inhibit movement between the implant and the bony structure which
    could otherwise lead to loosening, migration, subsidence, or dislodging of the implant from the
    intended position.    Similar techniques may be employed with various types of implants,
    including those intended to interface with tissue and/or bone structures. For example, a truss
    structure may be employed on a contact surface of knee implants, in a corpectomy device, in a
 0  hip replacement, in a knee replacement, in a long bone reconstruction scaffold, or in a cranio
    maxifacial implant hip implants, jaw implant, an implant for long bone reconstruction, foot and
    ankle implants, shoulder implants or other joint replacement implants or the like to enhance
    adherence of the implant to the adjacent bony structure or tissue.
    [0069] FIGS. 6A-6C illustrate another alternate embodiment of an implant.                In some
 5  embodiments, an implant is composed of a web structure 2900 that may have a non-planar upper
    surface 2910 and/or lower surface 2920. A non-planar surface includes surfaces that have some
    deviation from planarity. The non-planar upper surface 2910 and lower surface 2920 may extend
    beyond the height defined by outer trusses 2930 of the implant. In an embodiment, a truss design
    as described herein may be modified to have a non-planar upper surface 2910 and/or a non
 '0 planar lower surface 2920 by extending the length of polar trusses 2950 to expand the central
    region of the web structure.    Forming non-planar upper and/or lower surfaces may help the
    implant to match better with a non-planar implant site.       For example, expanding the central
    portion of the web structure to create rounded upper and/or lower surfaces may help the implant
    to match better with a bone surface (or other implant sites) that has a concave feature.        As
25  depicted in FIGS. 6A and 6B the non-planar upper surface forms a convex implant surface. It
    should be understood, that in another embodiment, a non-planar surface may be concave (i.e., the
    polar trusses of the web structure may be shortened with respect to the height defined by the
    outer trusses 2930). An implant having a concave exterior profile may be useful for implantation
    sites having a convex surface.    In some embodiments, the web structure may have a convex
30  upper surface and a concave lower surface. Further, in some embodiments, the web structure
    may include angled surfaces (e.g., an angled top surface 2930a and/or angled bottom surface
    2930b) to provide lordosis for implants to be implanted between the vertebral endplates.
    [0070] In other embodiments, the non-planar surface may have discrete portions of non
    planarity. For example, some of the polar trusses may be shortened with respect to the height
                                                    18

    defined by the outer trusses, while other of the polar trusses may extend beyond the height
    defined by the outer trusses.     This may create a non-planar surface that includes raised and
    sunken portions.     The location of the raised and/or sunken portions of the implant may be
    selected to match the contour of the implant site.
 5  [0071] FIG. 6C depicts a cross-sectional view of an implant having a non-polar surface. In an
    embodiment, the implant includes a web-structure 2900 formed from a plurality of polar struts
    2950 that extend from a contact surface of the implant (e.g., 2910) to an opposing contact surface
    of the implant (e.g., 2920). A plurality of connecting surface struts 2955 are coupled to the ends
    of polar struts 2950.    Together connecting surface struts 2955 and polar struts 2950 define a
 0  plurality of planar truss units.   In an embodiment, at least two of the polar struts 2950 have
    different lengths which define a non-planar contact surface for the web structure. For example,
    polar strut 2950a has a length that is less than the length of polar strut 2950b. By placing the
    connecting surface struts 2955 to couple the ends of each of the polar struts, the contact surface
    becomes non-planar. In the depicted embodiment, polar struts 2950b create a central portion of
 5  the implant that has a height (thickness) that is greater than the peripheral portion of the implant,
    defined by polar struts 2950a. The upper and lower contact surface of implant 2900 therefore are
    non-planar (in this example, rounded) by virtue of extending connecting surface struts 2955 to
    reach the ends of each of polar struts 2950. In some embodiments, connecting surface struts may
    be curved to impart a more rounded profile to the contact surface.
 '0 [0072] In some embodiments, the length of the central polar struts is greater than the length of
    the peripheral polar struts, creating a convex surface for the implant. In other embodiments, the
    length of the central polar struts is less than the length of the peripheral polar struts, creating a
    concave surface for the implant.      In other embodiments, the polar struts may have different
    lengths to create a customized surface profile that is non-planar and may include concave and
25  convex portions.
    [0073] In some embodiments, the planar truss units are planar triangular truss units.             For
    example, in FIG. 6C, polar strut 2950a and connecting struts 2955a and 2955b together define a
    planar triangular truss unit. Additional support for the web structure may be obtained using
    opposing inverted triangular or pyramidal truss units. For example, as shown in FIG. 6C, a first
30  triangular truss unit defined by struts 2955a, 2955c, and 2955d is coupled to a second triangular
    truss unit defined by struts 2955b, 2955e, and 2955f through node 2960. The first and second
    triangular truss units are coupled in an opposing manner with the node 2960 defining the apex of
    each triangular truss unit. It should be understood that while depicted as triangular truss units,
                                                      19

    pyramidal truss units, composed of four struts (trigonal pyramidal) or five struts (square
    pyramid), may be used to define a portion of the web structure of an implant.
    [0074] In an embodiment, a non-planar surface of an implant may be defined by a web structure,
    wherein the web structure includes a plurality of planar truss units coupled to each other, the
 5  planar truss units including a plurality of struts coupled to a plurality of nodes.             In an
    embodiment, one or more angles defined by two struts and a node of one or more planar truss
    units are different than one or more corresponding angles defined by two struts and a node of one
    or more other planar truss units, wherein the nodes of the non-equivalent angle planar truss units
    are coupled to each other with one or more exterior struts, the exterior struts defining a non
 0  planar surface. As used herein the phrase "corresponding angles" refers to the angles formed at
    similar portions of two planar truss units. For example, if the triangle is a non-equilateral triangle
    the corresponding angles may be the two base angles of the triangle. The angles of the two
    adjacent planar truss units are set such that the nodes connecting the struts that define the non
    equivalent angles come together at different elevations with respect to other nodes of the web
 5  structure to create a non-planar surface as depicted in FIGS. 6A-6C.
    [0075] FIG. 12 illustrates another alternate embodiment of an implant. In some embodiments, an
    implant is composed of a web structure 3500 that may have a non-planar upper contact surface
    3510 and/or lower contact surface 3520.       A non-planar contact surface includes surfaces that
    have some deviation from planarity.        The non-planar upper contact surface 3510 and lower
 '0 contact surface 3520 may extend beyond the height defined by outer trusses 3530 of the implant.
    In an embodiment, a truss design as described herein may be modified to have a non-planar
    upper contact surface 3510 and/or a non-planar lower contact surface 3520 by altering the angles
    of struts that extend toward the interior of the implant. In an embodiment, an implant includes a
    plurality of side surface planar truss units (shown in cross section as 3540) defining an exterior
25  side surface of the implant, the side surface planar truss units are composed of a plurality of struts
    coupled to a plurality of nodes 3545. A plurality of surface struts 3560 extend from one or more
    of the nodes 3545 of one or more of the side surface planar truss units toward the interior portion
    of the implant. To create a non-planar surface, the angle between the surface struts 3560 and the
    struts of the side surface planar truss units 3540 is made to be substantially greater than 90 to
30  create a raised non-planar surface, or substantially less than 90 to create an indented non-planar
    surface. A plurality of interior nodes 3565 couple the surface struts to each other to define an
    exterior contact surface of the implant. The angle of the surface struts is in this manner set such
    that a non-planar exterior surface is defined by the surface struts and the interior nodes.
                                                      20

    [0076] In an embodiment, a plurality of planar truss units are coupled to one another such that
    one or more planar truss units lie in a plane that is not substantially parallel to a plane of a planar
    truss unit that shares at least one strut with the one or more planar truss units. Some of the planar
    truss units may be arranged to define an exterior surface of the web structure 2900. The exterior
 5  surface of the web structure may be defined by a plurality of planar truss units arranged
    substantially parallel to a longitudinal axis of the polar struts.
    [0077] In another embodiment, an implant 3000 is composed of an internal web structure as
    depicted in FIGS. 7A and 7B. In an embodiment, implant 3000 includes an external truss
    structure 3010 composed of a plurality of planar trusses, constructed with curved/arch truss
 0  members 3012 and straight members 3014 that are coupled about an exterior portion of the
    implant. For example, in the illustrated embodiment, the external truss structure 3010 includes a
    series of planar trusses 3010a, 3010b that are coupled to one another. Each planar truss 3010a,b
    includes a plurality of straight truss units 3014 that are coupled to one another and lie
    substantially in the same plane.       Curved/arch truss members 3012 are coupled to vertices of
 5  straight truss units 3014. As depicted, a portion of the straight truss units 3014 includes four
    triangular planar truss units having a common vertex 3015 and arranged to form a generally
    rectangular structure that lies in a single common plane. In other words, some of the straight
    truss units are arranged to form a substantially rectangular structure having "X" shaped struts
    extending from one corner of the rectangular structure to the opposite corner of the rectangular
 '0 structure.   The curved/arched truss members 3012 are joined together at the vertices of the
    rectangular structures to form a generally rounded implant member 3000.
    [0078] Implant member 3000 also includes, in some embodiments, a rounded upper surface
    and/or a rounded lower surface. Rounded upper surface 3020 may be a convex upper contact
    surface, as depicted in FIGS. 7A and 7B. It should be understood, however that both the upper
25  and lower surfaces may be convex, or both the upper and lower surfaces may be concave. A
    convex surface, may be formed by extending central truss 3025, above the height of the implant
    defined by the planar trusses 3010, and specifically above the height defined by the upper
    curved/arched truss members 3012a.          One or more curved arched truss members 3022 may
    extend from one or more vertices of the planar trusses 3010, and are coupled together at the
30  extended central truss 3025.      The rounded upper surface may be further defined by spanning
    trusses 3024 that span alternating vertices of the planar trusses 3010.
    [0079] In a similar manner, a concave rounded lower contact surface may be defined. A concave
    surface, may be formed by reducing central truss 3025, such that central truss does not extend to
    the rim defined by the lower curved/arched truss members 3012b. One or more curved arched
                                                        21

    truss members 3032 may extend from one or more vertices of the planar trusses 3010, and are
    coupled together at the central truss 3025.    The concave lower contact surface may be further
    defined by spanning trusses 3034 that span alternating vertices of the planar trusses 3010.
    [0080] FIGS. 8A and 8B depicted an alternate embodiment of an implant 3100 that includes an
 5  internal web structure that is at least partially enclosed by an external truss structure. In an
    embodiment, external truss structure 3010 includes a plurality of planar trusses, constructed with
    curved/arched truss members 3012 and straight members 3014 that are coupled about an exterior
    portion of the implant, as described in FIGS. 7A and 7B. In the embodiments described in FIGS.
    8A and 8B, a pair of planar truss forms each segment of the exterior, rather than a single planar
 0  truss, as described in FIGS 7A and 7B. Implant 3100 also includes a convex upper surface 3020
    and a concave lower surface.
    [0081] When fusing joints many surgical processes lead to shortening of the anatomy at the
    region being fused. This is generally seen in both primary and revision fusions. Bone revision
    fusions are performed to correct portions of bone not healed at all (non-union) or bone healed in
 5  the wrong position (mal-union).     Problems that arise from bone primary and revision fusions
    include alteration of biomechanics of the effected area.     The alterations lead to the patient's
    biomechanics being changed to compensate for the alterations. Additionally, cosmetic changes
    may be visible that lead to patient dissatisfaction.  The current standard is to either accept the
    shortening and its consequences or attempt to preserve length with bone block grafting (allograft
 '0 or autograft) or bone transport. Disadvantages to bone block grafting include added morbidity
    associated with taking autograft from the pelvis and difficulty of the body incorporating the graft
    into the fusion site.   Allograft bone blocks are also difficult to incorporate into the region.
    Typically procedures for correcting length include boney transport that requires external fixation
    and extended periods of non-weight bearing while length is obtained. Pin tract infections and
25  unsightly sinus tracts may also a problem with boney transport.
    [0082] In an embodiment, one or more implants, as described herein, may be used to fill a void
    between bone portions in a way that reduces morbidity, reduces healing time, and improves the
    fusion between the bone portions.      In one embodiment, a method of coupling bone portions
    includes placing an implant, for example, as described in FIGS. 7A, 7B, 8A, or 8B, in contact
30  with the exposed ends of the bone. The bone fusion site is exposed to allow insertion of the
    implant. Joint preparation for the fusion is used to preserve length, adjust alignment and provide
    a stable construct. In an embodiment, one or both portions of the joint are reamed to provide a
    surface that is congruent with the surfaces of the implant. In order to provide stability to implant
    3000, the implant is placed on the bone on the complementary surfaces, e.g., the concave surface
                                                     22

    of the implant is placed on a convex surface of the bone. Autograf, along with stem cells, may be
    packed in the implant. A traditional fusion plate is also used at the fusion site to maintain the
    bone position as the fusion heals. Additional autograft, along with stem cells, may be packed
    around the implant. After the bone is fused, the fusion plates may be removed. It has been
 5  shown that this procedure may successfully restore and/or maintain the length of the bone.
    [0083] The bone fusion method described above may be used for a number of bone fusion
    applications.   Some examples of sites that may be used for bone fusions are depicted in FIGS.
    9A-E. FIG. 9A depicts an implant (3000) used in a metatarsal phalangeal joint replacement. In
    an embodiment of a metatarsal phalangeal joint replacement process, bone marrow aspirate is
 0  obtained from the proximal tibia along with cancellous autograft thru a small incision and small
    boney window.       The bone marrow is then prepared in a centrifuge where the stem cells are
    concentrated for later reinjection into the fusion site, which enhances the fusion. The cancellous
    autograft is then tightly packed into the implant (e.g., implant 3000) and then soaked in the stem
    cells.  A dorsal approach is made to the first metatarsal phalangeal joint in standard fashion.
 5  Joint preparation for the fusion is used to preserve length, adjust alignment and provide a stable
    construct. The metatarsal side of the joint (proximal) is reamed to a convex surface.
    Traditionally the collar of bone around to convexly reamed metatarsal side of the joint is
    removed to provide a conical congruent surface. In order to provide stability to the implant, the
    collar of bone is maintained and the concave end of the cage is impacted onto the convex boney
 '0 surface with the surrounding boney collar intact, which enhances stability and boney
    incorporation. The phalangeal side of the joint (distal) is reamed in a concave fashion in order to
    accommodate the convex end of the implant. Traditionally the phalangeal side is symmetrically
    reamed. With the implant, a groove is reamed in a trough like fashion on the concavely reamed
    surface to enhance stability and aid in adjusting for plantar and dorsal flexion of the fusion site.
25  A coupling member (e.g., a traditional fusion plate) is placed and additional autograft along with
    stem cells are packed around the implant. The wound is closed in standard fashion.
    [0084] FIG. 10 illustrates a perspective view of an alternate design of an implant. Implant 3300
    may include a wedge-shaped body 3302.           In some embodiments, body 3302 may include a
    web/truss structure similar to that described above.       In some embodiments, body 3302 may
30  include an upper face 3304 and a lower face 3306. In some embodiments, upper face 3304 and
    lower face 3306 may be angled relative to one another. In some embodiments, upper face 3304
    and/or lower face 3306 may include a substantially flat/planar shape formed of a plurality of
    struts. In some embodiments, implant 3300 may include a first end 3308 that is tapered. For
    example, first end 3308 may have a width that is less than a second end 3310, opposite first end
                                                      23

    3308.     In some embodiments, first end 3308 and/or second end 3310 may include a
    rounded/curved shape.      In some embodiments, first end 3308 and/or second end 3310 may
    include a substantially flat/planar shape formed of a plurality of struts. In some embodiments,
    sides 3312 may include a substantially flat/planar shape formed of a plurality of struts. In some
 5  embodiments, first end 3308 and/or second end 3310 may include one or more tool engagement
    features 3316. Tool engagement feature 3316 may be coupled to or otherwise engaged by a tool
    used for placement of implant 3300. In some embodiments, first end 3308 and/or second end
    3310 may include a planar surface structure 3314 spanning an area between struts.               In
    comparison to implant 2700, implant 3300 include additional supporting struts 3320 coupled to
 0  the central node 3322. Supporting strut 3320 may provide additional strength to the implant
    3300.
    [0085] FIG. 11 illustrates a perspective view of an alternative embodiment of Evans wedge
    foot/ankle implant 3400 in accordance with one or more embodiments of the present technique.
    Implant 3400 is similar in design to implant 2600, having additional support struts formed on the
 5  top and bottom surfaces. Implant 3400 may include a wedge-shaped body 3402.               In some
    embodiments, body 3402 may include a web/truss structure similar to that described above. In
    some embodiments, body 3402 may include an upper face 3404 and a lower face 3406. In some
    embodiments, upper face 3404 and lower face 3406 may be angled relative to one another. In
    some embodiments, upper face 3404 and/or lower face 3406 may include a substantially
 '0 flat/planar shape formed of a plurality of struts.    In some embodiments, implant 3400 may
    include a first/front end 3408 that is tapered. For example, first end 3408 may have a width that
    is less than a second/rear end 3410, opposite first end 3408. In some embodiments, first end
    3408 and/or second end 3410 may include a rounded/curved shape. In some embodiments, sides
    3412 may include a substantially flat/planar shape formed of a plurality of struts. In some
25  embodiments, first end 3408 and/or second end 3410 may include a planar surface structure 3414
    spanning an area between struts.
    [0086] In some embodiments, first end 3408 and/or second end 3410 may include one or more
    tool engagement features 3416. Tool engagement feature 3416 may be coupled to or otherwise
    engaged by a tool used for placement of implant 3400. In comparison to implant 2600, implant
30  3400 include additional supporting struts 3420 coupled to the node 3422. Supporting struts 3420
    may provide additional strength to the implant 3400.
    [0087] FIG. 13 depicts an embodiment of an implant 1800 in accordance with one or more
    embodiments of the present technique. In some embodiments, implant 1802 may include a spinal
    implant, a knee implant, a hip implant, a jaw implant, an implant for long bone reconstruction,
                                                     24

    ankle implant or the like. In the illustrated embodiment, implant 1800 includes a body 1802
    having two contact faces 1804a,b. As used herein, the term "contact face" refers to a portion of
    an implant intended to be in contact or near contact with an adjacent structure (e.g., a bony
    structure) to adhere/couple with the adjacent structure when implanted. A contact surface may
 5  include an interface plate of an implant, for instance. An implant may include any number of
    contact faces. For example an implant may include one or more contact faces intended to couple
    to one or more adjacent bony structures. As depicted, in some embodiments, contact face 1804a
    may include an upper contact face intended to contact and secure to a first adjacent bony
    structure, and 1804b may include a lower contact face intended to contact and secure to a second
 0  adjacent bony structure. For example, where implant 1800 is intended to sandwich between two
    adjacent bony structures (e.g., end plates of two adjacent vertebrae), contact face 1804a may
    couple to a portion of the first bony structure disposed above implant 1800 and contact face
    1804b may couple to the second bony structure disposed below implant 1800.                 It will be
    appreciated that the number and orientation of the contact surfaces may vary based on the
 5  intended application, and, thus, relative terms such as upper and lower are intended as exemplary
    and are not intended to be limiting. For example, one or both of the upper and lower contact
    faces 1804a,b may be oriented such that the are disposed laterally (e.g., as right, left, back and/or
    front sides of implant body 1802. Moreover, the cubic shape of body 1802 is intended to be
    exemplary and is not intended to be limiting. For example, body 1802 may include any desirable
 '0 implant construct such as fusion cages with different shapes or a mechanical construct that allows
    for motion preservation. Contact surface(s) may take any suitable shape, e.g., a substantially flat
    planar surface, a curved/contoured surface, ridges, or the like.
    [0088] In some embodiments, a single, a plurality or all of the contact faces of an implant may
    include one or more truss structures. In some embodiments, a truss structure includes one or
25  more struts that extend from a respective contact surface and defines an opening that enables
    bone through growth to facilitate coupling of the truss structure and the implant to the boney
    structure. For example, in the illustrated embodiment, truss structure 1806 includes a space truss
    formed of three struts 1807a,b,c that each include elongate members each having a first end
    coupled to contact surface 1804a and a second end coupled to each of the other struts at a vertex
30  1810. Each face of the triangular shaped truss structure includes a planar truss structure having a
    triangular opening with a perimeter defined by two of struts 1807a,b,c and the adjacent portion of
    contact face 1804a.     As depicted, truss structure 1806 includes a generally triangular shaped
    space truss that defines a four sided, substantially open volume 1812.
                                                       25

    [0089] In some embodiments, open volume 1812 may facilitate bone growth through truss
    structure 1806, thereby enhancing coupling of implant 1800 to the adjacent bony structure. For
    example, in some embodiments, at least a portion of truss structure 1806 is in contact or near
    contact with the adjacent bony structure, thereby enabling bone growth to extend into and/or
 5  through at least a portion of open volume 1812 of truss structure 1806 such that the bone growth
    interlocks with one or more struts 1808a,b,c of truss structure 1806. The interlocking of the bone
    growth and the struts may rigidly fix implant 1800 in a fixed location relative to the boney
    structure.
    [0090] In some embodiments, implant 1800 may be pressed into contact with the adjacent bony
 0  structure such that at least a portion of truss structure 1806 is disposed inside of the adjacent
    bony structure upon implantation. For example, in some embodiments, implant 1800 may be
    pressed into contact with the adjacent bony structure such that vertex 1810 pierces into the bony
    structure and is advanced such that at least a portion of struts 1808a,b,c and open volume 1812
    extend into the bony structure.     Such a technique may encourage bone to grow into and/or
 5  through open volume 1812. In some embodiments, implant 1800 may be advanced/pressed into
    the adjacent bony structure until the respective contact surface (e.g., upper contact surface 1804a)
    is in contact or near contact with the adjacent bony structure. In some embodiments, at least a
    portion of the truss structure and/or the contact surface may be coated/treated with a material
    intend to promote bone growth and/or bone adherence and an antimicrobial to prevent infection
 '0 to the truss structure and/or the contact surface. For example, in some embodiments, the surface
    of the struts and/or the contact surface may be coated with a biologic and/or a bone growth
    factor, such as those described herein.
    [0091] In some embodiments, at least a portion of the adjacent bony structure in which the truss
    structure is to be implanted may be pierced/cut/slit prior to truss structure 1806 being
25  advanced/pressed into the adjacent bony structure. In some embodiments, a cutting tool/edge
    may be used to cut into the adjacent bony structure such that the resulting cuts accommodate one
    or more struts of truss structure 1806.      For example, where truss structure 1806 includes a
    triangular shape, such as that depicted in FIG. 13, one or more complementary cuts may be made
    into the adjacent bony structure in a complementary pattern.
30  [0092] In this patent, certain U.S. patents, U.S. patent applications, and other materials (e.g.,
    articles) have been incorporated by reference.       The text of such U.S. patents, U.S. patent
    applications, and other materials is, however, only incorporated by reference to the extent that no
    conflict exists between such text and the other statements and drawings set forth herein. In the
    event of such conflict, then any such conflicting text in such incorporated by reference U.S.
                                                      26

    patents, U.S. patent applications, and other materials is specifically not incorporated by reference
    in this patent.
    [0093] In accordance with the above descriptions, in various embodiments, an implant may
    include a web structure. The web structure for the implant may include a micro truss design. In
 5  some embodiments, the micro truss design may include a web structure with multiple struts.
    Other web structures are also contemplated.        The web structure may extend throughout the
    implant (including a central portion of the implant). The web structure may thus reinforce the
    implant along multiple planes (including internal implant load bearing) and provide increased
    area for bone graft fusion. The web structure may be used in implants such as spinal implants,
 0  corpectomy devices, hip replacements, knee replacements, long bone reconstruction scaffolding,
    hand and wrist bone repair, and cranio-maxifacial implants.            Other implant uses are also
    contemplated. In some embodiments, the web structure for the implant may include one or more
    geometric objects (e.g., polyhedrons). In some embodiments, the web structure may not include
    a pattern of geometrical building blocks (e.g., an irregular pattern of struts may be used in the
 5  implant).   In some embodiments, the web structure may include a triangulated web structure
    including two or more tetrahedrons. A tetrahedron may include four triangular faces in which
    three of the four triangles meet at each vertex.      The web structure may further include two
    tetrahedrons placed together at two adjacent faces to form a web structure with a hexahedron
    shaped frame (including six faces).     In some embodiments, multiple hexahedron-shaped web
 '0 structures may be arranged in a side-by-side manner. The web structures may connect directly
    through side vertices (e.g., two or more hexahedron-shaped web structures may share a vertex).
    In some embodiments, the web structure may be angled to provide lordosis to the implant.
    [0094] Further modifications and alternative embodiments of various aspects of the invention
    may be apparent to those skilled in the art in view of this description. For example, although in
25  certain embodiments, struts have been described and depicts as substantially straight elongated
    members, struts may also include elongated members curved/arched along at least a portion of
    their length. Accordingly, this description is to be construed as illustrative only and is for the
    purpose of teaching those skilled in the art the general manner of carrying out the invention. It is
    to be understood that the forms of the invention shown and described herein are to be taken as
30  embodiments.     Elements and materials may be substituted for those illustrated and described
    herein, parts and processes may be reversed, and certain features of the invention may be utilized
    independently, all as would be apparent to one skilled in the art after having the benefit of this
    description of the invention. Changes may be made in the elements described herein without
    departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as described in the following claims.
                                                      27

  Furthermore, it is noted that the word "may" is used throughout this application in a permissive
  sense (i.e., having the potential to, being able to), not a mandatory sense (i.e., must). The term
  "include", and derivations thereof, mean "including, but not limited to".          As used in this
  specification and the claims, the singular forms "a", "an" and "the" include plural referents
5 unless the content clearly indicates otherwise. Thus, for example, reference to "a strut" includes
  a combination of two or more struts. The term "coupled" means "directly or indirectly
  connected".
                                                   28

    WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
    1.      An implant comprising a web structure, wherein the web structure comprises:
            a plurality of planar truss units coupled to each other, the planar truss units comprising a
 5          plurality of struts coupled to a plurality of nodes;
            wherein one or more angles defined by two struts and a node of one or more planar truss
            units are different than one or more corresponding angles defined by two struts and a
            node of one or more other planar truss units, wherein connecting exterior surface struts
            couple the nodes of the non-equivalent angle planar truss units to each other, defining a
 0          non-planar surface.
    2.      The implant of claim 1, wherein the plurality of planar truss units comprise one or more
    planar triangular truss units having three substantially straight struts and three nodes in a
    triangular configuration.
 5
    3.      The implant of claim 1 or 2, wherein the plurality of planar truss units are coupled to one
    another such that one or more planar truss units lie in a plane that is not substantially parallel to a
    plane of a planar truss unit that shares at least one strut with the one or more planar truss units.
 '0 4.      The implant of any one of claims 1-3, wherein a plurality of planar truss units define an
    exterior surface of the web structure.
    5.      The implant of any one of claims 1-4, wherein the at least some of the connecting struts
    define triangular trusses having at least one node shared by two different triangular planar truss
25  units having different corresponding angles.
    6.      The implant of any one of claims 1-5, wherein the plurality of planar truss units
    comprises a first planar triangular truss unit coupled to a second planar triangular truss unit,
    wherein the first and second planar triangular truss units are coupled in an opposing manner with
30  a single node defining the apex of each planar triangular truss unit.
    7.      The implant of any one claims 1-6, wherein the non-planar surface is a substantially
    rounded surface.
                                                       29

    8.      The implant of any one of claims 1-7, wherein opposing surfaces of the implant are
    rounded.
    9.      The implant of any one of claims 1-8, wherein one or more of the connecting exterior
 5  surface struts are curved to form a rounded exterior surface of the implant.
    10.     The implant of any one of claims 1-9, wherein at least a portion of the one or more of the
    planar truss units extend beyond the non-planar surface.
 0  11.     The implant of any one of claims 1-10, further comprising a plurality of polar struts
    extending from one surface of the implant to the opposing surface of the implant; and wherein
    exterior connecting struts couple the ends of the polar struts, and wherein at least two of the polar
    struts have different lengths such that the web structure has at least one non-planar surface
    defined by the ends of the polar struts and the exterior connecting struts.
 5
    12.     The implant of claim 11, wherein a plurality of planar truss units define an exterior
    surface of the web structure, and wherein the exterior surface of the web structure defined by the
    plurality of planar truss units is substantially parallel to the longitudinal axis of the polar struts.
 '0 13.     The implant of claim 11 or 12, wherein the at least some of the connecting struts define
    triangular trusses having at least one node at the end of a polar strut.
    14.     The implant of any one of claims 11-13, wherein at least a portion of the struts coupled to
    a node at the end of a polar strut are curved to form a rounded exterior surface of the implant.
25
    15.     The implant of any one of claims 1-11, wherein the plurality of planar truss units define a
    plurality of side surface planar truss units defining an exterior side surface of the implant, the
    side surface planar truss units comprising a plurality of struts coupled to a plurality of nodes; and
    wherein a plurality of surface struts extend from one or more of the nodes of one or more of the
30  side surface planar truss units toward the interior portion of the implant, wherein the angle
    between the surface struts and the struts defining the side surface planar truss units is
    substantially greater than, or substantially less than 90 ; and wherein the implant further
    comprises a plurality of interior nodes coupling the surface struts to each other to define an
    exterior surface of the implant.
                                                        30

    16.      A method of preparing an implant as described in any one of claim 1-15, wherein the
    implant comprises a web structure, the web structure comprising:
             a plurality of planar truss units coupled to each other, the planar truss units comprising a
 5           plurality of struts coupled to a plurality of nodes;
             wherein one or more angles defined by two struts and a node of one or more planar truss
             units are different than one or more corresponding angles defined by two struts and a
             node of one or more other planar truss units, wherein connecting exterior surface struts
             couple the nodes of the non-equivalent angle planar truss units to each other, defining a
 0           non-planar surface;
    wherein the method comprises:
             applying a layer of material to a support,
             converting the applied material into a solid, wherein the solid material forms a portion of
             the one or more planar truss units; and
 5           removing the implant from the support.
    17. The method of claim 16, wherein converting the applied layer into a solid comprises moving
    an directed energy source relative to the support to melt a portion of the material, wherein the
    directed energy source is moved in a pattern determined from a three-dimensional model of at
 '0 least a portion of the web structure.
    18. The method of claim 17, wherein the material is a biocompatible material.
    19.      A method of length preservation in a separated bone comprising:
25           forming a contact surface on a first side of the separated bone;
             forming a contact surface on a second side of the separated bone;
             placing an implant as described in any one of claims 1-15 in contact with the first and
             second contact surfaces of the separated bone.
30  20.      The method of claim 19, further comprising: forming a groove in one of the contact
    surfaces of the separated bone, and aligning the implant with a groove formed in one of the
    contact surfaces of the separated bone.
                                                        31

  21.      The method of claim 19 or 20, further comprising attaching a coupling member to the
  separated bone such that the coupling member couples the first side of the separated bone with
  the second side of the separated bone.
5 22. The method of any one of claims 19-2 1, wherein the method is applied to length preservation
  in a first metatarsal phalangeal arthrodesis.
  23.      An implant comprising a web structure comprising a space truss comprising two or more
  planar truss units having a plurality of struts joined at nodes, wherein the implant has at least one
0 non-planar surface.
  24.      A method, comprising:
           installing, between two separated bone portions, a web structure comprising a space truss
                    comprising two or more planar truss units having a plurality of struts joined at
5                   nodes.
                                                     32

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
