                            ABSTRACT
As indicated in the title, the present invention relates to a device
which has been especially designed for the inner lining and
insulation of freight containers of the type used in maritime,
land or river transport. The object of the invention is therefore to
provide an easy-to-install and inexpensive thermal insulation
element which allows using conventional transport containers
by transforming them into isothermal containers.

            2/2
                           3
                          8
                        2
      FIG. 3
4 910              1 11   4
            FIG. 4

        DEVICE FOR THE INNER LINING AND INSULATION OF FREIGHT CONTAINERS
                                            DESCRIPTION
 5
   OBJECT OF THE INVENTION
   As indicated in the title, the present invention relates to a device which has been especially
   designed for the inner lining and insulation of freight containers of the type used in maritime,
 0 land or river transport.
   The object of the invention is therefore to provide an easy-to-install and inexpensive thermal
   insulation element which allows using conventional transport containers by transforming
   them into isothermal containers.
 5
   BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
   Isothermal containers are often used for transporting certain goods, such as specific food
 0 products, in order to prevent said products from going bad during transport.
   The problem with containers of this type is that they are considerably more expensive than
   conventional transport containers used in maritime, land or river transport.
25
   DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
   The device for the inner lining and insulation of freight containers allows transforming a
   conventional freight container into an isothermal container in a quick, simple and cost
30 effective manner.
   To that end, the device of the invention is formed from a type of cover having dimensions in
   accordance with the internal dimensions of the container in which it is to be implemented,
   which cover is obtained from a metalized (aluminum) polyethylene terephthalate (PET) sheet
35 to which a polyethylene (PE) sheet is attached by means of an adhesive.
                                                  -2-

   Said cover therefore has an elongated rectangular-prismatic configuration, with the opening
   thereof complemented with a sheet that can be rolled up and unrolled and coincides in
   situation of use with the actual doors for accessing the container, said sheet being provided
   with stabilizing means such as Velcro-type adhesive tapes, hooks and eyes, zippers or the
 5 like.
   The cover is distributed duly rolled-up based on an axis of rotation corresponding to one of
   its smaller edges, such that it coincides with the width of the container, incorporating a series
   of housings in which there are established telescopic rods the extension of which until
 0 abutting with the sides of the container allows the cover to be stabilized and perfectly
   stretched out, such that the rods are extended by means of inner springs linking both male
   and female telescopic elements.
   This assembly of rods and housings for rods in the cover does not have to be limited to the
 5 smaller, horizontal edges of the cover, but rather additional elements can be included,
   particularly on the face intended to be fixed to the ceiling to assure better fixing of the device.
   To that effect, it has been envisaged that the cover incorporates on its outer face magnets
   making the magnetic fixing thereof to the walls of the container easier, improving both the
 0 fixing and the proper fitting of the cover to the inner surface of the container.
   The device can therefore be readily spread out on the floor of the container, fitting with the
   plan dimensions thereof, for subsequently fixing it in an immovable manner through the
   telescopic rods and then vertically opening said cover to stabilize it with respect to the ceiling
25 through the appropriate telescopic rods and preventing the formation of pockets by means of
   using the magnets that have been mentioned, the cover being open in the front portion in
   correspondence with the area of the loading doors of the container, such that once said
   container is loaded, the closure sheet associated with said opening will be unrolled and
   closed by means of said adhesive tapes or zippers, the assembly being perfectly thermally
30 insulated.
   A fully effective, easy-to-install and inexpensive device which allows transforming a
   conventional container into an isothermal container is thereby obtained.
35
                                                    -3-

   DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
   To complement the foregoing, the description incorporates several drawings used for
   explaining the object of the invention in detail from an illustrative and non-limiting viewpoint in
 5 which:
   Figure 1 shows a perspective view of a device for the inner lining and insulation of freight
   containers made according to the object of the present invention in a first phase of assembly.
 o Figure 2 shows a perspective view of a conventional container on which the device of Figure
   1 is applied, in a first phase in which it is spread out in a quick and simple manner on the
   floor of the container.
   Figure 3 shows a view similar to that of Figure 2, but in a subsequent phase of assembly, in
 5 which the cover, once stabilized on floor level of the container, is opened to duly stabilize it
   with respect to the ceiling of said container.
   Figure 4 shows a front perspective view of the container with the cover duly stabilized and
   with the closure sheet determining the loading opening and coinciding with the loading doors
 0 of the container partially rolled up to make it easier to access same.
   PREFERRED EMBODIMENT OF THE INVENTION
25 It can be seen in view of the mentioned drawings how the device for the inner lining and
   insulation of containers is formed from an elongated rectangular prismatic body (1) that is
   open at one of its ends (2) in correspondence with the opening (3) in which there are located
   the doors (4) for accessing the container (5) inside which said cover is installed, which cover
   is obtained from a metalized (aluminum) polyethylene terephthalate (PET) sheet to which a
30 polyethylene (PE) sheet is attached by means of an adhesive.
   As can be seen in Figure 1, the cover (1) is supplied duly rolled up around one of its smaller
   edges, having a width in accordance with the width of the container (5), as shown in Figure
   2.
35
                                                   -4-

  According to said Figure 2, the device is readily unrolled on the floor (6) of the container until
  covering the floor completely, said cover having at strategic points pouch-like housings (7) in
  which there are established telescopic rods (8) which, acting against the tension of an inner
  spring, allow fixing and stabilizing the cover at the different fixing points envisaged for said
5 cover.
  In this sense and as shown in Figure 3, once the cover is stabilized with respect to the floor,
  prior to being unrolled, said cover has been folded along the side walls thereof by way of a
  bellows, and will be opened vertically, being stabilized with respect to the ceiling of the
0 container (5) by means of appropriate telescopic rods (8), and not only can the latter be
  arranged in correspondence with the small edges of the prism, but they also participate at
  intermediate points making said fixing easier.
  To that end and in order to preferably stabilize the side walls of the cover, the use of
5 magnets (9) has been envisaged, which magnets (9) allow eliminating the formation of
  pockets in the inner lining of the container when suitably distributed.
  In this sense and according to Figure 4, the cover itself perfectly covers and insulates five of
  the six faces of the container, where it is complemented with a roll-up sheet (10) of the same
0 material as the cover which is intended for closing off the opening of the container and is
  fixed to said opening (3) by means of Velcro@-type adhesive tapes (11), by means of
  zippers, hooks and eyes or any other conventional means, assuring that heat is completely
  retained in the assembly.
                                                 -5-

                                                CLAIMS
  1. A device for the lining and insulation of freight containers of the type used in maritime, land
  or river transport, characterized in that it is formed from an elongated rectangular prismatic
5 body (1) having dimensions in accordance with the internal dimensions of the container in
  which it is to be fitted, which body is open at one of its ends (2) and is obtained based on a
  metalized polyethylene terephthalate sheet to which a polyethylene sheet is attached by
  means of an adhesive, with the special particularity that the cover includes a series of pouch
  like housings (7) in which telescopic rods (8) for immovably fixing the cover to the side walls
0 of the container are established, where it has been envisaged that the cover is
  complemented with a roll-up sheet (10) of the same material as the cover, intended for
  closing off the opening of the cover, and therefore of the container, said roll-up sheet being
  able to be fixed to said opening (3) by means of Velcro@-type adhesive tapes (11), by means
  of zippers, hooks and eyes or any other conventional means.
5
  2. The device for the lining and insulation of freight containers according to claim 1,
  characterized in that the cover is complemented with magnets for fixing the side faces
  thereof to the side faces of the container.
                                                  -6-

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                   <U+2775>
                           1/2

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           2/2

