                                        ABSTRACT
       TITANIA PARTICLES AND A PROCESS FOR THEIR PRODUCTION
The invention provides a process for the production of titania particles with a desired
morphology. The process comprises providing a titania sol and then           drying the sol
to provide dried titania particles. The process is characterised in that the morphology of
the dried titania particles is controlled by applying one or more of the following
criteria:(a) the titania sol is produced from a TiO 2 containing slurry obtained using a
precipitation step in a sulphate process, wherein the size of micelles formed during the
precipitation is controlled; (b) the titania sol is produced from a TiO 2 containing slurry
and the pH of the slurry is controlled in order to affect the extent to which the titania
sol is flocculated; (c) the titania sol is produced from a TiO 2 containing slurry and the
iso-electric point of the titania is adjusted in order to affect the extent to which the
titania sol is flocculated;     (d) the titania sol is dried by application of heat and the
temperature used during the drying step is controlled.

00
                                             1
                                                                                     P/00/011
                                                                                Regulation 3.2
                                      AUSTRALIA
                                    Patents Act 1990
                   COMPLETE SPECIFICATION
                        FOR A DIVISIONAL PATENT
                                      ORIGINAL
Name of Applicant:        HUNTSMAN P&A UK LIMITED
Actual Inventor(s):       Lowry, Karl
                          Edwards, John Lalande
                          Waters, Darren J.
                          Robb, John
Address for Service:      Houlihan2 , Level    1, 70 Doncaster Road, Balwyn North,
                          Victoria 3104, Australia
Invention Title:          TITANIA PARTICLES AND A PROCESS FOR THEIR
                          PRODUCTION
The following statement is a full description of this invention, including the best method
of performing it known to the Applicant:-

                                                  2
          TITANIA PARTICLES AND A PROCESS FOR THEIR PRODUCTION
   The present Application is a Divisional Application from Australian Patent Application
   No.   2014322870.      The   entire  disclosures    of Australian Patent Application No.
 5 2014322870       and   its   corresponding       International   Patent  Application    No.
   PCT/GB2014/052878, are incorporated herein by reference.
   FIELD OF THE INVENTION
10 The invention relates, in general,       to titania particles and to processes for their
   production and use.
   BACKGROUND TO THE INVENTION
15 Titanium dioxide (titania) is well known and has a variety of applications, including
   cosmetics, personal care products, plastics, surface coatings, self-cleaning surfaces,
   drug delivery and medical devices, as a catalytic carrier material and in photovoltaic
   applications.
20 There are two main processes for making raw titanium dioxide: the sulfate process and
   the chloride process.
   The sulfate process is based on the digestion of ilmenite or titania slag in concentrated
   sulfuric acid. After iron removal as iron sulfate, the solution is heated and diluted with
25 water. The titanium hydrolyzes, forming a titanium oxysulfate precipitate, which is
   further treated to produce TiO 2 pigment.
   The chloride     process relies   on  carbochlorination     of titanium containing   ore or
   intermediate products to form TiCl 4 , followed by the gas phase oxidation of TiCl 4 .
30
   Titanium dioxide can be flocculated and/or precipitated out of a slurry containing
   titanium dioxide by pH adjustment of the slurry.
   The finishing process for titanium dioxide, as obtained by any known method, may
35 include one or more of: drying, milling, filtering, washing, and packaging.

                                                  3
   Many applications require the titania to have a large specific surface area (e.g. greater
   than 200m 2/g), in order to increase efficacy. In particular this is due to the fact that
   such larger surface areas result in increased gas to solid contact ratios or increased
 5 liquid to solid contact ratios. Such large specific surface areas can be achieved by the
   use of nano particles of titania (i.e. particles with a diameter of less than 100nm) and
   this is the current normal approach.
   However, the use of nano materials has attracted publicity and concerns from some
10 areas.   In general,   there has been much debate generated with regard to the
   environmental health and safety implications of nano materials.
   There can also be applications where control of the surface area/porosity to be within
   certain ranges can be desired; the largest possible specific surface area is not always
15 what is required.
   There is also a desire for titania material that has a particle shape suited to the desired
   end use of the material. Dependent on the intended use, different shapes of particles
   may be more appropriate.
20
   Thus it has been identified by the inventors that there is a clear need for methods that
   permit control of morphology (i.e. form and structure) when manufacturing titania
   particles.   The morphology may in particular relate to the pore size in the titania
   particles (which in turn impacts on the specific surface area of the particles) and/or the
25 shape of the titania particles (e.g. in terms of whether the particles are spherical in
   shape or present an alternative shape such as a toroid (i.e. a doughnut-type shape), and
   whether the particles are "fluffy" or have a smooth surface).
   In this regard, it is particularly desired to be able to control porosity (and thus specific
30 surface area) when manufacturing titania particles and/or to control particle shape when
   manufacturing titania particles, in order that particles having a suitable porosity and/or
   shape for the desired application can be prepared.

                                                  4
   SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
   The invention provides, in a first aspect, a process for the production of titania particles
   with a desired morphology, the process comprising:
 5         providing a titania sol;
   and then
           drying the sol to provide dried titania particles;
   characterised in that the morphology of the dried titania particles is controlled by
   applying one or more of the following criteria:
10         (a) the titania sol is produced from a TiO 2 containing slurry obtained using a
   precipitation step in a sulphate process, and the size of micelles formed during the
   precipitation is controlled,
           (b) the titania sol is produced from a TiO 2 containing slurry and the pH of the
   slurry is controlled in order to affect the extent to which the titania sol is flocculated,
15         (c) the titania sol is produced from a TiO 2 containing slurry and the iso-electric
   point of the titania is adjusted in order to affect the extent to which the titania sol is
   flocculated;
           (d) the titania sol is dried by application of heat and the temperature used during
   the drying step is controlled.
20
   In this regard, the morphology refers to the form and structure of the titania particles.
   The morphology includes, but is not limited to, the size of pores in the titania particles
   (which in turn impacts on the specific surface area of the particles) and the shape of the
   titania particles.
25
   The invention provides, in one such aspect, a process for the production of titania
   particles with a desired morphology, the process comprising:
           providing a titania sol;
   and then
30         drying the sol to provide dried titania particles;
   characterised in that:
   (A) the pore size of the dried titania particles is controlled by applying one or more of
   the following criteria:

                                                  5
            (A-i) the titania sol is produced from TiO 2 containing slurry obtained using a
   precipitation step in a sulphate process, and the size of micelles formed during the
   precipitation is controlled,
            (A-ii) the titania sol is produced from a TiO 2 containing slurry and the pH of the
 5 slurry is controlled in order to affect the extent to which the titania sol is flocculated,
            (A-iii) the titania sol is produced from a TiO 2 containing slurry and the iso
   electric point of the titania is adjusted in order to affect the extent to which the titania
   sol is flocculated;
   and/or
10 (B) the shape of the dried titania particles is controlled by applying one or more of the
   following criteria:
            (B-i) the titania sol is produced from a TiO 2 containing slurry and the pH of the
   slurry is controlled in order to affect the extent to which the titania sol is flocculated,
            (B-ii) the titania sol is dried by application of heat and the temperature used
15 during the drying step is controlled.
   The invention also provides, in a second aspect, the use of a controlled nucleation
   during preparation of a titania sol by a precipitation step in a sulphate process, before
   then drying said sol, wherein the size of micelles formed during the precipitation is
20 controlled so as to control the morphology of the resultant dried titania particles.
   Preferably, the precipitation is controlled so as to control the pore size and/or specific
   surface area of the resultant dried titania particles.
   The invention also provides, in a third aspect, the use of a controlled flocculation
25 during preparation of a titania sol from a titania slurry, before then drying said sol,
   wherein the extent to which the sol is flocculated is controlled by adjusting the pH of
   the slurry, so as to control the morphology of the resultant dried titania particles.
   Preferably, the flocculation is controlled so as to control the pore size and/or specific
   surface area and/or particle shape of the resultant dried titania particles. The pH may be
30 adjusted to be closer to the iso-electric point of the titania, so there is a greater degree
   of flocculation, or the pH may be adjusted to be further from the iso-electric point of
   the titania, so there is a lesser degree of flocculation.
   The invention also provides, in a fourth aspect, the use of a controlled flocculation
35 during or after the formation of a titania sol, before then drying said sol, wherein the

                                                  6
   extent to which the sol is flocculated is controlled by adjusting the iso-electric point of
   the titania, so as to control the morphology of the resultant dried titania particles.
   Preferably, the flocculation is controlled so as to control the pore size and/or specific
   surface area of the resultant dried titania particles. The iso-electric point may be
 5 adjusted so as to be closer to the pH of the slurry/sol, so there is a greater degree of
   flocculation, or the iso-electric point may be adjusted to be further from the pH of the
   slurry/sol, so there is a lesser degree of flocculation.
   The invention also provides, in a fifth aspect, the use of a controlled drying during
10 preparation of dried titania particles from a titania sol, wherein the temperature used
   during the drying step is controlled so as to control the morphology of the resultant
   dried titania particles. Preferably, the temperature is controlled so as to control the
   particle shape of the resultant dried titania particles.
15 The invention therefore permits the formation of titania with desired morphology, e.g.
   in terms of desired pore size and/or desired particle shape. The invention may be
   practised on titania with a range of particle sizes, including nano, meso and macro
   particles.
20 It may, for example, be used to provide titania with large specific surface areas but
   which can be used in applications where there is a desire to avoid the need to use nano
   materials.
   In a sixth aspect of the invention, a process for producing titania comprises:
25          providing a titania sol;
   and then
            spray drying the sol to provide dried titania particles;
   characterised in that the morphology of the dried titania particles is controlled by:
            (i) the titania sol being produced from a TiO 2 containing slurry and the pH of
30 the slurry being controlled to be 3 pH units or more from the iso-electric point of the
   titania, by the addition of peptising agent, in order to reduce the extent to which the
   titania sol is flocculated; or
            (ii) the titania sol being produced from a TiO 2 containing slurry and the iso
   electric point being adjusted to be 3 pH units or more from the pH of the slurry, by the

                                                  7
   addition of dispersant, in order to reduce the extent to which the titania sol is
   flocculated.
   This process is beneficial in that by controlling the pH during peptisation to be away
 5 from the iso-electric point (which will normally be at about pH 5-6), or by adjusting the
   iso-electric point to be away from the pH of the slurry, the sol will be fully dispersed
   (not flocculated). Following this with a spray drying treatment results in a particulate
   product that has a smooth curved outer surface, that is relatively small in size (particle
   diameter of 30 tm or less), and that has high integrity, being resistant to external forces
10 including high shear mixing.       The particles may be spherical or toroidal but have a
   continuous exterior curved (convex) surface.
   In one embodiment, the pH of the slurry is adjusted to be 3.5 pH units or more, or 4 pH
   units or more, such as from 4 to 6 pH units, away from the iso-electric point of the
15 titania, by the addition of peptising agent, in order to reduce the extent to which the
   titania sol is flocculated. The pH of the slurry is adjusted by the addition of any
   suitable peptising agent (examples of which are set out below). One suitable peptising
   agent is a monoprotic acid, such as hydrochloric acid, which will lower the pH and take
   it away from the iso-electric point.
20
   In one embodiment, the iso-electric point of the titania is adjusted to be 3.5 pH units or
   more, or 4 pH units or more, such as from 4 to 6 pH units, away from the pH of the
   slurry, by the addition of a dispersant, in order to reduce the extent to which the titania
   sol is flocculated. The iso-electric point of the titania is adjusted by the addition of any
25 suitable dispersant (examples of which are set out below). One suitable dispersant is an
   a-hydroxy carboxylic acid, such as citric acid.
   In one embodiment, the process comprises:
            providing a titania sol;
30 and then
            spray drying the sol to provide dried titania particles;
   characterised in that the morphology of the dried titania particles is controlled by:
            the titania sol being produced from a TiO 2 containing slurry and the pH of the
   slurry being controlled to be in the range of from 1 to 3, by the addition of peptising
35 agent, in order to the reduce the extent to which the titania sol is flocculated.

                                                 8
   This process is beneficial in that by controlling the pH during peptisation to be low the
   sol will be fully dispersed (not flocculated). Following this with a spray drying
   treatment results in a particulate product that has a smooth curved outer surface, that is
 5 relatively small in size (particle diameter of 30pm or less), and that has high integrity,
   being resistant to external forces including high shear mixing.       The particles may be
   spherical or toroidal but have a continuous exterior curved (convex) surface.
   In a preferred embodiment, the pH of the slurry is controlled to be in the range of from
10 1 to 2, especially from 1 to 1.5, by the addition of peptising agent, in order to the
   reduce/minimise the extent to which the titania sol is flocculated.
   Although any peptising agent may be used, in one embodiment the pH of the slurry is
   controlled by the addition of hydrochloric acid, or another monoprotic acid, as
15 peptising agent.
   In the process of the sixth aspect, it may be that after the addition of dispersant/ the
   addition of peptising agent, the sol is then neutralised (e.g. with monoisopropanolamine
   - known as MIPA). Excess soluble salts may be removed to a desired conductivity, e.g.
20 using cross-flow filtration, for example the washing may reduce the conductivity to
   <2ms/cm.
   It may be that the morphology of the dried titania particles is further controlled by the
   temperature used during the spray drying step being              controlled; in one such
25 embodiment the temperature of spray drying is controlled to be in the range of from 50
   to 150'C, such as from 75 to 140'C, or from 100 to 125 0 C. This further assists in the
   production of small strong particles, which are preferably spherical.
   The sol as spray dried may in one embodiment have a solids content of from 1% to 35%
30 wt/wt, e.g. from 2 to 25% wt/wt or from 5 to 20% wt/wt or from 10 to 18% wt/wt.
   It may be that the morphology of the dried titania particles is further controlled by the
   titania sol being produced from a TiO 2 containing slurry obtained using a precipitation
   step in a sulphate process, wherein the size of micelles formed during the precipitation

                                                9
   is controlled to be in the range of 10 to 150nm, such as from 15 to 125nm, or from 20
   to 100nm.
   It may be suitably that the size of micelles formed during the precipitation is controlled
 5 to be in the range of from 20 to 50nm. For example, in one embodiment they may be
   sized from 20 to 45nm or from 20 to 40nm or from 25 to 45nm or from 25 to 40nm.
   In one such embodiment the size of micelles formed during the precipitation is
   controlled by the use of a Mecklenburg precipitation with a nucleation level in the
10 range of from 0.1 to 15wt%, e.g. of from I to 15wt%, or from 5 to 12wt%.
   It may be suitably that the nucleation level is from 5 to lOwt%, such as from 5.5 to
   9wt%, and especially in the range of from 6 to 8wt%.
15 In another such embodiment the size of micelles formed during the precipitation is
   controlled by the use of a Blumenfeld precipitation with a drop ratio of from 50:50 to
   99:1, e.g. from 50:50 to 80:20 or from 50:50 to 78:22 or from 50:50 to 75:25 (such as
   from 60:40 to 75:25) or from 80:20 to 98:2 or from 82:18 to 98:2 (such as from 85:15
   to 98:2).
20
   It may suitably be that the drop ratio is in the range of from 50:50 to 75:25 or from
   50:50 to 70:30, e.g. from 55:45 to 75:25, such as from 60:40 to 75:25 or from 55:45 to
   70:30.
25 Therefore the invention also provides, in a seventh aspect, titania in the form of
   particles that are obtainable by the process of the sixth aspect of the invention.
   In particular, these particles as obtainable by this process each have a continuous
   exterior convex surface, the particles having a diameter, as measured by using laser
30 diffraction, of 30pm or less, and a BET specific surface area of 50m 2 /g or more,
   wherein the particles are porous.
   Preferably the particles are spherical in shape or toroidal in shape.

                                                10
   Preferably the particles have a diameter, as measured by using laser diffraction, of
   20 m or less, such as from 2 to 20ptm.
   Preferably the particles have a BET specific surface area of 80m 2 /g or more, such as
 5 from 80 to 320m 2 /g.
   The particles of the seventh aspect are beneficial in that they have high integrity, being
   resistant to external forces, including high shear mixing.          This high integrity is
   preserved even after heat treatment (e.g. after being thermally treated at 500 0 C for 7
10 days), as is shown in the examples.
   Therefore these novel particles have the ability to retain their size and shape even when
   exposed to a high level of external force.
15 These novel particles may, in an eighth aspect, be used as a catalyst or as a catalytic
   support. They may in particular be used as a catalyst or as a catalytic support where
   that catalyst or catalytic support is produced by a method that involves exposure to
   external forces, e.g. extrusion or high shear mixing.
20 In this regard, it may be that the porous titania of the seventh aspect is mixed with a
   binder and extruded to create high surface area titania pellets for use as a catalyst or
   catalyst support. If the titania is to be used as a support, it may be a support for any
   catalytic material. The catalytic material may, however, suitably be selected from the
   group consisting of: ruthenium, rhodium, palladium, iridium, platinum, osmium, iron,
25 cobalt, nickel, copper, silver, vanadium, tungsten, chromium and molybdenum, and
   combinations thereof.
   In one embodiment, the titania may be coated with silica or the like to provide
   improved thermal stability.
30
   In one embodiment, the porous titania particles or extrudate formed therefrom may
   undergo an impregnation process, whereby catalytic promoters (such as molybdenum,
   nickel, cobalt, or a mixture thereof) are impregnated into the pores of the porous
   titania.
35

                                                 11
   In one embodiment, a thermal stabiliser (such as tungsten trioxide from a precursor
   such as ammonium metatungstate or ammonium paratungstate, lanthanum oxide from a
   precursor such as lanthanum nitrate hexahydrate, cerium oxide from a precursor such as
   cerium nitrate hexahydrate,       or silica from a precursor such as silicic acid) is
 5 incorporated. This can act to improve catalyst performance by maintaining a high BET
   surface area at elevated temperatures.
   In one preferred embodiment the titania particles of the seventh aspect (or an extrudate
   formed therefrom) are used as a catalyst or as a catalytic support in an application
10 selected from the group consisting of: emissions catalysis; catalysis of industrial
   chemical reactions; and photocatalysis. In one embodiment the particles             (or an
   extrudate formed therefrom) are used as a catalyst or as a catalytic support in an
   application selected from the group consisting of: selective catalytic reduction of
   nitrogen-based gases (including in combined diesel particle filter/ selective catalytic
15 reduction units); desulphurisation of gases in the petroleum industry by the Claus
   process; and photocatalytic cleaning, purification or disinfection.
   It is particularly beneficial to use the particles in emissions catalysis and especially
   selective catalytic reduction (SCR). There are two main manufacturing processes used
20 in relation to SCR: i) an extruded ceramic product is prepared, which is made from a
   carrier based on titania, alumina and/or zeolites, with the active catalysts being mixed
   into the carrier prior to extruding; and ii) a ceramic or metal product is prepared, which
   is then dipped into a slurry containing titania and active catalysts, which is then dried;
   this is known as a washcoat. In either case the product has a "honeycomb" form.
25
   Good strength properties and robustness may be particularly important when titania
   particles are used in an SCR manufacturing process that uses an extrusion processes.
   Therefore in one embodiment the novel particles of the seventh aspect are extruded
30 under high pressure, through extrusion dies, to produce a catalytic product suitable for
   use in exhaust systems.
   One or more active catalysts are mixed into the carrier prior to extruding. Active
   catalysts may suitably be selected from the group consisting of: ruthenium, rhodium,
35 palladium, iridium, platinum, osmium, iron, cobalt, nickel, copper, silver, vanadium,

                                                12
   tungsten, chromium and molybdenum, and combinations thereof. In the field of
   emissions   catalysts,  platinum,   palladium,  tungsten    and/or vanadium tend     to be
   preferred. In one embodiment, the catalyst is platinum and/or vanadium.
 5 The novel particles of the seventh aspect may be mixed with any other desired
   materials (e.g. other carrier or support materials, or binder materials), before extrusion.
   In one embodiment, the particles may be mixed with a cordierite and a binder as well as
   with active catalyst material before then being extruded to form a catalyst product.
10 The strength characteristics of the novel particles of the seventh aspect mean that they
   are less likely to collapse under external forces, e.g. high pressures.     Therefore they
   retain their shape, size and porosity characteristics. Known porous products may, in
   contrast, be found to exhibit some degree of collapse or reduction in pore size under
   pressure.
15
   Accordingly, in a ninth aspect of the invention, a process for preparing a catalyst
   product is provided, the process comprising the steps of:
       -   providing dried titania particles according to the seventh aspect;
       -   mixing the particles with active catalyst material;
20     -   extruding the mixture under pressure, through extrusion dies, to produce a
           catalyst product.
   The active catalyst material may be one or more active catalysts, preferably selected
   from those discussed above in relation to the eighth aspect.
25
   In one embodiment, the process also includes the step of mixing the particles with other
   carrier or support materials (e.g. ceramics, such as alumina or cordierite, or zeolites)
   and/or binder materials. This may be carried out before or after the step of mixing the
   particles with active catalyst material, but must be carried out before the extrusion step.
30
   In one embodiment, the step of providing dried titania particles according to the
   seventh aspect is carried out by carrying out the process of the sixth aspect.
   The catalyst product made by the process of the ninth aspect is particularly suitable for
35 use in exhaust systems. Due to the improved robustness of the titania particles in the

                                                 13
   product, the catalyst product has improved catalytic properties, because the titania
   particles retain their porosity even after the extrusion process involved in the
   manufacturing process. As will be appreciated by the skilled reader, improved porosity
   for the carrier/support is influential on the properties of a catalyst product.
 5
   In a tenth aspect, therefore, there is provided a catalyst product comprising titania and
   catalyst material, the catalyst product being obtainable by the process of the ninth
   aspect.
10 In a further aspect of the invention, a process for the production of titania particles with
   a desired morphology, the process comprising: providing a titania sol; and then drying
   the sol to provide dried titania particles; wherein: the pore size of the dried titania
   particles is controlled by applying the following criteria: the titania sol is produced
   from a TiO 2 containing slurry obtained using a precipitation step in a sulphate process,
15 wherein the size of micelles formed during the precipitation is controlled to be in the
   range of from 10 to 150nm; and/or the shape of the dried titania particles is controlled
   by applying the following criteria: the titania sol is dried by application of heat and the
   temperature used during the drying step is controlled to be in the range of from 50 to
   350 0 C.
20
   In a further aspect of the invention, titania in the form of particles that are obtained by
   the process as described herein, wherein the particles each have a continuous exterior
   convex surface, being spherical in shape or toroidal in shape, wherein the particles have
   a diameter, as measured by using laser diffraction, of from 2im to 30psm, wherein the
25 particle size is a geometric weight mean value, wherein the particles have a BET
   specific surface area of 50m 2 /g or more, and wherein the particles are porous, having
   pore diameters, as measured using mercury porosimetry, which are greater than 2nm.
   In a further aspect of the invention, the use of the titania particles as described herein
30 as a catalyst or as a catalytic support.
   In a further aspect of the invention, a process for preparing a catalyst product, the
   process comprising the steps of: providing dried titania particles as described herein;
   mixing the particles with active catalyst material,; extruding the mixture under
35 pressure, through extrusion dies, to produce a catalyst product.

                                                14
   In a further aspect of the invention, a catalyst product comprising titania and catalyst
   material, the catalyst product being obtained by the process as described herein.
 5 DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
   The present invention permits the control of the morphology of titania particles, both in
   terms of the overall shape of the particles (e.g. spherical or toroidal, smooth outer
   surface or rough outer surface, dense or hollow) and in terms of pore size (which in
10 turn will impact on the specific surface area).
   Although the present invention can be applied to titania particles of any size, as noted
   above there are issues surrounding use of nano materials in some areas and there is a
   desire for an alternative titania material that has a large specific surface        area.
15 Accordingly, in some embodiments the titania particles may be sized so as to be larger
   than nanoparticles, e.g. they may be meso or macro particles. In some embodiments the
   titania particles may have a particle size of greater than 0.1 ptm.
   The titania particles of the invention may suitably have a particle size of greater than
20 0.15[tm, e.g. of 0.2ptm or more, 0.3[tm or more, 0.4[tm or more, 0.5[tm or more, 0.6ptm
   or more, 0.7pm or more, 0.8ptm or more, or 0.9ptm or more. In some embodiments the
   particle size is 1.0ptm or more, such as 1.1ptm or more, 1.2[tm or more, 1.3 [m or more,
   1.4ptm or more, 1.5ptm or more, 1.6ptm or more, 1.7ptm or more, 1.8pim or more, or
   1.9 [m or more. The particle size may be 2.0 pm or more.
25
   In some embodiments the titania particles may have a particle size of from 0.2 jm to
   15ptm, such as from 0.5ptm to 12pim, e.g. from 0.7ptm to 10pjm or from 0.8pm to 8ptm,
   such as from I pm to 6pim or from 1.5 pm to 5 pm or from 2pim to 4pim.
30 The particle size is a geometric weight mean value for the particle size (appropriate for
   the approximately log normal distribution which is often found with such particles).
   The particle size may alternatively be determined by laser diffraction and may be
   measured using a laser diffraction machine, such as those available from Malvern
35 Instruments Ltd, e.g. a MasterSizer machine.

                                                  15
    The particle size may alternatively be determined by X-ray sedimentation and may be
    measured using a X-ray disc centrifuge, such as those available from Brookhaven, e.g.
    a BI-XDC machine.
  5
    As one skilled in the art is aware, crystal size is distinct from particle size. Crystal size
    relates to the size of the fundamental crystal units having internally consistent lattice
    planes, which make up the particulate material. Conventional manufacturing processes
    that manufacture titanium dioxide as a pigment will generate crystallites during a
10  precipitation process; these are considered fundamental particles and are generally
    accepted to be in the order of 100k. During the precipitation process, the crystallites
    self-assemble    into "rafts" known as micelles. These are lenticular in shape            and
    generally have an aspect ratio of about 3:1, having a major axis of about 350A for
    rutile  and about     600A   for anatase.    Conventional    manufacturing    processes  that
15  manufacture titanium dioxide as a pigment will incorporate a thermal processing step
    that causes the crystal centres of these crystallites to combine and create much larger
    crystals.
    For example, conventional titanium dioxide product in a rutile crystal form has a
20  crystal size of about 0.17 pm - 0.29 pm and a particle size of about 0.25 pm - 0.40 pm
    while conventional titanium dioxide product in an anatase crystal form has a crystal
    size of about 0.10 pm - 0.25 pm and a particle size of about 0.20 pm - 0.40 pim. The
    particle size is thus affected by factors such as the crystal size and incomplete fusion of
    crystals - as well as milling techniques used during production, such as dry, wet or
25  incorporative milling, and subsequent treatments that cause aggregation of crystals.
    The crystal size and particle size of the titanium dioxide may be determined by methods
    well known to those skilled in the art. For example, the crystal size may be determined
    by transmission electron microscopy on a rubbed out sample with image analysis of the
30  resulting photograph.      The results of the crystal size may further be validated by
    reference using latex NANOSHPHERETM              Size Standards (available      from Thermo
    Scientific).  As noted above, a method which may be used for determining the particle
    size of the titanium dioxide is laser diffraction. X-ray sedimentation may be used as an
    alternative.
35

                                                  16
   The particle size of the titanium dioxide may therefore be greater than or about equal to
   the crystal size.
   In general, to produce titanium dioxide, natural ores (such as ilmenite and mineral
 5 rutile), enriched ores (such as titanium slag and beneficiated ilmenite), or mixtures
   thereof may be used as the starting raw material. These ores may be processed by any
   suitable means, such as the sulphate process or the chloride process, to produce
   titanium dioxide crystallites and micelles of a required purity and size. This is known
   in the art and is conventional. It will be appreciated that the titanium dioxide as
10 provided in sol form in the process of the invention can, on the whole, be obtained by
   any suitable technique and the invention is not limited to any method of manufacture.
   However, it may be preferred to use the sulphate process as this then permits the use of
   a controlled nucleation during preparation of the titania sol by a Mecklenburg,
   Blumenfeld or other precipitation step in this sulphate process.
15
   One or more of the conditions discussed above may be controlled in order to select the
   pore diameters of the titania particles (i.e. the actual pores within the particles
   themselves, as compared to the packing between particles or the pores within the
   micelles that make up the particles).      Preferably, the titania particles of the invention
20 may have pore diameters which are greater than 2nm.
   In one embodiment, the titania particles are mesoporous, having pore diameters which
   are greater than 2nm but less than 50nm, e.g. from 3nm to 45nm or from 5nm to 40nm.
25 In other embodiments, the titania particles are macroporous, having pore diameters
   which are 50nm or greater, e.g. from 50nm up to 1000nm or from 50nm to 500nm.
   It may be desired to control the pore diameters to be from 4nm to 50nm, e.g. from 5nm
   to 50nm or from l0nm to 50nm, such as from 20nm to 45nm or from 25nm to 40nm.
30
   Pore diameter may be measured using mercury porosimetry (for a pore diameter range
   of about 3nm up to 200pim), e.g. using a Micromeritics AutoPore IV porosimeter,
   and/or by nitrogen isotherms (for pore diameters in the nanometre range), e.g. using a
   Micromeritics TriStar   3 0 20 TM machine.
35

                                                 17
   One or more of the conditions discussed above may be controlled in order to select the
   specific surface area of the titania particles.      Preferably, the titania particles of the
   invention may have a specific surface area which is greater than 100m 2 /g.
 5 The titania particles of the invention may have a specific surface area of greater than
   125m 2 /g, e.g. of 150m 2 /g or higher or 175m 2 /g or higher. In one embodiment, they have
   a specific surface area of 200m 2 /g or higher, such as 210m 2 /g or higher, or 220m 2 /g or
   higher, or 225m 2/g or higher.
10 In one embodiment, they have a specific surface area of 230m 2 /g or higher, such as
   235m 2 /g or higher, or 245m 2 /g or higher or 250m 2/g or higher.        It may be that the
   titania particles have a specific surface area of 260m 2/g or higher, or 270m 2 /g or higher,
   or 275m 2 /g or higher, or 280m 2 /g or higher, or 290m 2/g or higher. It may even be that
   the titania particles of the invention have a specific surface area of greater than
15 300m 2/g.
   There is no particular upper limit to the specific surface area for the titania particles of
   the invention, but in one embodiment it is up to 350m 2 /g, or up to 400m 2 /g, or up to
   450m 2 /g, or up to 500m 2 /g. This may for example, apply in an embodiment where the
20 crystal size is about is 4nm.
   The specific surface area may be determined using the Brunauer, Emmett and Teller
   method (BET method) as described in J. Am. Chem. Soc., 1938, 60, 309.
25 One or more of the conditions discussed above may be controlled in order to control the
   shapes of the titania particles.   It may be that the titania particles of the invention have
   shapes that are spherical, or it may be that the shapes are ellipsoids (e.g. a prolate
   (elongated) spheroid or an oblate (flattened) spheroid), or it may be that the shapes are
   toroidal (doughnut-shaped), or they may appear cotton-wool like or fluffy. It may be
30 that the titania particles of the invention have smooth outer surfaces or the outer
   surfaces may be rough. It may be that the titania particles of the invention are dense or
   they may be hollow.

                                                18
   The processes provided for forming the titania particles firstly involve the provision of
   a titania sol. A titania sol is a colloidal suspension of TiO 2 particles.       The TiO 2
   particles used may be anatase, rutile or amorphous or a mixture thereof.
 5 As will be well understood by the skilled person, a sol is a colloidal suspension of solid
   particles in a liquid. In this regard, a colloid is a suspension of particles whereby the
   particle size is small enough so as not to be affected by gravitational forces and so the
   particles remain suspended over an extended period of time under standard conditions,
   e.g. for a day or more, a week or more, or a month or more (such as a year or more) at
10 room temperature and pressure.
   The liquid in which the titanium dioxide particles are provided is preferably polar. In
   one embodiment, the liquid is aqueous; this may be water or an aqueous solution.
   However other polar carriers for the particles could also be contemplated, e.g. they may
15 be selected from polar organic solvents or alcohols. The liquid carrier may also be a
   mixture of two or more polar carriers, e.g., it may be a mixture of water and alcohol.
   The titania particles in the titania sol may be derived from any suitable precursor. In
   one embodiment, they are derived from a titanium dioxide obtained from a sulphate
20 manufacturing process (e.g. a Mecklenburg or Blumenfeld precipitation). They may, in
   one embodiment, be derived from a titanium dioxide obtained from a titanium
   oxysulphate precursor.
   In one embodiment, the titania sol is produced from TiO 2 prepared by a precipitation
25 step in a sulphate process (e.g. a Mecklenburg or Blumenfeld precipitation).
   After precipitation, the obtained titania hydrate may be filtered, washed free of
   impurities, and contacted with an aqueous base to form a suspension having a pH of
   about neutral.
30
   Sulphate ions can then be removed from the neutralized suspension by filtration and
   washing. It may be that the filter cake obtained after filtration is washed until the SO42
   content of the wash filtrate is less than 0. 1 g/l (which may be determined by barium
   chloride solution titration).
35

                                                19
   The filter cake is then slurried in water to produce an aqueous suspension of titania
   hydrate. This can then be peptized with acid pH adjustment (e.g. with a strong
   monoprotic acid pH adjustment) to provide the nano titania sol.
 5 In one preferred embodiment, the titania sol that is provided is a concentrated, neutral
   titania sol made in accordance with the process described in W02011/033286.
   In one embodiment the titania sol that is provided has been obtained by preparing a
   pulp via a sulphate process (e.g. with a Mecklenburg or Blumenfeld precipitation). Said
10 pulp is then neutralised (e.g. with aqueous ammonia). Optionally, the material is
   washed free from sulphates. The slurry is then peptised (e.g. using hydrochloric acid).
   Optionally, the iso-electric point of the titania is lowered (e.g. with the addition of
   citric acid). The slurry may then be neutralised (e.g. with monoisopropanolamine).
15
   Excess soluble salts may then be removed to a desired conductivity, e.g. using cross
   flow filtration, followed by water removal to concentrate the sol.
   It will be appreciated that the present invention is based around the ability to control
20 the pore size in the particles and the ability to control the shape of the particles, to
   obtain a particulate product that has characteristics suitable for a given end use.   The
   factors to be controlled in the present invention are described in more detail below:
   Controlled     nucleation   during preparation of a titania sol          by a    sulphate
25 precipitation step
   As the skilled person will appreciate, micelles are the fundamental structural units of
   titania manufactured from the sulphate process. During the sulphate process crystallites
   precipitate out from a titanium and sulphuric acid solution; these are of the order of
   100A in diameter. The micelles are then formed by these crystallites being bound
30 together by sulphate ions and water; usually these stable micelles are formed from
   hundreds of crystallites. The micelles are lenticular in shape and the major axis is
   usually sized of the order of 600A.
   The size of the micelles created at precipitation may be controlled by varying the level
35 of nuclei used in the process for preparing the sol.         As the skilled person will

                                                 20
   understand, in the Mecklenburg process nucleation involves seeding the sol during
   precipitation with nuclei, which are finely sized titania particles, to initiate or enhance
   crystal growth. In the Blumenfeld process, self nucleation occurs, and the conditions
   are controlled to impact the extent of self nucleation. Other precipitation methods are
 5 also known and during these precipitation methods the size of the micelles can likewise
   be controlled.
   It is generally accepted that each micelle contains one nucleus and that the number of
   micelles remains constant during precipitation. In the Mecklenburg process, the number
10 of micelles is a function of the number of nucleating sites introduced. As TiO 2 is
   precipitated, the ultimate size of the micelle is therefore also a function of the number
   of nucleating sites: the more nucleating sites available, the smaller the final micelles.
   These micelle particles will then flocculate into larger, less well defined particles in a
   standard precipitation; these are generally in the order of up to ~2 um in a standard
15 sulphate process precipitation.
   In the Blumenfeld process, the nucleating sites develop            spontaneously;   aqueous
   TiOSO 4 (referenced as the "TiOSO 4 -containing liquor") is introduced at a carefully
   controlled rate into a volume of water (referenced as the "foot water") that is initially
20 large in volume in comparison with the volume of the added TiOSO 4 solution (TiOSO 4
   containing liquor). At this point, there is initially a high water concentration, which
   drives the reaction
             TiOSO 4   + nuclei + OH- -       TiO 2nH 20 + H 2 SO4
   to the right and so promotes the nucleation of anatase. As further addition of aqueous
25 TiOSO 4 continues, hydrolysis of TiO 2 is stopped due to increasing acid concentration;
   and the reaction is then driven to the left. When all the aqueous TiOSO 4 has been
   introduced, there will be sufficient nuclei to continue the precipitation.
   Two variables influence the number of nucleating sites; these are:
30     i) The ratio of the volume of the TiOSO 4-containing liquor to the foot water, known
           as the 'drop ratio'.
       ii) The time taken to completely introduce the required volume of the TiOSO 4
           containing liquor to the foot water, known as the 'drop time'.

                                                 21
   In the present invention, it has been determined that by controlling the drop ratio it is
   possible to grow micelles in a Blumenfeld precipitation in the same size range as that
   of a Mecklenburg precipitation (where nuclei level can be changed by changing the
   volume of nuclei added).
 5
   Where a process is used other than Mecklenburg or Blumenfeld, the process should be
   analysed to determine if nuclei are created in situ or ex situ. Where nucleation is ex
   situ, smaller pores will result from use of greater quantities of nuclei. Where nucleation
   is in situ, the reaction time may be shortened or the dilution increased, to reduce pore
10 size.
   In one preferred embodiment, the nano titania sol that is provided is one where the
   precipitated titania micelles have been controlled so as to be sized from 10 to 150nm or
   more, (e.g. from 10 to 200nm) such as from 15 to 125nm, or from 20 to 100nm. In one
15 such embodiment, the nano titania sol that is provided is one where the precipitated
   titania micelles have been controlled so as to be sized from 10 to 60nm, such as from
   15 to 55nm, and preferably from 20 to 50nm. For example, they may be sized from 20
   to 45nm or from 20 to 40nm or from 25 to 45nm or from 25 to 40nm.
20 The larger the micelles, the higher the pore size in the resultant titania particles.
   Micelle size can be controlled in the Mecklenburg process by controlling the nucleation
   level. In this regard, a lower level of nuclei gives larger micelles.
25 In one embodiment, the sol is prepared with a nucleation level of 0.lwt% or higher,
   such as 0.5wt% or higher. In one embodiment, the sol is prepared with a nucleation
   level of 15wt% or less. In one embodiment, the sol is prepared with a nucleation level
   of from I to 15wt%.
30 By controlling the nucleation level to be at the lower end of the range, e.g. from 0. 1 to
   5wt%, or from 0.3 to 4.5wt%, or from 0.5 to 4wt%, or from 0.7 to 3.5wt%, or from 1 to
   3wt%, larger micelles are obtained and thus a higher pore size (diameter).

                                                22
   By controlling the nucleation level to be at the higher end of the range, e.g. from 5 to
   15wt%, or from 5 to 12wt%, or from 5.5 to lOwt%, or from 6 to 8wt%, smaller micelles
   are obtained and thus a smaller pore size (diameter).
 5 As noted above, micelle size can be controlled in the Blumenfeld process by varying
   the drop ratio. An increased drop ratio gives larger micelles.
   In one embodiment, the sol is prepared using a drop ratio (ratio of liquor to water used
   by volume) of 50:50 or higher, such as 60:40 or higher. In one embodiment, the sol is
10 prepared using a drop ratio of 99:1 or less. In one embodiment, the sol is prepared
   using a drop ratio of from 50:50 to 99:1.
   In one embodiment, the drop ratio is controlled to be from about 60:40 to 99:1.
15 By controlling the drop ratio to be at the lower end of the range, e.g. from 50:50 to
   80:20, or from 50:50 to 78:22, or from 50:50 to 75:25, or from 60:40 to 75:25, or from
   70:30 to 75:25, smaller micelles are obtained and thus a smaller pore size (diameter). In
   one embodiment, the drop ratio is controlled to be from about 60:40 to 80:20.
20 By controlling the drop ratio to be at the higher end of the range, e.g. from 80:20 to
   98:2, or from 82:18 to 98:2, or from 82:18 to 95:5, or from 85:15 to 98:2, or from 85:15
   to 95:5, larger micelles are obtained and thus a higher pore size (diameter). In one
   embodiment, the drop ratio is controlled to be from about 80:20 to 95:5.
25 Controlled flocculation by pH control
   When the titania sol is produced from a TiO 2 containing slurry the pH of the slurry can
   be controlled in order to the affect the extent to which the titania sol is flocculated.
   In using this feature, the nano titania sol used in the process is flocculated, such that
30 the sol as provided for drying is flocculated to a desired extent. As discussed below,
   the flocculation can be controlled so as to control the pore size and/or specific surface
   area and/or particle shape of the resultant dried titania particles.

                                                   23
    The pH may be adjusted to be closer to the iso-electric point of the titania, so there is a
    greater degree of flocculation, or the pH may be adjusted to be further from the iso
    electric point of the titania, so there is a lesser degree of flocculation.
  5 The iso-electric point is normally at a pH of from 5 to 6.
    The pH adjustment may be effected using acid (to lower the pH) or using base (to raise
    the pH).
10  For example, a strong monoprotic acid may be used, e.g. a monoprotic acid that has a
    pKa less than or equal to -1.0, especially one having a pKa less than or equal to -1.5,
    and in one embodiment having a pKa less than or equal to -1.74. Examples of acids that
    may be used include hydrochloric acid, hydrobromic acid and nitric acid. Preferably
    hydrochloric acid is used.
15
    In another embodiment, a strong monoprotic base may be used, e.g. a monoprotic base
    that has a pKb less than or equal to 1.0, especially one having a pKb less than or equal
    to 0.5, and in one embodiment having a pKa less than or equal to 0.3. Examples of
    bases that may be used include sodium hydroxide and potassium hydroxide.
20
    Therefore in the controlled flocculation of the present invention, acid or base may be
    added in a controlled manner such that the pH is adjusted to be close to the iso-electric
    point or away from the iso-electric point.
25  When the pH is adjusted to be close to the iso-electric point, the slurry is less dispersed
    (more flocculated). This leads towards larger pore sizes. It also leads towards particles
    that have a rough outer surface and that appear "fluffy". Thus in one embodiment, if
    such characteristics are desired, the pH can suitably be adjusted to be in the range of
    from 4 to 7, preferably from 4.5 to 6.5, such as from 5 to 6.
30
    In one embodiment the pH is adjusted to be within 2.5 pH units of the iso-electric
    point, preferably within 2 pH units, more preferably within 1.5 pH units, and most
    preferably within 1 pH unit of the iso-electric point, so as to obtain larger pore sizes
    and/or to obtain particles that have a rough outer surface and that appear "fluffy".
35

                                                24
   When the pH is adjusted to be away from the iso-electric point, the slurry is more
   dispersed (less flocculated). This leads towards smaller pore sizes. It also leads towards
   particles that have a smooth outer surface and that are either toroidal or spherical. Thus
   in one embodiment if such characteristics are desired, the pH can be adjusted to be in
 5 the range of from 0.5 to 4, preferably from I to 3.5, or from 1 to 3, such as from 1.5 to
   3.  Alternatively, the pH can be adjusted to be in the range of from 7 to 12, preferably
   from 7.5 to 11.5, such as from 8 to 11.
   In one embodiment the pH is adjusted to be 3 pH units or more from the iso-electric
10 point, preferably 3.5 pH units or more from the iso-electric point, more preferably 4 pH
   units or more from the iso-electric point, and most preferably 4.5 pH units or more,
   such as 5 units or more, or 5.5 units or more, from the iso-electric point, so as to obtain
   smaller pore sizes and/or to obtain particles that have a smooth outer surface and that
   are either toroidal or spherical.
15
   During formation of a titania sol it is known to peptise the slurry. This is carried out
   using acid, especially a strong monoprotic acid, e.g. a monoprotic acid that has a pKa
   less than or equal to -1.0, especially one having a pKa less than or equal to -1.5, and in
   one embodiment having a pKa less than or equal to -1.74.
20
   Examples of acids that may be used for peptisation include             hydrochloric   acid,
   hydrobromic acid and nitric acid. Preferably hydrochloric acid is used.
   Therefore in one embodiment of the controlled flocculation of the present invention,
25 this peptisation step may be carried out in a controlled manner such that the pH is
   adjusted either to be closer to the iso-electric point or to be away from the iso-electric
   point.
   Controlled flocculation by iso-electric point control
30 When the titania sol is produced from a TiO 2 containing slurry the iso-electric point of
   the titania can be controlled in order to the affect the extent to which the titania sol is
   flocculated.
   In using this feature, the nano titania sol used in the process is flocculated, such that
35 the sol as provided for drying is flocculated to a desired extent. The flocculation may

                                                25
   occur during the formation of the sol or after its formation. However, the sol as
   provided for drying must be flocculated.
   As discussed below, the flocculation can be controlled so as to control the pore size
 5 and/or specific surface area and/or particle shape of the resultant dried titania particles.
   The iso-electric point may be adjusted so as to be closer to the pH of the slurry/sol, so
   there is a greater degree of flocculation, or the iso-electric point may be adjusted to be
   further from the pH of the slurry/sol, so there is a lesser degree of flocculation.
10
   The iso-electric point is normally at a pH of from 5 to 6. However, this iso-electric
   point can be adjusted, e.g. by the addition of a dispersant, which can raise or lower the
   iso-electric point.
15 It may be that the iso-electric point is adjusted before, during or after the peptisation
   stage of sol formation. In one embodiment, this adjustment may be carried out at the
   peptisation stage of sol formation.
   When the iso-electric point is adjusted to be close to the pH, the slurry is less dispersed
20 (more flocculated). This leads towards larger pore sizes. It also leads towards particles
   that have a rough outer surface and that appear "fluffy".
   Therefore it may be that in one embodiment the iso-electric point is adjusted to be
   within 3 pH units of the pH, preferably within 2.5 pH units, more preferably within 2
25 pH units, e.g. within 1.5 units, and most preferably within 1 pH unit of the pH, so as to
   obtain larger pore sizes and/or to obtain particles that have a rough outer surface and
   that appear "fluffy".
   When the iso-electric point is adjusted to be away from the pH, the slurry is more
30 dispersed (less flocculated). This leads towards smaller pore sizes. It also leads towards
   particles that have a smooth outer surface and that are either toroidal or spherical.
   Therefore it may be that in one embodiment the iso-electric point is adjusted to be 3 pH
   units or more from the pH, preferably 3.5 pH units or more from the pH, more
35 preferably 4 pH units or more from the pH, and most preferably 4.5 pH units or more,

                                                 26
   such as 5 units or more, or 5.5 units or more, from the pH, so as to obtain smaller pore
   sizes and/or to obtain particles that have a smooth outer surface and that are either
   toroidal or spherical.
 5 In one embodiment, the controlled flocculation is achieved by contacting the nano
   titania sol with a dispersant.
   The dispersant may suitably comprise one or more dispersant material selected from:
   water soluble carboxylic acids, water soluble salts of carboxylic acids, water soluble
10 polycarboxylic acids, water soluble salts of polycarboxylic acids, phosphates            and
   silicates.
   In one embodiment, the water soluble carboxylic acid is an a-hydroxy carboxylic acid.
   The a-hydroxy carboxylic acid may comprise one, two or three carboxylic acid groups.
15 Examples of the a-hydroxy carboxylic acid that can be used are lactic acid, glycolic
   acid, malic acid, tartaric acid, mandelic acid and citric acid.
   In another embodiment, the water soluble carboxylic acid is a          p-hydroxy carboxylic
   acid.
20
   The water soluble polycarboxylic acid may be a dicarboxylic acid or a tricarboxylic
   acid.
   In general, citric acid may be a preferred choice due to its low cost and ready
25 availability.
   The dispersant will be added to the sol at a level so as to achieve the desired adjustment
   of the iso-electric point and hence to cause either more or less flocculation. Greater
   flocculation will lead to a larger size for the flocculated particles.
30
   In one embodiment, the dispersant is added to the sol in an amount of from 0.1 to
   15wt%, such as from 0.2 to 12wt% or from 0.5 to 10wt%.
   In general, the slurry will be at a pH close to the natural iso-electric point and therefore
35 the use of a low amount of dispersant ensures that there is closeness between the iso-

                                                 27
    electric point and the pH. This leads to larger pore sizes and higher specific surface
    areas for the titania particles. For example, the amount of dispersant may be from 0.1 to
                                 4                                           2
    5wt%, such as from 0.3 to      wt% or from 0.5 to 3wt%, e.g. from 1 to     .5wt%.
  5 In contrast, the use of a higher amount of dispersant ensures that there is a greater gap
    between the iso-electric point and the pH. This leads to smaller pore sizes and lower
    specific surface areas for the titania particles. For example, the amount of dispersant
    may be from 6 to 15wt%, such as from 7 to 13wt% or from 8 to 12 wt%, e.g. about 9 to
    10wt%.
10
    Controlled dryin2 during preparation of dried titania particles from a titania sol
    In the process of the present invention, once a suitable flocculated sol has been
    provided, the sol is then subjected to a drying process.
15  The temperature used during the drying step can be controlled so as to control the
    morphology of the resultant dried titania particles. Preferably, the temperature is
    controlled so as to control the particle shape of the resultant dried titania particles.
    A higher drying temperature results in toroidal (doughnut shaped) particles and a lower
20  drying temperature results in more spherically shaped particles.
    In one embodiment, the drying temperature is from 50 to 350 0 C, such as from 75 to
    325 0 C, or from 100 to 300 0 C.
25  The use of a lower drying temperature results in more spherically shaped particles. For
    example, the drying temperature may be from 50 to 150 0C, such as from 75 to 140 0 C,
    or from 100 to 125 0 C.
    The use of a higher drying temperature results in more toroidal shaped particles. For
30  example, the drying temperature may be from 160 to 350 0 C, such as from 200 to 300 0 C,
    or from 220 to 280 0 C.
    The drying process may suitably be spray drying or thermal drying. Preferably the
    drying process is spray drying.
35

                                               28
   The sol as dried may in one embodiment have a solids content of from 1% to 35%
   wt/wt, e.g. from 2 to 25% wt/wt or from 5 to 20% wt/wt or from 10 to 18% wt/wt.
   Of course, if when using the process of the invention it is decided to not control the
 5 particle shape by use of the drying temperature, any known drying process may be
   used. This includes freeze drying, thermal drying and spray drying.
   Optional steps
   It may be that the titania particles are washed, but this is not essential. If the particles
10 are washed, it may be that the washing is carried out to reduce the level of salts and
   thus the conductivity. In one embodiment washing is carried out to give a conductivity
   of less than 2ms/cm.
   As the salt level (and therefore conductivity) is reduced, shielding of charges decreases
15 enabling repulsive forces to be expressed and consequently free reconfiguration of
   particles and tighter packing is allowed.   This means that a higher surface area can be
   achieved.    In addition, the gelling behaviour of the sol appears to reduce when the
   conductivity is lowered, and higher concentrations       of particles in the sol may be
   possible.
20
   In another embodiment, however, the particles are not washed.
   Optional components
   Depending on the intended end use of the titania, other components can also be present
25 during the manufacture of the titania. These may, for example, be incorporated into the
   sol before the sol is dried.
   In one embodiment, one or more active catalytic components, such as tungsten or
   vanadium, are included during the manufacture of the titania particles. These make the
30 product suitable    for catalytic  reduction units,   such as   SCR (selective     catalytic
   reduction) units for automobile and static applications.
   In another embodiment, one or more thermal stabiliser components, such as silica, ceria
   or lanthana, are included during the manufacture of the titania particles. These assist
35 with ensuring large specific surface areas can be maintained when the product is used
   in applications where elevated temperatures occur.

                                                 29
   In another embodiment, one or more templating agents, such as polystyrene latex nano
   spheres (PSL), may be used. PSL or any other templating agent can be mixed with the
   sol prior to dying. The resultant particle can then be further heat treated to remove the
 5 templating agent to form highly porous particles. Templating agents are known to those
   skilled in the art and the use of templating agents is discussed in, for example,
   Nandiyanto et el, Chemical Engineering Journal 152 (2009) 293 -296.
   By the use of one or more templating agent, the products obtained by the invention can
10 be provided with a higher level of internal pores.
   Uses
   The present invention may be used to manufacture titania particles suitable for use in
   numerous applications, as described further below. Dependent on the intended use, the
15 skilled person will be able to identify desired morphology characteristics of the titania,
   e.g. in terms of pore size and/or particle shape, and can then control the manufacturing
   method as described above to obtain said desired characteristics.
   One preferred use of the particles is in the manufacture of catalyst products, e.g. the
20 particles may be used as a catalyst support, but other suitable end uses are also
   contemplated, as discussed below.
   Emissions Catalysts
   The titania particles may be produced in a manner that gives rise to large pore sizes,
25 and hence high surface areas, when end uses are envisaged that involve providing the
   titania as a catalytic support, such as in relation to emissions catalysts.
   The titania particles may be used as a carrier for catalysts used to reduce or eliminate
   noxious gases prior to release to the atmosphere. Examples of uses include applications
30 in mobile road systems (such as cars, motorcycles and trucks); mobile non-road
   applications (such as rail and marine) and static applications (such as power stations
   and waste incinerators).
   Catalysts that can be provided on the titania particles include ruthenium, rhodium,
35 palladium, iridium, platinum, osmium, iron, cobalt, nickel, copper, silver, vanadium,
   tungsten,   chromium     and molybdenum.       In these   fields platinum,  palladium and

                                                 30
   vanadium tend to be preferred. These catalysts can convert nitrogen oxides, carbon
   monoxide and sulphur oxides into less noxious substances.          Tungsten is also used,
   especially in selective catalytic reduction.
 5 Selective catalytic reduction (SCR) of nitrogen-based gases is possible in the presence
   of ammonia. These nitrogen-based gases include nitric oxide (NO), nitrogen dioxide
   (NO 2) and nitrous oxide (N 2 0); these have detrimental affects environmentally such as
   contributing to ground level ozone, generation of acid rain and global warming. They
   also cause and/or aggravate medical issues, such as respiratory problems.
10
   Removal of these gases can be achieved by passing emissions gases together with
   ammonia over a catalyst, such as platinum or vanadium.
   In order to achieve high efficiencies, a large surface area is required permit a maximum
15 contact of the gas to the unit area of catalyst. Titania, alumina and zeolites are common
   catalytic carriers that can provide this large surface area.
   There are two main manufacturing processes: i) extruded ceramic honeycomb made
   from titania, alumina or zeolites, with the active catalysts mixed into the carrier prior to
20 extruding and ii) a ceramic or metal honeycomb, which is then dipped into a slurry
   containing titania and the active catalysts, which is then dried; this is known as a
   washcoat.
   In one embodiment, the catalytic porous titania is present on a support. Examples of
25 support materials include glass, ceramic, metal, plastic, cement, concrete, asphalt,
   textile and paper.    The support may be porous or non-porous.        Examples of porous
   supports include a mat of fibers, a zeolite, or a porous film. The term "on a support"
   refers to the catalytic porous titania being provided on at least a portion of a surface of
   the support.    If the support is porous, the term "on a support" further includes the
30 possibility that catalytic porous titania is present within some or all of the pores of the
   support.
   In one embodiment, the titania particles can be used as a carrier or washcoat for
   selective catalytic reduction units. In such an embodiment, it will be desired to prepare

                                                 31
   titania particles that have large pore sizes, because then the porous titania will impart a
   large surface area.
   In one such embodiment, the titania particles may be prepared so as to have a toroidal
 5 shape because this shape may lend itself to improved permeability when used in
   applications such as selective catalytic reduction (SCR) units for automobile and static
   applications.
   In another embodiment, when preparing the particles, the titania sol may be mixed with
10 active catalysts prior to spray drying. In such an embodiment, it will be desired to
   prepare titania particles that have large pore sizes, because then the porous titania will
   impart a large surface area. This will result in a large surface area porous material that
   has catalytic activity. Such active catalysts include ruthenium, rhodium, palladium,
   iridium, platinum, osmium, iron, cobalt, nickel, copper, silver, tungsten, vanadium,
15 chromium and molybdenum.
   In yet another embodiment, titania particles are prepared that have large pore sizes,
   because then the porous titania will impart a large surface area, and the titania sol is
   mixed with compounds prior to spray drying that help maintain its large surface area
20 when exposed to elevated temperatures. In this regard, it is known that titania used for
   ceramic extrusions or as washcoats can be prone to a reduction in surface area as a
   result of the elevated temperatures at which the catalysts are operated. By using certain
   compounds, this effect can be mitigated. These compounds include tungsten (vi) oxide
   from a precursor such as ammonium metatungstate or ammonium paratungstate,
25 lanthanum oxide from a precursor such as lanthanum nitrate hexahydrate, cerium oxide
   from a precursor such as cerium nitrate hexahydrate and silica from a precursor such as
   silicic acid. One or more such compounds may be used. Such compounds may be added
   to the sol prior to spray drying. These may be incorporated immediately prior to spray
   drying, or may be added during parts of the sulphate process. For example, ammonium
30 metatungstate may be incorporated into the precipitation step of the sulphate process.
   Another embodiment is the use of porous titania in the manufacture of diesel particle
   filter (DPF)/ SCR combination units. In an effort to reduce unit size, while maintaining
   efficacy, manufacturers are attempting to combine these two units within emission
35 control systems. However, by using conventional titania as the filter, increased back

                                              32
   pressure will ensue due to the poor porosity of the structure. The use of porous titania
   will permit a gas flow through the filter with reduced back pressure but maintain a
   good gas to solid contact ratio.
 5 In one embodiment of the invention the titania particles may be prepared so as to have
   a toroidal shape because this shape offers improved permeability for gas flow (DPF) as
   well as improved specific surface area for the selective catalytic reduction (SCR).
   In addition, the titania may be coated with silica or the like to provide improved
10 thermal stability.
   Chemical Catalysis
   The titania particles may be produced in a manner that gives rise to large pore sizes,
   and hence high surface areas. This may be beneficial when end uses are envisaged that
15 involve providing the titania as a catalytic support, such as in relation to chemical
   catalysts.
   Examples include the desulphurisation of gases in the petroleum industry by the Claus
   process, whereby the porous titania beads act as a catalyst to promote the hydrolysis of
20 carbonyl sulphide and carbon disulphide to hydrogen sulphide and carbon dioxide.
   Titania is known to give an improved conversion rate compared to alumina based
   catalysts. In one embodiment, the porous titania will impart improved gas to solid
   contact and so enhance chemical catalysis processes such as the Claus process.
25 In another embodiment, the porous titania may be mixed with a binder and extruded to
   create high surface area titania pellets for use as a chemical catalyst or chemical
   catalyst support.
   In yet another embodiment, the porous titania beads or extrudate may undergo an
30 impregnation process, whereby catalytic promoters such as molybdenum, nickel, cobalt
   etc. or a mixture thereof, may be impregnated into the pores of the porous titania.
   In another embodiment, the addition of a thermal stabiliser          (such as ammonium
   metatungstate or ammonium paratungstate, lanthanum oxide from a precursor such as
35 lanthanum nitrate hexahydrate, cerium oxide from a precursor such as cerium nitrate

                                               33
   hexahydrate and silica from a precursor such as silicic acid) may be used to improve
   catalyst performance by maintaining a high BET surface area at elevated temperatures.
   Photocatalytic Embodiments - Self Cleaning, Antibacterial, Air purification
 5 The titania particles may be produced in a manner that gives rise to large pore sizes,
   and hence high surface areas. This may be beneficial when catalytic end uses are
   envisaged, such as in relation to photocatalysis.
   It is well known that TiO 2 is an efficient and benign photocatalyst. Photons with an
10 energy greater than or equal to the band gap of TiO 2 (3.2eV for the anatase phase) that
   strike a TiO 2 crystal, energise an electron which in turn jump from the valance band
   into an unoccupied conduction band. This results in electron pairs in the conduction
   band and positive electron holes in the valence band. These in turn can then react with
   02  to form the hydroxyl radical of 02- and with H 2 0 to form the hydroxyl radical OH
15 respectively. These radicals are extremely reactive and will degrade organic matter.
   In one embodiment, a porous titania with a large surface area can be provided, as this
   will result in more electron pairs and holes at the surface and will therefore be more
   photocatalytic. It may be used for self cleaning purposes when incorporated into
20 materials such as exterior coatings, concrete, tiles, extruded ceramic fascias, plastics,
   textiles etc.
   In another embodiment, a titania material that is porous but that is not nano sized (e.g.
   with a particle size of micron or more) can be provided, which will result in lower
25 degree of light scattering / lower refractive index, permitting the porous titania to be
   used for self cleaning in coloured systems while having a lower tinting strength
   compared to pigmentary titania.
   In another embodiment, dopants can be added during the production of the titania
30 particles. This leads to further improvements in catalytic efficacy in the porous titania.
   Additionally, certain dopants can alter the band gap and so can alter the responsiveness
   of the catalyst at different wavelengths of light. Examples of dopants include i) noble
   metals: gold, nickel, nitrogen, palladium, platinum, rhodium, silver, tin and vanadium,
   ii) cationic metals: aluminium, cerium, chromium, cobalt, copper, erbium, europium,
35 gadolimium, iron, lanthanum, manganese, molybdenum, neodymium, nickel, osmium,

                                                 34
   praseodymium, rhenium, ruthenium, samarium, vanadium and zinc and iii) anionic non
   metals: carbon, fluorine, nitrogen, phosphorus and sulphur.
   In one embodiment, the catalytic porous titania may be mixed with a reactant fluid and
 5 irradiated with visible light to provide for a chemical reaction of one or more
   components of the reactant fluid. The catalytic porous titania may then be recovered
   from the fluid and recycled for use in another portion of the reactant fluid.            The
   catalytic porous titania may be used in place of general metal catalysts such as cobalt,
   nickel,   copper,   gold,  iridium,  lanthanum,    nickel,  osmium,    platinum,  palladium,
10 rhodium, ruthenium, silver, strontium, yttrium, zirconium and tin.
   In another embodiment, the catalytic porous titania is present on a support, and the
   reactant fluid may flow in contact with the support and the composition, and when
   irradiated with light, provides for a chemical reaction of one or more components of the
15 reactant fluid.   In this configuration, the catalytic porous titania may be exposed to a
   constant stream of fluid and does not require separation of the catalytic porous titania
   from the fluid after the reaction is performed. For example, a catalytic porous titania
   may be applied to a support, for example an automobile exhaust system, where the
   exhaust system has been fitted with a visible or UV light source, such as a fiber optic
20 light source or an LED light source.      Irradiation of the catalytic porous titania during
   operation of the automobile engine may provide for degradation of organics and other
   pollutants generated in the engine into environmentally acceptable substances.
   In another embodiment, the catalytic porous titania may be present on a surface that is
25 contacted with various environmental contaminants or pollutants, such as dirt, grease
   and other organic and inorganic contaminants and pollutants.           The catalytic porous
   titania, optionally in the form of a formulation comprising the catalytic porous titania,
   is applied to the surface and the surface is irradiated with UV/visible light while the
   contaminants or pollutants contact the surface.      Upon exposure to UV/visible light, the
30 surface becomes "self-cleaning" because it degrades or inactivates the contaminants or
   pollutants.   For example, self-cleaning glass may have a transparent or translucent
   coating of the catalytic porous titania applied on one or both sides of the glass.
   Contaminants that contact the glass may then be degraded when the glass is exposed to
   UV/visible light.
35

                                                 35
   In another embodiment, the catalytic porous titania may be present on a surface that is
   exposed to microbes (such as bacteria and fungi) and/or viruses.        Upon exposure to
   UV/visible light, such a surface may be a "disinfecting surface" because it destroys or
   inactivates microbes and/or viruses that are present on the surface.         For example,
 5 surfaces in residential, commercial or hospital environments may have a coating of the
   catalytic porous titania applied on the surface. Microbes and/or viruses that contact the
   surface may then be destroyed or inactivated when the surface is exposed to UV/visible
   light.    Examples of surfaces that may be made into disinfecting surfaces include
   countertops, flooring, walls, handles, switches, knobs, keypads, telephones, bed frames
10 and surfaces of medical instruments.
   The catalytic porous titania may also be applied to a surface to provide temporary
   disinfection of the surface. For example, the catalytic porous titania may be introduced
   into a cleaning composition. The cleaning composition may be in the form of a liquid,
15 foam or a lotion. Application of the cleaning composition to a surface, followed by
   exposure of the surface to UV/visible light, may cause the destruction or inactivation of
   microbes or viruses that are present on the surface. Such cleaning compositions may be
   formulated for use on skin to provide a disinfecting personal care product.
20 In yet another embodiment, the catalytic porous titania may be used in composite
   materials,  including    polymer composites,     fabrics  and nonwoven    materials.  For
   example, the catalytic porous titania may be incorporated with fibers into textile
   fabrics. These fabrics may provide for degradation of contaminants in contact with the
   fabric when exposed to UV/visible          light, resulting in self-cleaning  and/or self
25 disinfecting fabrics.
   The catalytic porous titania may also be used for air and/or water purification.      For
   example, the catalytic porous titania may be mixed with contaminated air or water and
   irradiated with UV/visible light. Contaminants in the air or water may be degraded into
30 substances that are volatile or that are more easily separated from the air or water. For
   example, contaminants containing organic substances and halogenated substances may
   be degraded into carbon dioxide and halide ions, which may then be separated from the
   air or water.   In the case of air purification, the degradation of contaminants such as
   NO and NO    2 either individually or collectively and VOCs may also result in cleaner air
35 and control of odours in the air.

                                               36
 5 Drug Release
   In one embodiment, titania particles may be prepared in accordance with the invention
   so as to be hollow, or porous with large size pores, or spherical with highly rough
   surfaces. These titania particles may be used as a carrier in a drug delivery system,
   whereby the active ingredient is impregnated into the hollow particle or into the pores
10 of the highly porous particle.
   The low density, porous particles are ideal for pulmonary drug delivery due to their
   aerodynamic shape which gives rise to good pulmonary dispersibility.
15 In another embodiment, titania particles may be prepared in accordance with the
   invention so as to be hollow, or porous with large size pores, or spherical with highly
   rough surfaces, and these particles are impregnated with an active ingredient and then
   coated in a degradable coating, whereby the coating is degraded following delivery,
   e.g. to the GI tract. Types of delivery include immediate, thermo-sensitive release and
20 controlled release.
   Another embodiment involves the preparation of titania particles with large pore sizes
   in a method whereby there is also impregnation of magnetite, or another detectable
   substance, into the porous titania. Alternatively, the titania particles with large pore
25 sizes are prepared, followed by the encapsulation of magnetite (or another detectable
   substance) by spray drying the titania sol with the magnetite or other detectable
   substance.   The particles prepared in this manner are suitable for use as intravascular
   probes for diagnostic purposes such as imaging.
30 Another embodiment involves the preparation of titania particles with large pore sizes
   and/or hollow titania particles and/or highly rough spherical titania particles, in a
   method whereby there is also impregnation of active substance(s) into the hollow/
   porous/rough surfaced titania. These particles may be used as a drug delivery system
   used for both active and passive targeting.
35
   Biodegradable packaging

                                                 37
   In one embodiment, titania particles may be prepared in accordance with the invention
   so as to be hollow, or porous with large size pores, or spherical with highly rough
   surfaces. These titania particles may be used as a means to biodegrade packaging
   following a predetermined time period.
 5
   This involves encapsulating the particle with a compound that will photo-catalytically
   degrade over a predetermined time period. Said particle will then over time start to
   photo-catalytically degrade the packaging into which it is incorporated.
10 Nb dope for conductive coatings
   In one embodiment, titania particles may be prepared in accordance with the invention
   so as to be hollow, or porous with large size pores. These titania particles may be
   doped with niobium. Accordingly, the semiconductor nature of the titania can be
   modified, so that the particles instead become a conductor.       The particles may then be
15 used in conductive coatings.
   In this respect, it is possible to create conductive coatings based on such doped
   particles for use in display screens or organic light emitting diodes. Porous or hollow
   titania particles that have a relatively large particle size (above nano size, e.g. 1 micron
20 in diameter or more) exhibit a lower degree of light scattering compared to titania
   manufactured for its pigmentary properties. As a result, it is possible to create a
   transparent coating which can be utilised for display purposes.
   In one embodiment, porous or hollow titania particles are produced by the process of
25 the invention and that have been doped with niobium during the production process.
   These exhibit transparency and conductivity and can be used in applications such as
   display screen equipment or organic light emitting diodes.
   Dye Sensitised Solar Cells (DSSCs)
30 In one embodiment, titania particles may be prepared in accordance with the invention
   so as to be porous with large size pores and so as to have a high surface area.
   The semiconductor properties of the titania, in combination with this large surface area
   and highly porous structure, means these particles may be used as semiconductor films
35 in DSSCs (Dye Sensitised Solar Cells).

                                                38
   For example, an electric current is produced when dye molecules are excited by
   exposure to light. The excited dye molecules transfer electrons into the conduction
   band of the titania material, which conducts the electrons to a current collector
   connected to an electrical circuit with a load. The highly porous structure of the titania
 5 gives a high surface area and therefore a high level of absorption of dye molecules onto
   the porous titania structure thus resulting in increased cell efficiency.
   In a further embodiment, the porous titania material may be used as a semiconductor
   film in a flexible DSSC. Low temperature curing is possible due to the improved
10 primary particle contacts in the aggregated particles, thus resulting in effective
   electrical conductivity across the particles. For example, a DSSC can be created on a
   flexible plastic substrate that requires low curing temperatures.
   In yet another embodiment, a sensitizing dye for use in DSSCs can be added into the
15 pore structure of the titania during manufacture of the titania or after the dried titania
   has been obtained. The material would therefore be supplied pre-loaded with dye, thus
   eliminating the lengthy process of dying the electrode when fabricating DSSCs. This
   would reduce both the time and complexity of DSSC production, and potentially
   increase the dye absorption onto the catalytic material, therefore increasing the
20 potential efficiency of the cell.
   In one embodiment, titania particles may be prepared in accordance with the invention
   so as to be porous with a controlled size of pores.
25 In DSSC applications it can be useful for the titania particles can have their pore
   structures specifically "tuned" for the end use. In the DSSC applications, the TiO 2 has
   dye adsorbed onto its surface and the more dye that is accessible by the electrolyte, and
   the more that is in contact with the TiO 2 , the better the electron transfer. Therefore by
   tuning the pore system (e.g. in terms of the number of pores, size of pores), the
30 potential efficiency of the solar cell can be improved.
   UV Protection
   In one embodiment, titania particles may be prepared in accordance with the invention
   so as to be porous with large size pores and so as to have a high surface area.
35 Preferably the particles are larger than nano size, e.g. 1 micron in diameter or more.

                                               39
   Due to these particles having a relatively large particle size, along with the highly
   structured porous nature, similar to that of an aerogel, the particles will have a low
   refractive index. Therefore the particles can be used to provide a material, e.g. a
   coating, with UV protection properties. The material may be transparent.
 5
   In one such embodiment the porous titania can be given a coating of silica; this would
   lock in the photo-activity of the TiO 2 , and hence make an excellent product for UV
   protection.
10 These particles could be used in personal care products and cosmetic formulations,
   such as sunscreens, moisturizers, color foundations, lipstick, lip balm, foot care
   products and ointments.    These particles could also be used in coatings and masonry
   formulations, such as in automotive coatings, wood coatings, building coatings, glass
   coatings, flooring, swimming pool surfaces, and cement or concrete coatings.
15
   In one embodiment the porous titania particles could be silica coated to provide an
   effective UV protector for use in plastics. For example, the silica coated particles could
   be incorporated into a polymer, such as plastic containers, window frames, building
   sidings or the like, and could provide protection to the polymer from UV light. This
20 would lead to greater durability and life span of the plastics exposed to UV light.
   In another embodiment the particles may be encapsulated in silica, for example a stable
   nano silica sol may be mixed with the TiO 2 sol prior to drying. The mix would then be
   spray dried in conditions to favor encapsulation; this would result in a titania bead
25 encapsulated in silica, due to the smaller silica nano particles migrating to the outer
   edge of the droplet in the spray drying process. This would provide a particle fully
   encapsulated in silica and therefore provide a particle with effective UV protection
   properties that could be used in any situation where a UV protective coating is
   required.
30
   In further embodiments the porous titania material can be doped with metals, such as
   Fe, Cr, Mn, Ce, Ni, Cu, Sn, Al, Pb, Ag, Zr, Zn, Co, Mo and W, or non-metals such as
   B, C, N, P, As, S, Se, Te, F, Cl, Br and I. Doping with these elements can cause a
   increase in the catalytic properties and/or a decrease in the catalytic properties;
35 therefore it is possible to increase the UV protection properties. For example, a co-

                                               40
   precipitation can be used to dope transition metals into the titanium dioxide lattice,
   whereby a dopant is added to the titania sulphate liquor; this is then precipitated out
   resulting in doped titania. This would then improve the UV protection due to a change
   in band gap to reduce the photo-catalysis.
 5
   In a further embodiment the porous titania may be subject to calcination; this converts
   the crystal structure from the anatase structure to the rutile structure. This therefore
   makes the particles less photoactive, as the rutile structure of titanium dioxide is less
   photoactive than that of the anatase form. Of course, rutile titania particles may also be
10 prepared in the sol in the first place. Use of rutile titania may be helpful in UV
   protection applications such as those noted above.
   CICPs (Complex inorganic coloured pigments)
   In one embodiment, titania particles may be prepared in accordance with the invention
15 so as to be porous with large size pores and so as to have a high surface area.
   This porous titania material can be used as a base for CICP materials, due to its highly
   porous nature and high surface area.
20 For example, the titanium dioxide base can be combined with one or more metal ions,
   such   as   antimony,   chromium, nickel,   manganese,    iron,  niobium,    tin, tungsten,
   vanadium, zinc or cobalt. The mix can then be calcined to give highly coloured, high
   chroma pigments.
25 Water Splitting
   In one embodiment, titania particles may be prepared in accordance with the invention
   so as to be porous with large size pores
   In one such embodiment, the porous titania material may be used as a catalytic material
30 for the production of hydrogen and oxygen via water splitting.
   For example, water containing the catalytic composition may be decomposed into
   hydrogen and oxygen by photo-catalysis when the water is irradiated with UV/visible
   light. Alternatively this decomposition may be carried out in a photo-chemical cell
35 having    a   photo-anode   containing   a quaternary   oxide.   The   use    of  a  photo-

                                               41
   electrochemical cell has the benefit that it can provide for separate collection of
   hydrogen and oxygen from the cell.
   Lithium-Ion Battery
 5 In one embodiment, titania particles may be prepared in accordance with the invention
   so as to be porous with large size pores
   In one such embodiment, the porous titania material may be used as an electrode in a
   lithium-ion battery, due to the highly porous nature and the good inter-particle contacts
10 in the aggregated particle. This provides efficient transport of lithium ions and
   favoured ion-exchange ratio, which results in a high value of charge/discharge capacity
   and good kinetic characteristics. There are also fewer safety concerns than with use of
   conventional carbon negative electrode batteries.
15 Sensors
   In one embodiment, titania particles may be prepared in accordance with the invention
   so as to be porous with large size pores and so as to have a high surface area.
   In such an embodiment, the semiconductor and catalytic properties of the titania can be
20 used for sensing gases. Therefore the titania particles may be used as a sensor material.
   The sensing process is mainly a surface process between the TiO 2 surface and the gas
   molecules; therefore the porous particles prove excellent candidates, due to the highly
   porous structure and large surface area.
25
   Titanium dioxide can be used as a gas sensor because the electrical conductivity of
   titanium   dioxide   can  change   depending    on   the  chemical  composition   of  the
   environment. The electrical resistance of the titania particles (or a material containing
   the titania particles) may be measured in an environment and compared with the
30 electrical resistance in a control environment.    The difference between the measured
   resistance and the control resistance may be correlated with the amount and/or identity
   of a gas in the environment.
   Examples of gases that may be identified and/or measured include hydrogen, carbon
35 monoxide,    hydrogen sulfide,   and water,    acetone,  ethanol  and methanol.   Certain

                                                42
   titanium dioxide based gas sensors can be used at low temperatures, whilst other are
   suited to elevated temperatures.
   In a further embodiment the porous titania can be doped with metals such as Al, Pd, Pt,
 5 Nb, Cr, Pt, Ta, K and La; this will improve the selectivity and sensitivity of the porous
   titania particles for use as a gas analyser.
   Fuel Cells
   In one embodiment, titania particles may be prepared in accordance with the invention
10 so as to be porous with large size pores and so as to have a high surface area.
   In one such embodiment, due to the high surface area and its semiconductor properties,
   the porous titania particles can be used as a catalyst support in a fuel cell, especially in
   proton exchange membrane fuel cells (PEMFC).
15
   A PEMFC works by using a fuel (usually hydrogen, but in some cases organic
   compounds such as methanol). The fuel cell consists of an anode, cathode and an
   electrolyte. The anode consists of a catalyst (usually platinum); this oxidizes the fuel.
   The positively charged particles       travel through a polymer electrolyte      membrane
20 whereas the negatively charged electrons must run through an external circuit to the
   cathode, thus resulting in the generation of electricity. The cathode also consists of a
   catalyst (usually platinum) to reduce the positively charged particles to H 2 0.
   The platinum catalysts are usually supported on a porous carbon support; however
25 porous titania particles made by the process of the invention would prove a effective
   support medium, due to their large surface area and            excellent electron transfer
   properties. They will also have improved stability as compared to carbon supports.
   Water Purification
30 In one embodiment, titania particles may be prepared in accordance with the invention
   so as to be porous with large size pores and so as to have a high surface area.
   Preferably the particles are larger than nano size, e.g. 1 micron in diameter or more.
   In one such embodiment, the highly porous product with a large surface area and large
35 particle size, in combination with its catalytic composition, means the porous titania

                                                  43
   particles can be used in the field of water purification.      Therefore the titania particles
   may be used as a water purification material.
   For example, the titania particles may be mixed with contaminated water and irradiated
 5 with UV/visible light. Contaminants in the water may be degraded into substances that
   are volatile or that are more          easily separated from the water.         For example,
   contaminants     containing   organic    substances  and halogenated     substances   may be
   degraded into carbon dioxide and halide ions, which may then be separated from the
   water.
10
   Currently problems arise with using nano titanium dioxide particles; the problem lies
   with separating the nano particles from the water. However the porous titania particles
   made according to the process of the invention can have a larger than nano particle
   size, thus filtering the TiO 2 particles from the water will be easier and more effective.
15
   The particles still exhibit the beneficial properties of the nano titania, however, such as
   large surface area and high photocatalytic activity. Therefore the particles are as
   effective, if not more effective, than nano titanium dioxide particles.
20 In one such embodiment the porous titania particles can be doped with metals, such as
   Fe, Cr, Mn, Ce, Ni, Cu, Sn, Al, Pb, Ag, Zr, Zn, Co, Mo and W, or non-metals such as
   B, C, N, P, As, S, Se, Te, F, Cl, Br and I. This doping causes a change in the band gap
   and   thus an increase      in the    photocatalytic  properties,  therefore   increasing the
   effectiveness of its use in water purification systems.
25
   The invention will now be further described, in a non-limiting fashion, with reference
   to the following examples and drawings.
   Brief Description of the Drawings
30         Figure 1 is an image obtained by scanning electron microscopy (SEM) of the
   particles of the product obtained in Example 2.
           Figure 2a is an image obtained using transmission electron microscopy (TEM)
   of the particles of the product obtained using 6% nucleation at precipitation in Example
   3.

                                                 44
            Figures 2b-2f are images obtained using transmission electron microscopy
    (TEM) of the micelles produced by sulphate precipitation at nucleation levels of 6%,
    2%, 1%, 0.5% and 0.l1%, respectively, in Example 3.
            Figures 3a-3e are images obtained by scanning electron microscopy (SEM) of
  5 the particles of the products obtained in Example 4 at pH values of 5.5, 4.5, 3.25, 2,
    and 1.5, respectively.
            Figure 4a is an image obtained by scanning electron microscopy (SEM) of the
    particles of the product obtained in Example 6 prepared using 15% silica as a dopant.
            Figure 4b is an image obtained by scanning electron microscopy (SEM) of the
10  particles of the product obtained in Example 6 prepared using 10% WO        3 as a dopant.
            Figures 5a-5d are images obtained by scanning electron microscopy (SEM) of
    the particles of the dried products obtained in Example 7 for a sol having 1% solids at
    dryer inlet temperatures of 110 C, 150'C, 200'C, 250'C, respectively.
            Figures 6a-6d are images obtained by scanning electron microscopy (SEM) of
15  the particles of the dried products obtained in Example 7 for a sol having 10% solids at
    dryer inlet temperatures of 110 C, 150'C, 200'C, 250'C, respectively.
            Figures 7a-7d are images obtained by scanning electron microscopy (SEM) of
    the particles of the dried products obtained in Example 7 for a sol having 17% solids at
    dryer inlet temperatures of 110 C, 150 0 C, 200 0 C, 250 0 C, respectively.
20
    EXAMPLES
    Example 1
    A concentrated anatase titania sol was obtained by a 6% nucleated precipitation that
25  was carried out in accordance with the method of W02011/033286. Samples of the sol
    were thermally dried at (a) 105'C and (b) 200'C.
    The specific surface areas of each of the dried samples were tested using the BET
    method.
30
                 Sample                               Thermally Dried Sample
                                                      105 0 C         200 0 C
                 BET     specific   surface   area    280.9           311.2
                 (m 2/g)
35

                                                45
   When repeated with a higher drying temperature being applied, the particles were more
   toroidal in shape and had a higher specific surface area.
   Example 2
 5 A concentrated titania sol was prepared using clean Scarlino rutile nuclei (washed free
   of salts, 0.5ms/cm). The sol was produced as in method outlined in W02011/033286. In
   this regard, the washed Scarlino nuclei were peptised to pH 1.5, 10% citric acid was
   added, MIPA was added to take the pH to 8, and then the particles were washed to
   <2ms/cm.
10
   The concentrated sol was then spray dried at 17% at 1 10 C using a Lab Plant Super 7
   laboratory spray drier.
   The specific surface area of the sample was tested using the BET method. The pore size
15 and pore volume were measured by both mercury porosimetry and nitrogen isotherms.
   BET SSA (m 2/g)                       87.52
   Mercury Large Pore Size (pm)          1.7018
   Mercury Small Pore Size (nm)          23.1
   Nitrogen Large Pore Size (nm)         40.65
   Nitrogen Small Pore Size (nm)         1.4
   Pore Volume mercury (cm 3 /g)         0.36
   Pore Volume nitrogen (cm 3/g)         0.31
   Scanning electron microscopy (SEM) was carried out to image the particles of the
   product obtained. The obtained image is shown in Figure 1.
20
   When the experiment is repeated with a higher drying temperature being applied, the
   particles become more toroidal in shape and have a higher specific surface area.
   Thus the invention applies for rutile material as well as anatase.
25
   Example 3
   Several different concentrated titania sol products were obtained by precipitation that
   was carried out in accordance with the method of W02011/033286. These were

                                                  46
   obtained using different levels of nucleation at precipitation. One had a 1% nucleated
   precipitation, one had a 2% nucleated precipitation and one had a 6% nucleated
   precipitation.
 5 Samples from each product were spray dried using a LabPlant SD-05 laboratory spray
   drier.
   The specific surface areas of each of the dried samples were tested using the BET
   method.
10
   The pore size was       measured using mercury porosimetry,        using a Micromeritics
   AutoPore IV porosimeter.
             %       Nucleation       at   1                2          6
             precipitation
           BET SSA (m 2 /g)                219.8            269.1      314.5
           Pore Size (nm)                  9.5              6.7        4.3
15 It can be seen that by using a lower level of nucleation, the pore size (diameter) was
   higher.
   This confirms what the present inventors have determined, namely that by controlling
   the extent of nucleation, and therefore by controlling the micelle size, the pore size in
20 the resultant titania particles can be controlled, with lower nucleation levels giving rise
   to larger pore sizes in the resultant titania particles.
   Accordingly, a desired set of properties in the end product can be obtained by suitable
   control of the parameters in the process of manufacture of the titania.
25
   Transmission electron microscopy (TEM) was also carried out to image the particles of
   the product obtained using 6% nucleation at precipitation. The obtained image is shown
   in Figure 2a.

                                                47
   Transmission electron microscopy (TEM) was then carried out to image the micelles
   produced by sulphate precipitation at nucleation levels of 6%, 2%, 1%, 0.5% and 0.10.
   The obtained images are shown in Figures 2b-2f respectively.
 5 It can be seen that micelle sizes as large as 150nm or more can be obtained with a
   nucleation level of 0.1% or lower. By increasing the nucleation level the size of the
   micelles decreases. Therefore      control of the micelle size can be exerted.         As a
   consequence, the pore size in the resultant titania particles can be controlled.
10 As discussed above, the present inventors have determined that by controlling the
   micelle size the pore size in the resultant titania particles can be controlled, with larger
   micelles giving rise to larger pore sizes in the resultant titania particles.
   Accordingly, a desired set of properties in the end product can be obtained by suitable
15 control of the parameters in the process of manufacture of the titania.
   Example 4
   A range of concentrated slurries were obtained by Mecklenberg precipitation,               in
   accordance with the method of W02011/033286. A 6% nucleation level was used at
20 precipitation. The titania slurries were peptised with a peptising agent to achieve
   various pH levels (1.5,    2, 3.25, 4.5 and 5.5). Hydrochloric acid was used as the
   peptising agent.
   The flocculation size of the slurries was determined using X-ray sedimentation method
25 on a Brookhaven machine (BI-XDC X-ray Disc Centrifuge).
      pH from peptisation      5.5          4.5         3.25         2           1.5
      Size  of Flocculated      1319        962         957          33          14
      product    in   slurry
      (nm)
   It can be seen that at a pH close to the iso-electric point (pH 5-6) there is more
   flocculation and the slurry is less dispersed.
30

                                                48
   This leads towards larger pore sizes. It also leads towards particles that have a rough
   outer surface and that appear "fluffy". This was illustrated by the use of scanning
   electron microscopy.
 5 In this regard, scanning electron microscopy (SEM)          was carried out to image the
   particles of the product obtained. The obtained images are shown in Figures 3a-e.
   Figure 3a is pH 5.5, Figure 3b is pH 4.5, Figure 3c is pH 3.25, Figure 3d is pH 2, and
   Figure 3e is pH 1.5.
10 It can be seen that at a pH closer to the iso-electric point (pH 5-6), larger pore sizes are
   obtained and the particles have a rough outer surface and appear "fluffy".       As the pH
   moves further away from the iso-electric point, smaller pore sizes are obtained and the
   particles have a smoother outer surface and are either toroidal or spherical.
15 Example 5
   A range     of concentrated   sols   were   prepared   by  Mecklenberg    precipitation,  in
   accordance with the method of W02011/033286. A 1.8% nucleation level was used at
   precipitation, peptisation was effected to pH 1.5, and citric acid (dispersant) was added.
20 The sols were prepared with various levels of citric acid (1%, 2.3%, 3% and 10%) as
   the dispersant,   to give a range      of sols   with differing   extents of flocculation.
   Subsequently, MIPA was added to take the pH to 8. The particles were then either left
   unwashed or were washed (to give a conductivity of <2ms/cm).            The sols were then
   spray dried using a LabPlant Super 7 laboratory spray dryer.
25
   The dried samples were then analysed for surface area via the BET method and porosity
   by both mercury porosimetry and nitrogen isotherms.

                                                 49
   Citric Acid Level (%)        1                  .3         3           10
   Conductivity(ms/cm- 1 )        0.6               1.1        19.8        0.6
   BET SSA (m 2/g)              177.8            179.9         136       75.4
   Mercury Large Pore Size
   (pm)                           .599           1.9317         .2885     1.5703
   Mercury Small Pore Size
   (nm)                         14.2             14.2          13.1       11.2
   Nitrogen Large Pore Size
   (nm)                         39.6               2.5        33.5         6.5
   Nitrogen Small Pore Size
   (nm)                         0.67            0.67          0.66         .64
   Citric Acid Level (%)        1                 .3                      10
   Conductivity (ms/cm- 1 )       2                2            2          2
   BET SSA (m 2/g)                48.8            54.1          58         39.6
   Mercury Large Pore Size
   (pm)                         1.8142          1.6069         1.59       1.9178
   Mercury Small Pore Size
   (nm)                         14.9            13.2           11.4      8.9
   Nitrogen Large Pore Size
   (nm)                         33.5              6.7           1.1       14.8
   Nitrogen Small Pore Size
   (nm)                         0.81            0.54            .54      0.56
 5 When lower amounts of dispersant were used, the iso-electric point was closer to the
   pH of the slurry. This resulted in the slurry being less dispersed.
   It can be seen from the results that this use of lower amounts of dispersant (1% and
   2.3%) leads to large surface areas, both in the washed and unwashed products. The use
10 of lower amounts of dispersant (1% and 2.3%) also leads to larger pore sizes in the
   particles, both in the washed and unwashed products.

                                               50
   The porosity results show three distinct pore size regions:
       *    >lum = cavities between particles
       *    5-20 nm = the pores within the particles (between the micelles)
 5     0    -0.6 nm = pores within micelles.
   The washing of the particles reduces the level of salt and therefore the conductivity. As
   the salt level (and therefore conductivity) is reduced, there are fewer charges present
   causing repulsion between particles and therefore the particles can pack together more
10 closely. In addition, gaps are left behind that were previously filled by salts. This
   means that a higher surface area can be achieved.
   In addition, the gelling behaviour of the sol appears to reduce when the conductivity is
   lowered, and higher concentrations of particles in the sol may be possible.
15
   Example 6
   A range of sols were prepared using a Blumenfeld process with a 70:30 drop ratio and
   a 10 minute drop time to give a modal micelle size of 23nm. One sol was prepared in
   the standard method outlined in W02011/033286. Another sol was doped with 10%
20 W0  3  in the form of ammonium metatungstate at precipitation, and then processed
   according to the method outlined in W02011/033286.          A final sol was prepared with
   10% silica added in the form of silicic acid; this was added after the peptisation stage,
   by passing sodium silicate through an ion exchange column to produce silicic acid,
   after this the sol was prepared as in W02011/033286.
25
   The sols were then spray dried using a Lab Plant Super 7 laboratory spray dryer.
   Scanning electron microscopy (SEM) was carried out to image the particles of the
   doped products obtained. The obtained images are shown in Figures 4a-b. Figure 4a is
30 15 % silica, Figure 4b is  10% W0 3 .
   The spray dried porous titania samples were then calcined at 500'C for 5 hours, 1 day,
   3 days and 7 days. The specific surface areas of the calcined samples were then
   measured via the BET method.

                                                51
                                  BET SSA after calcination at 500"C (m 2/g)
      Variant         Control          5 hrs          1 day        3 days           7 days
     Standard          301.3            84.8           77.7          70.5             65.3
    Std + 10%
                       257.7           113.6          112.5         102.0            100.4
        W0  3
    Std + 15%
                       278.1           265.2          262.8         257.2           255.4
        Si0 2
   It can be seen that the use of dopants gives rise to improved thermal stability. In
   particular, the use of the SiO 2 dopant leads to a product where the particles are
 5 sufficiently stable to retain their large surface areas even after high temperature
   calcination for prolonged periods of time.
   Example 7
   A range of sols were prepared by the Mecklenberg method with a 6% nucleation level
10 at precipitation. The sols were prepared in the standard way and the diluted to different
   levels to give sols at a range of solids content (1%, 10%, 17% & 25% wt/wt % solids).
   The sols were then dried via a Lab Plant laboratory spray dryer, and particle size
   measured via the laser diffraction method using a Malvern Instruments Ltd MasterSizer
15 instrument.
   Dryer       Feed
   Concentration       1%                 10%               17%              25%
   (wt/wt %)
   Particle     Size   3.05               6.75              8.59              10.17
   (sm) Malvern
   Therefore it can be seen that particle size can be controlled by controlling the solids
   content of the spray dryer feed, with higher solids contents leading to larger particles.
20
   The inlet temperature to the dryer was altered (110'C, 150'C, 200'C, 250'C) to assess
   the effect of this drying temperature on sols with 1% solids, 10% solids and 17%
   solids.

                                               52
   Scanning electron microscopy (SEM) was carried out to image the particles of the dried
   products obtained. The obtained images are shown in Figures 5a-d (1% solids),
   Figures 6a-d (10% solids) and Figures 7a-d (17% solids).
 5
   In each case, image a is after drying at 110'C, image b is after drying at 150'C, image c
   is after drying at 200'C and image d is after drying at 250'C.
   Therefore it can be seen that particle shape can be controlled via the spray dryer inlet
10 temperature. A lower inlet temperature gives more spherical particles (which can be
   hollow), whilst a higher temperature leads to the formation of toroidal (doughnut
   shaped) particles.
   Example 8
15 A concentrated titania sol was obtained by precipitation that was carried out in
   accordance with the method of W02011/033286.
   The samples used were from a 6% nucleated Mecklenburg precipitation, that had been
   peptised to pH 1.5, addition with 10% citric acid, MIPA neutralised and CFF washed to
20 <2ms/cm.
   The sol was spray dried using a laboratory scale Lab Plant Super 7 spray dryer, to form
   porous spherical particles. The sol was at a solids concentration of 17% wt/wt, and was
   spray dried at a temperature of 110 C.
25
   The dried particles were then dispersed in water at a concentration of 100g/l.
   The resulting dispersion was then milled for 30 minutes using a high shear Silverson
   mixer. The particle size was measured using a Malvern Instruments Ltd MasterSizer
30 laser diffraction instrument. Measurements were taken prior to milling (0 minutes),
   during milling (at 10 minutes and 20 minutes) and after milling (at 30 minutes).

                                                53
         Milling time             0 min          10 min         20 min           30 min
          d(v,0.1) ptm             2.24            1.99           1.95             1.98
         d(v, 0.5) ptm             6.55            6.09           5.98             5.79
           d(4, 3) ptm              8.05           6.89           6.55             6.18
         d(v, 0.9) ptm             14.64          12.64           11.9            10.81
   Modal particle size ptm         7.99            7.15           7.13             7.02
   This shows that the particles obtained are very stable under high shear forces.
   The experiment was then repeated but with the spray dried particles being thermally
 5 treated at 500'C for 7 days prior to milling, in order to assess whether the stability of
   the particles was still maintained after heat treatment.
   Again, the particle size was measured using a Malvern Instruments Ltd MasterSizer
   laser diffraction instrument. Measurements were taken prior to milling (0 minutes),
10 during milling (at 10 minutes and 20 minutes) and after milling (at 30 minutes).
         Milling time             0 min          10 min         20 min          30 min
          d(v,0.1) ptm             2.64            2.96           2.34            2.30
         d(v, 0.5) ptm             6.64            7.46           6.01             5.78
           d(4, 3) ptm              8.03           8.85           6.95             6.65
         d(v, 0.9) ptm             14.70          16.02          11.85            11.32
   Modal particle size ptm         7.92            9.16           7.05             6.94
   It can be seen that the particles remain very stable under high shear forces even after
   heat treatment.
15
   High shear mixing stability is important of a predictor of robustness and would indicate
   good resistance to mechanical stresses, including compressive forces such as those
   within catalyst installations. This robustness may, for example, be important in end
   uses relating to catalysis, and especially where extrusion of is required in the
20 manufacture of the catalyst product, such as in SCR and combined SCR/DPF.

                                                54
   Example 9
   Blaine data, comparing toroidal particles obtained by the invention and spherical
   particles obtained by the invention, was obtained by a test carried out according to
 5 BS4359: Part 2: 1982.
   Both samples were obtained from example 7.
   The toroidal sample was one that had been spray dried at a concentration of 10% wt/wt
10 solids and spray dried at 250'C (i.e. the product shown in Figure 6d).
   The spherical sample was one that had spray dried at a concentration of 10% wt/wt
   solids and spray dried at 110 C (i.e. the product shown in Figure 6a).
                  Sample                    Toroidal       Spherical
                  Blaine Porosity           0.720          0.688
                  Blaine Test -             21180          19869
                  cm 2/g
                  SG (Pycnometer)   -       3.08           2.98
                  g/cm 3
15
   It can be seen that the toroidal particles obtained by the invention have improved
   porosity as compared to spherical particles obtained by the invention.
   This shows that the process of the invention can be carried out in a manner to ensure
20 that the toroidal shaped particles are obtained when end applications are envisaged that
   required good permeability. This may, for example, be the case in end uses such as
   SCR and combined SCR/DPF.
   Example 10
25
   Concentrated titania sol products were obtained by precipitation that was carried out in
   accordance    with the   method of W02011/033286.       These   were   obtained via the
   Blumenfeld method using various drop ratios. Each had a 10 minute drop time.
30 The micelle size of the titania sols were measured by CPS disc centrifuge particle size
   analyser.

                                                55
   Samples from each product were spray dried using a LabPlant SD-05 laboratory spray
   drier.  The specific surface areas of each of the dried samples were tested using the
   BET method.       The pore size was measured using mercury porosimetry, using a
 5 Micromeritics AutoPore IV porosimeter.
   It was seen in these experiments that by altering the drop ratio, the micelle size can be
   controlled and in turn the pore size can be controlled.    In this regard, as the drop ratio
   was raised from 70:30 up towards 90:10 the micelle size increased, the pore size
10 increased, and the surface area decreased.
                        Drop Ratio                       90:10       70:30
                        Micelle size (nm)                  56.7        22.1
                        Pore Size (nm)                     23.4          3.6
                        SSA (m2/g)                       170.1        295.1
15 The results set out in the above table clearly illustrate that altering the drop ratio has a
   significant effect: changing the drop ratio from 90:10 to 70:30 decreases the micelle
   size by a factor of over 2.5, and thus gives rise to significantly smaller pore sizes and
   therefore larger specific surface area values.
20 Accordingly, a desired set of properties in the end product can be obtained by suitable
   control of the parameters in the process of manufacture of the titania. For example, if
   smaller pore sizes (and a higher SSA) is desired in the product, a lower drop ratio can
   be selected.
25 Where the terms "comprise", "comprises", "comprised" or "comprising" are used in
   this specification, they are to be interpreted as specifying the presence of the stated
   features, integers, steps or components referred to, but not to preclude the presence or
   addition of one or more other feature, integer, step, component or group thereof.

                                               56
The claims defining the invention are as follows:
1.       A process for the production of titania particles with a desired morphology, the
process comprising:
         providing a titania sol;
and then
         drying the sol to provide dried titania particles;
wherein:
    the pore size of the dried titania particles is controlled by applying the following
criteria:
         the titania sol is produced from a TiO 2 containing slurry obtained using a
         precipitation step in a sulphate process, wherein the size of micelles formed
         during the precipitation is controlled to be in the range of from 10 to 150nm;
and/or
    the shape of the dried titania particles is controlled by applying the following
criteria:
         the titania sol is dried by application of heat and the temperature used during
         the drying step is controlled to be in the range of from 50 to 350'C.
2.       The process of claim 1, wherein the size of micelles            formed during the
precipitation is controlled to be in the range of from 20 to 50nm.
3.       The process of claim 1 or claim 2, wherein the size of micelles formed during
the precipitation is controlled by the use of a Mecklenburg precipitation with a
nucleation level in the range of from 6 to 8wt%.
4.       The process of claim 1 or claim 2, wherein the size of micelles formed during
the precipitation is controlled by the use of a Blumenfeld precipitation with a drop ratio
of from 50:50 to 75:25.
5.       The process of any one of claims 1 to 4, wherein the temperature used during
the drying step is controlled to be in the range of from 50 to 150'C.
6.       The process of any one of claims 1 to 5, wherein the drying step uses spray
drying.

                                              57
7.       The process of any one of claims 1 to 5, wherein spray drying is used and the
morphology of the dried titania particles is further controlled by:
         (i) the titania sol being produced from a TiO 2 containing slurry and the pH of
the slurry being controlled to be 3 pH units or more from the iso-electric point of the
titania, by the addition of peptising agent, in order to reduce the extent to which the
titania sol is flocculated; or
         (ii) the titania sol being produced from a TiO 2 containing slurry and the iso
electric point being adjusted to be 3 pH units or more from the pH of the slurry, by the
addition of dispersant, in order to reduce the extent to which the titania sol is
flocculated.
8.       Titania in the form of particles that are obtained by the process of claim 7,
wherein the particles each have a continuous exterior convex surface, being spherical in
shape or toroidal in shape,
wherein the particles have a diameter, as measured by using laser diffraction, of from
2jtm to 30ptm, wherein the particle size is a geometric weight mean value,
wherein the particles have a BET specific surface area of 50m 2 /g or more, and
wherein the particles are porous, having pore diameters, as measured using mercury
porosimetry, which are greater than 2nm.
9.       The titania particles of claim 8, wherein the particles have a diameter, as
measured by using laser diffraction, of 20 tm or less, or from 2 to 20ltm, wherein the
particle size is a geometric weight mean value.
10.      The titania particles of claim 8 or claim 9, wherein the particles have a BET
specific surface area of 80m 2/g or more, or from 80 to 320m 2 /g.
11.      The use of the titania particles of any one of claims 8 to 10 as a catalyst or as a
catalytic support.
12.      The use of claim 11, wherein the particles are used in an application selected
from the group consisting of: emissions catalysis; catalysis of industrial chemical
reactions; and photocatalysis.

                                             58
13.     The use of claim 11 or claim 12, wherein the particles are used as a catalyst or
as a catalytic support in an application selected from the group consisting of: selective
catalytic reduction of nitrogen-based gases; desulphurisation of gases in the petroleum
industry by the Claus process; and photocatalytic cleaning, purification or disinfection.
14.     The use of claim 13, wherein the particles are used as a catalytic support in
selective catalytic reduction of nitrogen-based gases.
15.     A process for preparing a catalyst product, the process comprising the steps of:
     -  providing dried titania particles according to any one of claims 8 to 10;
     -  mixing the particles with active catalyst material,;
     -  extruding the mixture under pressure, through extrusion dies, to produce a
        catalyst product.
16.     The process of claim 15, wherein the active catalyst material is one or more
active catalysts selected from the group consisting of: ruthenium, rhodium, palladium,
iridium, platinum, osmium, iron, cobalt, nickel, copper, silver, vanadium, tungsten,
chromium and molybdenum, and combinations thereof.
17.     The process of claim 16, wherein the active catalyst material is selected from
the group consisting of platinum, palladium, vanadium and tungsten.
18.     The process of any one of claims 15 to 17, wherein the process comprises the
step of mixing the particles with other carrier or support materials and/or binder
materials before the extrusion step.
19.     The process of any one of claims 15 to 18, wherein the titania particles are
coated with silica.
20.     A catalyst product comprising titania and catalyst material, the catalyst product
being obtained by the process of any one of claims 15 to 19.

         <removed-apn> <removed-date>
   1/8
Figure 1

          <removed-apn> <removed-date>
   2/8
Figure 2a

                                     <removed-apn>  <removed-date>
                    3/8
ure 2b           Figure 2c             Figure 2d
       Figure 2e           Figure 2f

          <removed-apn>          <removed-date>
    4/8
          Figure 3b
Figure 3d           Figure 3e

                 <removed-apn>     <removed-date>
             5/8
   Figure 3d
ure 4a                Figure 4b

              <removed-apn> <removed-date>
6/8
    Figure 5b
    Figure 5d

               <removed-apn> <removed-date>
   7/8
6a     Figure 6b
6c     Figure 6d

              <removed-apn> <removed-date>
8/8
    Figure 7b
    Figure 7d

