1002205838
                                     ABSTRACT
A method, system, and apparatus to scan visual codes are described. An image
of a first visual code marked on an item is captured and the image of the first
visual code is displayed on an electronic screen of the apparatus for a point-of
sale terminal that is enabled to scan the image of the first visual code. A scan
signal emitted by the point-of-sale terminal is detected, the scan signal indicating
that the image of the first visual code was scanned. A second image of a second
visual code is displayed on the electronic screen of the apparatus.

   1002205838
         METHODS, SYSTEM AND APPARATUS FOR POINT OF SALE
                                    TRANSACTIONS
                               RELATED APPLICATIONS
 5 [0001]     This application claims priority to U.S. Patent Application Serial No.
    13/722,369, filed on December 20, 2012, which is incorporated herein by
   reference in its entirety.
   [0001A]    Also incorporated herein by reference, in its entirety, is
   PCT/US2013/074996 (published as WO 2014/099661), filed on
10  13 December 2013. This application is also a divisional application of Australian
   Patent Application No. <removed-apn>, filed on 16 September 2016.
                                   TECHNICAL FIELD
   [0002]     The present application relates generally to point of sale transactions,
15 and more specifically, in one example, to using an audible signal to conduct a
   point of sale transaction.
                                     BACKGROUND
   [0003]     Visual codes are often used to uniquely identify items and goods
20 available for sale. For example, the Universal Product Code (UPC) is a barcode
   symbology for uniquely identifying items. Other types of visual codes include
   EAN13 (European/International Article Number), EAN8, CODE39, CODE93,
   CODE 128, Data Matrix, Sticky Bits, and matrix, or two-dimensional, barcodes,
   including Quick Response (QR) codes.
25 [0004]     Point of sale terminals provide for the efficient purchasing of items
   and goods by scanning bar codes and/or other visual codes. A point of sale
   terminal often includes a scanning mechanism to, for example, scan a bar code
   and identify the item. The item identification may be used to determine a
   corresponding price for the item. A user may simply position an item such that
30 the bar code is visible to the scanning mechanism. Once a bar code is correctly
   scanned, the point of sale terminal may process the bar code and signal the user
   to indicate that the bar code has been scanned. The next item may then be
   presented for scanning. The indicator may be an audible signal, such as an
   audible tone.

WO 2014/099661                                                              PCT/US2013/074996
                           BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
        [0005] Some embodiments are illustrated by way of example and not limitation
        in the figures of the accompanying drawings in which:
        [0006] FIG. 1 is a block diagram of an example system, in accordance with an
   5    example embodiment, for scanning coupons;
        [0007] FIG. 2 is an example representation of a coupon data structure for storing
        coupon information, in accordance with an example embodiment;
        [0008] FIG. 3 is a block diagram of an example apparatus, in accordance with
        an example embodiment, for displaying coupons;
  10    [0009] FIG. 4 is an example flowchart for a transaction method, in accordance
        with an example embodiment;
        [00010] FIG. 5 is an example flowchart for a coupon displaying method, in
        accordance with an example embodiment;
        [00011] FIG. 6 is an example flowchart for a coupon scanning method, in
  15    accordance with an example embodiment;
        [00012] FIG. 7 is an example representation of a user interface for initiating the
        coupon displaying method, in accordance with an example embodiment; and
        [00013] FIG. 8 is a block diagram of machine within which instructions may be
        executed for causing the machine to perform any one or more of the
  20    methodologies discussed herein, may be executed.
                                   DETAILED DESCRIPTION
        [00014] In the following detailed description of example embodiments,
        reference is made to specific examples by way of drawings and illustrations.
  25    These examples are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art
        to practice these example embodiments, and serve to illustrate how the invention
        may be applied to various purposes or embodiments. Other embodiments of the
        invention exist and are within the scope of the invention, and logical,
        mechanical, electrical, and other changes may be made without departing from
  30    the scope or extent of the present invention. Features or limitations of various
        embodiments of the invention described herein, however essential to the
        example embodiments in which they are incorporated, do not limit the invention
        as a whole, and any reference to the invention, its elements, operation, and
        application do not limit the invention as a whole but serve only to define these
                                                 2

WO 2014/099661                                                               PCT/US2013/074996
        example embodiments. The following detailed description does not, therefore,
        limit the scope of the invention, which is defined only by the appended claims.
        [00015] Generally, a mechanism for scanning visual codes, including visual
        codes incorporated into coupons, is disclosed. Visual codes include, but are not
   5    limited to, EAN13 (European/International Article Number), EAN8, CODE39,
        CODE93, CODE 128, Data Matrix, Sticky Bits, bar codes, QR codes, and the
        like. In one example embodiment, a point of sale terminal may include a
        scanning mechanism to scan a bar code and identify an item to be purchased. A
        user may simply position an item such that the bar code is visible to the scanning
  10    mechanism. Once the bar code is correctly scanned, the point of sale terminal
        may signal the user to indicate that the bar code has been scanned and the next
        item may be presented for scanning. The indicator may be an audible signal,
        such as an audible tone. While bar codes are utilized in the example
        embodiments described herein, other variations exist and are within the scope of
  15    the inventive subject matter. For example, a point of sale terminal may include a
        scanning mechanism to scan other visual codes, including a QR code. In one
        example embodiment, a point of sale terminal may include a scanning
        mechanism comprising a camera to scan a QR code and identify an item to be
        purchased.
  20    [00016] Bar codes or other visual codes may be used to uniquely identify a
        coupon. Coupons, as defined herein, include coupons for a discount on a
        product or service for purchase, a gift card, a credit toward a purchase, a club
        card, a membership identification, a visual code on a product, electronic cash
        and currency, and the like. The coupon may be printed, or may be displayed on
  25    an electronic screen. For example, the electronic screen of a cellular telephone,
        personal digital assistant, mobile device, tablet computer and the like may be
        used to display a coupon. The coupon may be scanned by positioning the
        printed bar code or displayed bar code such that the bar code is visible to the
        scanning mechanism of a point of sale terminal.
  30    [00017] FIG. 1 is a block diagram of an example system, in accordance with an
        example embodiment, for scanning coupons. In one example embodiment,
        system 100 may comprise a mobile device 108, a processing system 110, an
        optional coupon repository 120, and an optional network 118. Mobile device
        108 may be a cellular telephone, personal digital assistant, mobile device, tablet
                                                  3

WO 2014/099661                                                              PCT/US2013/074996
        computer, and the like. The processing system 110 may be a point of sale
        terminal and the like. Optional network 118 may be a local area network (LAN),
        a wireless network, a metropolitan area network (MAN), a wide area network
        (WAN), a wireless network, a network of interconnected networks, the public
   5    switched telephone network (PSTN), and the like. Optional coupon repository
        120 may be a coupon database, a retailer website, a manufacturer website, a
        wholesaler website, a banking facility, and the like.
        [00018] In one example embodiment, the processing system 110 may perform
        point of sale transactions and may scan items and goods for purchase. For
  10    example, the processing system 110 may scan bar codes located on items and
        goods for purchase. In one example embodiment, the processing system 110
        may scan bar codes associated with coupons. In one example embodiment, the
        processing system 410 may scan bar codes displayed by the mobile device 108.
        [00019] In one example embodiment, the mobile device 108 may obtain
  15    coupons from one or more optional coupon repositories. For example, the
        mobile device 108 may download a coupon(s) from a manufacturer website
        and/or currency from a banking facility.
        [00020] In one example embodiment, the mobile device 108 may select and
        display a coupon on an electronic screen of the mobile device 108. In response
  20    to detecting a signal from the processing system 110 that indicates the preceding
        coupon was correctly scanned, the mobile device 108 may select and display
        another coupon on the electronic screen of the mobile device 108. If all pending
        coupons have been scanned, the mobile device 108 may optionally emit one or
        more scanning complete signals indicating that all of the pending coupons have
  25    been displayed and scanned. The one or more scanning complete signals emitted
        by the mobile device 108 may be one or more of a visual signal, a light signal, an
        audible signal, a motion signal, and the like. An audible signal may be one or
        more audible tones, and/or one or more spoken words.
        [00021] In one example embodiment, processing system 110 may be a point of
  30    sale terminal. In one example embodiment, a coupon displayed on an electronic
        screen may be scanned by positioning the electronic screen such that the coupon
        bar code is visible to the scanning mechanism of a point of sale terminal. Once
        the bar code is correctly scanned, the point of sale terminal may signal to
        indicate that the bar code has been scanned correctly. The indicator may be a
                                                 4

WO 2014/099661                                                                 PCT/US2013/074996
        visual signal, a light signal (e.g., an infrared signal), an electro-magnetic signal,
        an audible signal, and the like. An audible signal may be one or more audible
        tones, and/or one or more spoken words. In one example embodiment, the point
        of sale terminal may emit an audible tone to indicate that the bar code of the
   5    coupon has been scanned correctly.
        [00022] In one example embodiment, the point of sale terminal may emit a scan
        signal comprising data information. For example, the point of sale terminal may
        emit an infrared scan signal embedded with an identification number of the point
        of sale terminal. In one example embodiment, the point of sale terminal may
  10    emit an infrared scan signal comprising additional information pertaining to the
        point of sale terminal and/or the point of sale transaction.
        [00023] In one example embodiment, the mobile device 108 displaying the
        coupon will select and display another coupon in response to detecting a signal
        from the point of sale terminal that indicates that the preceding coupon was
  15    correctly scanned. For example, the mobile device 108 may utilize a
        microphone to detect an audible signal, a camera to detect a visual signal, and/or
        an infrared receiver to detect an infrared signal.
        [00024] In one example embodiment, once all pending coupons have been
        scanned, the mobile device 108 may emit a scanning complete signal indicating
  20    that all of the pending coupons have been displayed and scanned. The scanning
        complete signal emitted by the mobile device 108 may be one or more of a
        visual signal, a light signal, an audible signal, a motion signal, and the like. An
        audible signal may be one or more audible tones, and/or one or more spoken
        words. A motion signal may comprise applying a physical vibration to the
  25    mobile device.
        [00025] In one example embodiment, the mobile device 108 may comprise a
        scanning mechanism for scanning visual codes including, but not limited to,
        product visual codes on items available for purchase. The scanning mechanism
        may be a camera, a bar code reader, and the like. The scanned product visual
  30    codes may be stored in the mobile device 108 as an image, a graphical
        representation of the visual code data, and/or the raw data represented by the
        visual code. In one example embodiment, the scanned product visual code(s)
        may be stored as a coupon in a coupon data structure.
        [00026] In one example embodiment, the stored product visual codes may be
                                                     5

WO 2014/099661                                                             PCT/US2013/074996
        displayed by a mobile device 108 and scanned by a point of sale terminal in a
        manner similar to the method of scanning coupons, as described more fully
        above. For example, stored bar code data may be regenerated as a bar code,
        displayed by the mobile device 108 and scanned by a point of sale terminal.
   5    [00027] In one example embodiment, the stored product visual code(s) and/or
        information derived from the product visual code(s) may be transferred to a
        point of sale terminal and/or point of sale system via a communication link. For
        example, the stored product bar codes may be transferred to the point of sale
        system via an infrared signal. In one example embodiment, stored product codes
  10    and coupons may be transferred to a point of sale terminal and/or a point of sale
        system via a communication link.
        [00028] FIG. 2 is an example representation of a coupon data structure 200 for
        storing coupon information, in accordance with an example embodiment. Each
  15    row 216 of the data structure corresponds to one coupon. Column 1 204
        comprises the visual code data for the corresponding coupon and/or product,
        column 2 208 comprises optional identification information of the corresponding
        coupon and/or product, and column 3 212 comprises the general coupon
        information. General coupon information may be one or more of an amount of
  20    discount, an amount of store credit, an amount of currency, a membership
        identification number, product information, and the like. In one example
        embodiment, the coupon data structure may be loaded by a mobile device 108
        from, for example, a website maintained by one or more issuers of coupons.
        Issuers of coupons may be product manufacturers, service providers, coupon
  25    distributors, retailers, wholesalers, banks, and the like.
        [00029] FIG. 3 is a block diagram of an example apparatus, in accordance with
        an example embodiment, for displaying coupons. In one example embodiment,
        the apparatus 300 may be a mobile device and may be used to select and display
        coupons in response to a signal from a point of sale terminal and, accordingly, is
  30    described by way of example with reference thereto.
        [00030] The apparatus 300 is shown to include a processing system 302 that
        may be implemented on a client or other processing device that includes an
        operating system 304 for executing software instructions. In accordance with an
        example embodiment, the apparatus 300 includes a coupon selection module
                                                   6

WO 2014/099661                                                               PCT/US2013/074996
        306, a coupon display module 310, a scan signal detection module 314, and a
        coupon processing module 318. In accordance with an example embodiment,
        the apparatus 300 includes a coupon data structure 322. For example, a coupon
        data structure 322 may contain one or more coupons where each coupon
   5    comprises at least one visual code, including, but not limited to, a bar code.
        [00031] The coupon processing module 318 may coordinate the loading of the
        coupon data structure 200 from, for example, a coupon website. The coupon
        processing module 318 may also coordinate the presentation of coupons on an
        electronic display in conjunction with the coupon data structure 200, the coupon
  10    selection module 306, the coupon display module 310, and the scan signal
        detection module 314. The coupon selection module 306 may access the coupon
        data structure 200 to obtain a coupon for presentation on the electronic display.
        The coupon display module 310 may format and display the coupon on the
        electronic display. The scan signal detection module 314 may detect a scan
  15    signal, indicating that a coupon was correctly scanned, and may inform the
        coupon processing module 318 of the detection of the scan signal. The coupon
        processing module 318 may then proceed with triggering the display of another
        coupon.
        [00032] FIG. 4 is an example flowchart for a transaction method 400, in
  20    accordance with an example embodiment. In one example embodiment, one or
        more coupons may be scanned by positioning an electronic screen of, for
        example, a mobile device such that a displayed bar code is visible to a scanning
        mechanism of a point of sale terminal. A coupon may be selected and displayed
        on the electronic screen (operation 404). The bar code may be scanned one or
  25    more times by the point of sale terminal until the bar code is successfully read
        (operation 408).
        [00033] In one example embodiment, if the bar code is not successfully read
        within a predefined period of time, the display of the bar code may be altered to
        facilitate proper scanning of the bar code. For example, the location and/or size
  30    of the barcode on the display may be altered, an intensity level of a display
        backlight may be adjusted, a color, contrast, and/or brightness of the bar code
        may be adjusted, and the like.
        [00034] If the coupon is successfully read, the point of sale terminal may emit a
        scan signal to indicate that the bar code has been scanned correctly (operation
                                                  7

WO 2014/099661                                                                PCT/US2013/074996
        416).
        [00035] In one example embodiment, the mobile device 108 may repeatedly
        perform a test to determine if a scan signal is detected while a coupon is
        displayed (not shown). In one example embodiment, a scan signal is detected if
   5    identification information embedded in the received scan signal matches
        identification information provided by a user. In response to detecting a scan
        signal from the point of sale terminal (indicating that the preceding coupon was
        correctly scanned), a test may be performed by the mobile device 108 to
        determine if all pending coupons have been scanned (operation 424). If all
  10    pending coupons have not been scanned, the mobile device 108 may transition to
        operation 404 and may select and display another coupon. If all pending
        coupons have been scanned, the mobile device 108 may optionally emit one or
        more scanning complete signals indicating that all of the pending coupons have
        been displayed and scanned (operation 428). The one or more scanning
  15    complete signals emitted by the mobile device 108 may be one or more of a
        visual signal, a light signal, an audible signal, a motion signal, and the like. An
        audible signal may be one or more audible tones, and/or one or more spoken
        words.
        [00036] In one example embodiment, a user may enter identification
  20    information for a point of sale terminal into the mobile device 108. For
        example, if the user is using point of sale terminal no. 7, the user may enter the
        number 7 into the mobile device 108. In one example embodiment, a scan signal
        is detected if identification information embedded in the received scan signal
        matches the identification information provided by the user.
  25    [00037] FIG. 5 is an example flowchart for a coupon displaying method 500, in
        accordance with an example embodiment. In one example embodiment, a
        coupon may be selected and displayed on the electronic screen of, for example, a
        mobile device 108 (operation 504). The mobile device 108 may perform a test
        to determine if a scan signal is detected (operation 508). If a scan signal is not
  30    detected, the test to determine if a scan signal is detected may be repeated
        (operation 508).
        [00038] If a scan signal is detected (indicating that the preceding coupon was
        correctly scanned), a test may be performed to determine if all pending coupons
        have been scanned (operation 512). If all pending coupons have not been
                                                   8

WO 2014/099661                                                               PCT/US2013/074996
        scanned, the mobile device 108 may transition to operation 504 and may select
        and display another coupon. If all pending coupons have been scanned, the
        mobile device 108 may optionally emit one or more scanning complete signals
        indicating that all of the pending coupons have been displayed and scanned
   5    (operation 516). The one or more scanning complete signals emitted by the
        mobile device may be one or more of a visual signal, a light signal, an audible
        signal, a motion signal, and the like. An audible signal may be one or more
        audible tones, and/or one or more spoken words.
        [00039] In one example embodiment, one or more additional point of sale
  10    terminals may be located in proximity to the point of sale terminal that is
        scanning coupons. In this embodiment, the audible signals of the one or more
        additional point of sale terminals may reach the location of the point of sale
        terminal that is scanning coupons. In one example embodiment, the mobile
        device 108 may compare the amplitude of a received scan signal to a predefined
  15    threshold during operation 208. In one example embodiment, the mobile device
        108 may detect the scan signal if the amplitude of the scan signal exceeds a
        predefined threshold. In one example embodiment, the mobile device 108 may
        detect the scan signal if the amplitude of the scan signal equals or exceeds a
        predefined threshold.
  20    [00040] In one example embodiment, the mobile device 108 may monitor for
        scan signals and may set a measured threshold to equal the largest measured
        amplitude of a received scan signal. In one example embodiment, the mobile
        device 108 may monitor for scan signals and may set a measured threshold to
        equal the largest measured amplitude of a scan signal multiplied by a
  25    multiplication factor. For example, the mobile device 108 may set the measured
        threshold to the largest measured amplitude of a scan signal multiplied by 0.85.
        In another example, the mobile device 108 may set the measured threshold to the
        largest measured amplitude of a scan signal multiplied by 1.10. In one example
        embodiment, the mobile device 108 may detect the scan signal if the amplitude
  30    of a scan signal exceeds the measured threshold. In one example embodiment,
        the mobile device 108 may detect the scan signal if the amplitude of the scan
        signal equals or exceeds the measured threshold.
        [00041] FIG. 6 is an example flowchart for a coupon scanning method 600, in
        accordance with an example embodiment. In one example embodiment, a first
                                                 9

WO 2014/099661                                                                PCT/US2013/074996
        coupon may be scanned by, for example, a point of sale terminal (operation
        608). A test may then be performed to determine if the bar code (coupon) was
        correctly scanned (operation 610). If the bar code was not correctly scanned, the
        point of sale terminal may transition to operation 608 and rescan the bar code. If
   5    the bar code is scanned correctly, the point of sale terminal may emit a scan
        signal to indicate that the bar code has been scanned correctly and may process
        the read bar code (operation 612). A test may then be performed to determine if
        the transaction is complete (operation 614). For example, a buyer may press a
        button on the point of sale terminal to indicate that the transaction is complete.
  10    If the transaction is complete, the coupon scanning method may end. If the
        transaction is not complete, a transition to operation 616 may be performed and
        the point of sale terminal may scan another bar code. A test may then be
        performed to determine if the bar code (coupon) was correctly scanned
        (operation 620). If the bar code was not correctly scanned, the point of sale
  15    terminal may transition to operation 616 and rescan the bar code. If the bar code
        was correctly scanned, a test may be performed to determine if the currently read
        bar code equals the preceding read bar code (operation 624). If the currently
        read bar code equals the preceding read bar code, the point of sale terminal may
        return to operation 616 and scan for another bar code until the bar code is
  20    successfully read (operations 616-620). If a bar code other than the preceding
        read bar code is read, the point of sale terminal may emit a scan signal to
        indicate that the bar code has been scanned correctly and may process the read
        bar code (operation 628). In one example embodiment, the point of sale terminal
        may validate the coupon by, for example, checking the expiration date of the
  25    coupon. A test may then be performed to determine if the transaction is
        complete (operation 632). If the transaction is complete, the coupon scanning
        method may end. If the transaction is not complete, a transition to operation 616
        may be performed and another coupon may be scanned. In one example
        embodiment, visual codes of items other than coupons may be scanned before
  30    and/or after the scanning of coupons.
        [00042] FIG. 7 is an example representation of a user interface 700 for
        initiating the coupon displaying method, in accordance with an example
        embodiment. The user interface may be provided, for example, by mobile
        device 108. In one example embodiment, a user may optionally enter an
                                                  10

WO 2014/099661                                                               PCT/US2013/074996
        identification number for a point of sale terminal via input field 702. A "Start
        Scan" button 704 is provided to enable a user to initiate the displaying of
        coupons. In response to a pressing of the "Start Scan" button 704, the first
        coupon 712 may be retrieved and displayed. The execution of the coupon
   5    displaying method may then proceed as described more fully above in regard to
        FIG. 5.
        [00043] Although certain examples shown and described here, other variations
        exist and are within the scope of the invention. It will be appreciated by those of
  10    ordinary skill in the art that any arrangement which is designed or arranged to
        achieve the same purpose may be substituted for the specific embodiments
        shown. This application is intended to cover any adaptations or variations of the
        example embodiments of the invention described herein. It is intended that this
        invention be limited only by the claims, and the full scope of equivalents thereof.
  15
        MODULES, COMPONENTS AND LOGIC
        [00044] Certain embodiments are described herein as including logic or a
        number of components, modules, or mechanisms. Modules may constitute
        either software modules (e.g., code embodied (1) on a non-transitory machine
  20    readable medium or (2) in a transmission signal) or hardware-implemented
        modules. A hardware-implemented module is tangible unit capable of
        performing certain operations and may be configured or arranged in a certain
        manner. In example embodiments, one or more computer systems (e.g., a
        standalone, client or server computer system) or one or more processors may be
  25    configured by software (e.g., an application or application portion) as a
        hardware-implemented module that operates to perform certain operations as
        described herein.
        [00045] In various embodiments, a hardware-implemented module may be
        implemented mechanically or electronically. For example, a hardware
  30    implemented module may comprise dedicated circuitry or logic that is
        permanently configured (e.g., as a special-purpose processor, such as a field
        programmable gate array (FPGA) or an application-specific integrated circuit
        (ASIC)) to perform certain operations. A hardware-implemented module may
        also comprise programmable logic or circuitry (e.g., as encompassed within a
                                                  11

WO 2014/099661                                                               PCT/US2013/074996
        general-purpose processor or other programmable processor) that is temporarily
        configured by software to perform certain operations. It will be appreciated that
        the decision to implement a hardware-implemented module mechanically, in
        dedicated and permanently configured circuitry, or in temporarily configured
   5    circuitry (e.g., configured by software) may be driven by cost and time
        considerations.
        [00046] Accordingly, the term "hardware-implemented module" should be
        understood to encompass a tangible entity, be that an entity that is physically
        constructed, permanently configured (e.g., hardwired) or temporarily or
  10    transitorily configured (e.g., programmed) to operate in a certain manner and/or
        to perform certain operations described herein. Considering embodiments in
        which hardware-implemented modules are temporarily configured (e.g.,
        programmed), each of the hardware-implemented modules need not be
        configured or instantiated at any one instance in time. For example, where the
  15    hardware-implemented modules comprise a general-purpose processor
        configured using software, the general-purpose processor may be configured as
        respective different hardware-implemented modules at different times. Software
        may accordingly configure a processor, for example, to constitute a particular
        hardware-implemented module at one instance of time and to constitute a
  20    different hardware-implemented module at a different instance of time.
        [00047] Hardware-implemented modules can provide information to, and
        receive information from, other hardware-implemented modules. Accordingly,
        the described hardware-implemented modules may be regarded as being
        communicatively coupled. Where multiple of such hardware-implemented
  25    modules exist contemporaneously, communications may be achieved through
        signal transmission (e.g., over appropriate circuits and buses) that connect the
        hardware-implemented modules. In embodiments in which multiple hardware
        implemented modules are configured or instantiated at different times,
        communications between such hardware-implemented modules may be
  30    achieved, for example, through the storage and retrieval of information in
        memory structures to which the multiple hardware-implemented modules have
        access. For example, one hardware-implemented module may perform an
        operation, and store the output of that operation in a memory device to which it
        is communicatively coupled. A further hardware-implemented module may
                                                 12

WO 2014/099661                                                               PCT/US2013/074996
        then, at a later time, access the memory device to retrieve and process the stored
        output. Hardware-implemented modules may also initiate communications with
        input or output devices, and can operate on a resource (e.g., a collection of
        information).
   5    [00048] The various operations of example methods described herein may be
        performed, at least partially, by one or more processors that are temporarily
        configured (e.g., by software) or permanently configured to perform the relevant
        operations. Whether temporarily or permanently configured, such processors
        may constitute processor-implemented modules that operate to perform one or
  10    more operations or functions. The modules referred to herein may, in some
        example embodiments, comprise processor-implemented modules.
        [00049] Similarly, the methods described herein may be at least partially
        processor-implemented. For example, at least some of the operations of a
        method may be performed by one or processors or processor-implemented
  15    modules. The performance of certain of the operations may be distributed among
        the one or more processors, not only residing within a single machine, but
        deployed across a number of machines. In some example embodiments, the
        processor or processors may be located in a single location (e.g., within a home
        environment, an office environment or as a server farm), while in other
  20    embodiments the processors may be distributed across a number of locations.
        [00050] The one or more processors may also operate to support performance
        of the relevant operations in a "cloud computing" environment or as a "software
        as a service" (SaaS). For example, at least some of the operations may be
        performed by a group of computers (as examples of machines including
  25    processors), these operations being accessible via a network (e.g., the Internet)
        and via one or more appropriate interfaces (e.g., Application Program Interfaces
        (APIs).)
        ELECTRONIC APPARATUS AND SYSTEM
  30    [00051]     Example embodiments may be implemented in digital electronic
        circuitry, or in computer hardware, firmware, software, or in combinations of
        them. Example embodiments may be implemented using a computer program
        product, e.g., a computer program tangibly embodied in an information carrier,
        e.g., in a machine-readable medium for execution by, or to control the operation
                                                 13

WO 2014/099661                                                               PCT/US2013/074996
        of, data processing apparatus, e.g., a programmable processor, a computer, or
        multiple computers.
        [00052] A computer program can be written in any form of programming
        language, including compiled or interpreted languages, and it can be deployed in
   5    any form, including as a stand-alone program or as a module, subroutine, or
        other unit suitable for use in a computing environment. A computer program can
        be deployed to be executed on one computer or on multiple computers at one site
        or distributed across multiple sites and interconnected by a communication
        network.
  10    [00053] In example embodiments, operations may be performed by one or more
        programmable processors executing a computer program to perform functions by
        operating on input data and generating output. Method operations can also be
        performed by, and apparatus of example embodiments may be implemented as,
        special purpose logic circuitry, e.g., a field programmable gate array (FPGA) or
  15    an application-specific integrated circuit (ASIC).
        [00054] The computing system can include clients and servers. A client and
        server are generally remote from each other and typically interact through a
        communication network. The relationship of client and server arises by virtue of
        computer programs running on the respective computers and having a client
  20    server relationship to each other. In embodiments deploying a programmable
        computing system, it will be appreciated that that both hardware and software
        architectures require consideration. Specifically, it will be appreciated that the
        choice of whether to implement certain functionality in permanently configured
        hardware (e.g., an ASIC), in temporarily configured hardware (e.g., a
  25    combination of software and a programmable processor), or a combination of
        permanently and temporarily configured hardware may be a design choice.
        Below are set out hardware (e.g., machine) and software architectures that may
        be deployed, in various example embodiments.
  30    EXAMPLE MACHINE ARCHITECTURE AND MACHINE-READABLE
        MEDIUM
        [00055] FIG. 8 is a block diagram of machine within which instructions may be
        executed for causing the machine to perform any one or more of the
        methodologies discussed herein, may be executed. In one example embodiment,
                                                   14

WO 2014/099661                                                                PCT/US2013/074996
        the machine may be the mobile device 108. In one example embodiment, the
        machine may be the processing system 110. In alternative embodiments, the
        machine operates as a standalone device or may be connected (e.g., networked)
        to other machines. In a networked deployment, the machine may operate in the
   5    capacity of a server or a client machine in server-client network environment, or
        as a peer machine in a peer-to-peer (or distributed) network environment. The
        machine may be a personal computer (PC), a tablet PC, a set-top box (STB), a
        Personal Digital Assistant (PDA), a cellular telephone, a web appliance, a
        network router, switch or bridge, or any machine capable of executing
  10    instructions (sequential or otherwise) that specify actions to be taken by that
        machine. Further, while only a single machine is illustrated, the term "machine"
        shall also be taken to include any collection of machines that individually or
        jointly execute a set (or multiple sets) of instructions to perform any one or more
        of the methodologies discussed herein.
  15     [00056] The example computer system 800 includes a processor 802 (e.g., a
        central processing unit (CPU), a graphics processing unit (GPU) or both), a main
        memory 804 and a static memory 806, which communicate with each other via a
        bus 808. The computer system 800 may further include a video display unit 810
        (e.g., a liquid crystal display (LCD) or a cathode ray tube (CRT)). The computer
  20    system 800 also includes an alphanumeric input device 812 (e.g., a keyboard), a
        user interface (UI) navigation device 814 (e.g., a mouse), a disk drive unit 816, a
        signal generation device 818 (e.g., a speaker) and a network interface device
        820.
  25    MACHINE-READABLE MEDIUM
         [00057] The disk drive unit 816 includes a machine-readable medium 822 on
        which is stored one or more sets of instructions and data structures (e.g.,
        software) 824 embodying or utilized by any one or more of the methodologies or
        functions described herein. The instructions 824 may also reside, completely or
  30    at least partially, within the main memory 804 and/or within the processor 802
        during execution thereof by the computer system 800, the main memory 804 and
        the processor 802 also constituting machine-readable media. Instructions may
        also reside within the static memory 806.
                                                  15

WO 2014/099661                                                              PCT/US2013/074996
        [00058] While the machine-readable medium 822 is shown in an example
        embodiment to be a single medium, the term "machine-readable medium" may
        include a single medium or multiple media (e.g., a centralized or distributed
        database, and/or associated caches and servers) that store the one or more
   5    instructions or data structures. The term "machine-readable medium" shall also
        be taken to include any tangible medium that is capable of storing, encoding or
        carrying instructions for execution by the machine and that cause the machine to
        perform any one or more of the methodologies of the present invention, or that is
        capable of storing, encoding or carrying data structures utilized by or associated
  10    with such instructions. The term "machine-readable medium" shall accordingly
        be taken to include, but not be limited to, solid-state memories, and optical and
        magnetic media. Specific examples of machine-readable media include non
        volatile memory, including by way of example semiconductor memory devices,
        e.g., Erasable Programmable Read-Only Memory (EPROM), Electrically
  15    Erasable Programmable Read-Only Memory (EEPROM), and flash memory
        devices; magnetic disks such as internal hard disks and removable disks;
        magneto-optical disks; and CD-ROM and DVD-ROM disks.
        TRANSMISSION MEDIUM
  20    [00059] The instructions 824 may further be transmitted or received over a
        communications network 826 using a transmission medium. The instructions
        824 may be transmitted using the network interface device 820 and any one of a
        number of well-known transfer protocols (e.g., HTTP). Examples of
        communication networks include a local area network ("LAN"), a wide area
  25    network ("WAN"), the Internet, mobile telephone networks, Plain Old Telephone
        (POTS) networks, and wireless data networks (e.g., WiFi and WiMax networks).
        The term "transmission medium" shall be taken to include any intangible
        medium that is capable of storing, encoding or carrying instructions for
        execution by the machine, and includes digital or analog communications signals
  30    or other intangible media to facilitate communication of such software.
        [00060] Although an embodiment has been described with reference to specific
        example embodiments, it will be evident that various modifications and changes
        may be made to these embodiments without departing from the broader scope of
        the invention. Accordingly, the specification and drawings are to be regarded in
                                                  16

WO 2014/099661                                                                  PCT/US2013/074996
        an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense. The accompanying drawings that
        form a part hereof, show by way of illustration, and not of limitation, specific
        embodiments in which the subject matter may be practiced. The embodiments
        illustrated are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to
   5    practice the teachings disclosed herein. Other embodiments may be utilized and
        derived therefrom, such that structural and logical substitutions and changes may
        be made without departing from the scope of this disclosure. This Detailed
        Description, therefore, is not to be taken in a limiting sense, and the scope of
        various embodiments is defined only by the appended claims, along with the full
  10    range of equivalents to which such claims are entitled.
        [00061] Such embodiments of the inventive subject matter may be referred to
        herein, individually and/or collectively, by the term "invention" merely for
        convenience and without intending to voluntarily limit the scope of this
        application to any single invention or inventive concept if more than one is in
  15    fact disclosed. Thus, although specific embodiments have been illustrated and
        described herein, it should be appreciated that any arrangement calculated to
        achieve the same purpose may be substituted for the specific embodiments
        shown. This disclosure is intended to cover any and all adaptations or variations
        of various embodiments. Combinations of the above embodiments, and other
  20    embodiments not specifically described herein, will be apparent to those of skill
        in the art upon reviewing the above description.
        [00062] The Abstract of the Disclosure is provided to allow the reader to
        quickly ascertain the nature of the technical disclosure. It is submitted with the
        understanding that it will not be used to interpret or limit the scope or meaning
  25    of the claims. In addition, in the foregoing Detailed Description, it can be seen
        that various features are grouped together in a single embodiment for the
        purpose of streamlining the disclosure. This method of disclosure is not to be
        interpreted as reflecting an intention that the claimed embodiments require more
        features than are expressly recited in each claim. Rather, as the following claims
  30    reflect, inventive subject matter lies in less than all features of a single disclosed
        embodiment. Thus the following claims are hereby incorporated into the
        Detailed Description, with each claim standing on its own as a separate
        embodiment.
                                                    17

1002205838
          CLAIMS
 1.      An apparatus to scan visual codes, the apparatus comprising:
          a processor;
         memory to store instructions that, when executed by the processor cause
the processor to:
                  displaying on an electronic screen of the apparatus a first visual
          code of a plurality of visual codes to be scanned by a point-of-sale
         terminal, the first visual code providing information related to a
         transaction facilitated by the point-of-sale terminal;
         measuring an amplitude of a scan signal emitted by the point-of-sale
terminal;
          comparing the amplitude of the scan signal and a threshold amplitude
level, the amplitude of the scan signal exceeding the threshold amplitude level
indicating the point-of-sale terminal successfully scanned the first visual code;
and
          displaying, on the electronic screen of the apparatus, another of the
plurality of visual codes in response to the amplitude of the scan signal
exceeding the threshold amplitude level.
2.        The apparatus of claim 1, the operations further comprising emitting a
scanning complete signal indicating that a scanning of the plurality of visual
codes is complete.
3.        The apparatus of claim 1, the operations further comprising setting the
threshold amplitude level based on the measured amplitude.
4.        The apparatus of claim 3, wherein the threshold amplitude level is set to
a value equal to a largest measured amplitude level of a received scan signal
multiplied by a multiplication factor.
5.        The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the scan signal is one or more of a
visual signal, a light signal, an infrared signal, an electro-magnetic signal, an
                                           18

1002205838
audible signal, a signal comprising one or more audible tones, and a signal
comprising one or more spoken words.
6.        The apparatus of claim 2, wherein the scanning complete signal is one or
more of a visual signal, a light signal, an infrared signal, an electro-magnetic
signal, an audible signal, a signal comprising one or more audible tones, a signal
comprising one or more spoken words, and a motion signal.
7.        The apparatus of claim 1, the operations further comprising scanning one
or more product visual codes, storing the one or more product visual codes, and
transferring the product visual codes to a point of sale system via a
communication link.
8.        The apparatus of claim 1, the operations further comprising scanning one
or more product visual codes and storing the one or more product visual codes as
coupons in a coupon data structure.
9.       A method to scan visual codes, comprising:
          displaying on an electronic screen of the apparatus a first visual code of a
plurality of visual codes to be scanned by a point-of-sale terminal, the first visual
code providing information related to a transaction facilitated by the point-of
sale terminal;
         measuring an amplitude of a scan signal emitted by the point-of-sale
terminal;
          comparing the amplitude of the scan signal and a threshold amplitude
level, the amplitude of the scan signal exceeding the threshold amplitude level
indicating the point-of-sale terminal successfully scanned the first visual code;
and
          displaying, on the electronic screen of the apparatus, another of the
plurality of visual codes in response to the amplitude of the scan signal
exceeding the threshold amplitude level.
 10.       The method of claim 9, further comprising emitting a scanning complete
signal indicating that a scanning of the plurality of visual codes is complete.
                                           19

1002205838
 11.      The method of claim 9, further comprising setting the threshold
amplitude level based on the measured amplitude.
 12.      The method of claim 9, wherein the threshold amplitude level is set to a
value equal to a largest measured amplitude level of a received scan signal
multiplied by a multiplication factor.
 13.      The method of claim 9, wherein the scan signal is one or more of a visual
signal, a light signal, an infrared signal, an electro-magnetic signal, an audible
signal, a signal comprising one or more audible tones, and a signal comprising
one or more spoken words.
 14.      The method of claim 10, wherein the scanning complete signal is one or
more of a visual signal, a light signal, an infrared signal, an electro-magnetic
signal, an audible signal, a signal comprising one or more audible tones, a signal
comprising one or more spoken words, and a motion signal.
 15.      The method of claim 9, further comprising scanning one or more product
visual codes, storing the one or more product visual codes, and transferring the
product visual codes to a point of sale system via a communication link.
 16.      The method of claim 9, further comprising scanning one or more product
visual codes and storing the one or more product visual codes as coupons in a
coupon data structure.
 17.     A non-transitory computer-readable medium embodying instructions
that, when executed by a processor perform operations comprising:
          displaying on an electronic screen of the apparatus a first visual code of a
plurality of visual codes to be scanned by a point-of-sale terminal, the first visual
code providing information related to a transaction facilitated by the point-of
sale terminal;
         measuring an amplitude of a scan signal emitted by the point-of-sale
terminal;
                                           20

1002205838
          comparing the amplitude of the scan signal and a threshold amplitude
level, the amplitude of the scan signal exceeding the threshold amplitude level
indicating the point-of-sale terminal successfully scanned the first visual code;
and
          displaying, on the electronic screen of the apparatus, another of the
plurality of visual codes in response to the amplitude of the scan signal
exceeding the threshold amplitude level.
 18.       The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 17, the
operations further comprising emitting a scanning complete signal indicating that
a scanning of the plurality of visual codes is complete.
 19.      The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 17, the
operations further comprising setting the threshold amplitude level based on the
measured amplitude.
20.       The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 19, wherein the
threshold amplitude level is set to a value equal to a largest measured amplitude
level of a received scan signal multiplied by a multiplication factor.
                                           21

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
