ABSTRACT
A nursery tray (30) is provided for use with an automatic transplanting apparatus. The
nursery tray (30) includes a plurality of cells (31) in an array for containing a plurality of
plugs containing seedlings. Each cell (31) is defined by walls (38) and a base (39) and
has an opening (46) through which a seedling may protrude. The base (39) has a hole
(36) sized to receive an ejection member of the transplanting apparatus. The tray (30)
has two side rows (48) of cells (31), one on either side of the tray, an outer side wall
(34) on the outer side of each side row (48) and an inner side wall (35) on the inner side
of each side row (48). The inner side walls (35) and outer side walls (34) on each side
of the tray (30) form dual walls. The dual wall arrangement provides strength to the tray
(30), while maximising the volume of cells (31) in the array, particularly when the tray
(30) is held in a vertical orientation when in use on the automatic transplanter with plugs
and seedlings to be ejected horizontally.
Figure 3

                 2/6
              13p
       17
    20
171
       ILAZ
            FIUR     2

                                          1
          IMPROVEMENTS TO NURSERY TRAYS FOR AUTOMATION
FIELD OF THE INVENTION
[0001]     The present invention relates to nursery trays of the type including a
cell array adapted to contain seedlings and plugs of growing medium and to be
handled by an automatic transplanting system.
BACKGROUND TO THE INVENTION
[0002]      Nursery trays are traditionally a rectangular structure comprised of
reverse pyramid cells which are filled with growing media called "a plug" in which
a seed is placed and covered to germinate the seed which will eventually grow
into a seedling.    The tray is later transferred from the nursery with a mature
seedling ready to be transplanted into the field.
[0003]      Figure 1 shows an underside view of a row of cells of a standard type
nursery tray. The row of cells shown are adjacent an outer side wall 3a and outer
end wall 4a, the outer end and side walls being spaced apart from the cells. A
rectangular tray has two outer end walls and two outer side walls around its
perimeter. The lower edge of the outer side walls 3a, 4a have "U"shaped indents
2a. Injection die blades 5a connect the outer side and end walls 3a, 4a to the
interior walls that define the cells. These injection die blades 5a are vulnerable
and form a weakness in the tray design.
[0004]      In the manual form of transplanting the seedling is grasped by hand
and pulled upward to remove the seedling plant complete with the plug root and
growing media.
[0005]     There also exist semiautomatic transplanters where the operator who
is seated on the transplanter machine removes the seedlings and plugs by hand

                                           2
and drops them into a mechanical planter which completes the field transplanting
process.
[0006]      A number of automatic transplanter systems exist that use a standard
nursery tray or flat in a horizontal position with automatic apparatus moving over
the X/Y axis of the tray which push needles or rods obliquely into the plug for
extraction. Maintaining the nursery tray in a horizontal position can mean that it is
extremely difficult for the automatic transplanter to plant with close row spacing.
[0007]      The present applicant has previously provided the automation of a
nursery tray placed on its edge, the tray being held in a vertical position such that
the seedlings protrude in the horizontal direction. The automation and indexing of
a tray of this type in a vertical position is permitted through gear-like protrusions
which are formed as a skirt of material along the underside of the top surface of
the side wall of the tray. The gear-like protrusions form what may be known as a
gear rack.
[0008]      It would be desirable to provide an improved seeding tray for use with
an automatic transplanting system. For example, it would be desirable to provide
a tray which can be formed using less material to reduce weight and cost.           It
would also be desirable to provide a seedling tray for use in an automatic
transplanting system that is more robust than previously used trays.         It would
further be desirable to provide a tray that may have an increased volume in each
of the cells for improved efficiency and output. Furthermore, it would be desirable
to provide an improved gear rack for a nursery tray.
SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
[0009]      An aspect of the present invention provides a nursery tray for
seedlings for use with an automatic transplanter, the tray comprising: a plurality of
cells disposed in a predetermined array, each cell configured to contain a plug of
growing medium containing a seedling, wherein each cell has an open front side

                                           3
through which a seedling may protrude and a rear side comprising a hole
configured to receive an ejection member; two outer side walls on opposite sides
of the tray; two rows of said cells, each of said rows located adjacent to a
respective one of the outer side walls; and two inner side walls extending
substantially parallel to the two outer side walls, each inner side wall being
positioned adjacent to and on an opposite side of a respective one of the two side
rows of cells corresponding to a respective one of the two outer side walls,
wherein each inner side wall and its respective outer side wall form a dual wall,
wherein the nursery tray is configured for use in a substantially vertical orientation
in which the two outer side walls and two inner side walls extend substantially
vertically, such that plugs containing seedlings may be ejected from the cells in a
substantially horizontal direction when the nursery tray is in the substantially
vertical orientation.
[0010]       In preferred embodiments, a gear rack is formed along each dual wall.
Preferably, the gear rack is in the form of a plurality of notches in at least one of
the respective inner and outer walls of the dual wall.          Each notch may be
positioned between two adjacent cells of the respective side row of cells and the
notches are uniformly spaced with the spacing between adjacent notches
corresponding to the distance between the centres of adjacent cells in each side
row of cells. Each notch may be in the form of a cut-out groove in a respective
outer side wall and inner side wall that extends in shape between the outer side
wall and inner side wall along cell cross walls.
[0011]      According to embodiments, a plurality of cell cross walls extend
between the inner side wall and outer side wall of each dual wall. Each cell cross
wall may be positioned between adjacent cells of the row of cells between the
outer side wall and inner side wall of the respective dual wall.
[0012]      According to embodiments,        the   nursery tray according further
comprises two outer end walls extending substantially perpendicularly to the outer
side walls, the outer end walls being located at opposite ends of the tray from one

                                          4
another, wherein when the nursery tray is in the substantially vertical orientation
the two outer end walls extend substantially horizontally.
[0013]      The nursery tray may further comprise two inner end walls extending
substantially parallel to the two outer end walls, each inner end wall being
positioned adjacent to and on an opposite side of a row of end cells which extend
adjacently and parallel to the outer end wall.
[0014]      According to embodiments, the nursery tray further comprises a cross
network of walls extending between each adjacent cell in the predetermined array
of cells. Preferably, the two outer side walls and two inner side walls have an
increased wall thickness compared to each wall of the cross network of walls.
[0015]      The nursery tray may also include reinforcements to ensure that the
tray is strengthened and secure in use on an automatic transplanter, particularly
when positioned in the vertical orientation with the seedlings projecting in the
horizontal direction. According to embodiments, a first reinforcement is provided
between the two inner side walls, the first reinforcement being in the form of a
cross bracing rib.     Preferably, the tray comprises a plurality of said first
reinforcements which are spaced apart from and extend parallel to one another.
[0016]      The nursery tray may further comprise a second reinforcement which is
provided between the two outer end walls of the tray, the second reinforcement
extending substantially vertically when the tray is in the substantially vertical
orientation, and wherein the second reinforcement being in the form of a bracing
rib.   The tray preferably comprises a plurality of said second reinforcements
which are spaced apart from and extend parallel to one another.        The second
reinforcements preferably extend perpendicularly to the first reinforcements.
[0017]      The nursery tray may also include a plurality of corner energy
absorption ribs, wherein the corner energy absorption ribs are each spaced apart
from one another and are positioned at a corner location between four cells of the

                                           5
predetermined array.       The corner energy absorption ribs may provide an
additional bracing effect to the tray to improve it stability and strength.
[0018]     The open upper side of each cell may have a diameter that is greater
than a diameter of the rear side of said cell. The shape of each cell provided by
this arrangement may be a truncated pyramid shape.
[0019]     The    nursery tray may be formed           from    any suitable material.
Preferably, the tray is formed from a plastics material.
[0020]     Another aspect of the present invention provides a nursery tray for
seedlings for use in an automatic transplanter, the tray comprising: two outer side
walls arranged to extend substantially vertically when in use in the automatic
transplanter; two outer end walls arranged to extend substantially horizontally
when in use in the automatic transplanter; a plurality of cells arranged in a
predetermined array between the outer side walls and outer end walls, each cell
being adapted to contain a plug of growing medium containing a seedling, each
cell having an open front side through which the seedling protrudes and an open
rear side adapted to receive an ejection member; and two inner side walls
extending substantially parallel to the two outer side walls, each inner side wall
being positioned adjacent to and on an opposite side of a respective one of the
two rows of cells corresponding to a respective one of the two outer side walls,
wherein each inner side wall and its respective outer side wall forms a dual wall,
wherein the nursery tray is configured for use in a substantially vertical orientation
such that plugs containing a seedling may be ejected from the cells in a
substantially horizontal direction, wherein when the nursery tray is in the
substantially vertical orientation the two outer side walls and two inner side walls
extend substantially vertically.
[0021]     According to embodiments, the dual walls each comprise a gear rack
in the form of a plurality of uniformly spaced notches, each notch extending
between adjacent cells between the inner and outer side walls, wherein the

                                           6
notches are adapted in use to engage with an indexing mechanism of the
automatic transplanter.
[0022]      The present invention provides a nursery tray that may be formed from
less material than previous trays of this type. The dual wall structure at the sides
of the tray also enable the strength to be increased.      Further, the removal an
additional wall around the perimeter of the cell array reduces the amount of
material used in construction of the tray.        The gear rack formation utilising
notches in the dual walls creates an improved gear rack formation that does not
require an additional skirt to be formed along and spaced from the sides of the
tray.    Further advantages of the invention according to the aspects and
embodiments over the nursery trays of the prior art will be apparent to a skilled
person in light of the description provided herein.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0023]      The invention may be better understood by reference to preferred
embodiments, as shown in the accompanying drawings, in which:
[0024]      Figure 1 shows perspective view of the underside of a row of cells on a
side of a standard nursery tray of the prior art;
[0025]      Figure 2 shows perspective view of the underside of a side row of cells
of a tray according to a first embodiment of the present disclosure;
[0026]      Figure 3 shows perspective view of the underside of a row of cells of a
tray according to a second embodiment of the present disclosure;
[0027]      Figure 4 shows a perspective view of the top of a pair of trays
according to the second embodiment placed side by side;

                                          7
[0028]     Figure 5 shows a perspective view of the underside of a tray according
to the second embodiment; and
[0029]     Figure 6 shows a perspective view of the tray according to the second
embodiment when placed vertically on an automatic transplanter.
DESCRIPTION OF PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS
[0030]     Figure 2 is a rear view of a side row 10 of cells 11 of a nursery tray
according a first embodiment of the present disclosure. The tray is preferably
formed from a plastic material such that it may be manufactured at low cost with
relative ease, such as through a standard moulding process. The tray does not
have an additional outer wall or a skirt extending around its perimeter. The tray is
provided with an array of cells 11 which are arranged in a grid formation, for
example as shown in Figures 4 and 5.        Each cell 11 comprises walls 18 which
define an internal compartment sized to house a plug of growing medium
containing a seedling.
[0031]     At a front side 12, each cell 11 has an opening from which a seedling
may protrude when the tray is in use to hold the plugs and seedlings. At a rear
side 13, each cell 11 has a base 19, which acts as a lower platform which holds
the plug and seedling during germination and transport. A hole 16 in the shape of
a cross is provided in each base 19. The holes 16 are adapted to receive an
ejection member, such as a pin or rod of a transplanting apparatus, preferably an
automatic transplanter. The holes 16 also allow excess water within the cells 11
during watering of the seedlings to drain out.
[0032]     Each cell 11 is formed from four walls 18 providing the cell with a
square or rectangular cross section.      The walls 18 of each cell 11 define the
shape of a truncated pyramid.     The diameter of each cell 11 at the front 12 is
larger than the diameter of each cell at the rear 13. The diameter of the cell 11
may transition smoothly between the front 12 and the rear 13 or alternatively the

                                           8
diameter may be tapered in certain sections between the front 12 and the rear 13.
Other shapes of cells are possible with the scope of the present invention,
providing that one or more of the inventive features described herein are present.
[0033]     On the front side 12, the cells 11 share walls with adjacent cells 11 in
the array. The truncated pyramid shape of the cells 11 in the tray means that the
base 19 of adjacent cells 11 are spaced apart from one another by a space 17
defined between the adjacent cells 11.
[0034]     The nursery tray of the first embodiment has two opposed ends and
two sides, the ends and the sides defining the perimeter of the array of cells. At
each side an outer side wall 14 is provided. Each outer side wall 14 is formed by
the outer wall of the row of cells 11 at the side of the tray. To form a continuous
outer side wall 14 the spaces 17 between adjacent cells 11 on the side row of
cells 11 are filled in with the material used to form the tray. Preferably, the outer
side wall 14 will be increased in wall thickness compared to the other walls 18
between cells in the array that are not in a side row of the tray. Two outer side
walls 14 are provided on the tray, positioned at each of the sides of the tray. A
similar outer end wall may be formed at each end of the tray substantially
perpendicular to the outer side walls.          The outer end wall is preferably
continuously formed by filling in the spaces 17 between the adjacent cells 11 of
the respective outer end row of cells 11.
[0035]     An inner side wall 15 is similarly formed by the walls 18 of the side row
of cells 11 on the opposite side of the cells from the outer side walls 14. The
spaces 17 between the adjacent cells 11 are filled in to form a continuous inner
side wall 15. Preferably, the inner side wall 14 will be increased in wall thickness
compared to the other walls 18 between cells in the array that are not in a side
row of the tray. A similar inner end wall may be formed on the end row of cells at
each end of the tray which inner end wall is on the opposite side of the cells from
the outer end wall. The inner end wall is preferably continuously formed by filling

                                             9
in the spaces 17 between the adjacent cells 11 of the respective inner end row of
cells 11.
[0036]       The filling in of the spaces 17 between the adjacent cells 11 to form the
inner side walls 15 and outer side walls 14 in this case means that the entire
space 17 between the adjacent cells 11 is not completely filled in, but the portions
in line with the outer and inner walls 18 of the cells 11 are filled in. A gap 20 may
still be retained between the cells 11.    It is possible that these gaps 20 could also
be filled in to form solid sections of material between adjacent cells, however this
would use more material which may be undesirable. The gaps 20 between the
adjacent cells 11 at the sides of the tray may be used for indexing purposes by
transplanter apparatus.         Indexing of the tray assists in positioning the tray
correctly when the plugs with seedlings are to be ejected by the transplanter.
[0037]       The tray is configured such that it is in a substantially horizontal
orientation when seedlings are germinating.            In the horizonal orientation the
seedlings will protrude from the opening in the front side 12 of cells 11 in a
substantially vertical position.     The tray may also be kept in the substantially
horizonal position after germination when the tray of seedlings is being
transported. Preferably, the tray is held in a vertical orientation when in use on
the automatic transplanting apparatus.         In the vertical orientation the seedlings
will protrude from the cells 11 in a substantially horizontal direction. The tray is
configured that when in use on a transplanter the plugs with seedlings can be
ejected from the cells 11 in a horizontal direction by the insertion of an ejection
rod or pin through the holes 16 in the cells 11.          Once ejected, the plugs with
seedlings will be handled by the transplanting apparatus to be planted into the
ground in a desired location.
[0038]       The inner side walls 15 and outer side walls 14 form a dual wall
structure.    The dual wall structure adds stability to the tray which is desirable
particularly when the tray is to be used in a vertical orientation in an automatic
transplanter. Dual wall structures are located at the sides of the tray and have a

                                           10
side row 10 of cells 11 between the respective outer and inner side walls 14, 15
of each dual wall. The walls 18 of the cells 11 in the dual wall structure which are
substantially perpendicular to the outer side walls 14 and inner side walls 15
assist in reinforcing the dual wall structure to increase the stability it provides.
The dual wall structure creates a stronger design compared to prior art trays that
is particularly stronger when the tray is in a vertical orientation allowing the
support of the weight of a tray fully loaded with plugs and seedlings in the array of
cells 11.
[0039]      A second embodiment of a tray 30 according to present invention is
shown in figures 3 to 5. Figure 3 shows a rear view of a side row 48 of cells 31 of
the tray 30 which have a dual wall structure of an inner side wall 35 and outer
side wall 34 similar to that already described in relation to figure 2. The difference
between the embodiment shown in figure 3 and figure 2 is that the spaces 37
filled in between the adjacent cells 31 to form the outer and inner side walls 34,
35 are not completely filled in to define a straight edge along the rear side 33 of
the tray. Instead in figure 3, notches 41, 42 are provided in the outer and inner
side walls 34, 35 at the location where the spaces 37 are partially filled in. The
notches 41, 42 are uniformly spaced from adjacent notches 41, 42. The notches
41, 42 and gap 40 between the notches 41, 42 form a continuous notch across
the side row of cells 31, with a continuous notch formed between each adjacent
pair of cells 31 in the side row.       The side rows of cells 31 with a dual wall
structure are provided at both sides of the tray 30.            Other aspects of the
embodiment shown in figure 3 are consistent with those described above with
reference to the first embodiment as displayed in figure 2.
[0040]      The notches 41, 42 form a gear rack that permits rapid indexing of the
tray 30 in discreet steps between rows of cells when used in an automatic
transplanter.    Similarly to the first embodiment, the tray 30 of the second
embodiment is stronger and increased in stability due to the dual wall structure,
which is an improvement over the prior art shown in figure 1.

                                           11
[0041]      At the end of each outer side wall 34 and outer inner wall 35, the tray
30 may be provided with partial notches 43. The partial notches 43 are formed
such that when like trays 30 are placed adjacent to one another, as shown in
figure 4, additional notches 44 are formed between the inner side walls 35 and
outer side walls 34 of the trays 30 by their respective partial notches 43. This
arrangement means that two trays could be loaded adjacent to one another in a
transplanter and indexing between rows of the two trays 30 may take place by
using the adjacent additional notches 44 of adjacent trays 30 in an extended gear
rack.
[0042]      Figure 4 shows a front view of two trays 30 placed side by side with
one of their ends adjacent the end of the other tray and with their respective sides
parallel and in alignment. The openings 46 in the front side 32 of each cell 31 are
shown in figure 4. Each tray 30 may adopt a substantially horizontal orientation
for growing seedlings such that the plugs and seedlings can be held in the cells
31 with the seedlings growing substantially vertically during germination upwards
out of the front side 42 of the cells. The tray 30 is preferably configured for use in
a vertical orientation on an automatic transplanter with one end wall 47 facing
downwardly and the other end wall 47' facing upwardly.            In this vertical tray
orientation,   the   seedlings    will   protrude    horizontally  and    substantially
perpendicularly to the vertical orientation of the tray 30.
[0043]      Adjacent cells 31 in the grid of the array share common wall 38
boundaries in perpendicular directions on the front side 32 of the tray. The cell
array is arranged such that it maximises the volume in each of the cells 31 on the
tray 30 by minimising the spaces between adjacent cells 31. The majority of the
adjacent cells 31 do not share common wall boundaries on the rear 33 of the tray,
due to the truncated pyramid shape of the cells 31 with the cell diameters of the
rear 33 being smaller than the cell diameters at the front side 32. However, the
cells 31 in rows at the sides and ends of the tray 30 share at least one common
boundary, the inner and outer side walls 35, 34 and outer end walls 47 being

                                             12
shared by adjacent cells 31 at the sides and ends of the tray, even at the rear of
the cells.
[0044]      Due to the spaces 37 that are defined between the adjacent cells 31
that are not located in a row at the end or side of the tray 30, the rear 33 of the
tray 30 may be provided with additional bracing means.          Figures 3 and 5 show
the rear side 33 of the tray 30 and bases 39 of each cell 31 with holes 36.
Bracing and strengthening of the tray 30 may be provided by ribs 50, 51, 52 as
shown in figure 5. The ribs 50, 51, 52 may take any form providing they fulfil the
role of strengthening and bracing the rear 33 of the tray. The ribs 50, 51, 52
further assist in creating a robust tray that meets the needs required to be used in
a vertical orientation when in use on a transplanter apparatus.          In alternative
embodiments alternative bracing means may be used instead of the ribs 50, 51,
52 shown in figure 5, or alternatively only one, two or other number of any of the
ribs 50, 51, 52 may be used.
[0045]      The ribs 50 traverse the rear side 33 of the tray 30 between the
respective inner side walls 35 of each side of the tray 30. The ribs 50 are located
in the spaces 37 between adjacent cells 31 at the rear side 33 of the tray 30. The
ribs 51 traverse the rear side 33 of the tray 30 between each outer end wall 47;
48, these ribs 51 extending substantially perpendicularly to ribs 50. The ribs 51
are located in the spaces 37 formed between adjacent cells 31 that in lines
between the outer end walls 47. In some embodiments the ribs 50, 51 may be
provided to at least partially fill all of the spaces 37 in the rear 33 of the tray 30,
although this could potentially use a large amount of material to form such a tray
depending on the form of the ribs 50, 51.          Therefore, it may be preferable to
include a reduced number of ribs 50, 51 on the tray 30, such as shown in figure 5
where two ribs 50 extend between the inner side walls 35 and four ribs 51 extend
between the outer end walls 47.
[0046]      According to the embodiment shown in figure 5, corner ribs 52 are also
provided at some of the corner intersections between the rear 33 of four adjacent

                                         13
cells 31. The corner ribs 52 may be in a set pattern as shown in figure 5 where
they are placed in diagonal patterns, alternatively they be more randomly
positioned or placed in different patterns. Corner ribs 53 may also be positioned
in the spaces 37 between the inner side walls 35 and two cells 31 adjacent
thereto. In some embodiments there may be no ribs 50, 51 and only corner ribs
52, 53 on the rear 33 of the tray 30 to provide the bracing effect. Alternatively, in
some embodiments there may be elongate ribs 50, 51 and no corner ribs on the
tray 30.    The need for bracing and position thereof may be decided upon
depending on the size of the tray and number of cells thereon. Larger trays 30
with a large number of cells 31 are likely to require more bracing compared to
smaller trays 30 with less cells 31.
[0047]      Figure 6 shows the tray 30 of the second embodiment shown in figures
3 to 5 in use adjacent to a conveyor 61 of an automatic transplanter apparatus of
the type described in       our Australian    Provisional Patent Application No.
<removed-apn> filed on 3 March 2017, the contents of which are incorporated herein
by reference. The tray 30 is held in the vertical orientation with twin wall gear
racks 90, defined by the inner and outer side walls 35, 34 and notches 41, 42,
extending upwardly along each side of the vertical tray. In use the twin wall gear
racks 90 permit the tray 30 to be indexed in direction 70 relative to the conveyer
61. The indexing mechanism which cooperates with the twin wall gear racks 90
is not shown in figure 6.
[0048]      The conveyer 61 includes a track 62 onto which are positioned a
number of cleats 64.      The cleats 64 and track 62 defining a number of cell
pockets 63. The conveyer 61 is configured such that the track 62, cleats 64 and
cell pockets 63 move along the conveyer to receive plugs and seedlings from the
cells of the tray 30. The direction of motion of the conveyer 61 shown in figure 6
is that the upper row of cleats 64 moves to the left as figure 6 is viewed and the
lower row of cleats 64 moves to the right.

                                          14
[0049]      The conveyer 61 is sized and includes a number of cell pockets 63
such that an entire row of plugs with seedlings may be received in the cell
pockets at the same time. The plugs and seedlings are ejected from the cells of
the tray 30 into the cell pockets 63 in direction 71 which is substantially
perpendicular to the vertical orientation of the tray 30. Once the plugs have been
ejected from the tray into the cell pockets 63, the conveyer 61 is set in motion. As
the cell pockets 63 reach a position 66A the cleats 64 defining the cell pockets 63
spread apart and allow the plugs to be ejected if no live seedling is retained
therein and the plug is a so-called 'dud' plug. Plugs with seedlings continue to
66B and are retained therein to be put into position with the transplanter for
planting in the ground.
[0050]      Comprises/comprising and grammatical variations thereof when used
in this specification are to be taken to specify the presence of stated features,
integers, steps or components or groups thereof, but do not preclude the
presence or addition of one or more other features, integers, steps, components
or groups thereof.

                                            15
CLAIMS:
1.     A nursery tray for seedlings for use with an automatic transplanter, the tray
comprising:
        a plurality of cells disposed in a predetermined array, each cell configured
to contain a plug of growing medium containing a seedling, wherein each cell has
an open front side through which a seedling may protrude and a rear side
comprising a hole configured to receive an ejection member;
        two outer side walls on opposite sides of the tray;
        two side rows of said cells, each of said rows located adjacent to a
respective one of the outer side walls; and
        two inner side walls extending substantially parallel to the two outer side
walls, each inner side wall being positioned adjacent to and on an opposite side
of a respective one of the two side rows of cells corresponding to a respective
one of the two outer side walls, wherein each inner side wall and its respective
outer side wall form a dual wall,
       wherein the nursery tray is configured for use in a substantially vertical
orientation in which the two outer side walls and two inner side walls extend
substantially vertically, such that plugs containing seedlings may be ejected from
the cells in a substantially horizontal direction when the nursery tray is in the
substantially vertical orientation.
2.      The nursery tray according to claim 1, wherein a gear rack is formed along
each dual wall.
3.      The nursery tray according to claim 2, wherein the gear rack is in the form
of a plurality of notches in at least one of the respective inner and outer walls of
the dual wall.

                                          16
4.      The nursery tray according to claim 3 wherein the notches are uniformly
spaced and each notch is positioned between two adjacent cells of the respective
side row of cells.
5.      The nursery tray according to claim 3, wherein each notch is in the form of
a cut-out groove in the respective outer side wall and inner side wall that extends
in shape between the outer side wall and inner side wall along cell cross walls.
6.      The nursery tray according to claim 1, wherein a plurality of cell cross walls
extend between the inner side wall and outer side wall of each dual wall.
7.      The nursery tray according to claim 6, wherein each cell cross wall is
positioned between adjacent cells of the row of cells between the outer side wall
and inner side wall of the respective dual wall.
8.      The nursery tray according to claim 1, further comprising two outer end
walls extending substantially perpendicularly to the outer side walls, the outer end
walls being located at opposite ends of the tray from one another,
       wherein when the nursery tray is in the substantially vertical orientation the
two outer end walls extend substantially horizontally.
9.      The nursery tray according to claim 8, further comprising two inner end
walls extending substantially parallel to the two outer end walls, each inner end
wall being positioned adjacent to and on an opposite side of a row of each cell
which extend adjacently and parallel to the outer end wall.
10.     The nursery tray according to claim 1, further comprising a cross network
of walls extending between each adjacent cell in the predetermined array of cells.
11.     The nursery tray according to claim 10, wherein the two outer side walls
and two inner side walls have an increased wall thickness compared to each wall
of the cross network of walls.

                                           17
 12.    The nursery tray according to claim 1, further comprising a first
reinforcement which is provided between the two inner side walls, the first
reinforcement being in the form of a cross bracing rib.
 13.    The nursery tray according to claim 12, wherein the tray comprises a
plurality of said first reinforcements which are spaced apart from and extend
parallel to one another.
 14.    The nursery tray according to claim 8, further comprising a second
reinforcement which is provided between the two outer end walls of the tray, the
second reinforcement extending substantially vertically when the tray is in the
substantially vertical orientation, and wherein the second reinforcement being in
the form of a bracing rib.
 15.    The nursery tray according to claim 14, wherein the tray comprises a
plurality of said second reinforcements which are spaced apart from and extend
parallel to one another.
 16.    The nursery tray according to claim 1, further comprising a plurality of
corner energy absorption ribs, wherein the corner energy absorption ribs are each
spaced apart from one another and are positioned at a corner location between
four cells of the predetermined array.
 17.    The nursery tray according to claim 1, wherein the open upper side of each
cell has a diameter that is greater than a diameter of the rear side of said cell.
 18.    The nursery tray according to claim 16, wherein each cell is in the shape of
a truncated pyramid.
 19.    The nursery tray according to claim 1, wherein the tray is formed from a
plastics material.

                                           18
20.    A nursery tray for seedlings for use in an automatic transplanter, the tray
comprising:
       two outer side walls arranged to extend substantially vertically when in use
in the automatic transplanter;
       two outer end walls arranged to extend substantially horizontally when in
use in the automatic transplanter;
       a plurality of cells arranged in a predetermined array between the outer
side walls and outer end walls, each cell being adapted to contain a plug of
growing medium containing a seedling, each cell having an open front side
through which the seedling protrudes and an open rear side adapted to receive
an ejection member; and
       two inner side walls extending substantially parallel to the two outer side
walls, each inner side wall being positioned adjacent to and on an opposite side
of a respective one of the two rows of cells corresponding to a respective one of
the two outer side walls, wherein each inner side wall and its respective outer
side wall forms a dual wall,
       wherein the nursery tray is configured for use in a substantially vertical
orientation such that plugs containing a seedling may be ejected from the cells in
a substantially horizontal direction,
       wherein when the nursery tray is in the substantially vertical orientation the
two outer side walls and two inner side walls extend substantially vertically.
21.    The nursery tray according to claim 20, wherein the dual walls each
comprise a gear rack in the form of a plurality of uniformly spaced notches, each
notch extending between adjacent cells between the inner and outer side walls,
wherein the notches are adapted in use to engage with an indexing mechanism of
the automatic transplanter.
WILLIAMES PTY LTD
WATERMARK INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY PTY LTD
P42434AUP1

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
