                                         ABSTRACT
        Provided herein are methods for the treatment of melanoma comprising
administration of a composition comprising nanoparticles comprising taxane and a carrier
protein.
                                              161

                           METHODS OF TREATING MELANOMA
                                   RELATED APPLICATIONS
10001]     This application claims priority from U.S. Provisional Patent Application No.
61/724,892, filed November 9, 2012, and U.S. Provisional Patent Application No.
61/763,391, filed February 11, 2013, the contents of which are incorporated herein by
reference in its entirety.
10002]     This application is a divisional of Australian patent application <removed-apn>,
itself a divisional of Australian patent 2013203375, filed 10 April 2013.
                                        TECHNICAL FIELD
[0003]     The present invention relates to methods, compositions, and kits for the
treatment of melanoma by administering compositions comprising nanoparticles
comprising taxane and a carrier protein.
                                         BACKGROUND
10004]     Melanoma is a cancer characterized by the uncontrolled growth of pigment
producing cells (melanocytes). Malignant melanoma develops from a neoplastic
transformation of melanocytes, which are predominantly found in the basal layer of the
epidermis and the eye. Spagnolo F et al., Archives of Dermatology Research, 2012, 304:
177-184; Hurst EA et al., Archives of Dermatology Research, 2003, 139: 1067-1073.
Malignant melanoma is the most aggressive form of skin cancer. It is estimated that
76,250 persons would be diagnosed with melanoma in 2012 and 9,180 persons would die
from it. Spagnolo F et al., Archives of Dermatology Research, 2012, 304: 177-184;
Surveillance Epidemiology and End Results Cancer Statistics Review 2005-2009
(accessed on October 6, 2012 at
http://seer.cancer.gov/csr/1975_2009_pops09/resultssingle/sect_01_table.01.pdf).
[0005]     Although surgical removal of early melanoma lesions leads to a cure rate of
90%, advanced melanoma resists chemotherapy and tends to quickly metastasize
(Spagnolo F et al., Archives of Dermatology Research, 2012, 304: 177-184); for these
reasons, prognosis for advanced melanoma is poor, with 5-year survival rates of 78% for
patients with stage IIIA, 59% for patients with stage IIIB, and 40% for patients with stage
IIIC, respectively. Balch CM et al., Journal of Clinical Oncology, 2009, 27(36): 6199
6206. For patients with distant metastases, the prognosis significantly worsens, with 1
                                                 1

year survival rates of 62% for stage Mla, 53% for stage Mib and only 33% for stage M1c.
Balch CM et al., Journal of Clinical Oncology, 2009, 27(36): 6199-6206.
10006]     The treatment options for metastatic melanoma are limited. Prior to 2011, only
two therapies for metastatic melanoma had been approved by the FDA: dacarbazine and
high dose interleukin 2 ("HD IL-2"), neither of which increased median overall survival.
Hill G et al., Cancer, 1984, 53:1299-1305; Atkins M et al., Journal of Clinical Oncology,
1999, 17(7): 2105-2116; Phan G et al., Journal of Clinical Oncology, 2001, 19(15): 3477
3482. Moreover, dacarbazine is limited by a low response rate of 10% to 15%, while HD
IL-2 has an even lower response rate of 6% to 10%. Finn L et al., BMC Medicine, 2012,
10:23. During 2011, the FDA approved two more therapies for advanced melanoma,
vemurafenib (ZelboraffM ) and ipilimumab. Finn L et al., BMC Medicine, 2012, 10:23.
While vemurafenib has demonstrated good clinical activity with a high response rate and
low toxicity, its applicability is limited to the 40%-60% of melanoma patients who harbor
an activating mutation in the BRAF gene that leads to constitutive activation of the
mitogen-activated protein kinase pathway ("MAPK"), which causes increased cellular
proliferation as well as increased oncogenic activity. Finn L et al., BMC Medicine, 2012,
10:23. Additionally, most patients who initially respond to treatment with BRAF
inhibitors relapse, indicating the development of drug resistance and demonstrating the
limitations of targeting only one pathway to eradicate melanoma. Villanueva J et al.,
Cancer Cell, 2010, 18(6): 683-695; Spagnolo F et al., Archives of Dermatology Research,
2012, 304: 177-184. Ipilmumab can induce long-term responses in a subset of patients,
but its utility is limited by its low response rate of 10% to 15% and by the fact that it
improves median survival time by only two months. Finn L et al., BMC Medicine, 2012,
10:23. Thus, there remains a serious need for additional therapies for treatment of
melanoma.
10007]     All references cited herein, including patent applications and publications, are
incorporated by reference in their entirety.
                                 SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
[0008]     Provided herein are methods of treating melanoma in an individual (e.g., human)
comprising administering to the individual an effective amount of a composition
comprising nanoparticles comprising a taxane (e.g., paclitaxel) and a carrier protein (e.g.,
albumin). In some embodiments, the melanoma is cutaneous melanoma. In some
embodiments, the melanoma is metastatic melanoma. In some embodiments, the
                                                   2

melanoma is metastatic malignant melanoma. In some embodiments, the melanoma is
stage IV melanoma. In some embodiments, the individual has distant metastases. In some
embodiments, the metastatic melanoma is at stage MIa. In some embodiments, the
metastatic melanoma is at stage Mlb. In some embodiments, the metastatic melanoma is
at stage Mlc. In some embodiments, the individual has measurable disease. In some
embodiments, the individual has brain metastases. In some embodiments, the individual
does not have brain metastases. In some embodiments, the taxane is paclitaxel. In some
embodiments, the carrier protein is albumin such as human serum albumin or human
albumin.
10009]    In some embodiments of any of the methods described herein, the individual has
not been previously treated for melanoma. In some embodiments, the individual has not
received prior cytotoxic chemotherapy for the metastatic malignant melanoma. In some
embodiments, the individual has not received prior adjuvant cytotoxic chemotherapy. In
some embodiments, the individual is a human. In some embodiments, the individual is a
male. In some embodiments, the individual is a female. In some embodiments, the
individual is under about 65 years old. In some embodiments, the individual is at least
about 65 years old (for example at least about any of 70, 75, or 80 years old). In some
embodiments, the individual has elevated serum lactate dehydrogenase ("LDH") level. In
some embodiments, the individual has normal LDH level. In some embodiments, the
individual has serum LDH of less than about 0.8 x upper limit of normal ("ULN"). In
some embodiments, the individual has serum LDH at about 0.8 x to about 1.1 x ULN. In
some embodiments, the individual has serum LDH of between greater than about 1.1 x to
about 2.0 x ULN. In some embodiments, the melanoma comprises wild-type BRAF. In
some embodiments, the melanoma comprises a mutation in BRAF. In some embodiments,
the melanoma comprises a V600E mutation in BRAF.
[00101    In some embodiments of any of the methods described herein, the composition
comprising nanoparticles comprising taxane (e.g., paclitaxel) and a carrier protein (e.g., an
albumin) is used as a monotherapy for treating the melanoma. In some embodiments of
any of the methods described herein, the method further comprises a second therapy. In
some embodiments, the second therapy is selected from the group consisting of
chemotherapy, immunotherapy, surgery, radiation therapy, targeted therapy, or a
combination thereof. In some embodiments, the method comprises administration of at
least one other therapeutic agent. In some embodiments, the one other therapeutic agent is
                                               3

a BRAF inhibitor. In some embodiments, the one other therapeutic agent is ipilimumab. In
some embodiments, the method is used as a first line therapy. In some embodiments, the
method is used as a second line therapy.
10011]    In some embodiments of any of the methods described herein, the composition
comprising nanoparticles comprising taxane (e.g., paclitaxel) and a carrier protein (e.g.,
albumin) is administered intravenously. In some embodiments, the dose of taxane (e.g.,
paclitaxel) in the nanoparticle composition is about 50 mg/m 2 to about 400 mg/m2 . In
some embodiments, the dose of taxane (e.g., paclitaxel) in the nanoparticle composition is
about 100 mg/n 2 to about 200 mg/m2 . In some embodiments, the dose of taxane (e.g.,
paclitaxel) in the nanoparticle composition is about 150 mg/m 2 . In some embodiments, the
composition comprising nanoparticles comprising taxane (e.g., paclitaxel) and a carrier
protein (e.g., albumin) is administered weekly. In some embodiments, the method
comprises at least one 28-day treatment cycle. In some embodiments, the composition
comprising nanoparticles comprising taxane (e.g., paclitaxel) and a carrier protein (e.g.,
albumin) is administered on days 1, 8, and 15 of the 28-day treatment cycle. In some
embodiments, the carrier protein is albumin. In some embodiments, the albumin is human
serum albumin. In some embodiments, the albumin is human albumin. In some
embodiments, the albumin is recombinant albumin. In some embodiments, the
nanoparticles in the composition have an average diameter of no greater than about 200
nm. In some embodiments, the weight ratio of albumin and taxane (e.g., paclitaxel) in the
nanoparticle composition is about 9:1 or less. In some embodiments, the weight ratio of
albumin and taxane (e.g., paclitaxel) in the nanoparticle composition is about 9:1. In some
embodiments, the taxane (e.g., paclitaxel) in the nanoparticles are coated with the
albumin. In some embodiments, the taxane is paclitaxel. In some embodiments, there is
provided a method of treating melanoma in an individual (e.g., human) comprising
administering to the individual an effective amount of a composition comprising
nanoparticles comprising paclitaxel and albumin (e.g., human albumin or human serum
albumin).
10012]    In some embodiments, there is provided a method of treating melanoma in a
human individual comprising administering to the individual an effective amount of a
composition comprising nanoparticles comprising paclitaxel and an albumin. In some
embodiments, the individual is selected for treatment based on the individual having
metastatic melanoma at stage MIc. In some embodiments, the individual is selected for
                                                4

treatment based on the individual having a serum LDH level of between greater than about
1.1 x to about 2.0 x ULN. In some embodiments, the individual is selected for treatment
based on the individual having a melanoma comprising wild-type BRAF. In some
embodiments, the individual is selected for treatment based on the individual having a
melanoma comprising a mutation in BRAF (such as a V600E mutation in BRAF).
10013]     In some embodiments, the method further comprises a second therapy, for
example a second therapy comprising administration of at least one other therapeutic
agent. In some embodiments, the other therapeutic agent is a BRAF inhibitor. In some
embodiments, the other therapeutic agent is lpilimumab.
10014]     In some embodiments, the method is used as a first line therapy. In some
embodiments, the method is used as a second line therapy.
10015]     In some embodiments, the composition comprising nanoparticles comprising
paclitaxel and an albumin is administered intravenously. In some embodiment, the dose
of paclitaxel in the nanoparticle composition is about 80 mg/m 2 to about 200 mg/m 2 (for
example about 150 mg/m2 ). In some embodiments, the composition comprising
nanoparticles comprising paclitaxel and an albumin is administered weekly, for example
administered on days 1, 8, and 15 of the 28-day treatment cycle.
10016]     In some embodiments the albumin is human serum albumin. In some
embodiments, the nanoparticles in the composition have an average diameter of no greater
than about 200 nm. In some embodiments, the weight ratio of albumin and paclitaxel in
the nanoparticle composition is about 9:1 or less. In some embodiments, the paclitaxel in
the nanoparticles are coated with the albumin.
[0017]     In some embodiments, there is provided a kit comprising (i) a composition
comprising nanoparticles comprising paclitaxel and an albumin, and (ii) an instruction for
administering the nanoparticle composition for treating melanoma.
10018]     It is to be understood that one, some, or all of the properties of the various
embodiments described herein may be combined to form other embodiments of the
present invention. These and other aspects of the invention will become apparent to one
of skill in the art.
                            BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE FIGURES
[0019]     Figure 1 shows the study design for the phase III study of Nab-paclitaxel (or
Abraxane*) versus dacarbazine in chemotherapy-naive patients with metastatic malignant
melanoma. DCR, disease control rate; ECOG, Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group;
                                                  5

LDH, lactate dehydrogenase; ORR, objective response rate; OS, overall survival; PFS,
progression-free survival; RECIST, Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors ; ULN,
upper limit of normal.
10020]    Figure 2 shows progression free survival by independent radiology review. PFS
for Nab-paclitaxel (or Abraxane*) arm: 4.8 months; PFS for dacarbazine arm: 2.5 months
(P = 0.044). CI, confidence interval; HR, hazard ratio.
10021]    Figure 3 shows overall survival planned interim analysis from the study. Median
OS for Nab-paclitaxel (or Abraxane*) arm: 12.8 months; median OS for dacarbazine arm:
10.7 months. * indicates that at the time of PFS analysis, 64% of patients had an event.
10022]    Figure 4 shows overall survival interim analysis for specific subgroups.
                                  DETAILED DESCRIPTION
[0023]    Provided herein are methods for treatment of melanoma (e.g., stage IV or
metastatic cutaneous melanoma) in an individual using a composition comprising
nanoparticles comprising a taxane and a carrier protein.
[0024]    A phase III study using an albumin stabilized nanoparticle formulation of
paclitaxel (Nab-paclitaxel, or Abraxane*) versus dacarbazine was conducted in
chemotherapy-naive patients with metastatic malignant melanoma. Dacarbazine is the
only FDA-approved chemotherapy since 1975 for metastatic melanoma. The study
showed that Abraxane* almost doubled the progression-free survival ("PFS") compared to
dacarbazine (PFS: 4.8 months for Abraxane* versus 2.5 months for dacarbazine,
P=0.044). Abraxane* is the first single-agent chemotherapy to demonstrate a statistically
significant improvement over dacarbazine in 37 years. The present invention thus provides
methods, compositions, and kits for treatment of melanoma in an individual by
administration of a composition comprising nanoparticles comprising a taxane and a
carrier protein.
10025]    In some embodiments, there is provided a method of treating melanoma in an
individual comprising administering to the individual a composition comprising
nanoparticles comprising a taxane and a carrier protein. In some embodiments, the
individual has stage IV or metastatic melanoma (e.g., stage IV or metastatic cutaneous
melanoma). In some embodiments, the melanoma is metastatic malignant melanoma. In
some embodiments, the metastatic melanoma is at stage Mla, stage M Ib, or stage MlIc. In
some embodiments, the metastatic melanoma is at stage Ml c. In some embodiments, the
melanoma comprises a mutation in BRAF. In some embodiments, the melanoma does not
                                                6

comprise a mutation in BRAF. In some embodiments, the melanoma does not comprise
BRAF mutant such as a BRAF mutant with increased activity (for example, increased
kinase activity, and/or increased activity as compared to wild-type BRAF) or a BRAF
gain-of-function mutant. In some embodiments, the melanoma does not comprise BRAF
V600E mutation (e.g., the melanoma comprises wild-type BRAF). In some embodiments,
the melanoma comprises a BRAF mutant such as a BRAF mutant with increased activity
(for example, increased kinase activity, and/or increased activity as compared to wild-type
BRAF) or a BRAF gain-of-function mutant. In some embodiments, the melanoma
comprises BRAF V600E mutation.          In some embodiments, the individual has elevated
serum lactate dehydrogenase ("LDH") level (for example, elevated LDH level as
compared to a normal level such as normal LDH level known in the art or normal LDH
level in an individual without melanoma or cancer). In some embodiments, the individual
has normal serum LDH level. In some embodiments, the individual has serum LDH of
less than about 0.8 x upper limit of normal ("ULN"). In some embodiments, the individual
has serum LDH at about 0.8     x to about 1.1  x ULN. In some embodiments, the individual
has serum LDH of between greater than about 1.1        x to about 2.0 x ULN. In some
embodiments, the individual has serum LDH of between about 1.1          x to about 2.0 x ULN.
In some embodiments, the individual is a human (e.g., male or female). In some
embodiments, the taxane is paclitaxel. In some embodiments, the carrier protein is
albumin.
10026]     Also provided herein are compositions (such as pharmaceutical compositions),
articles of manufacture, medicines, kits, and unit dosages useful for the methods described
herein. Also provided herein are certain combination therapies methods, kits, and
compositions for the treatment of melanoma.
Definitions
10027]     The term "individual" refers to a mammal, including humans. An individual
includes, but is not limited to, human, bovine, horse, feline, canine, rodent, or primate. In
some embodiments, the individual is human. The term "individual" also includes human
patients described in the Examples.
10028]     As used herein, "treatment" is an approach for obtaining beneficial or desired
clinical results. Beneficial or desired clinical results may include, but are not limited to,
any one or more of: alleviation of one or more symptoms, diminishment of extent of
                                                  7

disease, stabilized (i.e., not worsening) state of disease, preventing or delaying spread
(e.g., metastasis) of disease, preventing or delaying occurrence or recurrence of disease,
delay or slowing of disease progression, amelioration of the disease state, and remission
(whether partial or total). Also encompassed by "treatment" is a reduction of pathological
consequence of a proliferative disease such as cancer (e.g., melanoma). The methods
provided herein contemplate any one or more of these aspects of treatment.
10029]     The term "effective amount" used herein refers to an amount of a compound or
composition, when used alone or in combination with a second therapy, is sufficient to
treat a specified disorder, condition or disease such as ameliorate, palliate, lessen, and/or
delay one or more of its symptoms. In reference to cancers or other unwanted cell
proliferation, an effective amount comprises an amount sufficient to cause a tumor to
shrink and/or to decrease the growth rate of the tumor (such as to suppress tumor growth)
or to prevent or delay other unwanted cell proliferation. An effective amount can be
administered in one or more administrations. In the case of melanoma, the effective
amount of the drug or composition may: (i) reduce the number of melanoma cells; (ii)
reduce melanoma tumor size; (iii) inhibit, retard, slow to some extent and for example
stop melanoma cell infiltration into peripheral organs; (iv) inhibit (i.e., slow to some
extent and for example stop) melanoma tumor metastasis; (v) inhibit melanoma tumor
growth; (vi) prevent or delay occurrence and/or recurrence of melanoma tumor; and/or
(vii) relieve to some extent one or more of the symptoms associated with the melanoma.
10030]     As used herein, by "combination therapy" is meant that a first agent be
administered in conjunction with another agent. "In conjunction with" refers to
administration of one treatment modality in addition to another treatment modality, such
as administration of a nanoparticle composition described herein in addition to
administration of the other agent to the same individual. As such, "in conjunction with"
refers to administration of one treatment modality before, during, or after delivery of the
other treatment modality to the individual.
10031]     As used herein, by "pharmaceutically acceptable" or "pharmacologically
compatible" is meant a material that is not biologically or otherwise undesirable, e.g., the
material may be incorporated into a pharmaceutical composition administered to an
individual or patient without causing any significant undesirable biological effects or
interacting in a deleterious manner with any of the other components of the composition in
which it is contained. Pharmaceutically acceptable carriers or excipients have for example
                                                 8

met the required standards of toxicological and manufacturing testing and/or are included
on the Inactive Ingredient Guide prepared by the U.S. Food and Drug administration.
10032]    As used herein and in the appended claims, the singular forms "a," "an," and
"the" include plural reference unless the context clearly indicates otherwise.
10033]    Reference to "about" a value or parameter herein includes (and describes)
embodiments that are directed to that value or parameter per se. For example, description
referring to "about X" includes description of "X."
10034]    It is understood that aspect and variations of the invention described herein
include "consisting" and/or "consisting essentially of' aspects and variations.
Methods of Treating Melanoma
10035]    The present invention provides methods for treatment of melanoma in an
individual (e.g., human) using a composition comprising nanoparticles comprising a
taxane and a carrier protein.
10036]    In some embodiments, the melanoma is cutaneous melanoma. In some
embodiments, the melanoma is metastatic melanoma. In some embodiments, the
melanoma is metastatic malignant melanoma. In some embodiments, the melanoma is
stage IV melanoma (e.g., stage IV cutaneous melanoma). In some embodiments, the
metastatic melanoma is at stage MIa. In some embodiments, the metastatic melanoma is
at stage Ml b. In some embodiments, the metastatic melanoma is at stage MIc. In some
embodiments, the individual has not received prior therapy (e.g., prior cytotoxic
chemotherapy) for the melanoma (e.g., metastatic melanoma). In some embodiments, the
melanoma comprises a mutation in BRAF. In some embodiments, the melanoma
comprises a BRAF V600E mutation. In some embodiments, the melanoma does not
comprise a mutation in BRAF (e.g., the melanoma comprises wild-type BRAF). In some
embodiments, the melanoma does not comprise BRAF mutant such as a BRAF mutant
with increased activity (for example, increased kinase activity, and/or increased activity as
compared to wild-type BRAF) or a BRAF gain-of-function mutant. In some embodiments,
the melanoma does not comprise a constitutive active BRAF mutant. In some
embodiments, the melanoma does not comprise BRAF V600E mutation (e.g., the
melanoma comprises wild-type BRAF). In some embodiments, the melanoma comprises
wild-type BRAF (e.g., the melanoma cells have wild-type BRAF). In some embodiments,
the melanoma comprises a BRAF mutant such as a BRAF mutant with increased activity
                                                 9

(for example, increased kinase activity, and/or increased activity as compared to wild-type
BRAF) or a BRAF gain-of-function mutant. In some embodiments, the melanoma
comprises a constitutive active BRAF mutant. In some embodiments, the melanoma
comprises BRAF V600E mutation. In some embodiments, the individual has elevated
serum lactate dehydrogenase ("LDH") level. In some embodiments, the individual has
serum LDH of less than about 0.8     x upper limit of normal ("ULN"). In some
embodiments, the individual has serum LDH at about 0.8        x to about 1. 1 x ULN. In some
embodiments, the individual has serum LDH of between greater than about 1.1         x to about
2.0  x ULN. In some embodiments, the individual has serum LDH of between about 1.1 x
to about 2.0   x ULN. In some embodiments, the individual is under about 65 years old. In
some embodiments, the individual is at least about 65 years old (for example at least about
any of 70, 75, or 80 years old). In some embodiments, the individual is a male. In some
embodiments, the individual is a female. In some embodiments, the individual has one or
more of the characteristics of the patients described in Examples 1 and 2 of the present
disclosure. For example, the individual may have at least one (e.g., at least any of 2, 3, 4,
5, 6, or 7) of the following characteristics: (1) Histologically or cytologically confirmed
cutaneous malignant melanoma with evidence of metastasis (Stage IV); (2) No prior
cytotoxic chemotherapy for metastatic malignant melanoma; (3) No prior adjuvant
cytotoxic chemotherapy; (4) Male or non-pregnant and non-lactating female > 18 years of
age; (5) No other current active malignancy within the past 3 years; (6) Radiographically
documented measurable disease (for example, the presence of at least 1 radiographically
documented measurable lesion); and (7) ECOG performance status 0-1. In some
embodiments, the individual does not have history or current evidence of brain metastases,
including leptomeningeal involvement. In some embodiments, the individual does not
have pre-existing peripheral neuropathy of NCI CTCAE Scale of Grade > 2.
10037]     In some embodiments, the melanoma is cutaneous melanoma. In some
embodiments, the melanoma is melanoma of the skin. In some embodiments, the
melanoma is superficial spreading melanoma. In some embodiments, the melanoma is
nodular melanoma. In some embodiments, the melanoma is acral lentiginous melanoma.
In some embodiments, the melanoma is lentigo maligna melanoma. In some
embodiments, the melanoma is mucosal melanoma (e.g., mucosal melanoma in nose,
mouth, throat, or genital area). In some embodiments, the melanoma is ocular melanoma.
In some embodiments, the melanoma is uveal melanoma. In some embodiments, the
                                                  10

melanoma is choroidal melanoma. For example, in some embodiments, there is provided
a method of treating cutaneous melanoma (e.g., metastatic or stage IV cutaneous
melanoma) in an individual (e.g., human) comprising administering to the individual a
composition comprising nanoparticles comprising a taxane (e.g., paclitaxel) and a carrier
protein (e.g., albumin). In some embodiments, the individual has stage IV or metastatic
melanoma. In some embodiments, the melanoma is metastatic malignant melanoma. In
some embodiments, the metastatic melanoma is at stage MIa, stage MIb, or stage MIc. In
some embodiments, the metastatic melanoma is at stage MIc. In some embodiments, the
melanoma comprises a mutation in BRAF. In some embodiments, the melanoma does not
comprise a mutation in BRAF. In some embodiments, the melanoma does not comprise
BRAF mutant such as a BRAF mutant with increased activity (for example, increased
kinase activity, and/or increased activity as compared to wild-type BRAF) or a BRAF
gain-of-function mutant. In some embodiments, the melanoma does not comprise a
constitutive active BRAF mutant. In some embodiments, the melanoma does not comprise
BRAF V600E mutation (e.g., the melanoma comprises wild-type BRAF). In some
embodiments, the melanoma comprises wild-type BRAF (e.g., the melanoma cells have
wild-type BRAF). In some embodiments, the melanoma comprises a BRAF mutant such
as a BRAF mutant with increased activity (for example, increased kinase activity, and/or
increased activity as compared to wild-type BRAF) or a BRAF gain-of-function mutant.
In some embodiments, the melanoma comprises BRAF V600E mutation. In some
embodiments, the melanoma comprises a constitutively active BRAF mutant. In some
embodiments, the melanoma does not comprise a constitutively active BRAF mutant. In
some embodiments, the method of using taxane nanoparticles for treating melanoma is
used as a monotherapy. In some embodiments, the method of treating melanoma using
taxane nanoparticles does not further comprise one other therapeutic agent (such as one
other chemotherapeutic agent or immunotherapeutic agent). In some embodiments, the
method does not further comprise a cytotoxic chemotherapeutic agent.
10038]    Melanoma described herein may be any of the following: cutaneous melanoma,
extracutaneous melanoma, superficial spreading melanoma, malignant melanoma, nodular
malignant melanoma, nodular melanoma, polypoid melanoma, acral lentiginous
melanoma, lentiginous malignant melanoma, amelanotic melanoma, lentigo maligna
melanoma, mucosal lentignous melanoma, mucosal melanoma, soft-tissue melanoma,
ocular melanoma, desmoplastic melanoma, or metastatic malignant melanoma.
                                                11

[0039]     In some embodiments, the melanoma to be treated is stage 0, stage 1, stage II,
stage III, or stage IV. In some embodiments, the melanoma to be treated is stage 0, stage
IA, stage 1B, stage IIA, stage IIB, stage IIC, stage IIIA, stage IIIB, stage IIIC, or stage IV.
In some embodiments, the melanoma is metastatic melanoma. In some embodiments, the
metastatic melanoma is at stage M la. In some embodiments, the metastatic melanoma is
at stage Mlb. In some embodiments, the metastatic melanoma is at stage Mic. Staging of
melanoma may be based on a method known to one skilled in the art. Staging of
melanoma may be according to the criteria included in 2009 AJCC Melanoma Staging and
Classification. See Balch CM et al., J Clin Oncol. 2009, 27(36):6199-206 (the contents
disclosed therein are incorporated by reference in their entirety). For example, the staging
of melanoma may be according to the criteria set forth in Tables 1 and 2.
TABLE 1. TNM Staging Categories for Cutaneous Melanoma
 Classification                Thickness (mm)                  Ulceration Status/Mitoses
      T
            T is        NA                               NA
            TI          < 1.00                            a: Without ulceration and mitosis
                                                              < I/mm2
                                                          b: With ulceration or mitoses
                                                              > i/mm 2
            T2          1.01-2.00                         a: Without ulceration
                                                          b: With ulceration
            T3          2.01-4.00                         a: Without ulceration
                                                          b: With ulceration
            T4          > 4.00                            a: Without ulceration
                                                          b: With ulceration
      N                 No. of Metastatic Nodes           Nodal Metastatic Burden
            NO          0                                 NA
            NI          1                                 a: Micrometastasis*
                                                          b: Macrometastasist
            N2          2-3                               a: Micrometastasis*
                                                          b: Macrometastasist
                                                          c: In transit metastases/satellites
                                                              without metastatic nodes
            N3          4 + metastatic nodes, or
                           matted nodes, or in transit
                           metastases/satellites with
                           metastatic nodes
      M                 Site                              Serum LDH
            MO          No distant metastases             NA
            Mla         Distant skin, subcutaneous, or    Normal
                           nodal metastases
            Mlb         Lung metastases                   Normal
                                                 12

            MIC       All other visceral metastases      Normal
                      Any distant metastasis             Elevated
Abbreviations: NA, not applicable; LDH, lactate dehydrogenase.
*Micrometastases are diagnosed after sentinel lymph node biopsy.
tMacrometastases are defined as clinically detectable nodal metastases confirmed
pathologically.
TABLE 2. Anatomic Stage Groupings for Cutaneous Melanoma
                     Clinical Staging*                              Pathologic Staging?
                  T          N           M                        T          N           M
      0          Tis        NO           MO           0          Tis         NO          MO
     IA         Tla         NO           MO          IA         Tla          NO          MO
     IB         TIb         NO           MO          IB         TIb          NO          MO
                T2a         NO           Mo                     T2a          NO          MO
     IIA        T2b         NO           MO          IIA        T2b          NO          MO
                T3a         NO           MO                     T3a          NO          MO
     1IB        T3b         NO           MO          IIB        T3b          NO          MO
                T4a         NO           MO                     T4a          NO          MO
     1IC        T4b         NO           MO          IIC        T4b          NO          MO
     III       Any T      N>NO           MO         IIIA       T1-4a        Nla          MO
                                                               TI-4a        N2a          MO
                                                    IIIB       T1-4b        Nia          MO
                                                               T1-4b        N2a          MO
                                                               TI-4a        Nib          MO
                                                               TI-4a        N2b          MO
                                                               TI-4a        N2c          MO
                                                    IIIC       T1-4b        Nib          MO
                                                               TI-4b        N2b          MO
                                                               T1-4b        N2c          MO
                                                               Any T         N3          MO
     IV        Any T       Any N         M1          IV        Any T       Any N         MI
*Clinical staging includes microstaging of the primary melanoma and clinical/radiologic
evaluation for metastases. By convention, it should be used after complete excision of the
primary melanoma with clinical assessment for regional and distant metastases.
TPathologic staging includes microstaging of the primary melanoma and pathologic
information about the regional lymph nodes after partial (i.e., sentinel node biopsy) or
complete lymphadenectomy. Pathologic stage 0 or stage IA patients are the exception; they
do not require pathologic evaluation of their lymph nodes.
10040]    In some embodiments, the melanoma is early stage melanoma (e.g., early stage
cutaneous melanoma). In some embodiments, the melanoma is late stage melanoma (e.g.,
late stage cutaneous melanoma). In some embodiments, the melanoma is advanced
                                               13

melanoma. In some embodiments, the individual has measurable disease. In some
embodiments, the melanoma is metastatic melanoma (e.g., metastatic cutaneous
melanoma). In some embodiments, the melanoma is metastatic malignant melanoma (e.g.,
metastatic malignant cutaneous melanoma). In some embodiments, the melanoma is stage
IV melanoma (e.g., stage IV cutaneous melanoma). In some embodiments, the individual
has measurable disease. A measurable disease may be determined using methods known
to one skilled in the art. In some embodiments, a measurable disease refers to the presence
of at least I radiographically documented measurable lesion. In some embodiments, the
melanoma is a melanoma with one or more metastatic sites in the brain.
[0041]     In some embodiments, the melanoma is non-metastatic melanoma. In some
embodiments, the melanoma is metastatic melanoma. In some embodiments, the
melanoma is a primary melanoma tumor. In some embodiments, the primary melanoma
tumor has metastasized. In some embodiments, the melanoma is locally advanced
melanoma. In some embodiments, the melanoma is recurrent melanoma. In some
embodiments, the melanoma has reoccurred after remission. In some embodiments, the
melanoma is progressive melanoma. In some embodiments, the melanoma is melanoma in
remission. In some embodiments, the individual has distant metastases. Distant metastases
may be based on methods known in the art, and may refer to distant skin, subcutaneous, or
nodal metastases or metastases in distant organ such as lung metastases. In some
embodiments, the individual does not have distant metastases. In some embodiments, the
individual has locoregional cutaneous metastases. In some embodiments, the individual
has distant skin, subcutaneous, or nodal metastases. In some embodiments, the individual
has visceral metastases. In some embodiments, the individual does not have visceral
metastases. In some embodiments, the individual has metastases of melanoma in lung,
liver, bone or brain. In some embodiments, the individual does not have metastases of
melanoma in brain. In some embodiments, the melanoma is localized resectable, localized
unresectable, or unresectable. In some embodiments, the individual has previously been
treated with a BRAF inhibitor such as, for example, Vemurafenib (Zelboraf) or Sorafenib
(Nexavar).
10042]     For example, there is provided a method of treating stage IV melanoma (e.g.,
stage IV cutaneous melanoma) in an individual (e.g., human) comprising administering to
the individual a composition comprising nanoparticles comprising a taxane (e.g.,
paclitaxel) and a carrier protein (e.g., albumin). In some embodiments, there is provided a
                                                 14

method of treating metastatic melanoma (e.g., metastatic cutaneous melanoma) (such as
melanoma at metastatic stage Mla, Mlb, or Mlc) in an individual (e.g., human)
comprising administering to the individual a composition comprising nanoparticles
comprising a taxane (e.g., paclitaxel) and a carrier protein (e.g., albumin). In some
embodiments, the metastatic melanoma is at any of stage Mla, stage Mlb, or stage Mlc.
In some embodiments, there is provided a method of treating metastatic cutaneous
melanoma with metastatic stage Ml c in an individual (e.g., human) comprising
administering to the individual a composition comprising nanoparticles comprising a
taxane (e.g., paclitaxel) and a carrier protein (e.g., albumin). In some embodiments, the
melanoma comprises a mutation in BRAF. In some embodiments, the melanoma does not
comprise a mutation in BRAF. In some embodiments, the melanoma does not comprise
BRAF mutant such as a BRAF mutant with increased activity (for example, increased
kinase activity, and/or increased activity as compared to wild-type BRAF) or a BRAF
gain-of-function mutant. In some embodiments, the melanoma does not comprise BRAF
V600E mutation (e.g., the melanoma comprises wild-type BRAF). In some embodiments,
the melanoma comprises wild-type BRAF. In some embodiments, the melanoma
comprises a BRAF mutant such as a BRAF mutant with increased activity (for example,
increased kinase activity, and/or increased activity as compared to wild-type BRAF) or a
BRAF gain-of-function mutant. In some embodiments, the melanoma comprises BRAF
V600E mutation. In some embodiments, the method of using taxane nanoparticles for
treating melanoma is used as a monotherapy. In some embodiments, the method of
treating melanoma using taxane nanoparticles does not further comprise one other
therapeutic agent (such as one other chemotherapeutic agent or immunotherapeutic agent).
In some embodiments, the method does not further comprise a cytotoxic chemotherapeutic
agent.
10043]    In some embodiments, the individual has melanoma tumor with thickness of less
than about any of 0.5 millimeter ("mm"), 1 mm, 1.5 mm, 2 mm, 2.5 mm, 3 mm, 3.5 mm, 4
mm, 4.5 mm, 5 mm, 5.5 mm, 6 mm, 6.5 mm, 7 mm, 7.5 mm, or 8 mm. In some
embodiments, the individual has melanoma tumor with thickness of at least about any of
0.5 mm, 1 mm, 1.5 mm, 2 mm, 2.5 mm, 3 mm, 3.5 mm, 4 mm, 4.5 mm, 5 mm, 5.5 mm, 6
mm, 6.5 mm, 7 mm, 7.5 mm, or 8 mm. In some embodiments, the individual has
melanoma tumor with thickness of about any of 0.5 mm, 1 mm, 1.5 mm, 2 mm, 2.5 mm, 3
mm, 3.5 mm, 4 mm, 4.5 mm, 5 mm, 5.5 mm, 6 mm, 6.5 mm, 7 mm, 7.5 mm, or 8 mm. In
                                                 15

some embodiments, the individual has melanoma tumor with thickness of about any of 0-1
mm, 1-2 mm, 2-3 mm, 3-4 mm, 4-5 mm, 5-6 mm, 1-4 mm, 1-6 mm, 2-4 mm, 2-6 mm, or
4-6 mm.
10044]     Any individual having melanoma (e.g., metastatic melanoma such as metastatic
cutaneous melanoma) may be treated using a method described herein. In some
embodiments, the individual is chemotherapy-naive or has not been treated with
chemotherapy. In some embodiments, the individual has not been previously treated for
the melanoma. In some embodiments, the individual has not been previously treated for
the metastatic melanoma. In some embodiments, the individual has not received prior
therapy or prior chemotherapy (such as prior cytotoxic chemotherapy) for the melanoma
(e.g., the metastatic malignant melanoma). In some embodiments, the individual has not
received prior adjuvant therapy (e.g., adjuvant cytotoxic chemotherapy). In some
embodiments, the individual has been previously treated with a kinase inhibitor. In some
embodiments, the individual has been previously treated with a cytokine. In some
embodiments, the individual has been previously treated with an adjuvant therapy (e.g.,
interferon, GM-CSF, or vaccine). For example, there is provided a method of treating
melanoma (e.g., metastatic cutaneous melanoma) in an individual (e.g., human)
comprising administering to the individual a composition comprising nanoparticles
comprising a taxane (e.g., paclitaxel) and a carrier protein (e.g., albumin), wherein the
individual has not received prior therapy or prior chemotherapy (such as prior cytotoxic
chemotherapy) for the melanoma. In some embodiments, the melanoma comprises a
mutation in BRAF. In some embodiments, the melanoma does not comprise a mutation in
BRAF. In some embodiments, the melanoma does not comprise BRAF mutant such as a
BRAF mutant with increased activity (for example, increased kinase activity, and/or
increased activity as compared to wild-type BRAF) or a BRAF gain-of-fnction mutant.
In some embodiments, the melanoma does not comprise BRAF V600E mutation (e.g., the
melanoma comprises wild-type BRAF). In some embodiments, the melanoma comprises
wild-type BRAF. In some embodiments, the melanoma comprises a BRAF mutant such
as a BRAF mutant with increased activity (for example, increased kinase activity, and/or
increased activity as compared to wild-type BRAF) or a BRAF gain-of-function mutant.
In some embodiments, the melanoma comprises BRAF V600E mutation. In some
embodiments, the method of using taxane nanoparticles for treating melanoma is used as a
monotherapy. In some embodiments, the method of treating melanoma using taxane
                                               16

nanoparticles does not further comprise one other therapeutic agent (such as one other
chemotherapeutic agent or immunotherapeutic agent). In some embodiments, the method
does not further comprise a cytotoxic chemotherapeutic agent.
10045]     Any individual having normal or elevated lactate dehydrogenase ("LDH") level
(such as normal or elevated serum LDH level) may be treated with a method described
herein. In some embodiments, the individual has normal LDH level such as normal serum
LDH level (e.g., a normal serum LDH baseline level or normal serum LDH at the time of
diagnosis of melanoma). In some embodiments, the individual has elevated LDH level
such as elevated serum LDH level (e.g., an elevated serum LDH baseline level or elevated
serum LDH at the time of diagnosis of melanoma). In some embodiments, the individual
has substantially elevated serum LDH level. In some embodiments, the individual has
serum LDH level increased by at least about any of 10%, 20%, 30%, 40%, 50%, 60%,
70%, 80%, 90%, 100%, 120%, 140%, 150%, 175%, or 200% compared to the normal
serum LDH value or serum LDH value for an individual without melanoma. The serum
LDH level may be determined by a person skilled in the art using methods known in the
art. In some embodiments, the serum LDH level can be determined via immunoassay,
e.g., ELISA or sandwich ELISA. In some embodiments, the serum LDH level can be
determined by a colorimetric assay in which either the reduction of NAD+ (oxidation of
lactate to pyruvate) or the oxidation of NADH (reduction of pyruvate to lactate) is
monitored by the change in absorbance at 340 nm. In some embodiments, LDH level can
be determined via electrophoresis using a chromogenic LDH activity stain. In some
embodiments, the LDH level described herein refers to baseline LDH level. In some
embodiments, the LDH level described herein refers to the LDH level at the time of
diagnosis of melanoma. In some embodiments, the LDH level described herein refers to
the LDH level at the time of diagnosis of stage IV or metastatic melanoma. In some
embodiments, the LDH level described herein is compared to an individual without
melanoma. In some embodiments, the LDH level is elevated compared to a normal LDH
level known in the art or a LDH level in an individual without melanoma or cancer. In
some embodiments, the LDH level is elevated compared to a normal LDH level range
known in the art or a LDH level in a healthy individual. In some embodiments, the LDH
level refers to the total LDH level (LDH isoenzymes combined together).
10046]     In some embodiments, the individual has serum LDH level of at least about any
of 0.6 x upper limit of normal ("ULN"), 0.7 x ULN, 0.8 x ULN, 0.9 x ULN, 1.0 x ULN,
                                               17

1.1 x ULN, 1.2 x ULN, 1.3 x ULN, 1.4 x ULN, 1.5 x ULN, 1.6 x ULN, 1.7 x ULN, 1.8 x
ULN, 1.9 x ULN, 2.0 x ULN, 2.1 x ULN, or 2.2 x ULN. In some embodiments, the
individual has serum LDH level of lower than about any of 0.6        x ULN, 0.7 x ULN, 0.8     x
ULN, 0.9 x ULN, 1.0 x ULN, 1.1 x ULN, 1.2 x ULN, 1.3 x ULN, 1.4 x ULN, 1.5 x
ULN, 1.6 x ULN, 1.7 x ULN, 1.8 x ULN, 1.9 x ULN, 2.0 x ULN, 2.1 x ULN, 2.2             x
ULN, 2.3 x ULN, 2.4 x ULN, 2.5       x ULN, 2.6 x ULN, 2.7 x ULN, 2.8      x  ULN, or 3.0 x
ULN,. In some embodiments, the individual has serum LDH level of about any of 0.6          x
ULN, 0.7 x ULN, 0.8     x  ULN, 0.9  x ULN, 1.0 x ULN, 1.1 x ULN, 1.2 x ULN, 1.3       x
ULN, 1.4 x ULN, 1.5 x ULN, 1.6       x ULN, 1.7 x ULN, 1.8 x ULN, 1.9 x ULN, 2.0 x
ULN, 2.1 x ULN, or 2.2 x ULN. In some embodiments, the individual has serum LDH
level of about any of 0.4 x ULN - 0.8 x ULN, 0.6 x ULN - 2.5 x ULN, 0.8 x ULN - 2.0 x
ULN, 0.8    x ULN - 1.5 x ULN, 0.8     x ULN - 1.2 x ULN, 0.8 x ULN - 1.1 x ULN, 0.9         x
ULN - 1.1 x ULN, 0.8 x ULN - 1.2 x ULN, 1.0 x ULN - 2.2 x ULN, 1.1 x ULN - 2.0 x
ULN, > 1.1 x ULN -2.0 x ULN, > 1.2 x ULN - 2.0 x ULN, 1.2 x ULN - 2.2 x ULN, 1.2
x ULN - 2.0 x ULN, 1.5 x ULN - 2.0 x ULN, 1.2 x ULN - 5.0 x ULN, 1.2 x ULN - 4.0
x ULN, 2.0    x ULN - 4.0 x ULN, 1.2     x ULN - 3.5 x ULN, 1.2     x  ULN - 3.0 x ULN, 1.2      x
ULN - 2.5 x ULN, 1.1 x ULN - 1.8 x ULN, 1.1 x ULN - 1.5 x ULN, 1.2 x ULN - 1.5 x
ULN, 1.2 x ULN - 1.8 x ULN, or 1.3 x ULN - 1.8 x ULN. In some embodiments, the
individual has serum LDH of less than about 0.8       x upper limit of normal ("ULN"). In
some embodiments, the individual has serum LDH at about 0.8 x to about 1.1 x ULN. In
some embodiments, the individual has serum LDH of between greater than about 1.1 x to
about 2.0 x ULN. In some embodiments, the individual has serum LDH of between about
1.1  x to about 2.0 x ULN. For example, there is provided a method of treating melanoma
(e.g., metastatic cutaneous melanoma) in an individual (e.g., human) comprising
administering to the individual a composition comprising nanoparticles comprising a
taxane (e.g., paclitaxel) and a carrier protein (e.g., albumin), wherein the individual has
normal serum LDH level. In some embodiments, the melanoma is metastatic malignant
melanoma. In some embodiments, the metastatic melanoma is at stage Mla, stage Mlb, or
stage Mic. In some embodiments, the metastatic melanoma is at stage Mlc. In some
embodiments, the melanoma comprises a mutation in BRAF. Insome embodiments, the
melanoma does not comprise a mutation in BRAF. In some embodiments, the melanoma
does not comprise BRAF mutant such as a BRAF mutant with increased activity (for
example, increased kinase activity, and/or increased activity as compared to wild-type
                                                 18

BRAF) or a BRAF gain-of-function mutant. In some embodiments, the melanoma does
not comprise BRAF V600E mutation (e.g., the melanoma comprises wild-type BRAF). In
some embodiments, the melanoma comprises wild-type BRAF. In some embodiments,
the melanoma comprises a BRAF mutant such as a BRAF mutant with increased activity
(for example, increased kinase activity, and/or increased activity as compared to wild-type
BRAF) or a BRAF gain-of-function mutant. In some embodiments, the melanoma
comprises BRAF V600E mutation. In some embodiments, the individual is a human (e.g.,
male or female). In some embodiments, the taxane is paclitaxel. In some embodiments,
the carrier protein is albumin. In some embodiments, the method of using taxane
nanoparticles for treating melanoma is used as a monotherapy. In some embodiments, the
method of treating melanoma using taxane nanoparticles does not further comprise one
other therapeutic agent (such as one other chemotherapeutic agent or immunotherapeutic
agent). In some embodiments, the method does not further comprise a cytotoxic
chemotherapeutic agent.
10047]    For another example, there is provided a method of treating melanoma (e.g.,
metastatic cutaneous melanoma) in an individual (e.g., human) comprising administering
to the individual a composition comprising nanoparticles comprising a taxane (e.g.,
paclitaxel) and a carrier protein (e.g., albumin), wherein the individual has elevated serum
LDH level. In some embodiments, the individual has serum LDH of one of the following:
serum LDH level of less than about 0.8 x ULN, serum LDH level of about 0.8 x to about
1.1 x ULN, or serum LDH of between greater than about 1.1 x to about 2.0 x ULN. In
some embodiments, the individual has stage IV or metastatic melanoma (e.g., stage IV or
metastatic cutaneous melanoma). In some embodiments, the melanoma is metastatic
malignant melanoma. In some embodiments, the metastatic melanoma is at stage Ml a,
stage Mib, or stage Mic. In some embodiments, the metastatic melanoma is at stage Mlc.
In some embodiments, the melanoma comprises a mutation in BRAF. In some
embodiments, the melanoma comprises a constitutively active BRAF mutant. In some
embodiments, the melanoma comprises a BRAF mutant such as a BRAF mutant with
increased activity (for example, increased kinase activity, and/or increased activity as
compared to wild-type BRAF) or a BRAF gain-of-function mutant. In some embodiments,
the melanoma comprises BRAF V600E mutation. In some embodiments, the individual is
a human (e.g., male or female). In some embodiments, the taxane is paclitaxel. In some
embodiments, the carrier protein is albumin. In some embodiments, the method of using
                                                 19

taxane nanoparticles for treating melanoma is used as a monotherapy. In some
embodiments, the method of treating melanoma using taxane nanoparticles does not
further comprise one other therapeutic agent (such as one other chemotherapeutic agent or
immunotherapeutic agent). In some embodiments, the method does not further comprise a
cytotoxic chemotherapeutic agent.
10048]    BRAF is a protein encoded by BRAF gene. The gene may also be referred to as
proto-oncogene B-Raf and v-Raf murine sarcoma viral oncogene homolog BI. Mutations
in BRAF have been identified in melanomas, including a mutation at codon 600 (e.g.,
valine to glutamate mutation at codon 600). The V600E mutation was previously known
as V599E mutation and was renamed based on additional sequence data. See Davies H et
al., Nature 2002, 417:949-54. In some embodiments of the methods described herein, the
melanoma comprises wild-type BRAF (e.g., the melanoma cells have wild-type BRAF).
In some embodiments, the melanoma comprises a mutation in BRAF. In some
embodiments, the melanoma does not comprise a mutation in BRAF. In some
embodiments, the melanoma comprises a mutation at codon 600 in BRAF (such as Val
mutated to Glu, Asp, Lys, or Arg). In some embodiments, the melanoma does not
comprise a mutation V600E in BRAF (e.g., the melanoma cells are negative for BRAF
V600E mutation). In some embodiments, the melanoma comprises BRAF V600E
mutation. In some embodiments, the melanoma cells are characterized by homozygous
V600E BRAF genotype. In some embodiments, the melanoma cells are characterized by
heterozygous V600E BRAF genotype. In some embodiments a mutation in BRAF can be
determined via allele-specific real-time PCR. In some embodiments, a mutation in BRAF
can be determined via shifted termination assay (STA). In some embodiments, a mutation
in BRAF can be determined via nucleic acid sequencing. In some embodiments, a
mutation in BRAF can be determined using a commercially available kit, such as is
available from, e.g., Roche, Neogenomics, Lab 2, or other companies.
10049]    In some embodiments, the melanoma does not comprise BRAF mutant such as a
BRAF mutant with increased or elevated activity (for example, increased kinase activity,
and/or increased activity as compared to wild-type BRAF) or a BRAF gain-of-function
mutant. In some embodiments, the melanoma does not comprise a constitutive active
BRAF mutant. In some embodiments, the melanoma does not comprise BRAF V600E
mutation (e.g., the melanoma comprises wild-type BRAF). In some embodiments, the
melanoma comprises wild-type BRAF. In some embodiments, the melanoma comprises a
                                              20

BRAF mutant such as a BRAF mutant with increased activity (for example, increased
kinase activity, and/or increased activity as compared to wild-type BRAF) or a BRAF
gain-of-function mutant. In some embodiments, the melanoma comprises a BRAF
constitutive active mutant. In some embodiments, the mutant BRAF has elevated activity
such as elevated kinase activity. In some embodiments, the mutant BRAF is a gain-of
function mutant. In some embodiments, the mutation in BRAF is in the kinase domain. In
some embodiments, the melanoma comprise one or more of the following BRAF
mutations: R461I, 1462S, G463E, G463V, G465A, G465E, G465V, G468A, G468E,
N580S, E585K, D593V, F594L, G595R, L596V, T5981, V599D, V599E, V599K, V599R,
K600E, or A727V. In some embodiments, the melanoma comprises BRAF V600E
mutation. Mutation(s) in BRAF may be identified using methods known in the art.
10050]     For example, there is provided a method of treating melanoma (e.g., metastatic
cutaneous melanoma) in an individual (e.g., human) comprising administering to the
individual a composition comprising nanoparticles comprising a taxane (e.g., paclitaxel)
and a carrier protein (e.g., albumin), wherein the melanoma does not comprise BRAF
mutant such as a BRAF mutant with increased activity (for example, increased kinase
activity, and/or increased activity as compared to wild-type BRAF) or a BRAF gain-of
function mutant. In some embodiments, there is provided a method of treating melanoma
(e.g., metastatic cutaneous melanoma) in an individual (e.g., human) comprising
administering to the individual a composition comprising nanoparticles comprising a
taxane (e.g., paclitaxel) and a carrier protein (e.g., albumin), wherein the melanoma does
not comprise BRAF V600E mutation (e.g., the melanoma comprises wild-type BRAF). In
some embodiments, there is provided a method of treating melanoma (e.g., metastatic
cutaneous melanoma) in an individual (e.g., human) comprising administering to the
individual a composition comprising nanoparticles comprising a taxane (e.g., paclitaxel)
and a carrier protein (e.g., albumin), wherein the melanoma comprises wild-type BRAF.
In some embodiments, there is provided a method of treating melanoma (e.g., metastatic
cutaneous melanoma) in an individual (e.g., human) comprising administering to the
individual a composition comprising nanoparticles comprising a taxane (e.g., paclitaxel)
and a carrier protein (e.g., albumin), wherein the melanoma comprises a BRAF mutant
such as a BRAF mutant with increased activity (for example, increased kinase activity,
and/or increased activity as compared to wild-type BRAF) or a BRAF gain-of-function
mutant. In some embodiments, there is provided a method of treating melanoma (e.g.,
                                                 21

metastatic cutaneous melanoma) in an individual (e.g., human) comprising administering
to the individual a composition comprising nanoparticles comprising a taxane (e.g.,
paclitaxel) and a carrier protein (e.g., albumin), wherein the melanoma comprises BRAF
V600E mutation. In some embodiments, the individual has stage IV or metastatic
melanoma (e.g., stage IV or metastatic cutaneous melanoma). In some embodiments, the
melanoma is metastatic malignant melanoma. In some embodiments, the metastatic
melanoma is at stage Mia, stage Mlb, or stage MIc. In some embodiments, the metastatic
melanoma is at stage Mlc. In some embodiments, the individual has elevated serum LDH
level. In some embodiments, the individual has serum LDH of about any of the following:
<0.8 x ULN, 0.4-0.8 x ULN, 0.8-1.1 x ULN, 0.9-1.1        x ULN, 0.8-1.2  x ULN, 1.1-1.5 x
ULN, 1.2-1.5   x ULN, 1.1-2 x ULN, or 1.5-2     x  ULN. In some embodiments, the individual
has serum LDH of less than about 0.8 x ULN. In some embodiments, the individual has
serum LDH at about 0.8     x to about 1.1 x ULN. In some embodiments, the individual has
serum LDH of between greater than about 1.1       x to about 2.0 x ULN. In some
embodiments, the individual has serum LDH of between about 1.1        x to about 2.0 x ULN.
In some embodiments, the individual is a human (e.g., male or female). In some
embodiments, the taxane is paclitaxel. In some embodiments, the carrier protein is
albumin. In some embodiments, the method of using taxane nanoparticles for treating
melanoma is used as a monotherapy. In some embodiments, the method of treating
melanoma using taxane nanoparticles does not further comprise one other therapeutic
agent (such as one other chemotherapeutic agent or immunotherapeutic agent). In some
embodiments, the method does not further comprise a cytotoxic chemotherapeutic agent.
[0051]    In some embodiments of any of the methods described herein, the melanoma
comprises a mutation in BRAF. In some embodiments, the melanoma comprises a V600E
BRAF mutation. In some embodiments, the melanoma does not comprise a mutation in
BRAF or is negative for BRAF mutation. In some embodiments, the melanoma comprises
wild-type BRAF. In some embodiments of any of the methods described herein, the
melanoma comprises a mutation in neuroblastoma RAS viral (v-ras) oncogene homolog
("NRAS"). In some embodiments, the melanoma does not comprise a mutation in NRAS
or is negative for NRAS mutation. In some embodiments, the melanoma comprises wild
type NRAS. In some embodiments of any of the methods described herein, the melanoma
comprises a mutation in phosphatase and tensin homolog ("PTEN"). In some
embodiments, the melanoma does not comprise a mutation in PTEN or is negative for
                                                22

PTEN mutation. In some embodiments, the melanoma comprises wild-type PTEN. In
some embodiments, the melanoma comprises (i) wild-type BRAF or a mutation in BRAF;
(ii) wild-type NRAS or a mutation in NRAS; and/or (iii) wild-type PTEN or a mutation in
PTEN. In some embodiments, the melanoma is triple negative melanoma or comprises
wild-type BRAF, wild-type NRAS, and wild-type PTEN. Methods known in the art may
be used to determine whether the melanoma or an individual having the melanoma
comprises wild-type for a gene or protein or mutation(s) in a gene or protein described
herein.
10052]     An individual described herein in some embodiments is a human. In some
embodiments, the individual is a male. In some embodiments, the individual is a female.
In some embodiments, the individual is at least about any of 25, 30, 35, 40, 45, 50, 55, 60,
65, 70, 75, 80, 85, or 90 years old. In some embodiments, the individual is under about
any of 25, 30, 35, 40, 45, 50, 55, 60, 65, 70, 75, 80, 85, or 90 years old. In some
embodiments, the individual is about any of 25, 30, 35, 40, 45, 50, 55, 60, 65, 70, 75, 80,
85, or 90 years old. In some embodiments, the individual is under about 65 years old. In
some embodiments, the individual is at least about 65 years old (for example at least about
any of 70, 75, or 80 years old). In some embodiments, the individual has a single lesion at
presentation. In some embodiments, the individual has multiple lesions at presentation. An
individual that may be treated with a method described herein may be any one of the
following: Caucasian ethnicity or race, Asian ethnicity or race, African or African
American ethnicity or race, Hispanic ethnicity or race, Latino ethnicity or race, or
Hawaiian or Pacific Islander ethnicity or race.
[0053]     In some embodiments, the individual is a human who exhibits one or more
symptoms associated with having melanoma (e.g., stage IV or metastatic melanoma). In
some embodiments, the individual is genetically or otherwise predisposed (e.g., having a
risk factor) to developing melanoma. These risk factors include, but are not limited to,
age, sex, race, diet, history of previous disease, life style or habit, genetic (e.g., hereditary)
considerations, and environmental exposure (such as exposure to sunlight). In some
embodiments, the individual is positive for SPARC expression (for example based on IHC
standard). In some embodiments, the individual is negative for SPARC expression.
10054]     The methods provided herein may be practiced in an adjuvant setting. Adjuvant
setting may refer to a clinical setting in which an individual has had a history of a cancer
described herein, and generally (but not necessarily) been responsive to therapy, which
                                                 23

includes, but is not limited to, surgery (e.g., surgery resection), radiotherapy, and
chemotherapy; however, because of their history of cancer, these individuals are
considered at risk of development of the disease. Treatment or administration in the
adjuvant setting refers to a subsequent mode of treatment. The degree of risk (e.g., when
an individual in the adjuvant setting is considered as "high risk" or "low risk") depends
upon several factors, most usually the extent of disease when first treated.
10055]    In some embodiments, the method is practiced in a neoadjuvant setting, i.e., the
method may be carried out before the primary/definitive therapy. In some embodiments,
the method is used to treat an individual who has previously been treated. Any of the
methods of treatment provided herein may be used to treat an individual who has not
previously been treated.
10056]    Methods described herein may be used to treat an individual having melanoma
who has previously been treated for the melanoma. The prior treatment may include a
chemotherapy agent such as dacarbazine or DTIC (also known as DIC, DTIC-Dome, or
Imidazole Carboxamide). In some embodiments, the prior treatment comprises
Oblimersen (or Genasense, available from Genta Inc.). In some embodiments, the prior
treatment comprises an immunotherapy (such as interleukin-2 (IL-2) or interferon (IFN)).
In some embodiments, the prior treatment comprises a BRAF inhibitor, such as
Vemurafenib (or Zelboraf, available from Genentech USA, Inc.), GDC-0879 (available
from Tocris Bioscience), PLX-4720 (available from Symansis), Dabrafenib (or
GSK2118436), LGX 818, CEP-32496, UI-152, RAF 265, Regorafenib (BAY 73-4506),
CCT239065, or Sorafenib (or Sorafenib Tosylate or Nexavar, available from Bayer
Pharmaceuticals Corp.). In some embodiments, the prior treatment comprises Ipilimumab
(or MDX-010, MDX-101, or Yervoy, available from Bristol-Myers Squibb). In some
embodiments, the individual has been previously treated for the melanoma and the
individual is substantially refractory to the prior treatment. In some embodiments, the
individual has been previously treated for the melanoma and is no longer or only partially
responsive to the prior treatment. In some embodiments, the individual is initially
responsive to the prior treatment but has progressed on the prior treatment. In some
embodiments, the individual is not responsive to the prior treatment.
10057]    Methods described herein may be used as a first line therapy. Methods described
herein may also be used as a second line or third line therapy after the prior treatment for
melanoma has failed or has substantially failed, or the melanoma is substantially
                                                 24

refractory to the first line therapy. In some embodiments, the melanoma is substantially
refractory to first line therapy with a BRAF inhibitor. In some embodiments, the
individual has received at least one line of therapy (e.g., chemotherapy or immunotherapy)
for treating melanoma (e.g., stage IV or metastatic melanoma) prior to receiving the
treatment described herein. In some embodiments, the patient has received I line of
therapy or 2 lines of therapy (e.g., 1 line of chemotherapy or immunotherapy or 2 lines of
chemotherapy or immunotherapy). Thus, the treatment described herein may be used as a
second line therapy or a third line therapy. The prior line of therapy described herein may
be prior line of chemotherapy or immunotherapy. The first line of therapy may comprise
any of the following: dacarbazine or DTIC (also known as DIC, DTIC-Dome, or
Imidazole Carboxamide), Oblimersen (or Genasense), an immunotherapy (such as
interleukin-2 (IL-2) or interferon (IFN), a BRAF inhibitor (such as Vemurafenib (or
Zelboraf), GDC-0879, PLX-4720, (available from Symansis), Dabrafenib (or
GSK2118436), LGX 818, CEP-32496, UI-152, RAF 265, Regorafenib (BAY 73-4506),
CCT239065, or Sorafenib (or Sorafenib Tosylate, or Nexavar)), or Ipilimumab (or
MDX-010, MDX-101, or Yervoy).
10058]     In some embodiments, there is provided a method of treating melanoma (e.g.,
metastatic cutaneous melanoma) in an individual comprising administering to the
individual an effective amount of a composition comprising nanoparticles comprising a
taxane (e.g., paclitaxel) and a carrier protein (e.g., albumin), wherein the method is used as
a second line or third line therapy. In some embodiments, there is provided a method of
treating melanoma in an individual comprising administering to the individual an effective
amount of a composition comprising nanoparticles comprising a taxane (e.g., paclitaxel)
and a carrier protein (e.g., albumin), wherein the method is used in an adjuvant setting. In
some embodiments, there is provided a method of treating melanoma in an individual
comprising administering to the individual an effective amount of a composition
comprising nanoparticles comprising a taxane (e.g., paclitaxel) and a carrier protein (e.g.,
albumin), wherein the method is used in a neoadjuvant setting. In some embodiments, the
individual has stage IV or metastatic melanoma (e.g., stage IV or metastatic cutaneous
melanoma). In some embodiments, the melanoma is metastatic malignant melanoma. In
some embodiments, the metastatic melanoma is at stage MIa, stage MIb, or stage MIc. In
some embodiments, the metastatic melanoma is at stage M Ic. In some embodiments, the
melanoma comprises a mutation in BRAF. In some embodiments, the melanoma does not
                                                 25

comprise a mutation in BRAF. In some embodiments, the melanoma does not comprise
BRAF mutant such as a BRAF mutant with increased activity (for example, increased
kinase activity, and/or increased activity as compared to wild-type BRAF) or a BRAF
gain-of-function mutant. In some embodiments, the melanoma does not comprise BRAF
V600E mutation (e.g., the melanoma comprises wild-type BRAF). In some embodiments,
the melanoma comprises wild-type BRAF. In some embodiments, the melanoma
comprises a BRAF mutant such as a BRAF mutant with increased activity (for example,
increased kinase activity, and/or increased activity as compared to wild-type BRAF) or a
BRAF gain-of-function mutant. In some embodiments, the melanoma comprises BRAF
V600E mutation. In some embodiments, the individual has elevated serum LDH level. In
some embodiments, the individual has serum LDH of about any of the following: <0.8          x
ULN, 0.4-0.8 x ULN, 0.8-1.1     x ULN, 0.9-1.1   x ULN, 0.8-1.2 x ULN, 1.1-1.5     x ULN,
1.2-1.5 x ULN, 1.1-2 x ULN, or 1.5-2 x ULN. In some embodiments, the individual has
serum LDH of less than about 0.8    x ULN. In some embodiments, the individual has serum
LDH at about 0.8   x to about 1.1 x ULN. In some embodiments, the individual has serum
LDH of between greater than about 1.1 x to about 2.0 x ULN. In some embodiments, the
individual has serum LDH of between about 1.1 x to about 2.0      x ULN. In some
embodiments, the individual is a human (e.g., male or female). In some embodiments, the
taxane is paclitaxel. In some embodiments, the carrier protein is albumin. In some
embodiments, the method of using taxane nanoparticles for treating melanoma is used as a
monotherapy. In some embodiments, the method of treating melanoma using taxane
nanoparticles does not further comprise one other therapeutic agent (such as one other
chemotherapeutic agent or immunotherapeutic agent). In some embodiments, the method
does not further comprise a cytotoxic chemotherapeutic agent.
10059]    In some embodiments, there is provided a method of treating stage IV or
metastatic melanoma (e.g., stage IV or metastatic cutaneous melanoma) in an individual
(e.g., human) comprising administering to the individual a composition comprising
nanoparticles comprising a taxane (e.g., paclitaxel) and a carrier protein (e.g., albumin),
wherein the melanoma does not comprise BRAF mutant such as a BRAF mutant with
increased activity (for example, increased kinase activity, and/or increased activity as
compared to wild-type BRAF) or a BRAF gain-of-function mutant. In some embodiments,
there is provided a method of treating stage IV or metastatic melanoma (e.g., stage IV or
metastatic cutaneous melanoma) in an individual (e.g., human) comprising administering
                                                26

to the individual a composition comprising nanoparticles comprising a taxane (e.g.,
paclitaxel) and a carrier protein (e.g., albumin), wherein the melanoma comprises wild
type BRAF. In some embodiments, there is provided a method of treating stage IV or
metastatic melanoma (e.g., stage IV or metastatic cutaneous melanoma) in an individual
(e.g., human) comprising administering to the individual a composition comprising
nanoparticles comprising a taxane (e.g., paclitaxel) and a carrier protein (e.g., albumin),
wherein the melanoma comprises a BRAF mutant such as a BRAF mutant with increased
activity (for example, increased kinase activity, and/or increased activity as compared to
wild-type BRAF) or a BRAF gain-of-function mutant. In some embodiments, there is
provided a method of treating stage IV or metastatic melanoma (e.g., stage IV or
metastatic cutaneous melanoma) in an individual (e.g., human) comprising administering
to the individual a composition comprising nanoparticles comprising a taxane (e.g.,
paclitaxel) and a carrier protein (e.g., albumin), wherein the melanoma comprises BRAF
V600E mutation. In some embodiments, the taxane in the nanoparticles is coated with the
carrier protein. In some embodiments, the average or mean particle size of the
nanoparticles in the composition is no greater than about 200 nm (such as less than about
200 nm). In some embodiments, the taxane is paclitaxel. In some embodiments, the
carrier protein is albumin such as human serum albumin or human albumin.
10060]     In some embodiments, there is provided a method of treating stage IV or
metastatic melanoma (e.g., stage IV or metastatic cutaneous melanoma) in an individual
(e.g., human) comprising administering to the individual a composition comprising
nanoparticles comprising paclitaxel and albumin, wherein the melanoma comprises wild
type BRAF. In some embodiments, there is provided a method of treating stage IV or
metastatic melanoma (e.g., stage IV or metastatic cutaneous melanoma) in an individual
(e.g., human) comprising administering to the individual a composition comprising
nanoparticles comprising paclitaxel and albumin, wherein the melanoma comprises wild
type BRAF, wherein the paclitaxel in the nanoparticles is coated with the albumin. In
some embodiments, there is provided a method of treating stage IV or metastatic
melanoma (e.g., stage IV or metastatic cutaneous melanoma) in an individual (e.g.,
human) comprising administering to the individual a composition comprising
nanoparticles comprising paclitaxel and albumin, wherein the melanoma comprises wild
type BRAF, wherein the paclitaxel in the nanoparticles is coated with the albumin,
wherein the average or mean particle size of the nanoparticles in the composition is no
                                                27

greater than about 200 nm (such as less than about 200 nm). In some embodiments, the
albumin is human albumin. In some embodiments, the albumin is human serum albumin.
In some embodiments, the albumin is recombinant albumin. In some embodiments, the
method of using taxane nanoparticles for treating melanoma is used as a monotherapy. In
some embodiments, the method of treating melanoma using taxane nanoparticles does not
further comprise one other therapeutic agent (such as one other chemotherapeutic agent or
immunotherapeutic agent). In some embodiments, the method does not further comprise a
cytotoxic chemotherapeutic agent.
10061]     In some embodiments, there is provided a method of treating stage IV or
metastatic melanoma (e.g., stage IV or metastatic cutaneous melanoma) in an individual
(e.g., human) comprising administering to the individual a composition comprising
nanoparticles comprising paclitaxel and albumin, wherein the melanoma comprises a
BRAF mutation such as BRAF V600E mutation. In some embodiments, there is provided
a method of treating stage IV or metastatic melanoma (e.g., stage IV or metastatic
cutaneous melanoma) in an individual (e.g., human) comprising administering to the
individual a composition comprising nanoparticles comprising paclitaxel and albumin,
wherein the melanoma comprises a BRAF mutation such as BRAF V600E mutation,
wherein the paclitaxel in the nanoparticles is coated with the albumin. In some
embodiments, there is provided a method of treating stage IV or metastatic melanoma
(e.g., stage IV or metastatic cutaneous melanoma) in an individual (e.g., human)
comprising administering to the individual a composition comprising nanoparticles
comprising paclitaxel and albumin, wherein the melanoma comprises a BRAF mutation
such as BRAF V600E mutation, wherein the paclitaxel in the nanoparticles is coated with
the albumin, wherein the average or mean particle size of the nanoparticles in the
composition is no greater than about 200 nm (such as less than about 200 nm). In some
embodiments, the albumin is human albumin. In some embodiments, the albumin is
human serum albumin. In some embodiments, the albumin is recombinant albumin. In
some embodiments, the method of using taxane nanoparticles for treating melanoma is
used as a monotherapy. In some embodiments, the method of treating melanoma using
taxane nanoparticles does not further comprise one other therapeutic agent (such as one
other chemotherapeutic agent or immunotherapeutic agent). In some embodiments, the
method does not further comprise a cytotoxic chemotherapeutic agent.
                                                28

[0062]     In some embodiments, there is provided a method of treating stage IV or
metastatic melanoma (e.g., stage IV or metastatic cutaneous melanoma) with metastatic
stage Mic in an individual (e.g., human) comprising administering to the individual a
composition comprising nanoparticles comprising a taxane (e.g., paclitaxel) and a carrier
protein (e.g., albumin), wherein the melanoma does not comprise BRAF mutant such as a
BRAF mutant with increased activity (for example, increased kinase activity, and/or
increased activity as compared to wild-type BRAF) or a BRAF gain-of-function mutant.
In some embodiments, there is provided a method of treating stage IV or metastatic
melanoma (e.g., stage IV or metastatic cutaneous melanoma) with metastatic stage MIc in
an individual (e.g., human) comprising administering to the individual a composition
comprising nanoparticles comprising a taxane (e.g., paclitaxel) and a carrier protein (e.g.,
albumin), wherein the melanoma comprises wild-type BRAF. In some embodiments,
there is provided a method of treating stage IV or metastatic melanoma (e.g., stage IV or
metastatic cutaneous melanoma) with metastatic stage MIc in an individual (e.g., human)
comprising administering to the individual a composition comprising nanoparticles
comprising a taxane (e.g., paclitaxel) and a carrier protein (e.g., albumin), wherein the
melanoma comprises a BRAF mutant such as a BRAF mutant with increased activity (for
example, increased kinase activity, and/or increased activity as compared to wild-type
BRAF) or a BRAF gain-of-function mutant. In some embodiments, there is provided a
method of treating stage IV or metastatic melanoma (e.g., stage IV or metastatic cutaneous
melanoma) with metastatic stage MIc in an individual (e.g., human) comprising
administering to the individual a composition comprising nanoparticles comprising a
taxane (e.g., paclitaxel) and a carrier protein (e.g., albumin), wherein the melanoma
comprises BRAF V600E mutation. In some embodiments, the taxane in the nanoparticles
is coated with the carrier protein. In some embodiments, the average or mean particle size
of the nanoparticles in the composition is no greater than about 200 nm (such as less than
about 200 nm). In some embodiments, the taxane is paclitaxel. In some embodiments, the
carrier protein is albumin such as human serum albumin or human albumin. In some
embodiments, there is provided a method of treating stage IV or metastatic melanoma
(e.g., stage IV or metastatic cutaneous melanoma) with metastatic stage MIc in an
individual (e.g., human) comprising administering to the individual a composition
comprising nanoparticles comprising paclitaxel and albumin, wherein the melanoma
comprises wild-type BRAF. In some embodiments, there is provided a method of treating
                                                 29

stage IV or metastatic melanoma (e.g., stage IV or metastatic cutaneous melanoma) with
metastatic stage MIc in an individual (e.g., human) comprising administering to the
individual a composition comprising nanoparticles comprising paclitaxel and albumin,
wherein the melanoma comprises wild-type BRAF, wherein the paclitaxel in the
nanoparticles is coated with the albumin. In some embodiments, there is provided a
method of treating stage IV or metastatic melanoma (e.g., stage IV or metastatic cutaneous
melanoma) with metastatic stage Mlc in an individual (e.g., human) comprising
administering to the individual a composition comprising nanoparticles comprising
paclitaxel and albumin, wherein the melanoma comprises wild-type BRAF, wherein the
paclitaxel in the nanoparticles is coated with the albumin, wherein the average or mean
particle size of the nanoparticles in the composition is no greater than about 200 nm (such
as less than about 200 nm). In some embodiments, there is provided a method of treating
stage IV or metastatic melanoma (e.g., stage IV or metastatic cutaneous melanoma) with
metastatic stage MIc in an individual (e.g., human) comprising administering to the
individual a composition comprising nanoparticles comprising paclitaxel and albumin,
wherein the melanoma comprises a BRAF mutation such as BRAF V600E mutation. In
some embodiments, there is provided a method of treating stage IV or metastatic
melanoma (e.g., stage IV or metastatic cutaneous melanoma) with metastatic stage Mlc in
an individual (e.g., human) comprising administering to the individual a composition
comprising nanoparticles comprising paclitaxel and albumin, wherein the melanoma
comprises a BRAF mutation such as BRAF V600E mutation, wherein the paclitaxel in the
nanoparticles is coated with the albumin. In some embodiments, there is provided a
method of treating stage IV or metastatic melanoma (e.g., stage IV or metastatic cutaneous
melanoma) with metastatic stage Mlc in an individual (e.g., human) comprising
administering to the individual a composition comprising nanoparticles comprising
paclitaxel and albumin, wherein the melanoma comprises a BRAF mutation such as
BRAF V600E mutation, wherein the paclitaxel in the nanoparticles is coated with the
albumin, wherein the average or mean particle size of the nanoparticles in the composition
is no greater than about 200 nm (such as less than about 200 nm). In some embodiments,
the albumin is human albumin. In some embodiments, the albumin is human serum
albumin. In some embodiments, the albumin is recombinant albumin. In some
embodiments, the method of using taxane nanoparticles for treating melanoma is used as a
monotherapy. In some embodiments, the method of treating melanoma using taxane
                                                30

nanoparticles does not further comprise one other therapeutic agent (such as one other
chemotherapeutic agent or immunotherapeutic agent). In some embodiments, the method
does not further comprise a cytotoxic chemotherapeutic agent.
10063]    In some embodiments, there is provided a method of treating melanoma (such as
metastatic melanoma) in a human individual, comprising administering to the individual
a) an effective amount of a composition comprising nanoparticles comprising paclitaxel
and an albumin, wherein the individual has been previously treated for the melanoma with
at least one BRAF inhibitor (such as, for example, Vemurafenib (Zelboraf) or Sorafenib).
In some embodiments, there is provided a method of treating melanoma (such as
metastatic melanoma) in a human individual, comprising administering to the individual
a) an effective amount of a composition comprising nanoparticles comprising paclitaxel
and an albumin, wherein the dose of the nanoparticle composition is between about 50
mg/2in to about 200 mg/im2 (such as, for example, about 100 mg/m 2 to about 150 mg/m 2,
for example about 100 mg/im2 ), wherein the individual has been previously treated for the
melanoma with at least one BRAF inhibitor (such as, for example, Vemurafenib
(Zelboraf) or Sorafenib), and wherein the individual is substantially refractory to prior
treatment with a BRAF inhibitor. In some embodiments, there is provided a method of
treating melanoma (such as metastatic melanoma) in a human individual, comprising
administering to the individual a) an effective amount of a composition comprising
nanoparticles comprising paclitaxel and an albumin, wherein the dose of the nanoparticle
composition is about 100 mg/m2 , wherein the individual has been previously treated for
the melanoma with at least one BRAF inhibitor (such as, for example, Vemurafenib
(Zelboraf) or Sorafenib), and wherein the individual is substantially refractory to prior
treatment with a BRAF inhibitor.
10064]    In some embodiments, there is provided a method of treating stage IV or
metastatic melanoma (e.g., stage IV or metastatic cutaneous melanoma) in an individual
(e.g., human) comprising administering to the individual a composition comprising
nanoparticles comprising a taxane (e.g., paclitaxel) and a carrier protein (e.g., albumin),
wherein the melanoma does not comprise BRAF mutant such as a BRAF mutant with
increased activity (for example, increased kinase activity, and/or increased activity as
compared to wild-type BRAF) or a BRAF gain-of-function mutant, wherein the individual
has serum LDH of any one of: less than about 0.8 x ULN, about 0.8 x to about 1.1 x
ULN, between greater than about 1.1 x to about 2.0 x ULN, or between about 1.1 x to
                                               31

about 2.0   x ULN. In some embodiments, there is provided a method of treating stage IV
or metastatic melanoma (e.g., stage IV or metastatic cutaneous melanoma) in an individual
(e.g., human) comprising administering to the individual a composition comprising
nanoparticles comprising a taxane (e.g., paclitaxel) and a carrier protein (e.g., albumin),
wherein the melanoma comprises wild-type BRAF, wherein the individual has serum
LDH of any one of the following: less than about 0.8    x ULN, about 0.8 x to about 1.1 x
ULN, between greater than about 1.1   x to about 2.0  x  ULN, or between about 1.1     x to
about 2.0   x ULN. In some embodiments, there is provided a method of treating stage IV
or metastatic melanoma (e.g., stage IV or metastatic cutaneous melanoma) in an individual
(e.g., human) comprising administering to the individual a composition comprising
nanoparticles comprising a taxane (e.g., paclitaxel) and a carrier protein (e.g., albumin),
wherein the melanoma comprises a BRAF mutant such as a BRAF mutant with increased
activity (for example, increased kinase activity, and/or increased activity as compared to
wild-type BRAF) or a BRAF gain-of-function mutant, wherein the individual has serum
LDH of any one of the following: less than about 0.8    x ULN, about 0.8   x to about 1.1   x
ULN, between greater than about 1.1   x to about 2.0  x  ULN, or between about 1.1 x to
about 2.0 x ULN. In some embodiments, there is provided a method of treating stage IV
or metastatic melanoma (e.g., stage IV or metastatic cutaneous melanoma) in an individual
(e.g., human) comprising administering to the individual a composition comprising
nanoparticles comprising a taxane (e.g., paclitaxel) and a carrier protein (e.g., albumin),
wherein the melanoma comprises BRAF V600E mutation, wherein the individual has
serum LDH of any one of the following: less than about 0.8     x ULN, about 0.8    x to about
1.1  x ULN, between greater than about 1.1   x to about 2.0 x ULN, or between about 1.1       x
to about 2.0 x ULN.
10065]     In some embodiments, there is provided a method of treating stage IV or
metastatic melanoma (e.g., stage IV or metastatic cutaneous melanoma) in an individual
(e.g., human) comprising administering to the individual a composition comprising
nanoparticles comprising a taxane (e.g., paclitaxel) and a carrier protein (e.g., albumin),
wherein the melanoma comprises wild-type BRAF, wherein the individual has serum
LDH of less than about 0.8 x ULN. In some embodiments, there is provided a method of
treating stage IV or metastatic melanoma (e.g., stage IV or metastatic cutaneous
melanoma) in an individual (e.g., human) comprising administering to the individual a
composition comprising nanoparticles comprising a taxane (e.g., paclitaxel) and a carrier
                                                32

protein (e.g., albumin), wherein the melanoma comprises wild-type BRAF, wherein the
individual has serum LDH of about 0.8 x to about 1.1 x ULN. In some embodiments,
there is provided a method of treating stage IV or metastatic melanoma (e.g., stage IV or
metastatic cutaneous melanoma) in an individual (e.g., human) comprising administering
to the individual a composition comprising nanoparticles comprising a taxane (e.g.,
paclitaxel) and a carrier protein (e.g., albumin), wherein the melanoma comprises wild
type BRAF, wherein the individual has serum LDH of between greater than about 1.1 x to
about 2.0 x ULN or between about 1.1 x to about 2.0 x ULN. In some embodiments, the
taxane in the nanoparticles is coated with the carrier protein. In some embodiments, the
average or mean particle size of the nanoparticles in the composition is no greater than
about 200 nm (such as less than about 200 nm). In some embodiments, the taxane is
paclitaxel. In some embodiments, the carrier protein is albumin such as human serum
albumin or human albumin. In some embodiments, there is provided a method of treating
stage IV or metastatic melanoma (e.g., stage IV or metastatic cutaneous melanoma) in an
individual (e.g., human) comprising administering to the individual a composition
comprising nanoparticles comprising paclitaxel and albumin, wherein the melanoma
comprises wild-type BRAF, wherein the individual has serum LDH of any one of: less
than about 0.8 x ULN, about 0.8 x to about 1.1 x ULN, between greater than about 1.1 x
to about 2.0 x ULN, or between about 1.1 x to about 2.0 x ULN.
[00661    In some embodiments, there is provided a method of treating stage IV or
metastatic melanoma (e.g., stage IV or metastatic cutaneous melanoma) in an individual
(e.g., human) comprising administering to the individual a composition comprising
nanoparticles comprising paclitaxel and albumin, wherein the melanoma comprises wild
type BRAF, wherein the paclitaxel in the nanoparticles is coated with the albumin,
wherein the individual has serum LDH of any one of: less than about 0.8 x ULN, about
0.8 x to about 1.1 x ULN, between greater than about 1.1 x to about 2.0 x ULN, or
between about 1.1 x to about 2.0 x ULN. In some embodiments, there is provided a
method of treating stage IV or metastatic melanoma (e.g., stage IV or metastatic cutaneous
melanoma) in an individual (e.g., human) comprising administering to the individual a
composition comprising nanoparticles comprising paclitaxel and albumin, wherein the
melanoma comprises wild-type BRAF, wherein the paclitaxel in the nanoparticles is
coated with the albumin, wherein the average or mean particle size of the nanoparticles in
the composition is no greater than about 200 nm (such as less than about 200 nm), wherein
                                                33

the individual has serum LDH of any one of: less than about 0.8 x ULN, about 0.8 x to
about 1.1   x ULN, between greater than about 1.1 x to about 2.0 x ULN, or between about
1.1  x to about 2.0 x  ULN. In some embodiments, there is provided a method of treating
stage IV or metastatic melanoma (e.g., stage IV or metastatic cutaneous melanoma) in an
individual (e.g., human) comprising administering to the individual a composition
comprising nanoparticles comprising paclitaxel and albumin, wherein the melanoma
comprises a BRAF mutation such as BRAF V600E mutation, wherein the individual has
serum LDH of any one of: less than about 0.8 x ULN, about 0.8 x to about 1.1     x ULN,
between greater than about 1.1    x to about 2.0 x ULN, or between about 1.1 x to about 2.0
x ULN. In some embodiments, there is provided a method of treating stage IV or
metastatic melanoma (e.g., stage IV or metastatic cutaneous melanoma) in an individual
(e.g., human) comprising administering to the individual a composition comprising
nanoparticles comprising paclitaxel and albumin, wherein the melanoma comprises a
BRAF mutation such as BRAF V600E mutation, wherein the paclitaxel in the
nanoparticles is coated with the albumin, wherein the individual has serum LDH of any
one of: less than about 0.8  x ULN, about 0.8   x to about 1.1 x ULN, between greater than
about 1.1 x to about 2.0 x ULN, or between about 1.1 x to about 2.0    x ULN.
10067]     In some embodiments, there is provided a method of treating stage IV or
metastatic melanoma (e.g., stage IV or metastatic cutaneous melanoma) in an individual
(e.g., human) comprising administering to the individual a composition comprising
nanoparticles comprising paclitaxel and albumin, wherein the melanoma comprises a
BRAF mutation such as BRAF V600E mutation, wherein the paclitaxel in the
nanoparticles is coated with the albumin, wherein the average or mean particle size of the
nanoparticles in the composition is no greater than about 200 nm (such as less than about
200 nm), wherein the individual has serum LDH of any one of: less than about 0.8    x ULN,
about 0.8   x to about 1.1 x ULN, between greater than about 1.1 x to about 2.0 x ULN, or
between about 1.1    x to about 2.0 x ULN. In some embodiments, the individual has serum
LDH of less than about 0.8 x ULN. In some embodiments, the individual has serum LDH
of less than about 0.8 x ULN about 0.8 x to about 1.1 x ULN. In some embodiments, the
individual has serum LDH of between greater than about 1.1 x to about 2.0 x ULN, or
between about 1.1    x to about 2.0 x ULN. In some embodiments, the albumin is human
albumin. In some embodiments, the albumin is human serum albumin. In some
embodiments, the albumin is recombinant albumin. In some embodiments, the method of
                                                 34

using taxane nanoparticles for treating melanoma is used as a monotherapy. In some
embodiments, the method of treating melanoma using taxane nanoparticles does not
further comprise one other therapeutic agent (such as one other chemotherapeutic agent or
immunotherapeutic agent). In some embodiments, the method does not further comprise a
cytotoxic chemotherapeutic agent.
10068]    In some embodiments, there is provided a method of treating stage IV or
metastatic melanoma (e.g., stage IV or metastatic cutaneous melanoma) in an individual
(e.g., human) comprising administering to the individual a composition comprising
nanoparticles comprising a taxane (e.g., paclitaxel) and a carrier protein (e.g., albumin),
wherein the individual has serum LDH of any one of the following: less than about 0.8 x
ULN, about 0.8    x to about 1.1  x ULN, between greater than about 1.1   x to about 2.0 x
ULN, or between about 1.1     x  to about 2.0 x ULN. In some embodiments, there is
provided a method of treating stage IV or metastatic melanoma (e.g., stage IV or
metastatic cutaneous melanoma) in an individual (e.g., human) comprising administering
to the individual a composition comprising nanoparticles comprising a taxane (e.g.,
paclitaxel) and a carrier protein (e.g., albumin), wherein the individual has serum LDH of
less than about 0.8 x ULN. In some embodiments, there is provided a method of treating
stage IV or metastatic melanoma (e.g., stage IV or metastatic cutaneous melanoma) in an
individual (e.g., human) comprising administering to the individual a composition
comprising nanoparticles comprising a taxane (e.g., paclitaxel) and a carrier protein (e.g.,
albumin), wherein the individual has serum LDH of about 0.8      x to about 1.1  x ULN. In
some embodiments, there is provided a method of treating stage IV or metastatic
melanoma (e.g., stage IV or metastatic cutaneous melanoma) in an individual (e.g.,
human) comprising administering to the individual a composition comprising
nanoparticles comprising a taxane (e.g., paclitaxel) and a carrier protein (e.g., albumin),
wherein the individual has serum LDH of between greater than about 1.1       x to about 2.0 x
ULN or between about 1.1     x  to about 2.0 x ULN. In some embodiments, the taxane in the
nanoparticles is coated with the carrier protein. In some embodiments, the average or
mean particle size of the nanoparticles in the composition is no greater than about 200 nm
(such as less than about 200 nm). In some embodiments, the taxane is paclitaxel. In some
embodiments, the carrier protein is albumin such as human serum albumin or human
albumin. In some embodiments, there is provided a method of treating stage IV or
metastatic melanoma (e.g., stage IV or metastatic cutaneous melanoma) in an individual
                                                 35

(e.g., human) comprising administering to the individual a composition comprising
nanoparticles comprising paclitaxel and an albumin, wherein the individual has serum
LDH of any one of the following: less than about 0.8   x ULN, about 0.8  x to about 1.1  x
ULN, between greater than about 1.1   x to about 2.0 x  ULN, or between about 1.1   x to
about 2.0  x ULN. In some embodiments, there is provided a method of treating stage IV
or metastatic melanoma (e.g., stage IV or metastatic cutaneous melanoma) in an individual
(e.g., human) comprising administering to the individual a composition comprising
nanoparticles comprising paclitaxel and an albumin, wherein the individual has serum
LDH of any one of the following: less than about 0.8 x ULN, about 0.8 x to about 1.1 x
ULN, between greater than about 1.1 x to about 2.0 x ULN, or between about 1.1      x to
about 2.0  x ULN, wherein the paclitaxel in the nanoparticles is coated with the albumin.
In some embodiments, there is provided a method of treating stage IV or metastatic
melanoma (e.g., stage IV or metastatic cutaneous melanoma) in an individual (e.g.,
human) comprising administering to the individual a composition comprising
nanoparticles comprising paclitaxel and an albumin, wherein the individual has serum
LDH of any one of the following: less than about 0.8 x ULN, about 0.8 x to about 1.1 x
ULN, between greater than about 1.1   x to about 2.0 x ULN, or between about 1.1 x to
about 2.0  x ULN, wherein the paclitaxel in the nanoparticles is coated with the albumin,
wherein the average or mean particle size of the nanoparticles in the composition is no
greater than about 200 nm (such as less than about 200 nm). In some embodiments, the
individual has serum LDH of less than about 0.8 x ULN. In some embodiments, the
individual has serum LDH of less than about 0.8 x ULN about 0.8 x to about 1.1     x ULN.
In some embodiments, the individual has serum LDH of between greater than about 1.1        x
to about 2.0 x ULN, or between about 1.1 x to about 2.0   x ULN. In some embodiments,
the albumin is human albumin. In some embodiments, the albumin is human serum
albumin. In some embodiments, the albumin is recombinant albumin. In some
embodiments, the method of using taxane nanoparticles for treating melanoma is used as a
monotherapy. In some embodiments, the method of treating melanoma using taxane
nanoparticles does not further comprise one other therapeutic agent (such as one other
chemotherapeutic agent or immunotherapeutic agent). In some embodiments, the method
does not further comprise a cytotoxic chemotherapeutic agent.
10069]    In some embodiments, there is provided a method of treating stage IV or
metastatic melanoma (e.g., stage IV or metastatic cutaneous melanoma) in an individual
                                              36

(e.g., human) comprising administering to the individual a composition comprising
nanoparticles comprising a taxane (e.g., paclitaxel) and a carrier protein (e.g., albumin),
wherein the melanoma does not comprise BRAF mutant such as a BRAF mutant with
increased activity (for example, increased kinase activity, and/or increased activity as
compared to wild-type BRAF) or a BRAF gain-of-function mutant, wherein the individual
is a human (female or male). In some embodiments, there is provided a method of treating
stage IV or metastatic melanoma (e.g., stage IV or metastatic cutaneous melanoma) in an
individual (e.g., human) comprising administering to the individual a composition
comprising nanoparticles comprising a taxane (e.g., paclitaxel) and a carrier protein (e.g.,
albumin), wherein the melanoma comprises a BRAF V600E mutation, wherein the
individual is a human (female or male).
10070]     In some embodiments, there is provided a method of treating stage IV or
metastatic melanoma (e.g., stage IV or metastatic cutaneous melanoma) in an individual
(e.g., human) comprising administering to the individual a composition comprising
nanoparticles comprising a taxane (e.g., paclitaxel) and a carrier protein (e.g., albumin),
wherein the melanoma comprises wild-type BRAF, wherein the individual is a human
(female or male). In some embodiments, there is provided a method of treating stage IV
or metastatic melanoma (e.g., stage IV or metastatic cutaneous melanoma) in an individual
(e.g., human) comprising administering to the individual a composition comprising
nanoparticles comprising a taxane (e.g., paclitaxel) and a carrier protein (e.g., albumin),
wherein the melanoma comprises a BRAF mutant such as a BRAF mutant with increased
activity (for example, increased kinase activity, and/or increased activity as compared to
wild-type BRAF) or a BRAF gain-of-function mutant, wherein the individual is a human
(female or male). In some embodiments, there is provided a method of treating stage IV or
metastatic melanoma (e.g., stage IV or metastatic cutaneous melanoma) in an individual
(e.g., human) comprising administering to the individual a composition comprising
nanoparticles comprising a taxane (e.g., paclitaxel) and a carrier protein (e.g., albumin),
wherein the melanoma comprises BRAF V600E mutation, wherein the individual is a
human (female or male). In some embodiments, there is provided a method of treating
stage IV or metastatic melanoma (e.g., stage IV or metastatic cutaneous melanoma) in an
individual (e.g., human) comprising administering to the individual a composition
comprising nanoparticles comprising a taxane (e.g., paclitaxel) and a carrier protein (e.g.,
albumin), wherein the melanoma comprises wild-type BRAF, wherein the individual is a
                                               37

human female. In some embodiments, there is provided a method of treating stage IV or
metastatic melanoma (e.g., stage IV or metastatic cutaneous melanoma) in an individual
(e.g., human) comprising administering to the individual a composition comprising
nanoparticles comprising a taxane (e.g., paclitaxel) and a carrier protein (e.g., albumin),
wherein the melanoma comprises wild-type BRAF, wherein the individual is a human
male. In some embodiments, the taxane in the nanoparticles is coated with the carrier
protein. In some embodiments, the average or mean particle size of the nanoparticles in
the composition is no greater than about 200 nm (such as less than about 200 nm). In some
embodiments, the taxane is paclitaxel. In some embodiments, the carrier protein is
albumin such as human serum albumin or human albumin. In some embodiments, there is
provided a method of treating stage IV or metastatic melanoma (e.g., stage IV or
metastatic cutaneous melanoma) in an individual comprising administering to the
individual a composition comprising nanoparticles comprising paclitaxel and albumin,
wherein the melanoma comprises wild-type BRAF, wherein the individual is a human
(female or male). In some embodiments, there is provided a method of treating stage IV
or metastatic melanoma (e.g., stage IV or metastatic cutaneous melanoma) in an individual
comprising administering to the individual a composition comprising nanoparticles
comprising paclitaxel and albumin, wherein the melanoma comprises wild-type BRAF,
wherein the paclitaxel in the nanoparticles is coated with the albumin, wherein the
individual is a human (female or male). In some embodiments, there is provided a method
of treating stage IV or metastatic melanoma (e.g., stage IV or metastatic cutaneous
melanoma) in an individual comprising administering to the individual a composition
comprising nanoparticles comprising paclitaxel and albumin, wherein the melanoma
comprises wild-type BRAF, wherein the paclitaxel in the nanoparticles is coated with the
albumin, wherein the average or mean particle size of the nanoparticles in the composition
is no greater than about 200 nm (such as less than about 200 nm), wherein the individual
is a human (female or male). In some embodiments, there is provided a method of treating
stage IV or metastatic melanoma (e.g., stage IV or metastatic cutaneous melanoma) in an
individual comprising administering to the individual a composition comprising
nanoparticles comprising paclitaxel and albumin, wherein the melanoma comprises a
BRAF mutation such as BRAF V600E mutation, wherein the individual is a human
(female or male). In some embodiments, there is provided a method of treating stage IV
or metastatic melanoma (e.g., stage IV or metastatic cutaneous melanoma) in an individual
                                                38

comprising administering to the individual a composition comprising nanoparticles
comprising paclitaxel and albumin, wherein the melanoma comprises a BRAF mutation
such as BRAF V600E mutation, wherein the paclitaxel in the nanoparticles is coated with
the albumin, wherein the individual is a human (female or male). In some embodiments,
there is provided a method of treating stage IV or metastatic melanoma (e.g., stage IV or
metastatic cutaneous melanoma) in an individual comprising administering to the
individual a composition comprising nanoparticles comprising paclitaxel and albumin,
wherein the melanoma comprises a BRAF mutation such as BRAF V600E mutation,
wherein the paclitaxel in the nanoparticles is coated with the albumin, wherein the average
or mean particle size of the nanoparticles in the composition is no greater than about 200
nm (such as less than about 200 nm), wherein the individual is a human (female or male).
In some embodiments, the albumin is human albumin. In some embodiments, the albumin
is human serum albumin. In some embodiments, the albumin is recombinant albumin. In
some embodiments, the individual is a human male. In some embodiments, the individual
is a human female. In some embodiments, the method of using taxane nanoparticles for
treating melanoma is used as a monotherapy. In some embodiments, the method of
treating melanoma using taxane nanoparticles does not further comprise one other
therapeutic agent (such as one other chemotherapeutic agent or immunotherapeutic agent).
In some embodiments, the method does not further comprise a cytotoxic chemotherapeutic
agent.
10071]     In some embodiments, there is provided a method of treating stage IV or
metastatic melanoma (e.g., stage IV or metastatic cutaneous melanoma) in an individual
(e.g., human) comprising administering to the individual a composition comprising
nanoparticles comprising a taxane (e.g., paclitaxel) and a carrier protein (e.g., albumin),
wherein the melanoma does not comprise BRAF mutant such as a BRAF mutant with
increased activity (for example, increased kinase activity, and/or increased activity as
compared to wild-type BRAF) or a BRAF gain-of-function mutant, wherein the individual
is a human (female or male), wherein the individual is under about 65 years old or at least
about 65 years old (for example at least about any of 70, 75, or 80 years old). In some
embodiments, there is provided a method of treating stage IV or metastatic melanoma
(e.g., stage IV or metastatic cutaneous melanoma) in an individual (e.g., human)
comprising administering to the individual a composition comprising nanoparticles
comprising a taxane (e.g., paclitaxel) and a carrier protein (e.g., albumin), wherein the
                                                39

melanoma comprises wild-type BRAF, wherein the individual is a human (female or
male), wherein the individual is under about 65 years old or at least about 65 years old (for
example at least about any of 70, 75, or 80 years old). In some embodiments, there is
provided a method of treating stage IV or metastatic melanoma (e.g., stage IV or
metastatic cutaneous melanoma) in an individual (e.g., human) comprising administering
to the individual a composition comprising nanoparticles comprising a taxane (e.g.,
paclitaxel) and a carrier protein (e.g., albumin), wherein the melanoma comprises a BRAF
mutant such as a BRAF mutant with increased activity (for example, increased kinase
activity, and/or increased activity as compared to wild-type BRAF) or a BRAF gain-of
function mutant, wherein the individual is a human (female or male), wherein the
individual is under about 65 years old or at least about 65 years old (for example at least
about any of 70, 75, or 80 years old). In some embodiments, there is provided a method of
treating stage IV or metastatic melanoma (e.g., stage IV or metastatic cutaneous
melanoma) in an individual (e.g., human) comprising administering to the individual a
composition comprising nanoparticles comprising a taxane (e.g., paclitaxel) and a carrier
protein (e.g., albumin), wherein the melanoma comprises BRAF V600E mutation, wherein
the individual is a human (female or male), wherein the individual is under about 65 years
old or at least about 65 years old (for example at least about any of 70, 75, or 80 years
old). In some embodiments, there is provided a method of treating stage IV or metastatic
melanoma (e.g., stage IV or metastatic cutaneous melanoma) in an individual (e.g.,
human) comprising administering to the individual a composition comprising
nanoparticles comprising a taxane (e.g., paclitaxel) and a carrier protein (e.g., albumin),
wherein the melanoma comprises wild-type BRAF, wherein the individual is a human
(female or male), wherein the individual is under about 65 years old. In some
embodiments, there is provided a method of treating stage IV or metastatic melanoma
(e.g., stage IV or metastatic cutaneous melanoma) in an individual (e.g., human)
comprising administering to the individual a composition comprising nanoparticles
comprising a taxane (e.g., paclitaxel) and a carrier protein (e.g., albumin), wherein the
melanoma comprises wild-type BRAF, wherein the individual is a human (female or
male), wherein the individual is at least about 65 years old (for example at least about any
of 70, 75, or 80 years old). In some embodiments, the average or mean particle size of the
nanoparticles in the composition is no greater than about 200 nm (such as less than about
200 nm). In some embodiments, the taxane is paclitaxel. In some embodiments, the
                                                40

carrier protein is albumin such as human serum albumin or human albumin. In some
embodiments, the method of using taxane nanoparticles for treating melanoma is used as a
monotherapy. In some embodiments, the method of treating melanoma using taxane
nanoparticles does not further comprise one other therapeutic agent (such as one other
chemotherapeutic agent or immunotherapeutic agent). In some embodiments, the method
does not further comprise a cytotoxic chemotherapeutic agent.
10072]     In some embodiments, there is provided a method of treating stage IV or
metastatic melanoma (e.g., stage IV or metastatic cutaneous melanoma) in an individual
(e.g., human) comprising administering to the individual a composition comprising
nanoparticles comprising a taxane (e.g., paclitaxel) and a carrier protein (e.g., albumin),
wherein the individual has serum LDH of any one of the following: less than about 0.8       x
ULN, about 0.8 x to about 1.1    x ULN, between greater than about 1.1    x to about 2.0 x
ULN, or between about 1.1 x to about 2.0    x ULN, wherein the individual is a human
(female or male) (e.g., under about 65 years old or at least about 65 years old). In some
embodiments, there is provided a method of treating stage IV or metastatic melanoma
(e.g., stage IV or metastatic cutaneous melanoma) in an individual (e.g., human)
comprising administering to the individual a composition comprising nanoparticles
comprising a taxane (e.g., paclitaxel) and a carrier protein (e.g., albumin), wherein the
individual has serum LDH of less than about 0.8    x ULN, wherein the individual is a
human (female or male) (e.g., under about 65 years old or at least about 65 years old). In
some embodiments, there is provided a method of treating stage IV or metastatic
melanoma (e.g., stage IV or metastatic cutaneous melanoma) in an individual (e.g.,
human) comprising administering to the individual a composition comprising
nanoparticles comprising a taxane (e.g., paclitaxel) and a carrier protein (e.g., albumin),
wherein the individual has serum LDH of between 0.8      x to about 1.1 x ULN, wherein the
individual is a human (female or male) (e.g., under about 65 years old or at least about 65
years old). In some embodiments, there is provided a method of treating stage IV or
metastatic melanoma (e.g., stage IV or metastatic cutaneous melanoma) in an individual
(e.g., human) comprising administering to the individual a composition comprising
nanoparticles comprising a taxane (e.g., paclitaxel) and a carrier protein (e.g., albumin),
wherein the individual has serum LDH of between greater than about 1.1       x to about 2.0  x
ULN or between about 1.1 x to about 2.0    x  ULN, wherein the individual is a human
(female or male) (e.g., under about 65 years old or at least about 65 years old). In some
                                               41

embodiments, the taxane in the nanoparticles is coated with the carrier protein. In some
embodiments, the average or mean particle size of the nanoparticles in the composition is
no greater than about 200 nm (such as less than about 200 nm). In some embodiments, the
taxane is paclitaxel. In some embodiments, the carrier protein is albumin such as human
serum albumin or human albumin. In some embodiments, the method of using taxane
nanoparticles for treating melanoma is used as a monotherapy. In some embodiments, the
method of treating melanoma using taxane nanoparticles does not further comprise one
other therapeutic agent (such as one other chemotherapeutic agent or immunotherapeutic
agent). In some embodiments, the method does not further comprise a cytotoxic
chemotherapeutic agent.
[0073]    The methods described herein are useful for various aspects of melanoma
treatment. In some embodiments, there is provided a method for treatment of melanoma
in an individual (e.g., human) using an effective amount of a composition comprising
nanoparticles comprising a taxane and a carrier protein. In some embodiments, an
effective amount is an amount sufficient to delay development of melanoma. In some
embodiments, an effective amount is an amount sufficient to prevent or delay occurrence
and/or recurrence of melanoma. In some embodiments, an effective amount comprises an
amount sufficient to produce a complete response when an individual is treated with any
of the methods described herein for melanoma. In some embodiments, an effective
amount comprises an amount sufficient to produce a partial response when an individual is
treated with any of the methods described herein for melanoma.
10074]    In some embodiments, the effective amount of a composition comprising
nanoparticles comprising taxane (e.g., paclitaxel) and a carrier protein (e.g., albumin)
produces a complete response, a partial response, reduction in size of a melanoma tumor,
reduction in metastasis, stable disease, and/or an increase in overall response rate. In some
embodiments, the taxane is paclitaxel. In some embodiments, the carrier protein is
albumin. The efficacy parameters (such as complete response or partial response)
described herein may be determined by any of the methods known to one skilled in the art.
For example, the efficacy parameters may be determined according to RECIST such as
RECIST version 1.0 or 1.1 criteria. RECIST version 1.1 criteria are described in
Eisenhauer EA et al. 2009, Eur J Cancer., 45(2):228-47, the disclosure of which is
incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.
                                                42

[0075]     In some embodiments, there is provided a method of inhibiting melanoma cell
proliferation in an individual, comprising administering to the individual an effective
amount of a composition comprising nanoparticles comprising a taxane (e.g., paclitaxel)
and a carrier protein (e.g., albumin). In some embodiments, the taxane is paclitaxel. In
some embodiments, the carrier protein is albumin. In some embodiments, there is
provided a method of inhibiting melanoma cell proliferation in an individual, comprising
administering to the individual an effective amount of a composition comprising
nanoparticles comprising paclitaxel and albumin. In some embodiments, at least about
10% (including for example at least about any of 20%, 30%, 40%, 60%, 70%, 80%, 90%,
91%, 92%, 93%, 94%, 95%, 96%, 97%, 98%, 99%, or 100%) cell proliferation is
inhibited. In some embodiments, the individual has stage IV or metastatic melanoma
(e.g., stage IV or metastatic cutaneous melanoma). In some embodiments, the melanoma
is metastatic malignant melanoma. In some embodiments, the metastatic melanoma is at
stage MIa, stage MIb, or stage MIc. In some embodiments, the metastatic melanoma is at
stage MIc. In some embodiments, the melanoma comprises a mutation in BRAF. In some
embodiments the melanoma comprises a BRAF V600E mutation. In some embodiments,
the melanoma does not comprise a mutation in BRAF. In some embodiments, the
melanoma does not comprise BRAF mutant such as a BRAF mutant with increased
activity (for example, increased kinase activity, and/or increased activity as compared to
wild-type BRAF) or a BRAF gain-of-function mutant. In some embodiments, the
melanoma does not comprise a BRAF V600E mutation (e.g., the melanoma comprises
wild-type BRAF). In some embodiments, the melanoma comprises wild-type BRAF. In
some embodiments, the melanoma comprises a BRAF mutant such as a BRAF mutant
with increased activity (for example, increased kinase activity, and/or increased activity as
compared to wild-type BRAF) or a BRAF gain-of-function mutant. In some embodiments,
the melanoma comprises BRAF V600E mutation. In some embodiments, the individual
has elevated serum LDH level. In some embodiments, the individual has normal serum
LDH level. In some embodiments, the individual has serum LDH of about any of the
following: <0.8 x ULN, 0.4-0.8 x ULN, 0.8-1.1      x ULN, 0.9-1.1 x ULN, 0.8-1.2 x ULN,
1.1-1.5 x ULN, 1.2-1.5 x ULN, 1.1-2 x ULN, or 1.5-2 x ULN. In some embodiments, the
individual has serum LDH of less than about 0.8 x ULN. In some embodiments, the
individual has serum LDH at about 0.8 x to about 1.1 x ULN. In some embodiments, the
individual has serum LDH of between greater than about 1.1 x to about 2.0 x ULN. In
                                               43

some embodiments, the individual has serum LDH of between about 1.1 x to about 2.0 x
ULN. In some embodiments, the individual is a human (e.g., male or female).
10076]     In some embodiments, there is provided a method of preventing or inhibiting
metastasis of melanoma in an individual, comprising administering to the individual an
effective amount of a composition comprising nanoparticles comprising a taxane (e.g.,
paclitaxel) and a carrier protein (e.g., albumin). In some embodiments, the taxane is
paclitaxel. In some embodiments, the carrier protein is albumin. In some embodiments,
there is provided a method of preventing or inhibiting metastasis of melanoma in an
individual, comprising administering to the individual an effective amount of a
composition comprising nanoparticles comprising paclitaxel and albumin. In some
embodiments, at least about 10% (including for example at least about any of 20%, 30%,
40%, 60%, 70%, 80%, 90%, 95%, or 100%) metastasis is inhibited. In some
embodiments, there is provided a method of delaying or slowing metastasis of melanoma
in an individual, comprising administering to the individual an effective amount of a
composition comprising nanoparticles comprising a taxane and a carrier protein (e.g.,
albumin). In some embodiments, the individual has stage IV or metastatic melanoma (e.g.,
stage IV or metastatic cutaneous melanoma). In some embodiments, the melanoma is
metastatic malignant melanoma. In some embodiments, the metastatic melanoma is at
stage MIa, stage MIb, or stage MIc. In some embodiments, the metastatic melanoma is at
stage MIc. In some embodiments, the melanoma comprises a mutation in BRAF. In some
embodiments, the melanoma comprises a BRAF V600E mutation. In some embodiments,
the melanoma does not comprise a mutation in BRAF. In some embodiments, the
melanoma does not comprise BRAF mutant such as a BRAF mutant with increased
activity (for example, increased kinase activity, and/or increased activity as compared to
wild-type BRAF) or a BRAF gain-of-function mutant. In some embodiments, the
melanoma does not comprise BRAF V600E mutation (e.g., the melanoma comprises wild
type BRAF). In some embodiments, the melanoma comprises wild-type BRAF. In some
embodiments, the melanoma comprises a BRAF mutant such as a BRAF mutant with
increased activity (for example, increased kinase activity, and/or increased activity as
compared to wild-type BRAF) or a BRAF gain-of-function mutant. In some embodiments,
the melanoma comprises BRAF V600E mutation. In some embodiments, the individual
has elevated serum LDH level. In some embodiments, the individual has normal serum
LDH level. In some embodiments, the individual has serum LDH of about any of the
                                                44

following: <0.8 x ULN, 0.4-0.8 x ULN, 0.8-1.1 x ULN, 0.9-1.1 x ULN, 0.8-1.2 x ULN,
1.1-1.5 x ULN, 1.2-1.5 x ULN, 1.1-2 x ULN, or 1.5-2 x ULN. In some embodiments, the
individual has serum LDH of less than about 0.8 x ULN. In some embodiments, the
individual has serum LDH at about 0.8 x to about 1.1 x ULN. In some embodiments, the
individual has serum LDH of between greater than about 1.1 x to about 2.0 x ULN. In
some embodiments, the individual has serum LDH of between about 1.1 x to about 2.0 x
ULN. In some embodiments, the individual is a human (e.g., male or female).
10077]    In some embodiments, there is provided a method of reducing size of a
melanoma tumor or reducing melanoma tumor volume in an individual, comprising
administering to the individual an effective amount of a composition comprising
nanoparticles comprising a taxane (e.g., paclitaxel) and a carrier protein (e.g., albumin). In
some embodiments, the taxane is paclitaxel. In some embodiments, the carrier protein is
albumin. In some embodiments, there is provided a method of reducing size of a
melanoma tumor or reducing melanoma tumor volume in an individual, comprising
administering to the individual an effective amount of a composition comprising
nanoparticles comprising paclitaxel and albumin. In some embodiments, the tumor size or
tumor volume is reduced at least about 10% (including for example at least about any of
20%, 30%, 40%, 60%, 70%, 80%, 90%, 95%, or 100%). In some embodiments, the
individual has stage IV or metastatic melanoma (e.g., stage IV or metastatic cutaneous
melanoma). In some embodiments, the melanoma is metastatic malignant melanoma. In
some embodiments, the metastatic melanoma is at stage Mla, stage Mlb, or stage Mlc. In
some embodiments, the metastatic melanoma is at stage Mlc. In some embodiments, the
melanoma comprises a mutation in BRAF. In some embodiments, the melanoma
comprises a BRAF V600E mutation. In some embodiments, the melanoma does not
comprise a mutation in BRAF. In some embodiments, the melanoma does not comprise
BRAF mutant such as a BRAF mutant with increased activity (for example, increased
kinase activity, and/or increased activity as compared to wild-type BRAF) or a BRAF
gain-of-function mutant. In some embodiments, the melanoma does not comprise BRAF
V600E mutation (e.g., the melanoma comprises wild-type BRAF). In some embodiments,
the melanoma comprises wild-type BRAF. In some embodiments, the melanoma
comprises a BRAF mutant such as a BRAF mutant with increased activity (for example,
increased kinase activity, and/or increased activity as compared to wild-type BRAF) or a
BRAF gain-of-function mutant. In some embodiments, the melanoma comprises BRAF
                                                45

V600E mutation. In some embodiments, the individual has elevated serum LDH level. In
some embodiments, the individual has normal serum LDH level. In some embodiments,
the individual has serum LDH of about any of the following: <0.8    x ULN, 0.4-0.8   x ULN,
0.8-1.1 x ULN, 0.9-1.1 x ULN, 0.8-1.2 x ULN, 1.1-1.5 x ULN, 1.2-1.5 x ULN, 1.1-2 x
ULN, or 1.5-2   x ULN. In some embodiments, the individual has serum LDH of less than
about 0.8 x ULN. In some embodiments, the individual has serum LDH at about 0.8         x to
about 1.1  x ULN. In some embodiments, the individual has serum LDH of between
greater than about 1.1  x to about 2.0 x ULN. In some embodiments, the individual has
serum LDH of between about 1. 1 x to about 2.0 x ULN. In some embodiments, the
individual is a human (e.g., male or female).
[0078]    In some embodiments, there is provided a method of prolonging time to disease
progression of melanoma in an individual, comprising administering to the individual an
effective amount of a composition comprising nanoparticles comprising a taxane (e.g.,
paclitaxel) and a carrier protein (e.g., albumin). In some embodiments, the taxane is
paclitaxel. In some embodiments, the carrier protein is albumin. In some embodiments,
there is provided a method of prolonging time to disease progression of melanoma in an
individual, comprising administering to the individual an effective amount of a
composition comprising nanoparticles comprising paclitaxel and albumin. In some
embodiments, the method prolongs the time to disease progression by at least about any of
1, 2, 3,4,5,6,7,8,9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18,19,20,2,24,26,28,30,35,40,
45, or 50 weeks. In some embodiments, the individual has stage IV or metastatic
melanoma (e.g., stage IV or metastatic cutaneous melanoma). In some embodiments, the
melanoma is metastatic malignant melanoma. In some embodiments, the metastatic
melanoma is at stage Mla, stage Mlb, or stage Mic. In some embodiments, the metastatic
melanoma is at stage M Ic. In some embodiments, the melanoma comprises a mutation in
BRAF. In some embodiments, the melanoma comprises a V600E BRAF mutation. In
some embodiments, the melanoma does not comprise a mutation in BRAF. In some
embodiments, the melanoma does not comprise BRAF mutant such as a BRAF mutant
with increased activity (for example, increased kinase activity, and/or increased activity as
compared to wild-type BRAF) or a BRAF gain-of-function mutant. In some embodiments,
the melanoma does not comprise a BRAF V600E mutation (e.g., the melanoma comprises
wild-type BRAF). In some embodiments, the melanoma comprises wild-type BRAF. In
some embodiments, the melanoma comprises a BRAF mutant such as a BRAF mutant
                                                46

with increased activity (for example, increased kinase activity, and/or increased activity as
compared to wild-type BRAF) or a BRAF gain-of-function mutant. In some embodiments,
the melanoma comprises BRAF V600E mutation. In some embodiments, the individual
has elevated serum LDH level. In some embodiments, the individual has normal serum
LDH level. In some embodiments, the individual has serum LDH of about any of the
following: <0.8 x ULN, 0.4-0.8 x ULN, 0.8-1.1      x  ULN, 0.9-1.1 x ULN, 0.8-1.2 x ULN,
1.1-1.5 x  ULN, 1.2-1.5   x ULN, 1.1-2 x ULN, or 1.5-2   x ULN. In some embodiments, the
individual has serum LDH of less than about 0.8     x ULN. In some embodiments, the
individual has serum LDH at about 0.8 x to about 1.1 x ULN. In some embodiments, the
individual has serum LDH of between greater than about 1.1      x to about 2.0 x ULN. In
some embodiments, the individual has serum LDH of between about 1.1          x  to about 2.0   x
ULN. In some embodiments, the individual is a human (e.g., male or female).
[0079]    In some embodiments, there is provided a method of prolonging survival of an
individual having melanoma, comprising administering to the individual an effective
amount of a composition comprising nanoparticles comprising a taxane (e.g., paclitaxel)
and a carrier protein (e.g., albumin). In some embodiments, the taxane is paclitaxel. In
some embodiments, the carrier protein is albumin. In some embodiments, there is
provided a method of prolonging survival of an individual having melanoma, comprising
administering to the individual an effective amount of a composition comprising
nanoparticles comprising a paclitaxel and albumin. In some embodiments, the method
prolongs the survival of the individual by at least about any of 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10,
11, 12, 18, or 24 months. In some embodiments, the individual has stage IV or metastatic
melanoma (e.g., stage IV or metastatic cutaneous melanoma). In some embodiments, the
melanoma is metastatic malignant melanoma. In some embodiments, the metastatic
melanoma is at stage Mla, stage Mlb, or stage MIc. In some embodiments, the metastatic
melanoma is at stage M Ic. In some embodiments, the melanoma comprises a mutation in
BRAF. In some embodiments, the melanoma comprises a BRAF V600E mutation. In
some embodiments, the melanoma does not comprise a mutation in BRAF. In some
embodiments, the melanoma does not comprise BRAF mutant such as a BRAF mutant
with increased activity (for example, increased kinase activity, and/or increased activity as
compared to wild-type BRAF) or a BRAF gain-of-function mutant. In some embodiments,
the melanoma does not comprise BRAF V600E mutation (e.g., the melanoma comprises
wild-type BRAF). In some embodiments, the melanoma comprises wild-type BRAF. In
                                                47

some embodiments, the melanoma comprises a BRAF mutant such as a BRAF mutant
with increased activity (for example, increased kinase activity, and/or increased activity as
compared to wild-type BRAF) or a BRAF gain-of-function mutant. In some embodiments,
the melanoma comprises BRAF V600E mutation. In some embodiments, the individual
has elevated serum LDH level. In some embodiments, the individual has normal serum
LDH level. In some embodiments, the individual has serum LDH of about any of the
following: <0.8 x ULN, 0.4-0.8 x ULN, 0.8-1.1 x ULN, 0.9-1.1 x ULN, 0.8-1.2 x ULN,
1.1-1.5  x  ULN, 1.2-1.5  x ULN, 1.1-2  x ULN, or 1.5-2 x ULN. In some embodiments, the
individual has serum LDH of less than about 0.8 x ULN. In some embodiments, the
individual has serum LDH at about 0.8 x to about 1.1 x ULN. In some embodiments, the
individual has serum LDH of between greater than about 1.1     x to about 2.0 x ULN. In
some embodiments, the individual has serum LDH of between about 1.1 x to about 2.0 x
ULN. In some embodiments, the individual is a human (e.g., male or female). In some
embodiments, the taxane is paclitaxel. In some embodiments, the carrier protein is
albumin.
[0080]     The method of using taxane nanoparticles for treating melanoma may be used as
a monotherapy. In some embodiments, there is provide a method of treating melanoma in
an individual (e.g., human) comprising administering to the individual an effective amount
of a composition comprising nanoparticles comprising a taxane (e.g., paclitaxel) and a
carrier protein (e.g., albumin), wherein the method is used as a monotherapy. In some
embodiments, a method described herein does not further comprise one other therapeutic
agent (such as one other chemotherapeutic agent or immunotherapeutic agent). In some
embodiments, a method described herein does not further comprise a cytotoxic
chemotherapeutic agent.
10081]     In some embodiments, there is provided a method of treating melanoma in an
individual (e.g., human) comprising administering (such as intravenously administering)
to the individual an effective amount of a composition comprising nanoparticles
comprising paclitaxel and albumin (such as Nab-paclitaxel, for example about 5 mg/ml
Nab-paclitaxel), wherein the dose of paclitaxel in the nanoparticle composition is between
about 80 mg/m 2 to about 175 mg/m 2 (such as between about 90 mg/m 2 to about 150
mg/im2). In some embodiments, there is provided a method of treating melanoma in an
individual (e.g., human) comprising administering (such as intravenously administering)
to the individual an effective amount of a composition comprising nanoparticles
                                               48

comprising paclitaxel and albumin (such as Nab-paclitaxel, for example about 5 mg/ml
Nab-paclitaxel), wherein the dose of paclitaxel in the nanoparticle composition is between
about 90 mg/m 2 to about 150 mg/m 2 (for example about 90 mg/m 2 , about 120 mg/m 2, or
about 150 mg/m 2 ) , wherein the nanoparticle composition is administered weekly. In
some embodiments, there is provided a method of treating melanoma in an individual
(e.g., human) comprising administering (such as intravenously administering) to the
individual an effective amount of a composition comprising nanoparticles comprising
paclitaxel and albumin (such as Nab-paclitaxel, for example about 5 mg/ml Nab
paclitaxel), wherein the dose of paclitaxel in the nanoparticle composition is between
                2
about 90 mg/n     to about 150 mg/m 2 (for example about 90 mg/m 2 , about 120 mg/m 2, or
about 150 mg/m 2), wherein the nanoparticle composition is administered weekly, three out
of four weeks. In some embodiments, there is provided a method of treating melanoma in
human individual who has previously been treated for melanoma, comprising
administering (such as intravenously administering) to the individual an effective amount
of a composition comprising nanoparticles comprising paclitaxel and albumin (such as
Nab-paclitaxel, for example about 5 mg/ml Nab-paclitaxel), wherein the dose of paclitaxel
in the nanoparticle composition is between about 90 mg/m2 to about 150 mg/m 2 (for
example about 90 mg/m 2, about 120 mg/m 2, or about 150 mg/m 2), wherein the
nanoparticle composition is administered weekly, three out of four weeks. In some
embodiments, there is provided a method of treating melanoma in human individual who
is chemotherapy naive, comprising administering (such as intravenously administering) to
the individual an effective amount of a composition comprising nanoparticles comprising
paclitaxel and albumin (such as Nab-paclitaxel, for example about 5 mg/ml Nab
paclitaxel), wherein the dose of paclitaxel in the nanoparticle composition is between
about 90 mg/m 2 to about 150 mg/m2 (for example about 90 mg/in 2 , about 120 mg/m 2, or
about 150 mg/m 2), wherein the nanoparticle composition is administered weekly, three out
of four weeks. In some embodiments, the individual is a male. In some embodiments, the
individual is a female. In some embodiment, the individual is a human who is at least 65
years old (including for example at least 70, 75, or 80 years old). In some embodiments,
the individual is a human who is less than 65 years old (including for example less than
60, 50, or 40 years old).
10082]    In some embodiments, there is provided a method of treating metastatic
melanoma (such as stage IV metastatic melanoma or Mic melanoma) in an individual
                                                49

(e.g., human) comprising administering (such as intravenously administering) to the
individual an effective amount of a composition comprising nanoparticles comprising
paclitaxel and albumin (such as Nab-paclitaxel, for example about 5 mg/ml Nab
paclitaxel), wherein the dose of paclitaxel in the nanoparticle composition is between
about 80 mg/m2 to about 175 mg/m 2 (such as between about 90 mg/m2 to about 150
mg/n 2). In some embodiments, there is provided a method of treating metastatic
melanoma (such as stage IV melanoma or Mlc melanoma) in an individual (e.g., human)
comprising administering (such as intravenously administering) to the individual an
effective amount of a composition comprising nanoparticles comprising paclitaxel and
albumin (such as Nab-paclitaxel, for example about 5 mg/ml Nab-paclitaxel), wherein the
dose of paclitaxel in the nanoparticle composition is between about 90 mg/m2 to about 150
mg/m 2 (for example about 90 mg/n 2 , about 120 mg/m 2 , or about 150 mg/m2 ), wherein the
nanoparticle composition is administered weekly. In some embodiments, there is
provided a method of treating metastatic melanoma (such as stage IV metastatic
melanoma or Mlc melanoma) in an individual (e.g., human) comprising administering
(such as intravenously administering) to the individual an effective amount of a
composition comprising nanoparticles comprising paclitaxel and albumin (such as Nab
paclitaxel, for example about 5 mg/ml Nab-paclitaxel), wherein the dose of paclitaxel in
the nanoparticle composition is between about 90 mg/m 2 to about 150 mg/m 2 (for example
about 90 mg/m 2, about 120 mg/m 2, or about 150 mg/n 2), wherein the nanoparticle
composition is administered weekly, three out of four weeks. In some embodiments, there
is provided a method of treating metastatic melanoma (such as stage IV metastatic
melanoma or Ml c melanoma) in human individual who has previously been treated for
melanoma, comprising administering (such as intravenously administering) to the
individual an effective amount of a composition comprising nanoparticles comprising
paclitaxel and albumin (such as Nab-paclitaxel, for example about 5 mg/ml Nab
paclitaxel), wherein the dose of paclitaxel in the nanoparticle composition is between
about 90 mg/m 2 to about 150 mg/m 2 (for example about 90 mg/m 2 , about 120 mg/m 2, or
about 150 mg/m 2), wherein the nanoparticle composition is administered weekly, three out
of four weeks. In some embodiments, there is provided a method of treating metastatic
melanoma (such as stage IV metastatic melanoma or MIc melanoma) in human individual
who is chemotherapy naYve, comprising administering (such as intravenously
administering) to the individual an effective amount of a composition comprising
                                                50

nanoparticles comprising paclitaxel and albumin (such as Nab-paclitaxel, for example
about 5 mg/ml Nab-paclitaxel), wherein the dose of paclitaxel in the nanoparticle
composition is between about 90 mg/rm 2 to about 150 mg/m 2 (for example about 90
mg/m 2 , about 120 mg/m 2 , or about 150 mg/m), wherein the nanoparticle composition is
administered weekly, three out of four weeks. In some embodiments, the individual is a
male. In some embodiments, the individual is a female. In some embodiment, the
individual is a human who is at least 65 years old (including for example at least 70, 75, or
80 years old). In some embodiments, the individual is a human who is less than 65 years
old (including for example less than 60, 50, or 40 years old).
[0083]    In some embodiments, there is provided a method of treating melanoma in an
individual (e.g., human) who comprises wild-type BRAF, comprising administering (such
as intravenously administering) to the individual an effective amount of a composition
comprising nanoparticles comprising paclitaxel and albumin (such as Nab-paclitaxel, for
example about 5 mg/ml Nab-paclitaxel), wherein the dose of paclitaxel in the nanoparticle
composition is between about 80 mg/m2 to about 175 mg/m 2 (such as between about 90
mg/m 2 to about 150 mg/m2). In some embodiments, there is provided a method of treating
melanoma in an individual (e.g., human) who comprises wild-type BRAF, comprising
administering (such as intravenously administering) to the individual an effective amount
of a composition comprising nanoparticles comprising paclitaxel and albumin (such as
Nab-paclitaxel, for example about 5 mg/ml Nab-paclitaxel), wherein the dose of paclitaxel
in the nanoparticle composition is between about 90 mg/m 2 to about 150 mg/m 2 (for
example about 90 mg/m 2 , about 120 mg/m2 , or about 150 mg/M2 ), wherein the
nanoparticle composition is administered weekly. In some embodiments, there is
provided a method of treating melanoma in an individual (e.g., human) who comprises
wild-type BRAF, comprising administering (such as intravenously administering) to the
individual an effective amount of a composition comprising nanoparticles comprising
paclitaxel and albumin (such as Nab-paclitaxel, for example about 5 mg/nl Nab
paclitaxel), wherein the dose of paclitaxel in the nanoparticle composition is between
about 90 mg/m 2 to about 150 mg/m 2 (for example about 90 mg/rn 2 , about 120 mg/m 2, or
about 150 mg/n 2), wherein the nanoparticle composition is administered weekly, three out
of four weeks. In some embodiments, there is provided a method of treating melanoma in
an individual (e.g., human) who comprises wild-type BRAF and has previously been
treated for melanoma, comprising administering (such as intravenously administering) to
                                                51

the individual an effective amount of a composition comprising nanoparticles comprising
paclitaxel and albumin (such as Nab-paclitaxel, for example about 5 mg/ml Nab
paclitaxel), wherein the dose of paclitaxel in the nanoparticle composition is between
about 90 mg/m 2 to about 150 mg/m 2 (for example about 90 mg/m2 , about 120 mg/m2, or
about 150 mg/m2), wherein the nanoparticle composition is administered weekly, three out
of four weeks. In some embodiments, there is provided a method of treating melanoma in
an individual (e.g., human) who comprises wild-type BRAF and is chemotherapy naive,
comprising administering (such as intravenously administering) to the individual an
effective amount of a composition comprising nanoparticles comprising paclitaxel and
albumin (such as Nab-paclitaxel, for example about 5 mg/ml Nab-paclitaxel), wherein the
dose of paclitaxel in the nanoparticle composition is between about 90 mg/m2 to about 150
mg/m 2 (for example about 90 mg/n 2 , about 120 mg/m 2 , or about 150 mg/m 2), wherein the
nanoparticle composition is administered weekly, three out of four weeks. In some
embodiments, the individual is a male. In some embodiments, the individual is a female.
In some embodiment, the individual is a human who is at least 65 years old (including for
example at least 70, 75, or 80 years old). In some embodiments, the individual is a human
who is less than 65 years old (including for example less than 60, 50, or 40 years old).
10084]    In some embodiments, there is provided a method of treating melanoma in an
individual (e.g., human) who comprises a BRAF V600E mutation, comprising
administering (such as intravenously administering) to the individual an effective amount
of a composition comprising nanoparticles comprising paclitaxel and albumin (such as
Nab-paclitaxel, for example about 5 mg/ml Nab-paclitaxel), wherein the dose of paclitaxel
in the nanoparticle composition is between about 80 mg/m 2 to about 175 mg/m 2 (such as
between about 90 mg/m 2 to about 150 mg/m2 ). In some embodiments, there is provided a
method of treating melanoma in an individual (e.g., human) who comprises a BRAF
V600E mutation, comprising administering (such as intravenously administering) to the
individual an effective amount of a composition comprising nanoparticles comprising
paclitaxel and albumin (such as Nab-paclitaxel, for example about 5 mg/ml Nab
paclitaxel), wherein the dose of paclitaxel in the nanoparticle composition is between
about 90 mg/m 2 to about 150 mg/m 2 (for example about 90 mg/n 2 , about 120 mg/m 2, or
about 150 mg/m 2), wherein the nanoparticle composition is administered weekly. In some
embodiments, there is provided a method of treating melanoma in an individual (e.g.,
human) who comprises a BRAF V600E mutation, comprising administering (such as
                                                52

intravenously administering) to the individual an effective amount of a composition
comprising nanoparticles comprising paclitaxel and albumin (such as Nab-paclitaxel, for
example about 5 mg/ml Nab-paclitaxel), wherein the dose of paclitaxel in the nanoparticle
composition is between about 90 mg/m 2 to about 150 mg/m 2 (for example about 90
mg/m 2 , about 120 mg/m2 , or about 150 mg/m2), wherein the nanoparticle composition is
administered weekly, three out of four weeks. In some embodiments, there is provided a
method of treating melanoma in an individual (e.g., human) who comprises a BRAF
V600E mutation and has previously been treated for melanoma, comprising administering
(such as intravenously administering) to the individual an effective amount of a
composition comprising nanoparticles comprising paclitaxel and albumin (such as Nab
paclitaxel, for example about 5 mg/ml Nab-paclitaxel), wherein the dose of paclitaxel in
the nanoparticle composition is between about 90 mg/m 2 to about 150 mg/m2 (for example
about 90 mg/m 2, about 120 mg/m 2, or about 150 mg/m 2), wherein the nanoparticle
composition is administered weekly, three out of four weeks. In some embodiments, there
is provided a method of treating melanoma in an individual (e.g., human) who comprises a
BRAF V600E mutation and is chemotherapy naYve, comprising administering (such as
intravenously administering) to the individual an effective amount of a composition
comprising nanoparticles comprising paclitaxel and albumin (such as Nab-paclitaxel, for
example about 5 mg/ml Nab-paclitaxel), wherein the dose of paclitaxel in the nanoparticle
composition is between about 90 mg/m 2 to about 150 mg/m 2 (for example about 90
mg/m 2 , about 120 mg/m 2 , or about 150 mg/m2 ), wherein the nanoparticle composition is
administered weekly, three out of four weeks. In some embodiments, the individual is a
male. In some embodiments, the individual is a female. In some embodiment, the
individual is a human who is at least 65 years old (including for example at least 70, 75, or
80 years old). In some embodiments, the individual is a human who is less than 65 years
old (including for example less than 60, 50, or 40 years old).
10085]    In some embodiments, there is provided a method of treating metastatic
melanoma (such as stage IV metastatic melanoma or MIc melanoma) in an individual
(e.g., human) who comprises wild-type BRAF, comprising administering (such as
intravenously administering) to the individual an effective amount of a composition
comprising nanoparticles comprising paclitaxel and albumin (such as Nab-paclitaxel, for
example about 5 mg/ml Nab-paclitaxel), wherein the dose of paclitaxel in the nanoparticle
composition is between about 80 mg/m 2 to about 175 mg/m 2 (such as between about 90
                                               53

mg/ni 2 to about 150 mg/m 2 ). In some embodiments, there is provided a method of treating
metastatic melanoma (such as stage IV metastatic melanoma or MIc melanoma) in an
individual (e.g., human) who comprises wild-type BRAF, comprising administering (such
as intravenously administering) to the individual an effective amount of a composition
comprising nanoparticles comprising paclitaxel and albumin (such as Nab-paclitaxel, for
example about 5 mg/ml Nab-paclitaxel), wherein the dose of paclitaxel in the nanoparticle
composition is between about 90 mg/m 2 to about 150 mg/m 2 (for example about 90
mg/m 2 , about 120 mg/rn 2 , or about 150 mg/m 2 ), wherein the nanoparticle composition is
administered weekly. In some embodiments, there is provided a method of treating
metastatic melanoma (such as stage IV metastatic melanoma or MIc melanoma) in an
individual (e.g., human) who comprises wild-type BRAF, comprising administering (such
as intravenously administering) to the individual an effective amount of a composition
comprising nanoparticles comprising paclitaxel and albumin (such as Nab-paclitaxel, for
example about 5 mg/ml Nab-paclitaxel), wherein the dose of paclitaxel in the nanoparticle
composition is between about 90 mg/m2 to about 150 mg/m 2 (for example about 90
mg/m 2 , about 120 mg/m 2 , or about 150 mg/m 2 ), wherein the nanoparticle composition is
administered weekly, three out of four weeks. In some embodiments, there is provided a
method of treating metastatic melanoma (such as stage IV metastatic melanoma or Mic
melanoma) in an individual (e.g., human) who comprises wild-type BRAF and has
previously been treated for melanoma, comprising administering (such as intravenously
administering) to the individual an effective amount of a composition comprising
nanoparticles comprising paclitaxel and albumin (such as Nab-paclitaxel, for example
about 5 mg/ml Nab-paclitaxel), wherein the dose of paclitaxel in the nanoparticle
                                                               2
composition is between about 90 mg/m 2 to about 150 mg/n         (for example about 90
mg/m 2 , about 120 mg/m 2 , or about 150 mg/m 2 ), wherein the nanoparticle composition is
administered weekly, three out of four weeks. In some embodiments, there is provided a
method of treating metastatic melanoma (such as stage IV metastatic melanoma or MIc
melanoma) in an individual (e.g., human) who comprises wild-type BRAF and is
chemotherapy naYve, comprising administering (such as intravenously administering) to
the individual an effective amount of a composition comprising nanoparticles comprising
paclitaxel and albumin (such as Nab-paclitaxel, for example about 5 mg/mI Nab
paclitaxel), wherein the dose of paclitaxel in the nanoparticle composition is between
about 90 mg/m2 to about 150 mg/m 2 (for example about 90 mg/m 2 , about 120 mg/m2, or
                                                54

about 150 mg/m 2 ), wherein the nanoparticle composition is administered weekly, three out
of four weeks. In some embodiments, the individual is a male. In some embodiments, the
individual is a female. In some embodiment, the individual is a human who is at least 65
years old (including for example at least 70, 75, or 80 years old). In some embodiments,
the individual is a human who is less than 65 years old (including for example less than
60, 50, or 40 years old).
10086]    In some embodiments, there is provided a method of treating metastatic
melanoma (such as stage IV metastatic melanoma or MIc melanoma) in an individual
(e.g., human) who comprises a BRAF V600E mutation, comprising administering (such as
intravenously administering) to the individual an effective amount of a composition
comprising nanoparticles comprising paclitaxel and albumin (such as Nab-paclitaxel, for
example about 5 mg/nil Nab-paclitaxel), wherein the dose of paclitaxel in the nanoparticle
composition is between about 80 mg/m 2 to about 175 mg/mn2 (such as between about 90
mg/ni 2 to about 150 mg/m 2). In some embodiments, there is provided a method of treating
metastatic melanoma (such as stage IV metastatic melanoma or Mlc melanoma) in an
individual (e.g., human) who comprises a BRAF V600E mutation, comprising
administering (such as intravenously administering) to the individual an effective amount
of a composition comprising nanoparticles comprising paclitaxel and albumin (such as
Nab-paclitaxel, for example about 5 mg/ml Nab-paclitaxel), wherein the dose of paclitaxel
in the nanoparticle composition is between about 90 mg/m 2 to about 150 mg/m 2 (for
example about 90 mg/m 2 , about 120 mg/m 2, or about 150 mg/m 2), wherein the
nanoparticle composition is administered weekly. In some embodiments, there is
provided a method of treating metastatic melanoma (such as stage IV metastatic
melanoma or M Ic melanoma) in an individual (e.g., human) who comprises a BRAF
V600E mutation, comprising administering (such as intravenously administering) to the
individual an effective amount of a composition comprising nanoparticles comprising
paclitaxel and albumin (such as Nab-paclitaxel, for example about 5 mg/nil Nab
paclitaxel), wherein the dose of paclitaxel in the nanoparticle composition is between
about 90 mg/m 2 to about 150 mg/m 2 (for example about 90 mg/i      2
                                                                      , about 120 mg/m 2, or
about 150 mg/ni 2), wherein the nanoparticle composition is administered weekly, three out
of four weeks. In some embodiments, there is provided a method of treating metastatic
melanoma (such as stage IV metastatic melanoma or Mlc melanoma) in an individual
(e.g., human) who comprises a BRAF V600E mutation and has previously been treated for
                                                55

melanoma, comprising administering (such as intravenously administering) to the
individual an effective amount of a composition comprising nanoparticles comprising
paclitaxel and albumin (such as Nab-paclitaxel, for example about 5 mg/ml Nab
paclitaxel), wherein the dose of paclitaxel in the nanoparticle composition is between
about 90 mg/m2 to about 150 mg/m2 (for example about 90 mg/m2 , about 120 mg/m2, or
about 150 mg/n 2), wherein the nanoparticle composition is administered weekly, three out
of four weeks. In some embodiments, there is provided a method of treating metastatic
melanoma (such as stage IV metastatic melanoma or MIc melanoma) in an individual
(e.g., human) who comprises a BRAF V600E mutation and is chemotherapy naYve,
comprising administering (such as intravenously administering) to the individual an
effective amount of a composition comprising nanoparticles comprising paclitaxel and
albumin (such as Nab-paclitaxel, for example about 5 mg/ml Nab-paclitaxel), wherein the
dose of paclitaxel in the nanoparticle composition is between about 90 mg/m2 to about 150
       2
mg/n     (for example about 90 mg/m 2 , about 120 mg/m 2, or about 150 mg/m 2), wherein the
nanoparticle composition is administered weekly, three out of four weeks. In some
embodiments, the individual is a male. In some embodiments, the individual is a female.
In some embodiment, the individual is a human who is at least 65 years old (including for
example at least 70, 75, or 80 years old). In some embodiments, the individual is a human
who is less than 65 years old (including for example less than 60, 50, or 40 years old).
[0087]     In some embodiments, there is provided a method of treating metastatic
melanoma (such as stage IV metastatic melanoma or Mlc melanoma) in the liver in an
individual (e.g., human) comprising administering (such as administering by hepatic
arterial infusion) to the individual an effective amount of a composition comprising
nanoparticles comprising paclitaxel and albumin (such as Nab-paclitaxel, for example
about 5 mg/ml Nab-paclitaxel), wherein the dose of paclitaxel in the nanoparticle
composition is between about 80 mg/Im2 to about 175 mg/m 2 (such as between about 90
mg/m 2 to about 150 mg/m 2). In some embodiments, there is provided a method of treating
metastatic melanoma (such as stage IV metastatic melanoma or Mlc melanoma) in the
liver in an individual (e.g., human) who comprises wild-type BRAF, comprising
administering (such as administering by hepatic arterial infusion) to the individual an
effective amount of a composition comprising nanoparticles comprising paclitaxel and
albumin (such as Nab-paclitaxel, for example about 5 mg/ml Nab-paclitaxel), wherein the
dose of paclitaxel in the nanoparticle composition is between about 80 mg/m 2 to about 175
                                                 56

mg/ni 2 (such as between about 90 mg/m 2 to about 150 mg/m 2 ). In some embodiments, the
nanoparticle composition is administered weekly. In some embodiments, the nanoparticle
composition is administered weekly, three out of four weeks. In some embodiments, the
individual is a male. In some embodiments, the individual is a female. In some
embodiment, the individual is a human who is at least 65 years old (including for example
at least 70, 75, or 80 years old). In some embodiments, the individual is a human who is
less than 65 years old (including for example less than 60, 50, or 40 years old).
10088]     In some embodiments, there is provided a method of treating metastatic
melanoma (such as stage IV metastatic melanoma or MIc melanoma) in the liver in an
individual (e.g., human) who comprises wild-type BRAF, comprising administering (such
as administering by hepatic arterial infusion) to the individual an effective amount of a
composition comprising nanoparticles comprising paclitaxel and albumin (such as Nab
paclitaxel, for example about 5 mg/ml Nab-paclitaxel), wherein the Nab-paclitaxel dose is
between about 130 mg/m 2 to about 285 mg/m 2 (such as, for example, about 130 mg/m2 ,
about 170 mg/mn2, about 220 mg/m 2, or about 285 mg/m 2). In some embodiments, there is
provided a method of treating metastatic melanoma (such as stage IV metastatic
melanoma or MIc melanoma) in the liver in an individual (e.g., human) who comprises a
BRAF V600E mutation, comprising administering (such as administering by hepatic
arterial infusion) to the individual an effective amount of a composition comprising
nanoparticles comprising paclitaxel and albumin (such as Nab-paclitaxel, for example
about 5 mg/nl Nab-paclitaxel), wherein the Nab-paclitaxel dose is between about 130
mg/m 2 to about 285 mg/m 2 (such as, for example, about 130 mg/m 2 , about 170 mg/m 2,
about 220 mg/m 2, or about 285 mg/m 2). In some embodiments, the nanoparticle
composition is administered via hepatic artery one day every three weeks. In some
embodiments, the nanoparticle composition is administered via hepatic arterial infusion
over 30 minutes every three weeks. In some embodiments, the individual is a human who
is at least 65 years old (including for example at least 70, 75 or 80 years old). In some
embodiments, the individual is a human who is less than 65 years old (including, for
example, less than 60, 50, or 40 years old).
10089]     In some embodiments, there is provided a method of treating metastatic
melanoma (such as stage IV metastatic melanoma or MIc melanoma) in the liver in an
individual (e.g., human) comprising administering (such as administering by hepatic
arterial infusion) to the individual an effective amount of a composition comprising
                                                 57

nanoparticles comprising paclitaxel and albumin (such as Nab-paclitaxel, for example
about 5 mg/ml Nab-paclitaxel), wherein the dose of paclitaxel in the nanoparticle
composition is between about 80 mg/im2 to about 175 mg/m 2 (such as between about 100
mg/m 2 to about 150 mg/m 2). In some embodiments, there is provided a method of treating
metastatic melanoma (such as stage IV metastatic melanoma or Mlc melanoma) in the
liver in an individual (e.g., human) who comprises a BRAF V600E mutation, comprising
administering (such as administering by hepatic arterial infusion) to the individual an
effective amount of a composition comprising nanoparticles comprising paclitaxel and
albumin (such as Nab-paclitaxel, for example about 5 mg/ml Nab-paclitaxel), wherein the
dose of paclitaxel in the nanoparticle composition is between about 80 mg/m 2 to about 175
mg/m 2 (such as between about 100 mg/n     2 to about 150 mg/m 2 ). In some embodiments,
the nanoparticle composition is administered weekly. In some embodiments, the
nanoparticle composition is administered weekly, three out of four weeks. In some
embodiments, the individual is a male. In some embodiments, the individual is a female.
In some embodiment, the individual is a human who is at least 65 years old (including for
example at least 70, 75, or 80 years old). In some embodiments, the individual is a human
who is less than 65 years old (including for example less than 60, 50, or 40 years old).
10090]    In some embodiments, there is provided a method of treating uveal melanoma
(such as unresectable uveal melanoma or metastatic uveal melanoma) in an individual
(e.g., human) comprising administering (such as intravenous administration) to the
individual an effective amount of a composition comprising nanoparticles comprising
paclitaxel and albumin (such as Nab-paclitaxel, for example about 5 mg/ml Nab
paclitaxel). In some embodiments, the uveal melanoma is any of Choroidal melanoma,
ciliary body melanoma, or iris melanoma. In some embodiments, the uveal melanoma is
Posterior uveal melanoma.
10091]    In some embodiments, there is provided a method of treating uveal melanoma in
an individual (e.g., human) comprising administering (such as intravenous administration)
to the individual an effective amount of a composition comprising nanoparticles
comprising paclitaxel and albumin (such as Nab-paclitaxel, for example about 5 mg/ml
Nab-paclitaxel), wherein the dose of paclitaxel in the nanoparticle composition is between
about 80 mg/m 2 to about 175 mg/m2 (such as between about 100 mg/m 2 to about 150
mg/m 2). In some embodiments, there is provided a method of treating metastatic uveal
melanoma in an individual (e.g., human) comprising administering (such as intravenous
                                                58

administration) to the individual an effective amount of a composition comprising
nanoparticles comprising paclitaxel and albumin (such as Nab-paclitaxel, for example
about 5 mg/ml Nab-paclitaxel), wherein the dose of paclitaxel in the nanoparticle
composition is between about 80 mg/m 2 to about 175 mg/m 2 (such as between about 100
mg/m 2 to about 150 mg/m 2). In some embodiments, there is provided a method of treating
unresectable uveal melanoma in an individual (e.g., human) comprising administering
(such as intravenous administration) to the individual an effective amount of a
composition comprising nanoparticles comprising paclitaxel and albumin (such as Nab
paclitaxel, for example about 5 mg/ml Nab-paclitaxel), wherein the dose of paclitaxel in
the nanoparticle composition is between about 80 mg/n    2 to about 175 mg/m 2 (such as
between about 100 mg/m2 to about 150 mg/mn). In some embodiments, the nanoparticle
composition is administered weekly. In some embodiments, the nanoparticle composition
is administered weekly, three out of four weeks. In some embodiments, the nanoparticle
composition is administered intravenously. In some embodiments, the nanoparticle
composition is administered intravenously over 30 minutes at a dose of 150 mg/m 2
weekly. In some embodiments, the nanoparticle composition is administered
intravenously over 30 minutes at a dose of 150 mg/m 2 weekly for three out of four weeks.
In some embodiments, the individual comprises wild-type BRAF. In some embodiments,
the individual comprises a BRAF mutation. In some embodiments, the individual
comprises a BRAF V600E mutation. In some embodiments, the individual is a male. In
some embodiments, the individual is a female. In some embodiment, the individual is a
human who is at least 65 years old (including for example at least 70, 75, or 80 years old).
In some embodiments, the individual is a human who is less than 65 years old (including
for example less than 60, 50, or 40 years old).
10092]    In some embodiments, there is provided a method of treating uveal melanoma in
an individual (e.g., human) comprising administering (such as intravenous administration)
to the individual an effective amount of a composition comprising nanoparticles
comprising paclitaxel and albumin (such as Nab-paclitaxel, for example about 5 mg/ml
Nab-paclitaxel), wherein the dose of paclitaxel in the nanoparticle composition is between
about 80 mg/m 2 to about 175 mg/m 2 (such as between about 100 mg/m 2 to about 150
mg/m 2). In some embodiments, there is provided a method of treating metastatic uveal
melanoma in an individual (e.g., human) comprising administering (such as intravenous
administration) to the individual an effective amount of a composition comprising
                                                59

nanoparticles comprising paclitaxel and albumin (such as Nab-paclitaxel, for example
about 5 mg/ml Nab-paclitaxel), wherein the dose of paclitaxel in the nanoparticle
composition is between about 80 mg/im2 to about 175 mg/m 2 (such as between about 100
mg/n   2 to about 150 mg/m 2). In some embodiments, there is provided a method of treating
unresectable uveal melanoma in an individual (e.g., human) comprising administering
(such as intravenous administration) to the individual an effective amount of a
composition comprising nanoparticles comprising paclitaxel and albumin (such as Nab
paclitaxel, for example about 5 mg/mil Nab-paclitaxel), wherein the dose of paclitaxel in
the nanoparticle composition is between about 80 mg/m 2 to about 175 mg/m 2 (such as
between about 100 mg/m 2 to about 150 mg/m 2). In some embodiments, the nanoparticle
composition is administered weekly. In some embodiments, the nanoparticle composition
is administered weekly, three out of four weeks. In some embodiments, the individual
comprises a BRAF V600E mutation. In some embodiments, the individual is a male. In
some embodiments, the individual is a female. In some embodiment, the individual is a
human who is at least 65 years old (including for example at least 70, 75, or 80 years old).
In some embodiments, the individual is a human who is less than 65 years old (including
for example less than 60, 50, or 40 years old).
10093]     In some embodiments, there is provided a method of treating melanoma in a
human individual, comprising administering (such as intravenously administering) to the
individual an effective amount of a composition comprising nanoparticles comprising
paclitaxel and albumin (such as Nab-paclitaxel, for example about 5 mg/ml Nab
paclitaxel), wherein the dose of paclitaxel in the nanoparticle composition is between
about 80 mg/m 2 to about 175 mg/im2 (such as between about 100 mg/m2 to about 150
mg/n 2 , for example 150 mg/m 2), wherein the nanoparticle composition is administered
weekly, three out of four weeks. In some embodiments, there is provided a method of
treating stage IV cutaneous melanoma in a human individual, comprising administering
(such as intravenously administering) to the individual an effective amount of a
composition comprising nanoparticles comprising paclitaxel and albumin (such as Nab
paclitaxel, for example about 5 mg/mil Nab-paclitaxel), wherein the dose of paclitaxel in
the nanoparticle composition is between about 100 mg/m 2 to about 150 mg/m 2 (for
example 150 mg/m 2), wherein the nanoparticle composition is administered weekly, three
out of four weeks.    In some embodiments, there is provided a method of treating stage IV
cutaneous melanoma in a human individual who is chemotherapy naYve, comprising
                                                60

administering (such as intravenously administering) to the individual an effective amount
of a composition comprising nanoparticles comprising paclitaxel and albumin (such as
Nab-paclitaxel, for example about 5 mg/ml Nab-paclitaxel), wherein the dose of paclitaxel
in the nanoparticle composition is between about 100 mg/m 2 to about 150 mg/m2 (for
example 150 mg/m 2 ), wherein the nanoparticle composition is administered weekly, three
out of four weeks. In some embodiments, there is provided a method of treating stage IV
cutaneous melanoma in a human individual who is chemotherapy nayve, wherein the
individual has radiographically-documented measurable disease (for example defined by
the presence of at least one radiographically documented measurable lesion), comprising
administering (such as intravenously administering) to the individual an effective amount
of a composition comprising nanoparticles comprising paclitaxel and albumin (such as
Nab-paclitaxel, for example about 5 mg/ml Nab-paclitaxel), wherein the dose of paclitaxel
in the nanoparticle composition is between about 100 mg/in 2 to about 150 mg/m2 (for
example 150 mg/m 2), wherein the nanoparticle composition is administered weekly, three
out of four weeks. In some embodiments, the individual has metastatic melanoma of stage
Mlc. In some embodiments, the individual has metastatic melanoma of stage Mlc or
Mlb. In some embodiments, the individual has metastatic melanoma at stage Mla, Mlb,
or Mic. In some embodiments, the individual has LDH level of no greater than about 2.0
x ULN (such as LDH of< about 0.8 x ULN, about 0.8 to about 1.1 x ULN, or > about 1.1
2 x ULN). In some embodiments, the individual comprises wild-type BRAF. In some
embodiments, the individual has a BRAF mutation. In some embodiments, the individual
has a BRAF V600E mutation. In some embodiments, the individual is a male. In some
embodiments, the individual is a female. In some embodiment, the individual is a human
who is at least 65 years old (including for example at least 70, 75, or 80 years old). In
some embodiments, the individual is a human who is less than 65 years old (including for
example less than 60, 50, or 40 years old).
10094]    In some embodiments, there is provided a method of treating melanoma in a
human individual, comprising administering (such as intravenously administering) to the
individual an effective amount of a composition comprising nanoparticles comprising
paclitaxel and albumin (such as Nab-paclitaxel, for example about 5 mg/ml Nab
paclitaxel), wherein the dose of paclitaxel in the nanoparticle composition is between
about 80 mg/m2 to about 175 mg/m 2 (such as between about 100 mg/m 2 to about 150
mg/m 2 , for example 150 mg/m), wherein the nanoparticle composition is administered
                                                61

weekly, three out of four weeks, and wherein the individual is substantially refractory to
prior treatment with a BRAF inhibitor. In some embodiments, there is provided a method
of treating stage IV cutaneous melanoma in a human individual, comprising administering
(such as intravenously administering) to the individual an effective amount of a
composition comprising nanoparticles comprising paclitaxel and albumin (such as Nab
paclitaxel, for example about 5 mg/ml Nab-paclitaxel), wherein the dose of paclitaxel in
the nanoparticle composition is between about 100 mg/m 2 to about 150 mg/m 2 (for
example 150 mg/m 2 ), wherein the nanoparticle composition is administered weekly, three
out of four weeks, and wherein the individual is substantially refractory to prior treatment
with a BRAF inhibitor.
[0095]    In some embodiments, there is provided a method of treating metastatic
melanoma in a human individual who comprises wild-type BRAF, comprising
administering (such as intravenously administering) to the individual an effective amount
of a composition comprising nanoparticles comprising paclitaxel and albumin (such as
Nab-paclitaxel, for example about 5 mg/ml Nab-paclitaxel), wherein the dose of paclitaxel
in the nanoparticle composition is between about 80 mg/m 2 to about 175 mg/m 2 (such as
between about 100 mg/m 2 to about 150 mg/n 2 , for example 150 mg/m2 ), wherein the
nanoparticle composition is administered weekly, three out of four weeks. In some
embodiments, there is provided a method of treating unresectable stage IlIc or stage IV
metastatic melanoma in a human individual having a wild-type BRAF, comprising
administering (such as intravenously administering) to the individual an effective amount
of a composition comprising nanoparticles comprising paclitaxel and albumin (such as
Nab-paclitaxel, for example about 5 mg/ml Nab-paclitaxel), wherein the dose of paclitaxel
in the nanoparticle composition is between about 100 mg/m 2 to about 150 mg/m 2 (for
example 150 mg/m 2), wherein the nanoparticle composition is administered weekly, three
out of four weeks. In some embodiments, there is provided a method of treating
unresectable stage IlIc or stage IV metastatic melanoma in a human individual having a
wild-type BRAF, wherein the individual has failed treatment with ipilimumab, comprising
administering (such as intravenously administering) to the individual an effective amount
of a composition comprising nanoparticles comprising paclitaxel and albumin (such as
Nab-paclitaxel, for example about 5 mg/ml Nab-paclitaxel), wherein the dose of paclitaxel
in the nanoparticle composition is between about 100 mg/m 2 to about 150 mg/m 2 (for
example 150 mg/m 2 ), wherein the nanoparticle composition is administered weekly, three
                                               62

out of four weeks. In some embodiments, the individual has metastatic melanoma of stage
MIlc. In some embodiments, the individual has metastatic melanoma of stage Mlc or
M1b. In some embodiments, the individual has metastatic melanoma at stage Mla, Mlb,
or Mlc. In some embodiments, the individual has LDH level of no greater than about 2.0
x ULN (such as LDH of < about 0.8 x ULN, about 0.8 to about 1.1 x ULN, or > about 1.1
2 x ULN). In some embodiments, the individual is a male. In some embodiments, the
individual is a female. In some embodiment, the individual is a human who is at least 65
years old (including for example at least 70, 75, or 80 years old). In some embodiments,
the individual is a human who is less than 65 years old (including for example less than
60, 50, or 40 years old).
[0096]     In some embodiments, there is provided a method of treating melanoma by
following any one of the dosing regimens provided in Table 3.
TABLE 3. Clinical Studies with Nab-paclitaxel Monotherapy
  Melanoma       Line of
  Patient        Treatment      Clinical Trial Title          Study Design
  Setting
                                Phase 1/11 Study of Hepatic   Abraxane* Dose Escalation:
                                Arterial Infusion of Nab-     100mg/m 2, 135 mg/rn 2, 170 mg/m 2,
  Metastatic     First line    paclitaxel (or Abraxane")      260 mg/m 2 - Cycle q21 days.
                                in Patients with Metastatic   Treatment duration: to progression
                                Melanoma in the Liver         or unacceptable toxicity.
                                A Phase 2 Clinical Trial of   Nab-paclitaxel Dose:
                               Nab-paelitaxel (or             Nbpciae oe
                 Chemo-naive,  N p t            (             Weekly for 3 of 4 weeks at 100
  Metastatic     previously     Abraxane) in Previously       mg/m (in previously treated
                 treated        Treated and Chemotherapy-     patients) or 150 mg/rm2 (in
                                Mtas atientsla na             chemotherapy- naive patients).
                                An open-label, multicenter,   Dosing Regimen:
                               phase III trial of Nab-        Nab-paclitaxel at 150
                                                         pie( weekly X 3/4 weeks or
                               paclitaxel (or Abraxane        Dacarbazine 1000 mg/m 2 Q 3 W.
  Metastatic     First line     (NP) versus dacarbazine       Dosage reductions of Nab
                                (DTIC) in previously          paclitaxel to 120 and 90 mg/m and
                                untreated patients (PTs)      of Dacarbazine to 800 and 600
                                with metastatic malignant     mg/m 2 and the use of filgrastim for
                                melanoma (MMM)                neutropenic fever allowed.
                                A Phase 2 Study Of Weekly
                                Infusion Nab-paclitaxel
                 Cherno-nalve,  (Paclitaxel Protein-bound     Nab-paclitaxel  Dose:
  Unresectable,  Chemo-nie      Particles for injectable      150 mg/rn 2 weekly for 3 of 4 weeks
  Metastatic     previously     Suspension) (or
                 treated        Aba*)        I Patients       every 28 days.
                                With Unresectable And
                                Metastatic Uveal
                                                63

                                  Melanoma
                                  An Open-Label,               NAB-PACLITAXEL Dose:
                                  Multcentae           I    a  Cohort I (previously treated)
                                  Multicenter, Phase 11 Trial
                                  of NAB-PACLITAXEL (or        received NAB-PACLITAXEL on
  Unresectable                   Nab-paclitaxel or             days 1, 8., and 15. Cohort II
  UnaeseII,       Chemo-naive'     Ab       caxe    or         (chemotherapy-naive) received
  Stagepreviously                 Abraxan') (A                 NAB-PACLITAXEL at a higher
  Unresectable    treated         Cremophor -Free, Protein    dose than Cohort 1.
  Stage IV                        Stabilized, Nanoparticle     Treatment Duration: every 4 weeks
                                  Paclitaxel) in Previously    in the absence of disease
                                  Treated Patients With        progression or unacceptable
                                  Metastatic Melanoma          toxicity.
  Metastatic                      Phase III study of Nab-      Arm I: Nab-paclitaxel at 150
  malignant       Chemotherapy   paclitaxel v. dacarbazine in  mg/m 2 on days 1, 8, and 15, 28 day
                  naive           chemotherapy-nave            cycle
  melanoma
   maeo           nae             patients with metastatic     Arm II: Dacarbazine at 1000
                                  malignant melanoma           mg/m, day 1, 21 day cycle
                  Wildtype
  Second line     BRAF                       CR
  metastatic      metastatic      Abraxane      v. DTIC in     Arm 1: Nab-paclitaxel at 150
  melanoma        melanoma        wl-yeBAmeatic                mg/m' days 1, 8, 15
  unresectable    patients who    melanoma patients who        Arm 2: DTIC 1000 mg/m 2 every 3
  stage IIIc &    failed          failed treatment with        weeks
  IV              treatment with  ipilimumab
                  ipilimumab
10097]      The methods described herein may further comprise selecting patients for
treatment (e.g., identifying an individual who is suitable for treatment for melanoma).
Thus, for example, in some embodiments, a method described herein further comprises
identifying the individual having one of the characteristics described herein, such as
melanoma subtype or staging characteristics, LDH level, or BRAF status described herein.
In some embodiments, there is provided a method of treating melanoma in an individual
(e.g., human) comprising the steps of (a) determining whether the individual has
melanoma such as a melanoma described herein, and (b) administering to the individual
an effective amount of a composition comprising nanoparticles comprising a taxane (e.g.,
paclitaxel) and a carrier protein (e.g., albumin). In some embodiments, there is provided a
method of treating melanoma in an individual (e.g., human) comprising the steps of (a)
determining whether the individual has a BRAF status described herein, and (b)
administering to the individual an effective amount of a composition comprising
                                                    64

nanoparticles comprising a taxane (e.g., paclitaxel) and a carrier protein (e.g., albumin). In
some embodiments, there is provided a method of treating melanoma in an individual
(e.g., human) comprising the steps of (a) determining whether the individual has a LDH
level described herein, and (b) administering to the individual an effective amount of a
composition comprising nanoparticles comprising a taxane (e.g., paclitaxel) and a carrier
protein (e.g., albumin).
10098]     In some embodiments, there is provided a method of treating melanoma (for
example metastatic melanoma) in an individual comprising administering to the individual
an effective amount of a composition comprising nanoparticles comprising paclitaxel and
albumin (such as Nab-paclitaxel, for example about 5 mg/ml Nab-paclitaxel), wherein the
individual is selected for treatment based on melanoma subtype or staging characteristics
(such as stages Mla, MIb, Mic). In some embodiments, there is provided a method of
treating melanoma (for example metastatic melanoma) in an individual comprising: a)
determining the melanoma subtype or staging characteristics (such as stages Mla, Mlb,
Mic) of the individual; and b) administering to the individual an effective amount of a
composition comprising nanoparticles comprising paclitaxel and albumin (such as Nab
paclitaxel, for example about 5 mg/ml Nab-paclitaxel). In some embodiments, there is
provided a method of treating melanoma (for example metastatic melanoma) in an
individual comprising: a) selecting the individual for treatment based on the melanoma
subtype or staging characteristics (such as stages Mla, Mib, Mlc) of the individual; and
b) administering to the individual an effective amount of a composition comprising
nanoparticles comprising paclitaxel and albumin (such as Nab-paclitaxel, for example
about 5 mg/ml Nab-paclitaxel). In some embodiments, there is provided a method of
treating melanoma (for example metastatic melanoma) in an individual comprising: a)
determining the melanoma subtype or staging characteristics (such as stages MIa, Mlb,
Mic) of the individual; b) selecting the individual for treatment based on the melanoma
subtype or staging characteristics (such as stages Mla, Mlb, MIc) of the individual; and
c) administering to the individual an effective amount of a composition comprising
nanoparticles comprising paclitaxel and albumin (such as Nab-paclitaxel, for example
about 5 mg/ml Nab-paclitaxel). In some embodiments, an individual who has stage Mla
melanoma is treated. In some embodiments, an individual who has stage Mib melanoma
is treated. In some embodiments, an individual who has stage MIc melanoma is treated. In
some embodiments, an individual who has cutaneous metastatic melanoma is treated.
                                               65

Treatment decision can also be based on the subtype of the melanoma, such as any
subtype of the melanoma described herein. In some embodiments, the method comprises
intravenously administering (for example over a period of about 30 to about 40 minutes)
to the individual an effective amount of Nab-paclitaxel (such as about 5 mg/ml Nab
paclitaxel), wherein the dose of paclitaxel in the nanoparticle composition is about 80 to
about 200 mg/m 2 (including for example about 90 mg/m 2 , about 120 mg/m 2 , or about 150
mg/n 2 ) on days 1, 8, 15 of every 28 day cycle. In some embodiments, the individual is
treated for at least about 2 months, including for example at least about any of 3, 4, 5, 6, 7,
8, 9, 10, 11, or 12 months.
[0099]    In some embodiments, there is provided a method of treating melanoma (for
example metastatic melanoma) in an individual comprising administering to the individual
an effective amount of a composition comprising nanoparticles comprising paclitaxel and
albumin (such as Nab-paclitaxel, for example about 5 mg/ml Nab-paclitaxel), wherein the
individual is selected for treatment based on melanoma subtype or staging characteristics
being stage Mlc. In some embodiments, there is provided a method of treating melanoma
(for example metastatic melanoma) in an individual comprising: a) determining the
melanoma subtype or staging characteristics (such as stages Mla, Mlb, M1c) of the
individual; and b) administering to the individual an effective amount of a composition
comprising nanoparticles comprising paclitaxel and albumin (such as Nab-paclitaxel, for
example about 5 mg/ml Nab-paclitaxel), wherein the individual is selected for treatment if
the individual has a melanoma at stage Mlc. In some embodiments, there is provided a
method of treating melanoma (for example metastatic melanoma) in an individual
comprising: a) selecting the individual for treatment based on the melanoma subtype being
at stage Mlc; and b) administering to the individual an effective amount of a composition
comprising nanoparticles comprising paclitaxel and albumin (such as Nab-paclitaxel, for
example about 5 mg/ml Nab-paclitaxel). In some embodiments, there is provided a
method of treating melanoma (for example metastatic melanoma) in an individual
comprising: a) determining the melanoma subtype or staging characteristics (such as
stages MI a, Mlb, Mic) of the individual; b) selecting the individual for treatment based
on the melanoma subtype being at stage MIc; and c) administering to the individual an
effective amount of a composition comprising nanoparticles comprising paclitaxel and
albumin (such as Nab-paclitaxel, for example about 5 mg/ml Nab-paclitaxel). In some
embodiments, an individual who has cutaneous metastatic melanoma is treated. In some
                                                66

embodiments, the method comprises intravenously administering (for example over a
period of about 30 to about 40 minutes) to the individual an effective amount of Nab
paclitaxel (such as about 5 mg/ml Nab-paclitaxel), wherein the dose of paclitaxel in the
nanoparticle composition is about 80 to about 200 mg/m 2 (including for example about 90
mg/m 2 , about 120 mg/m2 , or about 150 mg/m2) on days 1, 8, 15 of every 28 day cycle. In
some embodiments, the individual is treated for at least about 2 months, including for
example at least about any of 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, or 12 months.
100100] In some embodiments, there is provided a method of treating melanoma (for
example metastatic melanoma) in an individual comprising administering to the individual
an effective amount of a composition comprising nanoparticles comprising paclitaxel and
albumin (such as Nab-paclitaxel, for example about 5 mg/ml Nab-paclitaxel), wherein the
individual is selected for treatment based on BRAF status of the individual. In some
embodiments, there is provided a method of treating melanoma (for example metastatic
melanoma) in an individual comprising: a) determining the BRAF status of the individual;
and b) administering to the individual an effective amount of a composition comprising
nanoparticles comprising paclitaxel and albumin (such as Nab-paclitaxel, for example
about 5 mg/ml Nab-paclitaxel). In some embodiments, there is provided a method of
treating melanoma (for example metastatic melanoma) in an individual comprising: a)
determining the BRAF status of the individual; b) selecting the individual for treatment
based on the BRAF status of the individual; and c) administering to the individual an
effective amount of a composition comprising nanoparticles comprising paclitaxel and
albumin (such as Nab-paclitaxel, for example about 5 mg/ml Nab-paclitaxel). In some
embodiments, there is provided a method of treating melanoma (for example metastatic
melanoma) in an individual comprising: a) selecting the individual for treatment based on
the BRAF status of the individual; and b) administering to the individual an effective
amount of a composition comprising nanoparticles comprising paclitaxel and albumin
(such as Nab-paclitaxel, for example about 5 mg/ml Nab-paclitaxel). In some
embodiments, an individual who comprises wild-type BRAF is treated. In some
embodiments, an individual who comprises a BRAF mutation (such as a BRAF V600E
mutation) is treated. Treatments based on any other BRAF status described herein are also
contemplated. In some embodiments, the method comprises intravenously administering
(for example over a period of about 30 to about 40 minutes) to the individual an effective
amount of Nab-paclitaxel (such as about 5 mg/ml Nab-paclitaxel), wherein the dose of
                                                 67

paclitaxel in the nanoparticle composition is about 80 to about 200 mg/m 2 (including for
example about 90 mg/n 2, about 120 mg/m 2, or about 150 mg/m 2) on days 1, 8, 15 of every
28 day cycle. In some embodiments, the individual is treated for at least about 2 months,
including for example at least about any of 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, or 12 months.
10100] In some embodiments, there is provided a method of treating melanoma (for example
metastatic melanoma) in an individual comprising administering to the individual an effective
amount of a composition comprising nanoparticles comprising paclitaxel and albumin (such
as Nab-paclitaxel, for example about 5 mg/ml Nab-paclitaxel), wherein the individual is
selected for treatment if the individual comprises a wild-type BRAF. In some embodiments,
there is provided a method of treating melanoma (for example metastatic melanoma) in an
individual comprising: a) determining the BRAF status of the individual; and b)
administering to the individual an effective amount of a composition comprising
nanoparticles comprising paclitaxel and albumin (such as Nab-paclitaxel, for example about 5
mg/ml Nab-paclitaxel), wherein the individual is selected for treatment if the individual
comprises a wild-type BRAF. In some embodiments, there is provided a method of treating
melanoma (for example metastatic melanoma) in an individual comprising: a) selecting the
individual for treatment based on the individual comprising a wild-type BRAF; and b)
administering to the individual an effective amount of a composition comprising
nanoparticles comprising paclitaxel and albumin (such as Nab-paclitaxel, for example about 5
mg/ml Nab-paclitaxel). In some embodiments, there is provided a method of treating
melanoma (for example metastatic melanoma) in an individual comprising: a) determining
the BRAF status of the individual; b) selecting the individual for treatment based on the
individual comprising a wild-type BRAF; and c) administering to the individual an effective
amount of a composition comprising nanoparticles comprising paclitaxel and albumin (such
as Nab-paclitaxel, for example about 5 mg/ml Nab-paclitaxel). In some embodiments, the
method comprises intravenously administering (for example over a period of about 30 to
about 40 minutes) to the individual an effective amount of Nab-paclitaxel (such as about 5
mg/ml Nab-paclitaxel), wherein the dose of paclitaxel in the nanoparticle composition is
about 80 to about 200 mg/m2 (including for example about 90 mg/m2 , about 120 mg/m 2 , or
about 150 mg/n 2) on days 1, 8, 15 of every 28 day cycle. In some embodiments, the
individual is treated for at least about 2 months, including for example at least about any of 3,
4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, or 12 months.
                                                68

[0101]    In some embodiments, there is provided a method of treating melanoma (for
example metastatic melanoma) in an individual comprising administering to the individual an
effective amount of a composition comprising nanoparticles comprising paclitaxel and
albumin (such as Nab-paclitaxel, for example about 5 mg/ml Nab-paclitaxel), wherein the
individual is selected for treatment if the individual comprises a BRAF mutation (such as a
BRAF V600E mutation). In some embodiments, there is provided a method of treating
melanoma (for example metastatic melanoma) in an individual comprising: a) determining
the BRAF status of the individual; and b) administering to the individual an effective amount
of a composition comprising nanoparticles comprising paclitaxel and albumin (such as Nab
paclitaxel, for example about 5 mg/ml Nab-paclitaxel), wherein the individual is selected for
treatment if the individual comprises a BRAF mutation (such as a BRAF V600E mutation).
In some embodiments, there is provided a method of treating melanoma (for example
metastatic melanoma) in an individual comprising: a) selecting the individual for treatment
based on the individual comprising a BRAF mutation (such as a BRAF V600E mutation);
and b) administering to the individual an effective amount of a composition comprising
nanoparticles comprising paclitaxel and albumin (such as Nab-paclitaxel, for example about 5
mg/ml Nab-paclitaxel). In some embodiments, there is provided a method of treating
melanoma (for example metastatic melanoma) in an individual comprising: a) determining
the BRAF status of the individual; b) selecting the individual for treatment based on the
individual comprising a BRAF mutation (such as a BRAF V600E mutation); and c)
administering to the individual an effective amount of a composition comprising
nanoparticles comprising paclitaxel and albumin (such as Nab-paclitaxel, for example about 5
mg/mi Nab-paclitaxel). In some embodiments, the method comprises intravenously
administering (for example over a period of about 30 to about 40 minutes) to the individual
an effective amount of Nab-paclitaxel (such as about 5 mg/mi Nab-paclitaxel), wherein the
dose of paclitaxel in the nanoparticle composition is about 80 to about 200 mg/m 2 (including
for example about 90 mg/m 2 , about 120 mg/m2 , or about 150 mg/m 2) on days 1, 8, 15 of
every 28 day cycle. In some embodiments, the individual is treated for at least about 2
months, including for example at least about any of 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, or 12 months.
10102]    In some embodiments, there is provided a method of treating melanoma (for
example metastatic melanoma) in an individual comprising administering to the individual an
effective amount of a composition comprising nanoparticles comprising paclitaxel and
albumin (such as Nab-paclitaxel, for example about 5 mg/ml Nab-paclitaxel), wherein the
                                                 69

individual is selected for treatment based on LDH level of the individual. In some
embodiments, there is provided a method of treating melanoma (for example metastatic
melanoma) in an individual comprising: a) determining the LDH level of the individual; and
b) administering to the individual an effective amount of a composition comprising
nanoparticles comprising paclitaxel and albumin (such as Nab-paclitaxel, for example about 5
mg/ml Nab-paclitaxel). In some embodiments, there is provided a method of treating
melanoma (for example metastatic melanoma) in an individual comprising: a) selecting the
individual for treatment based on the LDH level of the individual; and b) administering to the
individual an effective amount of a composition comprising nanoparticles comprising
paclitaxel and albumin (such as Nab-paclitaxel, for example about 5 mg/ml Nab-paclitaxel).
In some embodiments, there is provided a method of treating melanoma (for example
metastatic melanoma) in an individual comprising: a) determining the LDH level of the
individual; b) selecting the individual for treatment based on the LDH level of the individual;
and c) administering to the individual an effective amount of a composition comprising
nanoparticles comprising paclitaxel and albumin (such as Nab-paclitaxel, for example about 5
mg/ml Nab-paclitaxel). In some embodiments, an individual whose LDH level is greater
than about 1.1 to about 2.0x ULN is treated. In some embodiments, an individual whose
LDH level is between about 0.8x to about 1.Ix ULN is treated. In some embodiments, an
individual whose LDH level is less than about 0.8x ULN is treated. Treatments of individuals
having any other LDH levels described herein are also contemplated. In some embodiments,
the method comprises intravenously administering (for example over a period of about 30 to
about 40 minutes) to the individual an effective amount of Nab-paclitaxel (such as about 5
mg/ml Nab-paclitaxel), wherein the dose of paclitaxel in the nanoparticle composition is
about 80 to about 200 mg/m 2 (including for example about 90 mg/m 2 , about 120 mg/m2, or
about 150 mg/n 2 ) on days 1, 8, 15 of every 28 day cycle. In some embodiments, the
individual is treated for at least about 2 months, including for example at least about any of 3,
4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, or 12 months.
10103]     In some embodiments, there is provided a method of treating melanoma (for
example metastatic melanoma) in an individual comprising administering to the individual an
effective amount of a composition comprising nanoparticles comprising paclitaxel and
albumin (such as Nab-paclitaxel, for example about 5 mg/ml Nab-paclitaxel), wherein the
individual is selected for treatment based on the individual having an elevated LDH level. In
some embodiments, there is provided a method of treating melanoma (for example metastatic
                                                 70

melanoma) in an individual comprising: a) determining the LDH level of the individual; and
b) administering to the individual an effective amount of a composition comprising
nanoparticles comprising paclitaxel and albumin (such as Nab-paclitaxel, for example about 5
mg/ml Nab-paclitaxel), wherein the individual is selected for treatment based on having an
elevated LDH level. In some embodiments, there is provided a method of treating melanoma
(for example metastatic melanoma) in an individual comprising: a) selecting the individual
for treatment based on the individual having an elevated LDH level; and b) administering to
the individual an effective amount of a composition comprising nanoparticles comprising
paclitaxel and albumin (such as Nab-paclitaxel, for example about 5 mg/ml Nab-paclitaxel).
In some embodiments, there is provided a method of treating melanoma (for example
metastatic melanoma) in an individual comprising: a) determining the LDH level of the
individual; b) selecting the individual for treatment based on the individual having an
elevated LDH level; and c) administering to the individual an effective amount of a
composition comprising nanoparticles comprising paclitaxel and albumin (such as Nab
paclitaxel, for example about 5 mg/mil Nab-paclitaxel). In some embodiments, an individual
whose LDH level is greater than about 1.1 to about 2.0x ULN is treated. In some
embodiments, the method comprises intravenously administering (for example over a period
of about 30 to about 40 minutes) to the individual an effective amount of Nab-paclitaxel
(such as about 5 mg/ml Nab-paclitaxel), wherein the dose of paclitaxel in the nanoparticle
composition is about 80 to about 200 mg/m 2 (including for example about 90 mg/m 2, about
120 mg/m2 , or about 150 mg/m 2 ) on days 1, 8, 15 of every 28 day cycle. In some
embodiments, the individual is treated for at least about 2 months, including for example at
least about any of 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, or 12 months.
[0104]    In some embodiments, an individual is identified for treatment based on two or
more of the following characteristics: melanoma subtype or staging characteristics, BRAF
status, and LDH level. For example, in some embodiments, there is provided a method of
treating melanoma (for example metastatic melanoma) in an individual comprising
administering to the individual an effective amount of a composition comprising
nanoparticles comprising paclitaxel and albumin (such as Nab-paclitaxel, for example about 5
mg/ml Nab-paclitaxel), wherein the individual is selected for treatment based on melanoma
subtype or staging characteristics (such as stages Mla, Mlb, Mlc) and BRAF status. In
some embodiments, there is provided a method of treating melanoma (for example metastatic
melanoma) in an individual comprising: a) determining the melanoma subtype or staging
                                                   71

characteristics (such as stages Mla, Mib, Mic) and BRAF status of the individual; and b)
administering to the individual an effective amount of a composition comprising
nanoparticles comprising paclitaxel and albumin (such as Nab-paclitaxel, for example about 5
mg/ml Nab-paclitaxel). In some embodiments, there is provided a method of treating
melanoma (for example metastatic melanoma) and BRAF status in an individual comprising:
a) selecting the individual for treatment based on the melanoma subtype or staging
characteristics (such as stages MIa, MIb, MIc) of the individual; and b) administering to the
individual an effective amount of a composition comprising nanoparticles comprising
paclitaxel and albumin (such as Nab-paclitaxel, for example about 5 mg/ml Nab-paclitaxel).
In some embodiments, there is provided a method of treating melanoma (for example
metastatic melanoma) and BRAF status in an individual comprising: a) determining the
melanoma subtype or staging characteristics (such as stages Mla, MIb, Mlc) and BRAF
status of the individual; b) selecting the individual for treatment based on the melanoma
subtype or staging characteristics (such as stages Mla, Mlb, Mic) of the individual; and c)
administering to the individual an effective amount of a composition comprising
nanoparticles comprising paclitaxel and albumin (such as Nab-paclitaxel, for example about 5
mg/ml Nab-paclitaxel). In some embodiments, an individual who has stage Mia melanoma
and comprises wild-type BRAF is treated. In some embodiments, an individual who has
stage Mlb melanoma and comprises wild-type BRAF is treated. In some embodiments, an
individual who has stage MIc melanoma and comprises wild-type BRAF is treated. In some
embodiments, an individual who has cutaneous metastatic melanoma and wild-type BRAF is
treated. Treatment decision can also be based on the subtype of the melanoma, such as any
subtype of the melanoma described herein, and other BRAF status, such as any of the BRAF
status described herein, are also contemplated. In some embodiments, the method comprises
intravenously administering (for example over a period of about 30 to about 40 minutes) to
the individual an effective amount of Nab-paclitaxel (such as about 5 mg/ml Nab-paclitaxel),
wherein the dose of paclitaxel in the nanoparticle composition is about 80 to about 200
mg/m 2 (including for example about 90 mg/m 2 , about 120 mg/n 2 , or about 150 mg/,m2 ) on
days 1, 8, 15 of every 28 day cycle. In some embodiments, the individual is treated for at
least about 2 months, including for example at least about any of 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, or
12 months.
10105]     In some embodiments, the method of using taxane nanoparticles for treating
melanoma described herein is used as a monotherapy. In some embodiments, the method of
                                                72

treating melanoma using taxane nanoparticles does not further comprise one other therapeutic
agent (such as one other chemotherapeutic agent or immunotherapeutic agent). In some
embodiments, the method does not further comprise a cytotoxic chemotherapeutic agent.
101061    It is understood that reference to and description of methods of treating melanoma
as described herein is exemplary and that this description applies equally to and includes
methods of treating melanoma using combination therapy.
Methods of Combination Therapies
10107]    The present invention further provides combination therapy for treating melanoma.
Provided herein are methods of treating melanoma comprising administering to an individual
an effective amount of a composition comprising nanoparticles comprising a taxane (e.g.,
paclitaxel) and a carrier protein (e.g., albumin) and a second therapy. The second therapy
may be surgery, radiation, gene therapy, immunotherapy, bone marrow transplantation, stem
cell transplantation, hormone therapy, targeted therapy, cryotherapy, ultrasound therapy,
photodynamic therapy, and/or chemotherapy (e.g., one or more compounds or
phannaceutically acceptable salts thereof useful for treating melanoma). The nanoparticle
composition is administered either prior to or after the administration of the second therapy.
10108]    In some embodiments, there is provided a method of treating melanoma in an
individual (e.g., human) comprising administering to the individual a) an effective amount of
a composition comprising nanoparticles comprising a taxane (e.g., paclitaxel) and a carrier
protein (e.g., albumin), and b) an effective amount of at least one other agent (such as a
chemotherapeutic agent or immunotherapeutic agent). In some embodiments, the individual
has stage IV or metastatic melanoma (e.g., stage IV or metastatic cutaneous melanoma). In
some embodiments, the melanoma is metastatic malignant melanoma. In some embodiments,
the metastatic melanoma is at stage Mla, stage MIb, or stage Mic. In some embodiments,
the metastatic melanoma is at stage Mlc. In some embodiments, the melanoma comprises a
mutation in BRAF. In some embodiments, the melanoma does not comprise a mutation in
BRAF. In some embodiments, the melanoma does not comprise BRAF mutant such as a
BRAF mutant with increased activity (for example, increased kinase activity, and/or
increased activity as compared to wild-type BRAF) or a BRAF gain-of-function mutant. In
some embodiments, the melanoma does not comprise BRAF V600E mutation (e.g., the
melanoma comprises wild-type BRAF). In some embodiments, the melanoma comprises
wild-type BRAF. In some embodiments, the melanoma comprises a BRAF mutant such as a
                                                73

BRAF mutant with increased activity (for example, increased kinase activity, and/or
increased activity as compared to wild-type BRAF) or a BRAF gain-of-ftnction mutant. In
some embodiments, the melanoma comprises BRAF V600E mutation. In some embodiments,
the individual has elevated serum LDH level. In some embodiments, the individual has
serum LDH of about any of the following: <0.8 x ULN, 0.4-0.8 x ULN, 0.8-1.1 x ULN, 0.9
1.1 x ULN, 0.8-1.2 x ULN, 1.1-1.5 x ULN, 1.2-1.5 x ULN, 1.1-2 x ULN, or 1.5-2 x ULN. In
some embodiments, the individual has serum LDH of less than about 0.8 x ULN. In some
embodiments, the individual has serum LDH at about 0.8 x to about 1.1 x ULN. In some
embodiments, the individual has serum LDH of between greater than about 1.1 x to about 2.0
x ULN. In some embodiments, the individual has serum LDH of between about 1.1 x to
about 2.0 x ULN. In some embodiments, the individual is a human (e.g., male or female). In
some embodiments, the taxane is paclitaxel. In some embodiments, the carrier protein is
albumin. In some embodiments, the one other agent is a chemotherapeutic agent or
immunotherapeutic agent. In some embodiments, the one other agent is a platinum-based
agent such as carboplatin.
[0109]    An exemplary and non-limiting list of chemotherapeutic agents contemplated is
provided herein. Suitable chemotherapeutic agents include, for example, platinum-based
agents (such as carboplatin), vinca alkaloids, agents that disrupt microtubule formation, anti
angiogenic agents, therapeutic antibodies, EGFR targeting agents, tyrosine kinase targeting
agent (such as tyrosine kinase inhibitors), transitional metal complexes, proteasome
inhibitors, antimetabolites (such as nucleoside analogs), alkylating agents, anthracycline
antibiotics, topoisomerase inhibitors, macrolides, therapeutic antibodies, retinoids;
geldanamycin or a derivative thereof, and other standard chemotherapeutic agents well
recognized in the art.
[0110]    In some embodiments, the other agent is one of the following: a platinum-based
agent (e.g., carboplatin or cisplatin), an anti-VEGF antibody (e.g., bevacizumab), dacarbazine
or DTIC (also known as DIC, DTIC-Dome, or Imidazole Carboxamide), Oblimersen (or
Genasense), interleukin-2 (IL-2), interferon (IFN), Interferon a-2b, a BRAF inhibitor (such as
Vemurafenib (or Zelboraf), GDC-0879 (available from Tocris Bioscience), PLX-4720
(available from Symansis), or Sorafenib (or Sorafenib Tosylate or Nexavar (available from
Bayer Pharmaceuticals Corp.,)), Dabrafenib (GSK2118436), LGX-818, CEP-32496, UI-152,
RAF 265, Regorafenib (BAY 73-4506), or CCT239065), an antibody against the
Programmed Death I (PD-1) receptor (such as BMS-936558, available from Bristol Myers
                                                 74

Squibb), an antibody against the PD-I Ligand (anti-PD-LI antibody), or anti-CTLA-4
antibody such as Ipilimumab (or MDX-0 10, MDX- 101, or Yervoy), or a DNA alkylating
agent such as Temozolomide.
10111]    Programmed Death Receptor 1 (PD-I) is a member of the CD28/CTLA4 family that
is expressed on activated, but not resting T cells (Nishimura et al. (1996) Int. Immunol.
8:773). Ligation of PD-I by its ligands mediates an inhibitory signal that results in reduced
cytokine production, and reduced T cell survival (Nishimura et al. (1999) Immunity 11:141;
Nishimura et al. (2001) Science 291:319; Chemnitz et al. (2004) J. Immunol. 173:945).
10112]    Programmed Death Receptor Ligand I (PD-LI) is a B7 family member that is
expressed on many cell types, including APCs and activated T cells (Yamazaki et al. (2002)
J. Immunol. 169:5538). PD-Ll binds to both PD-I and B7-1. Both binding of T-cell
expressed B7-1 by PD-LI and binding of T-cell-expressed PD-Ll by B7-1 result in T cell
inhibition (Butte et al. (2007) Immunity 27: 111). There is also evidence that, like other B7
family members, PD-Ll can also provide costimulatory signals to T cells (Subudhi et al.
(2004) J. Clin. Invest. 113:694; Tamura et al. (2001) Blood 97:1809).
10113]    Trametinib (GSKI 120212) is an orally bioavailable inhibitor of mitogen-activated
protein kinase kinase (MEK MAPK/ERK kinase). National Cancer Institute, Drug Dictionary
(World Wide Web at-cancer.gov/drugdictionary?cdrid=599034, accessed on 02/11/2013).
Trametinib specifically binds to and inhibits MEK 1 and 2, resulting in an inhibition of
growth factor-mediated cell signaling and cellular proliferation in various cancers. Id. MEK
1 and 2 are dual specificity threonine/tyrosine kinases which are often upregulated in various
cancer cell types and play a key role in the activation of the RAS/RAF/MEK/ERK signaling
pathway that regulates cell growth. Id.
[0114]    TH-302 is a hypoxia-activated prodrug consisting of a 2-nitroimidazole
phosphoramidate conjugate with potential antineoplastic activity. National Cancer Institute,
Drug Dictionary (World Wide Web at-cancer.gov/drugdictionary?CdrID=560194 accessed
on 02/11/2013). The 2-nitroimidazole moiety of hypoxia-activated prodrug TH-302 acts as a
hypoxic trigger, releasing the DNA-alkylating dibromo isophosphoramide mustard moiety
within hypoxic regions of tumors. Id. The hypoxia-specific activity of this agent reduces
systemic toxicity. Id.
10115]    The present application thus in some embodiments provides methods of
combination therapy. In some embodiments, there is provided a method of treating
melanoma (such as metastatic melanoma, stage III melanoma, or stage IV melanoma) in an
                                                75

individual (such as a human individual), comprising administering to the individual a) an
effective amount of a composition comprising nanoparticles comprising a taxane (e.g.,
paclitaxel) and a carrier protein (e.g., albumin), and b) an effective amount of a
chemotherapeutic agent. In some embodiments, there is provided a method of treating
melanoma (such as metastatic melanoma, stage III melanoma, or stage IV melanoma) in a
human individual, comprising administering to the individual a) an effective amount of a
composition comprising nanoparticles comprising paclitaxel and albumin (such as Nab
paclitaxel, for example about 5 mg/mil Nab-paclitaxel), and b) an effective amount of a
chemotherapeutic agent.
[0116]    Thus, for example, in some embodiments, there is provided a method of treating
melanoma (such as metastatic melanoma, stage III melanoma, or stage IV melanoma) in a
human individual, comprising administering to the individual a) an effective amount of a
composition comprising nanoparticles comprising paclitaxel and albumin (such as Nab
paclitaxel, for example about 5 mg/ml Nab-paclitaxel), and b) an effective amount of a
platinum-based agent (such as carboplatin or cisplatin). In some embodiments, there is
provided a method of treating unresectable stage IV melanoma in a human individual
(including a chemotherapy naYve individual and an individual who has previously been
treated for melanoma), comprising administering (such as intravenously administering) to the
individual a) an effective amount of a composition comprising nanoparticles comprising
paclitaxel and albumin (such as Nab-paclitaxel, for example about 5 mg/ml Nab-paclitaxel),
and b) an effective amount of carboplatin. In some embodiments, there is provided a method
of treating unresectable stage IV melanoma in a human individual (including a chemotherapy
naYve individual and an individual who has previously been treated for melanoma),
comprising administering (such as intravenously administering) to the individual a) an
effective amount of a composition comprising nanoparticles comprising paclitaxel and
albumin (such as Nab-paclitaxel, for example about 5 mg/ml Nab-paclitaxel), wherein the
dose of paclitaxel in the nanoparticle composition is between about 80 mg/m2 to about 175
mg/m 2 (such as between about 100 mg/m 2 to about 150 mg/mi2 ); and b) an effective amount
of carboplatin. In some embodiments, there is provided a method of treating unresectable
stage IV melanoma in a human individual (including a chemotherapy naive individual and an
individual who has previously been treated for melanoma), comprising administering (such as
intravenously administering) to the individual a) an effective amount of a composition
comprising nanoparticles comprising paclitaxel and albumin (such as Nab-paclitaxel, for
                                                76

example about 5 mg/ml Nab-paclitaxel), wherein the dose of paclitaxel in the nanoparticle
composition is between about 80 mg/m 2 to about 175 mg/ni 2 (such as between about 100
mg/m 2 to about 150 mg/m2 ); and b) an effective amount of carboplatin (for example
carboplatin at the dose of AUC2, AUC3, AUC4, AUC5, or AUC6). In some embodiments,
the nanoparticle composition and the carboplatin are administered on days 1, 8, 15 of a 28
day cycle. In some embodiments, the nanoparticle composition is administered on days 1, 8,
15 of a 28 day cycle, and the carboplatin is administered on day 1. In some embodiments, the
method further comprises administering to the individual an effective amount of sorafenib
(for example sorafenib at the daily dose of about 400 mg). In some embodiments, the method
further comprises administering to the individual an effective amount of bevacizumab (for
example between about 5 mg/kg to about 15 mg/kg, such as about 10 mg/kg bevacizumab).
In some embodiments, the method further comprises administering to the individual one or
more of the following: temozolomide, interleukin- 2 , interferon (such as interferon a-2b), and
oblimersen. In some embodiments, the individual is chemotherapy naYve. In some
embodiments, the individual has previously been treated for melanoma. In some
embodiments, the individual is at stage IV melanoma. In some embodiments, the individual is
at stage MIc melanoma. In some embodiments, the individual comprises wild-type BRAF.
In some embodiments, the individual comprises a BRAF mutation (such as a BRAF V600E
mutation). In some embodiments, the individual is a male. In some embodiments, the
individual is a female. In some embodiments, the individual is a human who is at least 65
years old (including for example at least 70, 75, or 80 years old). In some embodiments, the
individual is a human who is less than 65 years old (including for example less than 60, 50, or
40 years old). In some embodiments, the individual has a normal LDH level. In some
embodiments, the individual has an elevated LDH level.
10117]    In some embodiments, there is provided a method of treating melanoma (such as
metastatic melanoma, stage III melanoma, or stage IV melanoma) in a human individual,
comprising administering to the individual a) an effective amount of a composition
comprising nanoparticles comprising paclitaxel and albumin (such as Nab-paclitaxel, for
example about 5 mg/ml Nab-paclitaxel), and b) an effective amount of a therapeutic antibody
(such as an anti-VEGF antibody, for example bevacizumab).        In some embodiments, there is
provided a method of treating stage III or stage IV melanoma in a human individual
(including a chemotherapy naive individual and an individual who has previously been
treated for melanoma), comprising administering (such as intravenously administering) to the
                                               77

individual a) an effective amount of a composition comprising nanoparticles comprising
paclitaxel and albumin (such as Nab-paclitaxel, for example about 5 mg/ml Nab-paclitaxel),
and b) an effective amount of bevacizumab. In some embodiments, there is provided a
method of treating stage III or stage IV melanoma in a human individual (including a
chemotherapy naYve individual and an individual who has previously been treated for
melanoma), comprising administering (such as intravenously administering) to the individual
a) an effective amount of a composition comprising nanoparticles comprising paclitaxel and
albumin (such as Nab-paclitaxel, for example about 5 mg/ml Nab-paclitaxel), wherein the
dose of paclitaxel in the nanoparticle composition is between about 80 mg/m2 to about 175
mg/m 2 (such as between about 100 mg/m 2 to about 150 mg/n 2 ); and b) an effective amount
of bevacizumab (for example about 5 mg/kg to about 15 mg/kg, such as about 10 mg/kg
bevacizumab). In some embodiments, the method further comprises administering to the
individual an effective amount of carboplatin. In some embodiments, the individual is
chemotherapy naYve. In some embodiments, the individual has previously been treated for
melanoma. In some embodiments, the individual is at stage IV melanoma. In some
embodiments, the individual is at stage MIc melanoma. In some embodiments, the
individual comprises wild-type BRAF. In some embodiments, the individual comprises a
BRAF mutation (such as a BRAF V600E mutation). In some embodiments, the individual is
a male. In some embodiments, the individual is a female. In some embodiments, the
individual is a human who is at least 65 years old (including for example at least 70, 75, or 80
years old). In some embodiments, the individual is a human who is less than 65 years old
(including for example less than 60, 50, or 40 years old). In some embodiments, the
individual has a normal LDH level. In some embodiments, the individual has an elevated
LDH level.
10118]    In some embodiments, there is provided a method of treating melanoma (such as
metastatic melanoma, stage III melanoma, or stage IV melanoma) in a human individual
(such as an individual having wild-type BRAF), comprising administering (such as
intravenously administering) to the individual a) an effective amount of a composition
comprising nanoparticles comprising paclitaxel albumin (such as Nab-paclitaxel, for example
about 5 mg/ml Nab-paclitaxel), wherein the dose of paclitaxel in the nanoparticle
composition is between about 100 mg/m 2 to about 150 mg/n      2 (such as 150 mg/m 2), and b) an
effective amount of bevacizumab, wherein the dose of bevacizumab is between about 5
mg/kg to about 15 mg/kg (such as about 10 mg/kg). In some embodiments, there is provided
                                               78

a method of treating melanoma (such as metastatic melanoma, stage III melanoma, or stage
IV melanoma) in a human individual (such as an individual having wild-type BRAF),
comprising administering (such as intravenously administering) to the individual a) an
effective amount of a composition comprising nanoparticles comprising paclitaxel albumin
(such as Nab-paclitaxel, for example about 5 mg/ml Nab-paclitaxel), wherein the dose of
paclitaxel in the nanoparticle composition is between about 100 mg/m 2 to about 150 mg/m 2
(such as 150 mg/m 2), wherein the nanoparticle composition is administered on days 1, 8, 15
of a 28 day cycle, and b) an effective amount of bevacizumab, wherein the dose of
bevacizumab is between about 5 mg/kg to about 15 mg/kg (such as about 10 mg/kg), wherein
the bevacizumab is administered on days 1 and 15 of a 28 day cycle. In some embodiments,
there is provided a method of treating unresectable stage IlIc or stage IV metastatic
melanoma in a human individual having wild-type BRAF, comprising intravenously
administering to the individual a) an effective amount of a composition comprising
nanoparticles comprising paclitaxel albumin (such as Nab-paclitaxel, for example about 5
mg/ml Nab-paclitaxel), wherein the dose of paclitaxel in the nanoparticle composition is
between about 100 mg/m 2 to about 150 mg/m 2 (such as 150 mg/m 2 ), wherein the nanoparticle
composition is administered on days 1, 8, 15 of a 28 day cycle, and b) an effective amount of
bevacizumab, wherein the dose of bevacizumab is between about 5 mg/kg to about 15 mg/kg
(such as about 10 mg/kg), wherein the bevacizumab is administered on days 1 and 15 of a 28
day cycle. In some embodiments, the individual is chemotherapy naive. In some
embodiments, the individual has previously been treated for melanoma. In some
embodiments, the individual is at stage IV melanoma. In some embodiments, the individual
is at stage MIc melanoma. In some embodiments, the individual comprises wild-type BRAF.
In some embodiments, the individual comprises a BRAF mutation (such as a BRAF V600E
mutation). In some embodiments, the individual is a male. In some embodiments, the
individual is a female. In some embodiments, the individual is a human who is at least 65
years old (including for example at least 70, 75, or 80 years old). In some embodiments, the
individual is a human who is less than 65 years old (including for example less than 60, 50, or
40 years old). In some embodiments, the individual has a normal LDH level. In some
embodiments, the individual has an elevated LDH level.
10119]     In some embodiments, there is provided a method of treating melanoma (such as
metastatic melanoma, stage III melanoma, or stage IV melanoma) in a human individual,
comprising administering to the individual a) an effective amount of a composition
                                               79

comprising nanoparticles comprising paclitaxel and albumin (such as Nab-paclitaxel, for
example about 5 mg/ml Nab-paclitaxel), and b) an effective amount of a temozolomide. In
some embodiments, there is provided a method of treating metastatic melanoma in a human
individual (including a chemotherapy naYve individual and an individual who has previously
been treated for melanoma), comprising administering (such as intravenously administering)
to the individual a) an effective amount of a composition comprising nanoparticles
comprising paclitaxel and albumin (such as Nab-paclitaxel, for example about 5 mg/ml Nab
paclitaxel), and b) an effective amount of temozolomide. In some embodiments, there is
provided a method of treating metastatic melanoma in a human individual (including a
chemotherapy naYve individual and an individual who has previously been treated for
melanoma), comprising administering (such as intravenously administering) to the individual
a) an effective amount of a composition comprising nanoparticles comprising paclitaxel and
albumin (such as Nab-paclitaxel, for example about 5 mg/ml Nab-paclitaxel), wherein the
dose of paclitaxel in the nanoparticle composition is between about 80 mg/m 2 to about 175
mg/m 2 (such as between about 100 mg/in 2 to about 150 mg/m 2); and b) an effective amount
of tomozolomide. In some embodiments, the method further comprises administering to the
individual an effective amount of oblimersen. In some embodiments, the individual is
chemotherapy naYve. In some embodiments, the individual has previously been treated for
melanoma. In some embodiments, the individual is at stage Mlc melanoma. In some
embodiments, the individual comprises wild-type BRAF. In some embodiments, the
individual comprises a BRAF mutation (such as a BRAF V600E mutation). In some
embodiments, the individual is a male. In some embodiments, the individual is a female. In
some embodiments, the individual is a human who is at least 65 years old (including for
example at least 70, 75, or 80 years old). In some embodiments, the individual is a human
who is less than 65 years old (including for example less than 60, 50, or 40 years old). In
some embodiments, the individual has a normal LDH level. In some embodiments, the
individual has an elevated LDH level.
10120]    In some embodiments, there is provided a method of treating melanoma (such as
metastatic melanoma, stage III melanoma, or stage IV melanoma) in a human individual,
comprising administering to the individual a) an effective amount of a composition
comprising nanoparticles comprising paclitaxel and albumin (such as Nab-paclitaxel, for
example about 5 mg/ml Nab-paclitaxel), and b) an effective amount of a MEK inhibitor (such
as Trametinib (GSK1 120212)). In some embodiments, there is provided a method of treating
                                               80

stage III or stage IV melanoma in a human individual (including a chemotherapy naYve
individual and an individual who has previously been treated for melanoma), comprising
administering (such as intravenously administering) to the individual a) an effective amount
of a composition comprising nanoparticles comprising paclitaxel and albumin (such as Nab
paclitaxel, for example about 5 mg/ml Nab-paclitaxel), and b) an effective amount of a MEK
inhibitor (such as Trametinib (GSK1 120212)). In some embodiments, there is provided a
method of treating stage III or stage IV melanoma in a human individual (including a
chemotherapy naive individual and an individual who has previously been treated for
melanoma), comprising administering (such as intravenously administering) to the individual
a) an effective amount of a composition comprising nanoparticles comprising paclitaxel and
albumin (such as Nab-paclitaxel, for example about 5 mg/ml Nab-paclitaxel), wherein the
dose of paclitaxel in the nanoparticle composition is between about 80 mg/m 2 to about 175
mg/m 2 (such as between about 100 mg/n    2
                                            to about 150 mg/m 2 ); and b) an effective amount
of a MEK inhibitor (such as Trametinib (GSKI 120212)). In some embodiments, the
individual is chemotherapy naYve. In some embodiments, the individual has previously been
treated for melanoma. In some embodiments, the individual is at stage IV melanoma. In
some embodiments, the individual is at stage Mic melanoma. In some embodiments, the
individual comprises wild-type BRAF. In some embodiments, the individual comprises a
BRAF mutation (such as a BRAF V600E mutation). In some embodiments, the individual is
a male. In some embodiments, the individual is a female. In some embodiments, the
individual is a human who is at least 65 years old (including for example at least 70, 75, or 80
years old). In some embodiments, the individual is a human who is less than 65 years old
(including for example less than 60, 50, or 40 years old). In some embodiments, the
individual has a normal LDH level. In some embodiments, the individual has an elevated
LDH level.
10121]    In some embodiments, there is provided a method of treating melanoma (such as
metastatic melanoma, stage III melanoma, or stage IV melanoma) in a human individual,
comprising administering to the individual a) an effective amount of a composition
comprising nanoparticles comprising paclitaxel and albumin (such as Nab-paclitaxel, for
example about 5 mg/ml Nab-paclitaxel), and b) an effective amount of TH-302. In some
embodiments, there is provided a method of treating stage III or stage IV melanoma in a
human individual (including a chemotherapy naYve individual and an individual who has
previously been treated for melanoma), comprising administering (such as intravenously
                                                81

administering) to the individual a) an effective amount of a composition comprising
nanoparticles comprising paclitaxel and albumin (such as Nab-paclitaxel, for example about 5
mg/ml Nab-paclitaxel), and b) an effective amount of TH-302. In some embodiments, there
is provided a method of treating stage III or stage IV melanoma in a human individual
(including a chemotherapy naive individual and an individual who has previously been
treated for melanoma), comprising administering (such as intravenously administering) to the
individual a) an effective amount of a composition comprising nanoparticles comprising
paclitaxel and albumin (such as Nab-paclitaxel, for example about 5 mg/ml Nab-paclitaxel),
wherein the dose of paclitaxel in the nanoparticle composition is between about 80 mg/m 2 to
about 175 mg/in 2 (such as between about 100 mg/m2 to about 150 mg/m2); and b) an effective
amount of TH-302. In some embodiments, the individual is chemotherapy naive. In some
embodiments, the individual has previously been treated for melanoma. In some
embodiments, the individual is at stage IV melanoma. In some embodiments, the individual is
at stage Mlc melanoma. In some embodiments, the individual comprises wild-type BRAF.
In some embodiments, the individual comprises a BRAF mutation (such as a BRAF V600E
mutation). In some embodiments, the individual is a male. In some embodiments, the
individual is a female. In some embodiments, the individual is a human who is at least 65
years old (including for example at least 70, 75, or 80 years old). In some embodiments, the
individual is a human who is less than 65 years old (including for example less than 60, 50, or
40 years old). In some embodiments, the individual has a normal LDH level. In some
embodiments, the individual has an elevated LDH level.
10122]    In some embodiments, there is provided a method of treating melanoma (such as
metastatic melanoma, stage III melanoma, or stage IV melanoma) in a human individual,
comprising administering to the individual a) an effective amount of a composition
comprising nanoparticles comprising paclitaxel and albumin (such as Nab-paclitaxel, for
example about 5 mg/ml Nab-paclitaxel), and b) an effective amount of oblimersen.     In some
embodiments, there is provided a method of treating metastatic melanoma in a human
individual (including a chemotherapy naYve individual and an individual who has previously
been treated for melanoma), comprising administering (such as intravenously administering)
to the individual a) an effective amount of a composition comprising nanoparticles
comprising paclitaxel and albumin (such as Nab-paclitaxel, for example about 5 mg/ml Nab
paclitaxel), and b) an effective amount of oblimersen. In some embodiments, there is
provided a method of treating metastatic melanoma in a human individual (including a
                                                82

chemotherapy naive individual and an individual who has previously been treated for
melanoma), comprising administering (such as intravenously administering) to the individual
a) an effective amount of a composition comprising nanoparticles comprising paclitaxel and
albumin (such as Nab-paclitaxel, for example about 5 mg/ml Nab-paclitaxel), wherein the
dose of paclitaxel in the nanoparticle composition is between about 80 mg/m 2 to about 175
mg/in 2 (such as between about 100 mg/m 2 to about 150 mg/m 2); and b) an effective amount
of oblimersen. In some embodiments, the method further comprises administering to the
individual an effective amount of temozolomide. In some embodiments, the individual is
chemotherapy naYve. In some embodiments, the individual has previously been treated for
melanoma. In some embodiments, the individual is at stage IV melanoma. In some
embodiments, the individual is at stage Mlc melanoma. In some embodiments, the
individual comprises wild-type BRAF. In some embodiments, the individual comprises a
BRAF mutation (such as a BRAF V600E mutation). In some embodiments, the individual is
a male. In some embodiments, the individual is a female. In some embodiments, the
individual is a human who is at least 65 years old (including for example at least 70, 75, or 80
years old). In some embodiments, the individual is a human who is less than 65 years old
(including for example less than 60, 50, or 40 years old). In some embodiments, the
individual has a normal LDH level. In some embodiments, the individual has an elevated
LDH level.
[0123]      In some embodiments, the method of treating melanoma comprises any one of the
dosing regimens provided in Table 4.
TABLE 4. Clinical studies with Nab-paclitaxel (or Abraxane*)
 Melanoma        Line of                                                         Combination
   eatin         Treatment   Clinical Trial Title     Study Design                reatin
 Setting
                            A Phase II Trial of       Dosing Regimen:
                 Chemo-      Carboplatin and          28 day cycle: Abraxane
 Unresectable,   naYve,     Abraxane"' in Patients    at 100 mg/rn2 in
 Stage IV        Previously with Unresectable Stage   combination with           Carboplatmn
                 treated    IV Melanoma (NCCTG        Carboplatin area under the
                                     057E)curve
                                    Study                    (AUC2) on days 1,
                             Study N057E)             8. and 15.
                                                      Dosing Regimen:
                            Phase 11 trial of Nab-    28 day cycle: Nab
                                                                            2
                            paclitaxel and            paclitaxel at 150 mg/m on
 Stage III,      First line bevacizumab as first line days 1, 8, 15 in           Bevacizumab
 Stage IV                   therapy in patients with  combination with
                            unresectable melanoma     Bevacizumab at 10 mg/kg
                                                      on days 1, 15.
                                                      Treatment Duration:
                                                   83

                                                        treated to progression or
                                                        dose limiting toxicity. If
                                                        the subject had a CR,
                                                        dosed with 2 more cycles;
                                                        if the subject had a PR or
                                                        SD for 4 months, dosed
                                                        with 4 more cycles then
                                                        discontinue treatment with
                                                        Nab-paclitaxel and
                                                        continue bevacizumab. If
                                                        the subject had disease
                                                        progression after
                                                        discontinuing Nab
                                                        paclitaxel because of
                                                        clinical benefit, restart
                                                        Nab-paclitaxel and
                                                        continue combination
                                                        therapy.
                                                        Dosing Regimen:
                                                        28 day cycle: Nab
                                                        paclitaxel at 100 mg/m 2 on
                                                        days 1, 8, and 15 in
                                                        combination with
Metastatic,     Chemo-     Phase II Study of ABX,       Carboplatin AUC=6 on
Stage IV,       naive.,    Carboplatin, and             day 1, and Sorafenib at     Carboplatin
Unresectable    previously Sorafenib in Metastatic      400 mg bid po daily from    Sorafenib
Stage III       treated    Melanoma                     day 2 to day 27.
                                                        Treatment Duration:
                                                        continued until
                                                        progression or
                                                        unacceptable toxicity.
                                                        Dosing Regimen:
                                                        28 day cycle: (Arm A)
                           A randomized phase II        Temozolomide at 200
                           study of temozolomide        mg/m 2 on days I to 5 and
                           and bevacizumab or Nab-      Bevacizumab at 10 mg/kg
                           paclitaxel, carboplatin,     on days I to 15 vs. (Ami
                           and bevacizumab in           B) Nab-paclitaxel at
Stage IV,       Chemo-     patients with unresectable    100mg/m 2 [80 mg/m 2 post  Carboplatin
Unresectable    naive      stage IV melanoma: A         addendum 5] on days 1, 8,   Bevacizumab
                           North Central Cancer         and 15 in combination
                           Treatment Group Study,       with Carboplatin at AUC
                           N0775 Nab-paclitaxel,        6 on day I [AUC 5 post
                           carboplatin, and             addendum 5], and
                           bevacizumab in N077          Bevacizumab at 10 mg/kg
                                                        on days l and 15.
                           Abraxane",
                           temozolomide, and            Dosing Regimen:
            . Chemo-
        Meattcoblimiersen               (TeAT
                                        (h     T56dycycle:6 a           (Cohort 1), Temozolomide
Metastatic         ..      Trial): A final report of    Abraxane' at 175 mg/m-        Olm e
                           toxicity and clinical        on days 7 and 28 in
                           efficacy in metastatic       combination with
                           melanoma patients with       Oblimersen at 7    mg/kg/d
                                                  84

                        normal lactate            continuous IV infusion on
                        dehydrogenase (LDII)      days 1 to 7 and 22 to 28,
                                                  and Temozolomide at
                                                  75/m 2/d on days 1 to 42;
                                                  (Cohort 2) Abraxane'" at
                                                  260 mg/m 2 on days 7 and
                                                  28 in combination with
                                                  Oblimersen at 7 mg/kg/d
                                                  continuous IV infusion on
                                                  days I to 7 and 22 to 28,
                                                  and Temozolomide at
                                                  75/m 2/d on days I to 42;
                                                  (Cohort 3) Abraxane*' at
                                                  175 mg/In 2 on days 7 and
                                                  28 in combination with
                                                  Oblimersen at 900 mg
                                                  fixed dose, twice weekly
                                                  in weeks I to 2, 4 to5
                                                  [days
                                                  1,4,8,11,22,25,29,32], and
                                                  Temozolomide at 75/m 2/d
                                                  on days I to 42.
                                                  Dosing Regimen:
                                                  56 day cycle: (Cohort 1)
                                                                             2
                                                  Abraxanel at 175 mg/m
                                                  on days 8 and 29 in
                                                  combination with
                                                  Oblimersen at 7 mg/kg/d
                                                  continuous IV infusion on
                                                  days I to 7 and 22 to 28,
                                                  and Temozolomide at
                        Abraxaneo                 75/m 2/d on days I to 42;
                        temozolomide, and         (Cohort 2) Abraxane* at
                        oblimersen (The ATG       260 mg/m 2 on days 8 and
             Chemo-     Trial): A final report of 29 in combination with       Ternozoloide
Metastatic   nave       toxicity and clinical     Oblimersen at 7 mg/kg/'d     Oblimersen
                        efficacy in metastatic    continuous IV infusion on
                        melanoma patients with    days I to 7 and 22 to 28,
                        normal lactate            and Temozolomide at
                        dehydrogenase (LDH)       75/m 2/d on days 1 to 42;
                                                  (Cohort 3) Abraxane" at
                                                  175 mg/m 2 on days 8 and
                                                  29 in combination with
                                                  Oblimersen at 900 mg
                                                  fixed dose, twice weekly
                                                  in weeks I to 2, 4 to5
                                                  [days 1, 4, 8, 11, 22, 25,
                                                  29, 32], and
                                                  Temozolomide at 75/m 2/d
                                                  on days I to 42.
             Chemo-     Phase I Biochemotherapy   Dosing Regimen:              Cisplatin
Stges Ial    naive,     With Cisplatin,           21 day cycle: Abraxane*      Temozolomide
Unresectable Previously Temozolomide. With        at 100mg/m 2 on day 1 and    Interleukin-2
Stage III    treated    Increasing Doses of       at 70 mg/m 2 on day 2 in     Interferon a-2b
                                               85

              with       Abraxane*, Combined         combination with
              radiation  With Interleukin-2 and      Temozolomide at 250
                         Interferon in Patients With mg/rn 2 on days 1, 2, and 3,
                         Metastatic Melanoma         Cisplatin at 20 mg/m 2 on
                                                     days 1, 2, 3, and 4,
                                                     Interleukin-2 at 9 MIU/m2
                                                     on days 1, 2, 3, and 4, and
                                                     Interferon a-2b at 5
                                                     MIU/m 2 on days 1, 2, 3, 4,
                                                     and 5.
                                                     Arm I: Nab-paclitaxel at
                         Abraxane*1in .150                mg/m 2 days 1, 8, 15
Unresectable             combination with            of a 28 day cycle,
stage IIlc &  First line bevacizumab VS.             treatment until PD or
IV metastatic therapy     pithmumab in patients      unacceptable toxicity        Bevacizumab
melanoma                 with unresectable wild-     Arm II: ipilimumab on
                         type BRAF metastatic        day 1 every three weeks,
                         melanoma                    21-day cycle, 4 doses
                                                     Dosage Regimen:
                                                     28 day cycle: Abraxane@
                         Safety, efficacy, and       at 150mg/rn 2 on days 1,
                                                     8, and 15 in combination
Metastatic,   C      o   Arnelgpl                    with Ipilimumab at
Stage III,       .aimo-  Ibla        n pas           3mg/kg every 21 days for     Ipilimumab
              naive      Ipilimumab in patients
Stage IV                                             a total of four doses.
                         with metastatic             'Treatment Duration:
                         melanoma                    Until disease
                                                     progression.
                                                     Dosage Regimen:
                                                     (Arm 1) Abraxane@ at
                                                      150mg/M2 on days 1, 8,
                                                     and 15 in combination
                                                     with Bevacizumab at 10
                         Phase II trial of           mg/kg on days 1 and 8 for
                         Abraxane@ plus Avastin      every 28 day cycle vs.
              Previously
Metastatic    treated    in 1F line BRAF wild        (Arm 2) Ipilimumab at 3
              treated    type patient ith            mg/kg on day 1 every 3
                         metastatic melanoma         weeks for a total of four
                                                     doses.
                                                     Treatment Duration:
                                                     Abraxane@ and
                                                     Bevacizumab treatment
                                                     until disease progression.
                         A pilot study of the        Dosage Regimen:
                         Aombiption of t-            28 day cycle: Abraxane@
                         combination of Nab
                         paclitaxel.                 on days 1, 8, and 15 in
Metastatic    N/A                          a         combination with
    Metasatic N/A        Temnozolomnide and                        .Temnozolomide
                                                     Temozolomide on days1
                         Bevacizumab in patients     T         o                  Bevacizumab
                                                     to 5, and Bevacizumab at
                         wtmeasawtc b.                10 mg/kg every 2 weeks.
                         melanoaes wiTreatment                   Duration:
                                                     Until disease progression
                                                86

                                               or intolerance.
                                               Dosage Regimen:
                                               (Cohort 1) Abraxane at
                                                150mg/m2 on days 1 and
                                               8 every three weeks for a
                                               total of two cycles
                                               followed by Ipilimumab
                    A phase II randomized.,    at 10mg/kg every three
                    open-label. trial of       weeks for a total of four
                    Ipilimumab and Nab-        cycles; (Cohort 2)
         N/A        paclitaxel in treatment of Ipilimumab at 10mg/kg      Ipilimumab
                    naive patients   with      every three weeks for a
                            na~v patentswithtotal of two cycles
                    unresectable ortoaofwocle
                    measctatic m oma           followed by Abraxane@
                    metastatic melanoma        at1OgMondyI
                                               at 150mg/in- on days   1
                                               and 8 for a total of two
                                               cycles followed by
                                               Ipilimumab at 10mg/kg
                                               every three weeks for a
                                               total of two cycles.
                                               Dosage Regimen:
                                               28 day cycle: Abraxane@'
                                               at 100 mg/m2 on days 1,
                                               8, and 15 in combination
Stage IV N/A                                   with Vemurafenib at 960    Vemurafenib
                                               mg twice a day.
                                               Treatment Duration:
                                               Until disease
                                               progression.
                    Phase I/II trial of        Dosage Regimen:
                    GSK1 120212 and Nab-       Abraxane@ in
Stage IV N/A        paclitaxel in metastatic   combination with           Trametinib
                    melanoma                   Trametinib.
                    A Phase 1/11 trial of      Dosage Regimen:
                    Abraxane@ in               Abrage       in
Stage IV N/A        combination with TH-       Abraxane@wt   in           TH-302
                    302 in patients with       combination with TH
                    advanced melanoma          302
                                               Dosage Regimen:
                                               28 day cycle (+/- 3 days):
                                               Abraxane@ at 125 mg/m2
                                               in combination with
                    Targeted nanoparticle      bevacizumab 50 mg/m2
         Previously therapy for advanced       on days 1,8, and 15.
Stage IV Treated    melanoma: Nab-paclitaxel   Treatment Duration:        Bevacizumab
                    (Abraxane@/Bevacizumab     Until disease progression,
                    complex (nanoAB))          patient refusal, or
                                               unacceptable toxicity.
                                               Dosage Escalation
                                               Regimen:
                                          87

                                                        28 day cycle (+/- days):
                                                       Abraxane@ at 75, 100.
                                                        125, 150, or 175 mg/m2 in
                                                        combination with
                                                       Bevacizumab 30, 40, 50,
                                                        60, or 70 mg/m2 on days
                                                        1, 8, and 15, respectively.
                                                        Treatment Duration: Until
                                                        disease progression,
                                                       patient refusal, or
                                                       unacceptable toxicity.
10124]     In some embodiments, there is provided a method of treating melanoma in an
individual (e.g., human) comprising administering to the individual a) an effective amount of
a composition comprising nanoparticles comprising a taxane (e.g., paclitaxel) and a carrier
protein (e.g., albumin), and b) surgery, radiation therapy, or a combination of surgery and
radiation therapy. In some embodiments, the individual has stage IV or metastatic melanoma
(e.g., stage IV or metastatic cutaneous melanoma). In some embodiments, the melanoma is
metastatic malignant melanoma. In some embodiments, the metastatic melanoma is at stage
Mla, stage Mib, or stage MIc. In some embodiments, the metastatic melanoma is at stage
Mic. In some embodiments, the melanoma comprises a mutation in BRAF. In some
embodiments, the melanoma does not comprise a mutation in BRAF. In some embodiments,
the melanoma does not comprise BRAF mutant such as a BRAF mutant with increased
activity (for example, increased kinase activity, and/or increased activity as compared to
wild-type BRAF) or a BRAF gain-of-function mutant. In some embodiments, the melanoma
does not comprise BRAF V600E mutation (e.g., the melanoma comprises wild-type BRAF).
In some embodiments, the melanoma comprises wild-type BRAF. In some embodiments, the
melanoma comprises a BRAF mutant such as a BRAF mutant with increased activity (for
example, increased kinase activity, and/or increased activity as compared to wild-type
BRAF) or a BRAF gain-of-function mutant. In some embodiments, the melanoma comprises
BRAF V600E mutation. In some embodiments, the individual has elevated serum LDH level.
In some embodiments, the individual has serum LDH of about any of the following: <0.8       x
ULN, 0.4-0.8     x ULN, 0.8-1.1 x ULN, 0.9-1.1 x ULN, 0.8-1.2 x ULN, 1.1-1.5 x ULN, 1.2
1.5  x ULN, 1.1-2 x ULN, or 1.5-2 x ULN. In some embodiments, the individual has serum
LDH of less than about 0.8    x ULN. In some embodiments, the individual has serum LDH at
about 0.8   x to about 1.1 x ULN. In some embodiments, the individual has serum LDH of
between greater than about 1.1 x to about 2.0    x ULN. In some embodiments, the individual
                                                88

has serum LDH of between about 1.1 x to about 2.0 x ULN. In some embodiments, the
individual is a human (e.g., male or female). In some embodiments, the taxane is paclitaxel.
In some embodiments, the carrier protein is albumin.
10125]    In some embodiments, there is a method of treating melanoma (such as metastatic
melanoma) in a human individual, comprising administering to the individual a) an effective
amount of a composition comprising nanoparticles comprising paclitaxel and an albumin, and
b) an effective amount of bevacizumab. In some embodiments, there is a method of treating
melanoma (such as metastatic melanoma) in a human individual, comprising administering to
the individual a) an effective amount of a composition comprising nanoparticles comprising
paclitaxel and an albumin, and b) an effective amount of bevacizumab, wherein the dose of
the nanoparticle composition is between about 50 mg/n   2 to about 200 mg/m 2 (such as, for
example, between about 100 mg/m2 to about 150 mg/m2 , and for example about 100 mg/n'),
and wherein the dose of bevacizumab is between about 5 mg/kg to about 15 mg/kg (such as,
for example, between about 8 mg/kg to about 12 mg/kg, and for example about 10 mg/kg).
In some embodiments, there is a method of treating melanoma (such as metastatic melanoma)
in a human individual, comprising administering to the individual a) an effective amount of a
composition comprising nanoparticles comprising paclitaxel and an albumin, and b) an
effective amount of bevacizumab, wherein the dose of the nanoparticle composition is
between about 50 mg/m 2 to about 200 mg/m 2 (such as, for example, between about 100
mg/m 2 to about 150 mg/m 2 , and for example about 100 mg/m 2 ), wherein the dose of the
nanoparticle composition is administered on days 1, 8, and 15 of a 28 day cycle, wherein the
dose of bevacizumab is between about 5 mg/kg to about 15 mg/kg (such as, for example,
between about 8 mg/kg to about 12 mg/kg, and for example about 10 mg/kg), and wherein
the dose of bevacizumab is administered on days 1 and 15 of a 28 day cycle. In some
embodiments, there is a method of treating melanoma (such as metastatic melanoma) in a
human individual, comprising administering to the individual a) an effective amount of a
composition comprising nanoparticles comprising paclitaxel and an albumin, and b) an
effective amount of bevacizumab, wherein the dose of the nanoparticle composition is about
 100 mg/m 2 and is administered intravenously on days 1, 8, and 15 of a 28 day cycle, and
wherein the dose of bevacizunab is about 10 mg/kg and is administered intravenously on
days 1 and 15 of a 28 day cycle. In some embodiments, there is a method of treating
melanoma (such as metastatic melanoma) in a human individual, comprising administering to
the individual a) an effective amount of a composition comprising nanoparticles comprising
                                               89

paclitaxel and an albumin, and b) an effective amount of bevacizumab, wherein the dose of
the nanoparticle composition is about 100 mg/m 2 and is administered intravenously over 30
minutes on days 1, 8, and 15 of a 28 day cycle, wherein the dose of bevacizumab is about 10
mg/kg and is administered intravenously over 90 minutes on days 1 and 15 of a 28 day cycle.
In some embodiments, the individual is chemotherapy naive. In some embodiments, the
individual has previously been treated for melanoma. In some embodiments, the individual is
at stage IV melanoma. In some embodiments, the individual is at stage MIc melanoma. In
some embodiments, the individual comprises wild-type BRAF. In some embodiments, the
individual comprises a BRAF mutation (such as a BRAF V600E mutation). In some
embodiments, the individual is a male. In some embodiments, the individual is a female. In
some embodiments, the individual is a human who is at least 65 years old (including for
example at least 70, 75, or 80 years old). In some embodiments, the individual is a human
who is less than 65 years old (including for example less than 60, 50, or 40 years old). In
some embodiments, the individual has a normal LDH level. In some embodiments, the
individual has an elevated LDH level.
[01261    In some embodiments, there is provided a method of treating melanoma (such as
metastatic melanoma) in a human individual, comprising administering to the individual a) an
effective amount of a composition comprising nanoparticles comprising paclitaxel and an
albumin, and b) an effective amount of a BRAF inhibitor. Suitable BRAF inhibitors include,
for example, Vemurafenib (Zelboraf), GDC-0879, PLX-4720, Dabrafenib (or GSK2118436),
LGX 818, CEP-32496, UI-152, RAF 265, Regorafenib (BAY 73-4506), CCT239065, or
Sorafenib (or Sorafenib Tosylate, or Nexavar@). In some embodiments, there is provided a
method of treating melanoma (such as metastatic melanoma) in a human individual,
comprising administering to the individual a) an effective amount of a composition
comprising nanoparticles comprising paclitaxel and an albumin, wherein the dose of the
nanoparticle composition is between about 50 mg/m 2 to about 200 mg/m 2, and b) an effective
amount of a BRAF inhibitor (such as, for example, Vemurafenib (Zelboraf), Dabrafenib,
Regorafenib, or Sorafenib). In some embodiments, there is provided a method of treating
melanoma (such as metastatic melanoma) in a human individual, comprising administering to
the individual a) an effective amount of a composition comprising nanoparticles comprising
paclitaxel and an albumin, wherein the dose of the nanoparticle composition is between about
100 mg/m 2 to about 150 mg/m2 , and b) an effective amount of a BRAF inhibitor (such as, for
example, Vemurafenib (Zelboraf)). In some embodiments, there is provided a method of
                                               90

treating melanoma (such as metastatic melanoma) in a human individual, comprising
administering to the individual a) an effective amount of a composition comprising
nanoparticles comprising paclitaxel and an albumin, wherein the dose of the nanoparticle
composition is about 100 mg/m2 , and b) an effective amount of a BRAF inhibitor (such as,
for example, Vemurafenib). In some embodiments, there is provided a method of treating
melanoma (such as metastatic melanoma) in a human individual, comprising administering to
the individual a) an effective amount of a composition comprising nanoparticles comprising
paclitaxel and an albumin, wherein the dose of the nanoparticle composition is about 100
mg/n 2 , wherein the nanoparticle composition is administered on days 1, 8, and 15 of a 28 day
cycle, and b) an effective amount of a BRAF inhibitor (such as, for example, Vemurafenib).
In some embodiments, there is provided a method of treating melanoma (such as metastatic
melanoma) in a human individual, comprising administering to the individual a) an effective
amount of a composition comprising nanoparticles comprising paclitaxel and an albumin,
wherein the dose of the nanoparticle composition is about 100 mg/n 2, wherein the
nanoparticle composition is administered intravenously over 30 minutes on days 1, 8, and 15
of a 28 day cycle, and b) an effective amount of a BRAF inhibitor (such as, for example,
Vemurafenib). In some embodiments, the individual is chemotherapy naive. In some
embodiments, the individual has previously been treated for melanoma. In some
embodiments, the individual is at stage IV melanoma. In some embodiments, the individual is
at stage Mlc melanoma. In some embodiments, the individual comprises wild-type BRAF.
In some embodiments, the individual comprises a BRAF mutation (such as a BRAF V600E
mutation). In some embodiments, the individual is a male. In some embodiments, the
individual is a female. In some embodiments, the individual is a human who is at least 65
years old (including for example at least 70, 75, or 80 years old). In some embodiments, the
individual is a human who is less than 65 years old (including for example less than 60, 50, or
40 years old). In some embodiments, the individual has a normal LDH level. In some
embodiments, the individual has an elevated LDH level.
10127]    In some embodiments, there is provided a method of treating melanoma (such as
metastatic melanoma) in a human individual, comprising administering to the individual a) an
effective amount of a composition comprising nanoparticles comprising paclitaxel and an
albumin, and b) an effective amount of another chemotherapeutic agent, wherein the
individual has been previously treated for the melanoma with at least one BRAF inhibitor
(such as, for example, Vemurafenib (Zelborat) or Sorafenib), and wherein the individual is
                                               91

substantially refractory to prior treatment with a BRAF inhibitor. In some embodiments,
there is provided a method of treating melanoma (such as metastatic melanoma) in a human
individual, comprising administering to the individual a) an effective amount of a
composition comprising nanoparticles comprising paclitaxel and an albumin, wherein the
dose of the nanoparticle composition is between about 50 mg/m 2 to about 200 mg/m 2 , and b)
an effective amount of another chemotherapeutic agent, wherein the individual has been
previously treated for the melanoma with at least one BRAF inhibitor (such as, for example,
Vemurafenib (Zelboraf) or Sorafenib), and wherein the individual is substantially refractory
to prior treatment with a BRAF inhibitor. In some embodiments, there is provided a method
of treating melanoma (such as metastatic melanoma) in a human individual, comprising
administering to the individual a) an effective amount of a composition comprising
nanoparticles comprising paclitaxel and an albumin, wherein the dose of the nanoparticle
composition is between about 100 mg/m2 to about 150 mg/m 2 , and b) an effective amount of
another chemotherapeutic agent, wherein the individual has been previously treated for the
melanoma with at least one BRAF inhibitor (such as, for example, Vemurafenib (Zelboraf) or
Sorafenib), and wherein the individual is substantially refractory to prior treatment with a
BRAF inhibitor. In some embodiments, there is provided a method of treating melanoma
(such as metastatic melanoma) in a human individual, comprising administering to the
individual a) an effective amount of a composition comprising nanoparticles comprising
paclitaxel and an albumin, wherein the dose of the nanoparticle composition is about 100
mg/m 2 , and b) an effective amount another chemotherapeutic agent, wherein the individual
has been previously treated for the melanoma with at least one BRAF inhibitor (such as, for
example, Vemurafenib (Zelboraf) or Sorafenib), and wherein the individual is substantially
refractory to prior treatment with a BRAF inhibitor. In some embodiments, there is provided
a method of treating melanoma (such as metastatic melanoma) in a human individual,
comprising administering to the individual a) an effective amount of a composition
comprising nanoparticles comprising paclitaxel and an albumin, wherein the dose of the
nanoparticle composition is about 100 mg/m2 , wherein the nanoparticle composition is
administered on days 1, 8, and 15 of a 28 day cycle, and b) an effective amount of another
chemotherapeutic agent, wherein the individual has been previously treated for the melanoma
with at least one BRAF inhibitor (such as, for example, Vemurafenib (Zelboraf) or
Sorafenib), and wherein the individual is substantially refractory to prior treatment with a
BRAF inhibitor. In some embodiments, the individual is at stage IV melanoma. In some
                                                92

embodiments, the individual is at stage Mic melanoma. In some embodiments, the
individual comprises wild-type BRAF. In some embodiments, the individual comprises a
BRAF mutation (such as a BRAF V600E mutation). In some embodiments, the individual is
a male. In some embodiments, the individual is a female. In some embodiments, the
individual is a human who is at least 65 years old (including for example at least 70, 75, or 80
years old). In some embodiments, the individual is a human who is less than 65 years old
(including for example less than 60, 50, or 40 years old). In some embodiments, the
individual has a normal LDH level. In some embodiments, the individual has an elevated
LDH level.
[0128]    In some embodiments, there is provided a method of treating melanoma (such as
metastatic melanoma) in a human individual, comprising administering to the individual an
effective amount of a composition comprising nanoparticles comprising paclitaxel and an
albumin, wherein the individual has been previously treated for the melanoma with at least
one BRAF inhibitor (such as, for example, Vemurafenib (Zelboraf) or Sorafenib), and
wherein the individual is substantially refractory to prior treatment with a BRAF inhibitor. In
some embodiments, there is provided a method of treating melanoma (such as metastatic
melanoma) in a human individual, comprising administering to the individual an effective
amount of a composition comprising nanoparticles comprising paclitaxel and an albumin,
wherein the dose of the nanoparticle composition is between about 50 mg/m 2 to about 200
mg/m 2 , wherein the individual has been previously treated for the melanoma with at least one
BRAF inhibitor (such as, for example, Vemurafenib (Zelboraf) or Sorafenib), and wherein
the individual is substantially refractory to prior treatment with a BRAF inhibitor. In some
embodiments, there is provided a method of treating melanoma (such as metastatic
melanoma) in a human individual, comprising administering to the individual an effective
amount of a composition comprising nanoparticles comprising paclitaxel and an albumin,
wherein the dose of the nanoparticle composition is between about 100 mg/m 2 to about 150
mg/m 2 , wherein the individual has been previously treated for the melanoma with at least one
BRAF inhibitor (such as, for example, Vemurafenib (Zelboraf) or Sorafenib), and wherein
the individual is substantially refractory to prior treatment with a BRAF inhibitor. In some
embodiments, there is provided a method of treating melanoma (such as metastatic
melanoma) in a human individual, comprising administering to the individual an effective
amount of a composition comprising nanoparticles comprising paclitaxel and an albumin,
wherein the dose of the nanoparticle composition is about 100 mg/m 2 , wherein the individual
                                                 93

has been previously treated for the melanoma with at least one BRAF inhibitor (such as, for
example, Vemurafenib (Zelboraf) or Sorafenib), and wherein the individual is substantially
refractory to prior treatment with a BRAF inhibitor. In some embodiments, there is provided
a method of treating melanoma (such as metastatic melanoma) in a human individual,
comprising administering to the individual an effective amount of a composition comprising
nanoparticles comprising paclitaxel and an albumin, wherein the dose of the nanoparticle
composition is about 100 mg/m 2 , wherein the nanoparticle composition is administered on
days 1, 8, and 15 of a 28 day cycle, wherein the individual has been previously treated for the
melanoma with at least one BRAF inhibitor (such as, for example, Vemurafenib (Zelboraf) or
Sorafenib), and wherein the individual is substantially refractory to prior treatment with a
BRAF inhibitor. In some embodiments, the individual is at stage IV melanoma. In some
embodiments, the individual is at stage Mic melanoma. In some embodiments, the
individual comprises wild-type BRAF. In some embodiments, the individual comprises a
BRAF mutation (such as a BRAF V600E mutation). In some embodiments, the individual is
a male. In some embodiments, the individual is a female. In some embodiments, the
individual is a human who is at least 65 years old (including for example at least 70, 75, or 80
years old). In some embodiments, the individual is a human who is less than 65 years old
(including for example less than 60, 50, or 40 years old). In some embodiments, the
individual has a normal LDH level. In some embodiments, the individual has an elevated
LDH level.
10129]    In some embodiments, there is provided a method of treating melanoma (such as
metastatic melanoma) in a human individual, comprising administering to the individual a) an
effective amount of a composition comprising nanoparticles comprising paclitaxel and an
albumin, and b) an effective amount of Ipilimumab. In some embodiments, there is provided
a method of treating melanoma (such as metastatic melanoma) in a human individual,
comprising administering to the individual a) an effective amount of a composition
comprising nanoparticles comprising paclitaxel and an albumin, wherein the dose of the
nanoparticle composition is between about 50 mg/m2 to about 200 mg/in2 , and b) an effective
amount of Ipilimumab, wherein the dose of Ipilimumab is between about 1 mg/kg to about 5
mg/kg. In some embodiments, there is provided a method of treating melanoma (such as
metastatic melanoma) in a human individual, comprising administering to the individual a) an
effective amount of a composition comprising nanoparticles comprising paclitaxel and an
albumin, wherein the dose of the nanoparticle composition is between about 100 mg/m 2 to
                                               94

about 150 mg/m2 , and b) an effective amount of Ipilimumab, wherein the dose of Ipilimumab
is between about 2 mg/kg to about 4 mg/kg. In some embodiments, there is provided a
method of treating melanoma (such as metastatic melanoma) in a human individual,
comprising administering to the individual a) an effective amount of a composition
comprising nanoparticles comprising paclitaxel and an albumin, wherein the dose of the
nanoparticle composition is about 100 mg/m2 , and b) an effective amount of Ipilimumab,
wherein the dose of Ipilimumab is about 3 mg/kg. In some embodiments, there is provided a
method of treating melanoma (such as metastatic melanoma) in a human individual,
comprising administering to the individual a) an effective amount of a composition
comprising nanoparticles comprising paclitaxel and an albumin, wherein the dose of the
nanoparticle composition is about 100 mg/n 2, wherein the nanoparticle composition is
administered on days 1, 8, and 15 of a 28 day cycle, and b) an effective amount of
Ipilimumab, wherein the dose of Ipilimumab is about 3 mg/kg, and wherein the Ipilimumab is
administered on day 1 of a 21 day cycle. In some embodiments, there is provided a method
of treating melanoma (such as metastatic melanoma) in a human individual, comprising
administering to the individual a) an effective amount of a composition comprising
nanoparticles comprising paclitaxel and an albumin, wherein the dose of the nanoparticle
composition is about 100 mg/m 2 , wherein the nanoparticle composition is administered
intravenously over 30 minutes on days 1, 8, and 15 of a 28 day cycle, and b) an effective
amount of Ipilimumab, wherein the dose of Ipilimumab is about 3 mg/kg, wherein the
Ipilimumab is administered intravenously over 30 minutes on day 1 of a 21 day cycle. In
some embodiments, the individual is chemotherapy naive. In some embodiments, the
individual has previously been treated for melanoma. In some embodiments, the individual is
at stage IV melanoma. In some embodiments, the individual is at stage Ml c melanoma. In
some embodiments, the individual comprises wild-type BRAF. In some embodiments, the
individual comprises a BRAF mutation (such as a BRAF V600E mutation). In some
embodiments, the individual is a male. In some embodiments, the individual is a female. In
some embodiments, the individual is a human who is at least 65 years old (including for
example at least 70, 75, or 80 years old). In some embodiments, the individual is a human
who is less than 65 years old (including for example less than 60, 50, or 40 years old). In
some embodiments, the individual has a normal LDH level. In some embodiments, the
individual has an elevated LDH level.
                                               95

[0130]    In some embodiments, there is provided a method of treating melanoma (such as
metastatic melanoma) in a human individual, comprising administering to the individual a) an
effective amount of a composition comprising nanoparticles comprising paclitaxel and an
albumin, and b) an effective amount of anti-PD-I antibody. In some embodiments, there is
provided a method of treating melanoma (such as metastatic melanoma) in a human
individual, comprising administering to the individual a) an effective amount of a
composition comprising nanoparticles comprising paclitaxel and an albumin, wherein the
dose of the nanoparticle composition is between about 50 mg/m 2 to about 200 mg/m 2 (such
as, for example, between about 100 mg/in2 and about 150 mg/n 2 , for example about 100
mg/m 2 ) and b) an effective amount of anti-PD-I antibody, wherein the dose of anti-PD-I
antibody is between about 0.1 mg/kg to about 15 mg/kg (such as, for example, between about
2 mg/kg to about 12 mg/kg, for example about 10 mg/kg). In some embodiments, there is
provided a method of treating melanoma (such as metastatic melanoma) in a human
individual, comprising administering to the individual a) an effective amount of a
composition comprising nanoparticles comprising paclitaxel and an albumin, wherein the
dose of the nanoparticle composition is about 100 mg/m 2 , and b) an effective amount of anti
PD-I antibody, wherein the dose of anti-PD-I antibody is about 10 mg/kg. In some
embodiments, the individual is chemotherapy naive. In some embodiments, the individual has
previously been treated for melanoma. In some embodiments, the individual is at stage IV
melanoma. In some embodiments, the individual is at stage Mlc melanoma. In some
embodiments, the individual comprises wild-type BRAF. In some embodiments, the
individual comprises a BRAF mutation (such as a BRAF V600E mutation). In some
embodiments, the individual is a male. In some embodiments, the individual is a female. In
some embodiments, the individual is a human who is at least 65 years old (including for
example at least 70, 75, or 80 years old). In some embodiments, the individual is a human
who is less than 65 years old (including for example less than 60, 50, or 40 years old). In
some embodiments, the individual has a normal LDH level. In some embodiments, the
individual has an elevated LDH level.
[0131]    In some embodiments, there is provided a method of treating melanoma (such as
metastatic melanoma) in a human individual, comprising administering to the individual a) an
effective amount of a composition comprising nanoparticles comprising paclitaxel and an
albumin, and b) an effective amount of anti-PD-Li antibody. In some embodiments, there is
provided a method of treating melanoma (such as metastatic melanoma) in a human
                                               96

individual, comprising administering to the individual a) an effective amount of a
composition comprising nanoparticles comprising paclitaxel and an albumin, wherein the
dose of the nanoparticle composition is between about 50 mg/m 2 to about 200 mg/in    2 (such
as, for example, between about 100 mg/m2 and about 150 mg/m2 , for example about 100
mg/n 2 ) and b) an effective amount of anti-PD-LI antibody, wherein the dose of anti-PD-L I
antibody is between about 0.3 mg/kg to about 15 mg/kg (such as, for example, between about
2 mg/kg to about 12 mg/kg, for example about 10 mg/kg). In some embodiments, there is
provided a method of treating melanoma (such as metastatic melanoma) in a human
individual, comprising administering to the individual a) an effective amount of a
composition comprising nanoparticles comprising paclitaxel and an albumin, wherein the
dose of the nanoparticle composition is about 100 mg/m2, and b) an effective amount of anti
PD-Li antibody, wherein the dose of anti-PD-LI antibody is about 10 mg/kg. In some
embodiments, the individual is chemotherapy naive. In some embodiments, the individual has
previously been treated for melanoma. In some embodiments, the individual is at stage IV
melanoma. In some embodiments, the individual is at stage Mlc melanoma. In some
embodiments, the individual comprises wild-type BRAF. In some embodiments, the
individual comprises a BRAF mutation (such as a BRAF V600E mutation). In some
embodiments, the individual is a male. In some embodiments, the individual is a female. In
some embodiments, the individual is a human who is at least 65 years old (including for
example at least 70, 75, or 80 years old). In some embodiments, the individual is a human
who is less than 65 years old (including for example less than 60, 50, or 40 years old). In
some embodiments, the individual has a normal LDH level. In some embodiments, the
individual has an elevated LDH level.
[0132]    In some embodiments, there is provided a method of treating melanoma (such as
metastatic melanoma) in a human individual, comprising administering to the individual a) an
effective amount of a composition comprising nanoparticles comprising paclitaxel and an
albumin, b) an effective amount of Ipilimumab, and c) an effective amount of bevacizumab.
In some embodiments, there is provided a method of treating melanoma (such as metastatic
melanoma) in a human individual, comprising administering to the individual a) an effective
amount of a composition comprising nanoparticles comprising paclitaxel and an albumin, b)
an effective amount of Ipilimumab, and c) an effective amount of bevacizumab, wherein the
dose of the nanoparticle composition is between about 50 mg/m 2 to about 200 mg/m 2 ,
wherein the dose of Ipilimumab is between about 1 mg/kg to about 5 mg/kg, and wherein the
                                               97

dose of bevacizumab is between about 5 mg/kg to 15 mg/kg. In some embodiments, there is
provided a method of treating melanoma (such as metastatic melanoma) in a human
individual, comprising administering to the individual a) an effective amount of a
composition comprising nanoparticles comprising paclitaxel and an albumin, b) an effective
amount of Ipilimumab, and c) an effective amount of bevacizumab, wherein the dose of the
nanoparticle composition is between about 100 mg/m 2 to about 150 mg/m 2, wherein the dose
of Ipilimumab is between about 2 mg/kg to about 4 mg/kg, and wherein the dose of
bevacizumab is between about 8 mg/kg to 12 mg/kg. In some embodiments, there is
provided a method of treating melanoma (such as metastatic melanoma) in a human
individual, comprising administering to the individual a) an effective amount of a
composition comprising nanoparticles comprising paclitaxel and an albumin, b) an effective
amount of Ipilimumab, and c) an effective amount of bevacizumab, wherein the dose of the
nanoparticle composition is about 100 mg/m 2, wherein the dose of Ipilimumab is about 3
mg/kg, and wherein the dose of the bevacizumab is about 10 mg/kg. In some embodiments,
there is provided a method of treating melanoma (such as metastatic melanoma) in a human
individual, comprising administering to the individual a) an effective amount of a
composition comprising nanoparticles comprising paclitaxel and an albumin, b) an effective
amount of Ipilimumab, and c) an effective amount of bevacizumab, wherein the dose of the
nanoparticle composition is about 100 mg/m 2 and is administered on days 1, 8, and 15 of a 28
day cycle, wherein the dose of Ipilimumab is about 3 mg/kg and is administered on day I of a
21 day cycle, and wherein the dose of bevacizumab is about 10 mg/kg and is administered on
days 1 and 15 of a 28 day cycle. In some embodiments, there is provided a method of treating
melanoma (such as metastatic melanoma) in a human individual, comprising administering to
the individual a) an effective amount of a composition comprising nanoparticles comprising
paclitaxel and an albumin, b) an effective amount of Ipilimumab, and c) an effective amount
of bevacizumab, wherein the dose of the nanoparticle composition is about 100 mg/m2 and is
administered intravenously on days 1, 8, and 15 of a 28 day cycle, wherein the dose of
Ipilimumab is about 3 mg/kg and is administered intravenously on day 1 of a 21 day cycle,
and wherein the dose of bevacizumab is about 10 mg/kg and is administered intravenously on
days 1 and 15 of a 28 day cycle. In some embodiments, the individual is chemotherapy
naYve. In some embodiments, the individual has previously been treated for melanoma. In
some embodiments, the individual is at stage IV melanoma. In some embodiments, the
individual is at stage MIc melanoma. In some embodiments, the individual comprises wild
                                              98

type BRAF. In some embodiments, the individual comprises a BRAF mutation (such as a
BRAF V600E mutation). In some embodiments, the individual is a male. In some
embodiments, the individual is a female. In some embodiments, the individual is a human
who is at least 65 years old (including for example at least 70, 75, or 80 years old). In some
embodiments, the individual is a human who is less than 65 years old (including for example
less than 60, 50, or 40 years old). In some embodiments, the individual has a normal LDH
level. In some embodiments, the individual has an elevated LDH level.
10133]    In some embodiments, there is provided a method of treating melanoma (such as
metastatic melanoma) in a human individual, comprising administering to the individual a) an
effective amount of a composition comprising nanoparticles comprising paclitaxel and an
albumin, b) an effective amount of Ipilimumab, c) an effective amount of bevacizumab, and
d) an effective amount of temozolomide. In some embodiments, there is provided a method
of treating melanoma (such as metastatic melanoma) in a human individual, comprising
administering to the individual a) an effective amount of a composition comprising
nanoparticles comprising paclitaxel and an albumin, b) an effective amount of Ipilimumab, c)
an effective amount of bevacizumab, and d) an effective amount of temozolomide, wherein
the dose of the nanoparticle composition is between about 50 mg/m 2 to about 200 mg/M2,
(such as, for example, between about 100 mg/m 2 to about 150 mg/m 2, and for example about
100 mg/m 2), wherein the dose of Ipilimumab is between about 1 mg/kg to about 5 mg/kg,
(such as, for example, between about 2 mg/kg to about 4 mg/kg, and for example about 3
mg/kg), wherein the dose of bevacizumab is between about 5 mg/kg to 15 mg/kg, (such as,
for example, between about 7 mg/kg and 12 mg/kg, and for example about 10 mg/kg), and
wherein the dose of temozolomide is between about 25 mg/m 2 and 125 mg/m 2 , (such as, for
example, between about 50 mg/m 2 to about 100 mg/m 2 , and for example about 75 mg/m 2 ). In
some embodiments, there is provided a method of treating melanoma (such as metastatic
melanoma) in a human individual, comprising administering to the individual a) an effective
amount of a composition comprising nanoparticles comprising paclitaxel and an albumin, b)
an effective amount of Ipilimumab, c) an effective amount of bevacizumab, and d) an
effective amount of temozolomide, wherein the dose of the nanoparticle composition is about
100 mg/m 2 , wherein the dose of Ipilimumab is about 3 mg/kg, wherein the dose of the
bevacizumab is about 10 mg/kg, and wherein the dose of temozolomide is about 75 mg/m2 .
In some embodiments, there is provided a method of treating melanoma (such as metastatic
melanoma) in a human individual, comprising administering to the individual a) an effective
                                               99

amount of a composition comprising nanoparticles comprising paclitaxel and an albumin, b)
an effective amount of Ipilimumab, c) an effective amount of bevacizumab, and d) an
effective amount of temozolomide, wherein the dose of the nanoparticle composition is about
100 mg/m 2 and is administered on days 1, 8, and 15 of a 28 day cycle, wherein the dose of
Ipilimumab is about 3 mg/kg and is administered on day I of a 21 day cycle, wherein the
dose of bevacizumab is about 10 mg/kg and is administered on days 1 and 15 of a 28 day
cycle, and wherein the dose of temozolomide is about 75 mg/n     2 and is administered on days
1 to 42. In some embodiments, there is provided a method of treating melanoma (such as
metastatic melanoma) in a human individual, comprising administering to the individual a) an
effective amount of a composition comprising nanoparticles comprising paclitaxel and an
albumin, b) an effective amount of Ipilimumab, c) an effective amount of bevacizumab, and
d) an effective amount of temozolomide, wherein the dose of the nanoparticle composition is
about 100 mg/n   2 and is administered intravenously on days 1, 8, and 15 of a 28 day cycle,
wherein the dose of Ipilimumab is about 3 mg/kg and is administered intravenously on day 1
of a 21 day cycle, wherein the dose of bevacizumab is about 10 mg/kg and is administered
intravenously on days 1 and 15 of a 28 day cycle, and wherein the dose of temozolomide is
about 75 mg/m 2 and is administered on days 1 to 42. In some embodiments, the individual is
chemotherapy naYve. In some embodiments, the individual has previously been treated for
melanoma. In some embodiments, the individual is at stage IV melanoma. In some
embodiments, the individual is at stage Mlc melanoma. In some embodiments, the
individual comprises wild-type BRAF. In some embodiments, the individual comprises a
BRAF mutation (such as a BRAF V600E mutation). In some embodiments, the individual is
a male. In some embodiments, the individual is a female. In some embodiments, the
individual is a human who is at least 65 years old (including for example at least 70, 75, or 80
years old). In some embodiments, the individual is a human who is less than 65 years old
(including for example less than 60, 50, or 40 years old). In some embodiments, the
individual has a normal LDH level. In some embodiments, the individual has an elevated
LDH level.
[0134]    In some embodiments, the individual has stage IV or metastatic melanoma (e.g.,
stage IV or metastatic cutaneous melanoma). In some embodiments, the melanoma is
metastatic malignant melanoma. In some embodiments, the metastatic melanoma is at stage
Mla, stage Mib, or stage Mic. In some embodiments, the metastatic melanoma is at stage
Mlc. In some embodiments, the melanoma comprises a mutation in BRAF. In some
                                               100

embodiments, the melanoma comprises one or more of the following BRAF mutations:
R4611, 1462S, G463E, G463V, G465A, G465E, G465V, G468A, G468E, N580S, E585K,
D593V, F594L, G595R, L596V, T5981, V599D, V599E, V599K, V599R, K600E, or A727V.
In some embodiments, the melanoma does not comprise a mutation in BRAF. In some
embodiments, the melanoma comprises a BRAF mutant such as a BRAF mutant with
increased activity (for example, increased kinase activity, and/or increased activity as
compared to wild-type BRAF) or a BRAF gain-of-function mutant. In some embodiments,
the melanoma does not comprise BRAF mutant such as a BRAF mutant with increased
activity (for example, increased kinase activity, and/or increased activity as compared to
wild-type BRAF) or a BRAF gain-of-function mutant. In some embodiments, the melanoma
comprises a BRAF mutant such as a BRAF mutant with decreased activity (for example,
decreased kinase activity, and/or decreased activity as compared to wild-type BRAF) or a
BRAF loss-of-function mutant. In some embodiments, the melanoma comprises a
constitutively active BRAF. In some embodiments, the melanoma does not comprise a
constitutively active BRAF. In some embodiments, the melanoma comprises a BRAF V600E
mutation. In some embodiments, the melanoma does not comprise a BRAF V600E mutation
(e.g., the melanoma comprises wild-type BRAF). In some embodiments, the melanoma
comprises wild-type BRAF.
Modes ofAdministration
10135]     The dose of the taxane nanoparticle compositions administered to an individual
(such as a human) may vary with the particular composition, the mode of administration, and
the type of melanoma described herein being treated. The dose of the taxane nanoparticle
compositions administered to an individual (such as a human) may also be adjusted (such as
reduced) based on an individual's symptoms (such as adverse reactions). In some
embodiments, the amount of the composition is effective to result in a response. In some
embodiments, the amount of the composition is effective to result in an objective response
(such as a partial response or a complete response). In some embodiments, the amount of the
taxane nanoparticle composition administered (for example when administered alone) is
sufficient to produce an overall response rate of more than about any of 20%, 25%, 30%,
35%, 40%, 45%, 50%, 55%, 60%, 64%, 65%, 70%, 75%, 80%, 85%, or 90% among a
population of individuals treated with the taxane nanoparticle composition. Responses of an
                                               101

individual to the treatment of the methods described herein can be determined using methods
known in the field.
10136]     In some embodiments, the amount of the composition is sufficient to prolong
progression-free survival of the individual. In some embodiments, the amount of the
composition is sufficient to prolong survival of the individual. In some embodiments, the
amount of the composition is sufficient to improve quality of life of the individual. In some
embodiments, the amount of the composition (for example when administered alone) is
sufficient to produce clinical benefit of more than about any of 50%, 60%, 70%, or 77%
among a population of individuals treated with the taxane nanoparticle composition.
10137]     In some embodiments, the amount of the composition, first therapy, second therapy,
or combination therapy is an amount sufficient to decrease the size of a melanoma tumor,
decrease the number of melanoma tumor cells, or decrease the growth rate of a melanoma
tumor by at least about any of 10%, 20%, 30%, 40%, 50%, 60%, 70%, 80%, 90%, 95% or
100% compared to the corresponding tumor size, number of melanoma tumor cells, or tumor
growth rate in the same individual prior to treatment or compared to the corresponding
activity in other individuals not receiving the treatment. Methods that can be used to measure
the magnitude of this effect are known in the field.
10138]     In some embodiments, the amount of the taxane (e.g., paclitaxel) in the composition
is below the level that induces a toxicological effect (i.e., an effect above a clinically
acceptable level of toxicity) or is at a level where a potential side effect can be controlled or
tolerated when the composition is administered to the individual.
10139]     In some embodiments, the amount of the composition is close to a maximum
tolerated dose (MTD) of the composition following the same dosing regimen. In some
embodiments, the amount of the composition is more than about any of 80%, 90%, 95%, or
98% of the MTD.
10140]     In some embodiments, the amount (dose) of a taxane (e.g. , paclitaxel) in the
composition is included in any of the following ranges: about 0.1 mg to about 500 mg, about
0.1 mg to about 2.5 mg, about 0.5 to about 5 mg, about 5 to about 10 mg, about 10 to about
 15 mg, about 15 to about 20 mg, about 20 to about 25 mg, about 20 to about 50 mg, about 25
to about 50 mg, about 50 to about 75 mg, about 50 to about 100 mg, about 75 to about 100
mg, about 100 to about 125 mg, about 125 to about 150 mg, about 150 to about 175 mg,
about 175 to about 200 mg, about 200 to about 225 mg, about 225 to about 250 mg, about
250 to about 300 mg, about 300 to about 350 mg, about 350 to about 400 mg, about 400 to
                                                102

about 450 mg, or about 450 to about 500 mg. In some embodiments, the amount (dose) of a
taxane (e.g., paclitaxel) in the effective amount of the composition (e.g., a unit dosage form)
is in the range of about 5 mg to about 500 mg, such as about 30 mg to about 300 mg or about
50 mg to about 200 mg. In some embodiments, the concentration of the taxane (e.g.,
paclitaxel) in the composition is dilute (about 0.1 mg/ml) or concentrated (about 100 mg/ml),
including for example any of about 0.1 to about 50 mg/ml, about 0.1 to about 20 mg/ml,
about 1 to about 10 mg/ml, about 2 mg/ml to about 8 mg/ml, about 4 to about 6 mg/ml, or
about 5 mg/ml. In some embodiments, the concentration of the taxane (e.g., paclitaxel) is at
least about any of 0.5 mg/ml, 1.3 mg/ml, 1.5 mg/ml, 2 mg/ml, 3 mg/ml, 4 mg/ml, 5 mg/ml, 6
mg/ml, 7 mg/ml, 8 mg/ml, 9 mg/ml, 10 mg/ml, 15 mg/ml, 20 mg/ml, 25 mg/ml, 30 mg/ml, 40
mg/ml, or 50 mg/ml. In some embodiments, the concentration of the taxane (e.g., paclitaxel)
is no more than about any of 100 mg/ml, 90 mg/ml, 80 mg/ml, 70 mg/ml, 60 mg/ml, 50
mg/ml, 40 mg/ml, 30 mg/ml, 20 mg/ml, 10 mg/ml, or 5 mg/ml.
10141]     Exemplary amounts (doses) of a taxane (e.g., paclitaxel) in the nanoparticle
composition include, but are not limited to, at least about any of 25 mg/m2 , 30 mg/m 2 , 50
mg/i   2, 60 mg/n 2, 75 mg/m 2 , 80 mg/m 2, 90 mg/m 2 , 100 mg/m 2 , 120 mg/m 2 , 125 mg/m 2 , 150
mg/m 2 , 160 mg/m 2 , 175 mg/i   2, 180 mg/m 2 , 200 mg/m 2 , 210 mg/m 2 , 220 mg/m2 , 250 mg/m2 ,
260 mg/m2 , 300 mg/m 2 , 350 mg/m 2 , 400 mg/m 2 , 500 mg/m2 , 540 mg/m 2 , 750 mg/m 2 , 1000
mg/m 2 , or 1080 mg/n   2 of a taxane (e.g., paclitaxel). In various embodiments, the
composition includes less than about any of 350 mg/m2 , 300 mg/m2, 250 mg/m 2 , 200 mg/m 2 ,
150 mg/m2 , 120 mg/m2 , 100 mg/m 2 , 90 mg/m 2 , 50 mg/n 2 , or 30 mg/m 2 of a taxane (e.g.,
paclitaxel). In some embodiments, the amount of the taxane (e.g., paclitaxel) per
administration is less than about any of 25 mg/m 2 , 22 mg/m 2 , 20 mg/n 2 , 18 mg/m 2, 15
mg/i   2,  Mmg/n,1          m2, 12 mg/m 2, 11 mg/      2, 10 mg/m 2 , 9 mg/m2, 8 mg/m 2 , 7 mg/m 2 , 6
mg/m 2 , 5 mg/m 2 , 4 mg/m 2 , 3 mg/m 2 , 2 mg/m 2, or 1 mg/m 2 . In some embodiments, the
amount (dose) of a taxane (e.g., paclitaxel) in the composition is included in any of the
following ranges: about I to about 5 mg/m 2 , about 5 to about 10 mg/m 2 , about 10 to about 25
mg/m 2 , about 25 to about 50 mg/m 2, about 50 to about 75 mg/m 2 , about 75 to about 100
mg/m 2 , about 100 to about 125 mg/m2 , about 100 to about 200 mg/m 2 , about 125 to about
150 mg/m2 , about 125 to about 175 mg/m 2 , about 150 to about 175 mg/m2 , about 175 to
about 200 mg/m2 , about 200 to about 225 mg/m 2, about 225 to about 250 mg/m 2 , about 250
to about 300 mg/m2 , about 300 to about 350 mg/m 2 , or about 350 to about 400 mg/m2 . In
some embodiments, the amount (dose) of a taxane (e.g., paclitaxel) in the composition is
                                                  103

included in any of the following ranges: about 10 mg/m2 to about 400 mg/m 2 , about 25
mg/m 2 to about 400 mg/m 2 , about 50 mg/m 2 to about 400 mg/M2, about 75 mg/m 2 to about
350 mg/m2 , about 75 mg/m 2 to about 300 mg/n 2, about 75 mg/m 2 to about 250 mg/m 2 , about
75 mg/m2 to about 200 mg/m 2 , about 75 mg/m 2 to about 150 mg/m2 , about 75 mg/n 2 to about
125 mg/m 2 , about 100 mg/m 2 to about 260 mg/m 2, about 100 mg/m2 to about 250 mg/m 2,
                   2
about 100 mg/n       to about 200 mg/m 2, or about 125 mg/m 2 to about 175 mg/m 2. In some
embodiments, the amount (dose) of a taxane (e.g., paclitaxel) in the composition is about 5 to
about 300 mg/m2 , about 100 to about 200 mg/m 2, about 100 to about 150 mg/m 2 , about 50 to
about 150 mg/m2 , about 75 to about 150 mg/m2 , about 75 to about 125 mg/m 2 , or about 70
mg/m 2 , about 80 mg/m 2 , about 90 mg/m 2 , about 100 mg/m2 , about 110 mg/m 2 , about 120
mg/m 2 , about 130 mg/m 2 , about 140 mg/m 2, about 150 mg/m 2, about 160 mg/m 2 , about 170
mg/m 2 , about 180 mg/m 2 , about 190 mg/n 2, about 200 mg/m 2, about 250 mg/m 2, about 260
mg/rn 2 , or about 300 mg/m 2.
10142]     In some embodiments of any of the above aspects, the amount (dose) of a taxane
(e.g., paclitaxel) in the composition includes at least about any of 1 mg/kg, 2.5 mg/kg, 3.5
mg/kg, 5 mg/kg, 6.5 mg/kg, 7.5 mg/kg, 10 mg/kg, 15 mg/kg, 20 mg/kg, 25 mg/kg, 30 mg/kg,
35 mg/kg, 40 mg/kg, 45 mg/kg, 50 mg/kg, 55 mg/kg, or 60 mg/kg. In various embodiments,
the amount (dose) of a taxane (e.g., paclitaxel) in the composition includes less than about
any of 350 mg/kg, 300 mg/kg, 250 mg/kg, 200 mg/kg, 150 mg/kg, 100 mg/kg, 50 mg/kg, 25
mg/kg, 20 mg/kg, 10 mg/kg, 7.5 mg/kg, 6.5 mg/kg, 5 mg/kg, 3.5 mg/kg, 2.5 mg/kg, or 1
mg/kg of a taxane (e.g., paclitaxel).
10143]     Exemplary dosing frequencies for the administration of the nanoparticle
compositions include, but are not limited to, daily, every two days, every three days, every
four days, every five days, every six days, weekly without break, weekly for three out of four
weeks, once every three weeks, once every two weeks, or two out of three weeks. In some
embodiments, the composition is administered about once every 2 weeks, once every 3
weeks, once every 4 weeks, once every 6 weeks, or once every 8 weeks. In some
embodiments, the composition is administered at least about any of 1x, 2x, 3x, 4x, 5x, 6x, or
7x (i.e., daily) a week. In some embodiments, the intervals between each administration are
less than about any of 6 months, 3 months, I month, 20 days, 15, days, 14 days, 13 days, 12
days, 11 days, 10 days, 9 days, 8 days, 7 days, 6 days, 5 days, 4 days, 3 days, 2 days, or 1
day. In some embodiments, the intervals between each administration are more than about
any of 1 month, 2 months, 3 months, 4 months, 5 months, 6 months, 8 months, or 12 months.
                                                104

In some embodiments, there is no break in the dosing schedule. In some embodiments, the
interval between each administration is no more than about a week.
10144]    In some embodiments, the dosing frequency is once every two days for one time,
two times, three times, four times, five times, six times, seven times, eight times, nine times,
ten times, and eleven times. In some embodiments, the dosing frequency is once every two
days for five times. In some embodiments, the taxane (e.g., paclitaxel) is administered over
a period of at least ten days, wherein the interval between each administration is no more than
about two days, and wherein the dose of the taxane (e.g., paclitaxel) at each administration is
about 0.25 mg/m2 to about 250 mg/m2 , about 0.25 mg/m2 to about 150 mg/in2 , about 0.25
mg/m 2 to about 75 mg/m 2 , such as about 0.25 mg/m 2 to about 25 mg/m 2 , about 25 mg/m 2 to
about 50 mg/m 2 , or about 50 mg/m2 to about 100 mg/m2
10145]    The administration of the composition can be extended over an extended period of
time, such as from about a month up to about seven years. In some embodiments, the
composition is administered over a period of at least about any of 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11,
12, 18, 24, 30, 36, 48, 60, 72, or 84 months.
101461    In some embodiments, the dosage of a taxane (e.g., paclitaxel) in a nanoparticle
composition can be in the range of 5-400 mg/m 2 when given on a 3 week schedule, or 5-250
mg/m 2 (such as 75-200 mg/m 2 , 100-200 mg/m 2 , for example 125-175 mg/m 2) when given on
a weekly schedule. For example, the amount of a taxane (e.g., paclitaxel) is about 60 to about
300 mg/m 2 (e.g., about 100 mg/m 2 , 125 mg/m 2 , 150 mg/m 2 , 175 mg/m 2, 200 mg/m 2, 225
mg/m 2, 250 mg/m 2 , or 260 mg/m 2 ) on a three week schedule. In some embodiments, the
amount of a taxane (e.g., paclitaxel) is about 60 to about 300 mg/n   2 (e.g., about 100 mg/n 2 ,
125 mg/m 2 , 150 mg/m 2 , 175 mg/m 2 , 200 mg/m2 , 225 mg/i 2 , 250 mg/m 2 , or 260 mg/m2 )
administered weekly. In some embodiments, the amount of a taxane (e.g., paclitaxel) is about
60 to about 300 mg/m 2 (e.g., about 100 mg/m2 , 125 mg/m 2 , 150 mg/m 2 , 175 mg/m2 , 200
mg/m 2 , 22mg/g/m 2 , 250 mg/m 2 , or 260 mg/m2 ) administered weekly for three out of a four
week schedule.
10147]    Other exemplary dosing schedules for the administration of the nanoparticle
composition (e.g., paclitaxel/albumin nanoparticle composition) include, but are not limited
to, 100 mg/m 2, weekly, without break; 75 mg/m 2 weekly, 3 out of four weeks; 100
mg/m 2 ,weekly, 3 out of 4 weeks; 125 mg/ni 2, weekly, 3 out of 4 weeks; 150 mg/m 2, weekly,
3 out of 4 weeks; 175 mg/m 2, weekly, 3 out of 4 weeks; 125 mg/m 2 , weekly, 2 out of 3
weeks; 130 mg/mi 2 , weekly, without break; 175 mg/m 2, once every 2 weeks; 260 mg/m 2 , once
                                                105

every 2 weeks; 260 mg/m2 , once every 3 weeks; 180-300 mg/m2 , every three weeks; 60-175
mg/m 2 , weekly, without break; 20-150 mg/m2 twice a week; and 150-250 mg/m 2 twice a
week. The dosing frequency of the composition may be adjusted over the course of the
treatment based on the judgment of the administering physician.
10148]    In some embodiments, the individual is treated for at least about any of one, two,
three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, or ten treatment cycles.
10149]    The compositions described herein allow infusion of the composition to an
individual over an infusion time that is shorter than about 24 hours. For example, in some
embodiments, the composition is administered over an infusion period of less than about any
of 24 hours, 12 hours, 8 hours, 5 hours, 3 hours, 2 hours, 1 hour, 30 minutes, 20 minutes, or
10 minutes. In some embodiments, the composition is administered over an infusion period
of about 30 minutes.
[0150]    Other exemplary doses of the taxane (in some embodiments paclitaxel) in the
nanoparticle composition include, but is not limited to, about any of 50 mg/m 2 , 60 mg/m2 , 75
mg/m 2 , 80 mg/m 2 , 90 mg/n 2, 100 mg/m 2 , 120 mg/m 2 , 140 mg/m 2, 150 mg/n 2, 160 mg/n 2,
175 mg/m 2, 200 mg/m 2, 210 mg/m 2, 220 mg/m 2 , 260 mg/m 2 , and 300 mg/m 2. For example,
the dosage of paclitaxel in a nanoparticle composition can be in the range of about 100-400
mg/m 2 when given on a 3 week schedule, or about 50-250 mg/m 2 when given on a weekly
schedule.
[01511    In some embodiments, there is provided a method of treating melanoma in an
individual (e.g., human) comprising administering to the individual an effective amount of a
composition comprising nanoparticles comprising a taxane (e.g., paclitaxel) and a carrier
protein (e.g., albumin such as human serum albumin or human albumin), wherein the dose of
taxane in the nanoparticle composition is between about 50 mg/m2 to about 400 mg/m2
(including for example about 100 mg/m 2 to about 300 mg/n 2, about 100 mg/m2 to about 200
mg/m 2 , or about 125 mg/m 2 to about 175 mg/M2). In some embodiments, the amount (dose)
of taxane in the nanoparticle composition is between about 100 mg/m 2 to about 300 mg/m 2
(e.g., about 100 mg/m 2 to about 200 mg/m 2). In some embodiments, the amount (dose) of
taxane in the nanoparticle composition is between about 125 mg/m 2 to about 175 mg/m 2 (e.g.,
                   2
about 100 mg/n       or about 150 mg/m 2). In some embodiments, the nanoparticle composition
is administered weekly for three weeks of four weeks or weekly. In some embodiments, the
carrier protein is albumin such as human serum albumin or human albumin. In some
embodiments, the taxane is paclitaxel.
                                                  106

[0152]     In some embodiments, there is provided a method of treating melanoma in an
individual (e.g., human) comprising administering to the individual an effective amount of a
composition comprising nanoparticles comprising a taxane (e.g., paclitaxel) and a carrier
protein (e.g., albumin such as human serum albumin or human albumin), wherein the dose of
taxane in the nanoparticle composition is between about 50 mg/m 2 to about 400 mg/m 2
(including for example about 100 mg/m 2 to about 300 mg/m 2, about 100 mg/m 2 to about 200
mg/m 2 , or about 125 mg/M 2 to about 175 mg/m 2). In some embodiments, the amount (dose)
of taxane in the nanoparticle composition is between about 100 mg/m 2 to about 300 mg/m 2
(e.g., about 100 mg/m2 to about 200 mg/m 2 such as about 100 mg/m2 or about 150 mg/m). In
some embodiments, the amount (dose) of taxane in the nanoparticle composition is between
about 100 mg/m 2 to about 200 mg/m 2 (e.g., about 100 mg/n 2 or about 150 mg/m ). In some
embodiments, the nanoparticle composition is administered weekly for three weeks of four
weeks or weekly. In some embodiments, the individual has stage IV or metastatic melanoma
(e.g., stage IV or metastatic cutaneous melanoma). In some embodiments, the melanoma is
metastatic malignant melanoma. In some embodiments, the metastatic melanoma is at stage
Mla, stage Mib, or stage MIc. In some embodiments, the metastatic melanoma is at stage
Mlc. In some embodiments, the melanoma comprises a mutation in BRAF. In some
embodiments, the melanoma does not comprise a mutation in BRAF. In some embodiments,
the melanoma does not comprise BRAF mutant such as a BRAF mutant with increased
activity (for example, increased kinase activity, and/or increased activity as compared to
wild-type BRAF) or a BRAF gain-of-function mutant. In some embodiments, the melanoma
does not comprise BRAF V600E mutation (e.g., the melanoma comprises wild-type BRAF).
In some embodiments, the melanoma comprises wild-type BRAF. In some embodiments, the
melanoma comprises a BRAF mutant such as a BRAF mutant with increased activity (for
example, increased kinase activity, and/or increased activity as compared to wild-type
BRAF) or a BRAF gain-of-function mutant. In some embodiments, the melanoma comprises
BRAF V600E mutation. In some embodiments, the individual has elevated serum LDH level.
In some embodiments, the individual has serum LDH of about any of the following: <0.8 x
ULN, 0.4-0.8 x ULN, 0.8-1.1 x ULN, 0.9-1.1 x ULN, 0.8-1.2 x ULN, 1.1-1.5 x ULN, 1.2
1.5 x ULN, 1.1-2 x ULN, or 1.5-2 x ULN. In some embodiments, the individual has serum
LDH of less than about 0.8 x ULN. In some embodiments, the individual has serum LDH at
about 0.8 x to about 1.1 x ULN. In some embodiments, the individual has serum LDH of
between greater than about 1.1 x to about 2.0 x ULN. In some embodiments, the individual
                                               107

has serum LDH of between about 1.1 x to about 2.0 x ULN. In some embodiments, the
individual is a human (e.g., male or female). In some embodiments, the taxane is paclitaxel.
In some embodiments, the carrier protein is albumin.
10153]     The nanoparticle compositions can be administered to an individual (such as
human) via various routes, including, for example, parenteral, intravenous, intraventricular,
intra-arterial, intraperitoneal, intrapulmonary, oral, inhalation, intravesicular, intramuscular,
intra-tracheal, subcutaneous, intraocular, intrathecal, transmucosal, and transdermal. In some
embodiments, sustained continuous release formulation of the composition may be used. In
some embodiments, the composition is administered intravenously. In some embodiments,
the composition is administered intraportally. In some embodiments, the composition is
administered intraarterially. In some embodiments, the composition is administered
intraperitoneally. In some embodiments, the composition is administered intrathecally. In
some embodiments, the composition is administered through a ported catheter to spinal fluid.
In some embodiments, the composition is administered intraventricularly. In some
embodiments, the composition is administered systemically. In some embodiments, the
composition is administered by infusion. In some embodiments, the composition is
administered by infusion through implanted pump. In some embodiments, the composition is
administered by a ventricular catheter. In some embodiments, the composition is
administered through a port or portacath. In some embodiments, the port or portacath is
inserted into a vein (such as jugular vein, subclavian vein, or superior vena cava).
10154]     The dosing regimens described herein apply to both monotherapy and combination
therapy settings. The modes of administration for combination therapy methods are further
described below.
Modes of Administration for Combination Therapy
10155]     Provided herein are modes and administrations for treatment melanoma using
combination therapy. In some embodiments, there is provided a method of treating melanoma
in an individual (e.g., human) comprising administering to the individual a) an effective
amount of a composition comprising nanoparticles comprising a taxane (e.g., paclitaxel) and
a carrier protein (e.g., albumin), and b) an effective amount of at least one other agent (such
as a chemotherapeutic agent or immunotherapeutic agent). The modes and administrations for
using a composition comprising nanoparticles comprising a taxane (e.g., paclitaxel) and a
carrier protein (e.g., albumin) and the other agent are described herein.
                                                108

[0156]     The composition comprising nanoparticles comprising taxane (also referred to as
"nanoparticle composition") and the other agent can be administered simultaneously (i.e.,
simultaneous administration) and/or sequentially (i.e., sequential administration).
101571     In some embodiments, the nanoparticle composition and the other agent (including
the specific agents described herein) are administered simultaneously. The term
"simultaneous administration," as used herein, means that the nanoparticle composition and
the other agent are administered with a time separation of no more than about 15 minute(s),
such as no more than about any of 10, 5, or 1 minutes. When the drugs are administered
simultaneously, the drug in the nanoparticles and the other agent may be contained in the
same composition (e.g., a composition comprising both the nanoparticles and the other agent)
or in separate compositions (e.g., the nanoparticles are contained in one composition and the
other agent is contained in another composition).
[0158]     In some embodiments, the nanoparticle composition and the other agent are
administered sequentially. The term "sequential administration" as used herein means that
the drug in the nanoparticle composition and the other agent are administered with a time
separation of more than about 15 minutes, such as more than about any of 20, 30, 40, 50, 60
or more minutes. Either the nanoparticle composition or the other agent may be administered
first. The nanoparticle composition and the other agent are contained in separate
compositions, which may be contained in the same or different packages.
[01591     In some embodiments, the administration of the nanoparticle composition and the
other agent are concurrent, i.e., the administration period of the nanoparticle composition and
that of the other agent overlap with each other. In some embodiments, the nanoparticle
composition is administered for at least one cycle (for example, at least any of 2, 3, or 4
cycles) prior to the administration of the other agent. In some embodiments, the other agent
is administered for at least any of one, two, three, or four weeks. In some embodiments, the
administrations of the nanoparticle composition and the other agent are initiated at about the
same time (for example, within any one of 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, or 7 days). In some embodiments,
the administrations of the nanoparticle composition and the other agent are terminated at
about the same time (for example, within any one of 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, or 7 days). In some
embodiments, the administration of the other agent continues (for example for about any one
of 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, or 12 months) after the termination of the administration of
the nanoparticle composition. In some embodiments, the administration of the other agent is
initiated after (for example after about any one of 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, or we
                                                  109

months) the initiation of the administration of the nanoparticle composition. In some
embodiments, the administrations of the nanoparticle composition and the other agent are
initiated and terminated at about the same time. In some embodiments, the administrations of
the nanoparticle composition and the other agent are initiated at about the same time and the
administration of the other agent continues (for example for about any one of 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6,
7, 8, 9, 10, 11, or 12 months) after the termination of the administration of the nanoparticle
composition. In some embodiments, the administration of the nanoparticle composition and
the other agent stop at about the same time and the administration of the other agent is
initiated after (for example after about any one of 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, or we
months) the initiation of the administration of the nanoparticle composition.
[0160]     In some embodiments, the administration of the nanoparticle composition and the
other agent (e.g., carboplatin) are concurrent, i.e., the administration period of the
nanoparticle composition and that of the other agent overlap with each other. In some
embodiments, the administrations of the nanoparticle composition and the other agent are
initiated at about the same time (for example, within any one of 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, or 7 days). In
some embodiments, the administration of the nanoparticle composition and the other agent
are terminated at about the same time (for example, within any one of 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, or 7
days). In some embodiments, the administration of the other agent continues (for example
for about any one of 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, or 12 months) after the termination of the
administration of the nanoparticle composition. In some embodiments, the administration of
the other agent is initiated after (for example after about any one of 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10,
11, or 12 months) the initiation of the administration of the nanoparticle composition. In
some embodiments, the administrations of the nanoparticle composition and the other agent
are initiated and terminated at about the same time. In some embodiments, the
administrations of the nanoparticle composition and the other agent are initiated at about the
same time and the administration of the other agent continues (for example for about any one
of 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, or 12 months) after the termination of the administration of
the nanoparticle composition. In some embodiments, the administration of the nanoparticle
composition and the other agent stop at about the same time and the administration of the
other agent is initiated after (for example after about any one of 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11,
or 12 months) the initiation of the administration of the nanoparticle composition. In some
embodiments, the method comprises more than one treatment cycles, wherein at least one of
the treatment cycles comprise the administration of (a) an effective amount of a composition
                                                  110

comprising nanoparticles comprising a taxane (such as paclitaxel) and a carrier protein (e.g.,
albumin); and (b) an effective amount of at least one other agent. In some embodiments, the
treatment cycle comprises no less than about (such as about) 21 days (e.g., 4 weeks). In some
embodiments, the treatment cycle comprises less than about 21 days (for example weekly or
daily). In some embodiments, the treatment cycle comprises about 28 days.
10161]    In some embodiments, the administration of the nanoparticle composition and the
other agent are non-concurrent. For example, in some embodiments, the administration of
the nanoparticle composition is tenninated before the other agent is administered. In some
embodiments, the administration of the other agent is terminated before the nanoparticle
composition is administered. The time period between these two non-concurrent
administrations can range from about two to eight weeks, such as about four weeks.
10162]    The dosing frequency of the drug-containing nanoparticle composition and the other
agent may be adjusted over the course of the treatment, based on the judgment of the
administering physician. When administered separately, the drug-containing nanoparticle
composition and the other agent can be administered at different dosing frequency or
intervals. For example, the drug-containing nanoparticle composition can be administered
weekly, while another agent can be administered more or less frequently. In some
embodiments, sustained continuous release formulation of the drug-containing nanoparticle
and/or other agent may be used. Various formulations and devices for achieving sustained
release are known in the art. Exemplary dosing frequencies are further provided herein.
10163]    The nanoparticle composition and the other agent can be administered using the
same route of administration or different routes of administration. Exemplary administration
routes are further provided herein. In some embodiments (for both simultaneous and
sequential administrations), the taxane in the nanoparticle composition and the other agent
are administered at a predetermined ratio. For example, in some embodiments, the ratio by
weight of the taxane in the nanoparticle composition and the other agent is about 1 to 1. In
some embodiments, the weight ratio may be between about 0.001 to about 1 and about 1000
to about 1, or between about 0.01 to about 1 and 100 to about 1. In some embodiments, the
ratio by weight of the taxane in the nanoparticle composition and the other agent is less than
about any of 100:1, 50:1, 30:1, 10:1, 9:1, 8:1, 7:1, 6:1, 5:1, 4:1, 3:1, 2:1, and 1:1 In some
embodiments, the ratio by weight of the taxane in the nanoparticle composition and the other
agent is more than about any of 1:1, 2:1, 3:1, 4:1, 5:1, 6:1, 7:1, 8:1, 9:1, 30:1, 50:1, 100:1.
Other ratios are contemplated.
                                               111

[0164]    The doses required for the taxane and/or the other agent may (but not necessarily)
be lower than what is normally required when each agent is administered alone. Thus, in
some embodiments, a subtherapeutic amount of the drug in the nanoparticle composition
and/or the other agent are administered. "Subtherapeutic amount" or "subtherapeutic level"
refer to an amount that is less than therapeutic amount, that is, less than the amount normally
used when the drug in the nanoparticle composition and/or the other agent are administered
alone. The reduction may be reflected in terms of the amount administered at a given
administration and/or the amount administered over a given period of time (reduced
frequency).
10165]    In some embodiments, enough other agent is administered so as to allow reduction
of the normal dose of the drug in the nanoparticle composition required to effect the same
degree of treatment by at least about any of 5%, 10%, 20%, 30%, 50%, 60%, 70%, 80%,
90%, or more. In some embodiments, enough drug in the nanoparticle composition is
administered so as to allow reduction of the normal dose of the other agent required to effect
the same degree of treatment by at least about any of 5%, 10%, 20%, 30%, 50%, 60%, 70%,
80%, 90%, or more.
10166]    In some embodiments, the dose of both the taxane in the nanoparticle composition
and the other agent are reduced as compared to the corresponding normal dose of each when
administered alone. In some embodiments, both the taxane in the nanoparticle composition
and the other agent are administered at a subtherapeutic, i.e., reduced, level. In some
embodiments, the dose of the nanoparticle composition and/or the other agent is substantially
less than the established maximum toxic dose (MTD). For example, the dose of the
nanoparticle composition and/or the other agent is less than about 50%, 40%, 30%, 20%, or
10% of the MTD.
10167]    In some embodiments, the dose of taxane and/or the dose of the other agent is
higher than what is normally required when each agent is administered alone. For example,
in some embodiments, the dose of the nanoparticle composition and/or the other agent is
substantially higher than the established maximum toxic dose (MTD). For example, the dose
of the nanoparticle composition and/or the other agent is more than about 50%, 40%, 30%,
20%, or 10% of the MTD of the agent when administered alone.
10168]    In some embodiments, the amount of a taxane (e.g., paclitaxel) in the composition is
included in any of the following ranges: about 0.5 to about 5 mg, about 5 to about 10 mg,
about 10 to about 15 mg, about 15 to about 20 mg, about 20 to about 25 mg, about 20 to
                                                112

about 50 mg, about 25 to about 50 mg, about 50 to about 75 mg, about 50 to about 100 mg,
about 75 to about 100 mg, about 100 to about 125 mg, about 125 to about 150 mg, about 150
to about 175 mg, about 175 to about 200 mg, about 200 to about 225 mg, about 225 to about
250 mg, about 250 to about 300 mg, about 300 to about 350 mg, about 350 to about 400 mg,
about 400 to about 450 mg, or about 450 to about 500 mg. In some embodiments, the amount
(dose) of a taxane (e.g., paclitaxel) or derivative thereof in the effective amount of the
composition (e.g., a unit dosage form) is in the range of about 5 mg to about 500 mg, such as
about 30 mg to about 300 mg or about 50 mg to about 200 mg. In some embodiments, the
concentration of the taxane (e.g., paclitaxel) in the composition is dilute (about 0.1 mg/ml) or
concentrated (about 100 mg/ml), including for example any of about 0.1 to about 50 mg/ml,
about 0.1 to about 20 mg/ml, about 1 to about 10 mg/mil, about 2 mg/ml to about 8 mg/ml,
about 4 to about 6 mg/ml, about 5 mg/ml. In some embodiments, the concentration of the
taxane (e.g., paclitaxel) is at least about any of 0.5 mg/ml, 1.3 mg/ml, 1.5 mg/ml, 2 mg/ml, 3
mg/ml, 4 mg/ml, 5 mg/ml, 6 mg/ml, 7 mg/ml, 8 mg/ml, 9 mg/ml, 10 mg/ml, 15 mg/ml, 20
mg/ml, 25 mg/ml, 30 mg/ml, 40 mg/ml, or 50 mg/ml.
[01691     Exemplary amounts (doses) of a taxane (e.g., paclitaxel) in the nanoparticle
composition include, but are not limited to, at least about any of 25 mg/In 2, 30 mg/m 2, 50
mg/m 2 , 60 mg/m 2 , 75 mg/m 2 , 80 mg/m 2 , 90 mg/m 2 , 100 mg/m 2 , 120 mg/m 2 , 125 mg/m2 , 150
mg/m 2 , 160 mg/m 2 , 175 mg/m2 , 180 mg/       2, 200 mg/m 2 , 210 mg/m 2 , 220 mg/m 2, 250 mg/m2 ,
260 mg/m 2, 300 mg/m 2, 350 mg/m 2, 400 mg/m 2, 500 mg/m 2, 540 mg/m 2, 750 mg/m 2, 1000
mg/m 2 , or 1080 mg/m 2 of a taxane (e.g., paclitaxel). In various embodiments, the
composition includes less than about any of 350 mg/m2 , 300 mg/m 2, 250 mg/m 2 , 200 mg/m 2 ,
150 mg/m 2 , 120 mg/m 2 , 100 mg/m 2 , 90 mg/m 2 , 50 mg/m 2 , or 30 mg/m2 of a taxane (e.g.,
paclitaxel). In some embodiments, the amount of the taxane (e.g., paclitaxel) per
administration is less than about any of 25 mg/m2 , 22 mg/m 2 , 20 mg/m2 , 18 mg/m 2, 15
      2
mg/i    , 14 mg/m 2 , 13 mg/m 2 , 12 mg/I  2
                                             , 11 mg/m 2 , 10 mg/m 2 , 9 mg/m 2 , 8 mg/m 2, 7 mg/M 2, 6
mg/m 2, 5 mg/m 2, 4 mg/n    2
                              , 3 mg/m 2, 2 mg/m 2, or 1 mg/m 2 . In some embodiments, the
amount (dose) of a taxane (e.g., paclitaxel) in the composition is included in any of the
following ranges: about I to about 5 mg/m 2 , about 5 to about 10 mg/m 2 , about 10 to about 25
mg/m 2 , about 25 to about 50 mg/m 2, about 50 to about 75 mg/m 2 , about 75 to about 100
mg/m 2 , about 100 to about 125 mg/ni 2, about 125 to about 150 mg/n 2 , about 150 to about
175 mg/m2 , about 175 to about 200 mg/m 2 , about 200 to about 225 mg/m2 , about 225 to
about 250 mg/in 2 , about 250 to about 300 mg/m2 , about 300 to about 350 mg/m 2 , or about
                                                   113

350 to about 400 mg/m 2 . In some embodiments, the amount (dose) of a taxane (e.g.,
paclitaxel) in the composition is about 5 to about 300 mg/m 2, such as about 20 to about 300
mg/m 2 , about 50 to about 250 mg/rm2, about 100 to about 150 mg/m 2 , about 120 mg/m 2 , about
 130 mg/m 2 , or about 140 mg/m 2 , or about 260 mg/m2 .
10170]     In some embodiments of any of the above aspects, the amount (dose) of a taxane
(e.g., paclitaxel) in the composition includes at least about any of 1 mg/kg, 2.5 mg/kg, 3.5
mg/kg, 5 mg/kg, 6.5 mg/kg, 7.5 mg/kg, 10 mg/kg, 15 mg/kg, or 20 mg/kg. In various
embodiments, the amount (dose) of a taxane (e.g., paclitaxel) in the composition includes less
than about any of 350 mg/kg, 300 mg/kg, 250 mg/kg, 200 mg/kg, 150 mg/kg, 100 mg/kg, 50
mg/kg, 25 mg/kg, 20 mg/kg, 10 mg/kg, 7.5 mg/kg, 6.5 mg/kg, 5 mg/kg, 3.5 mg/kg, 2.5
mg/kg, or 1 mg/kg of a taxane (e.g., paclitaxel).
10171]     Exemplary dosing frequencies for the nanoparticle composition (and as indicated
below for the other agent) include, but are not limited to, weekly without break; weekly, three
out of four weeks; once every three weeks; once every two weeks; weekly, two out of three
weeks. In some embodiments, the composition is administered about once every 2 weeks,
once every 3 weeks, once every 4 weeks, once every 6 weeks, or once every 8 weeks. In
some embodiments, the composition is administered at least about any of 1x, 2x, 3x, 4x, 5x,
6x, or 7x (i.e., daily) a week, or three times daily, two times daily. In some embodiments, the
intervals between each administration are less than about any of 6 months, 3 months, 1
month, 20 days, 15 days, 12 days, 10 days, 9 days, 8 days, 7 days, 6 days, 5 days, 4 days, 3
days, 2 days, or 1 day. In some embodiments, the intervals between each administration are
more than about any of 1 month, 2 months, 3 months, 4 months, 5 months, 6 months, 8
months, or 12 months. In some embodiments, there is no break in the dosing schedule. In
some embodiments, the interval between each administration is no more than about a week.
10172]     In some embodiments, the taxane in the nanoparticle composition is administered
weekly. In some embodiments, the taxane in a nanoparticle composition is administered
every two weeks. In some embodiments, the taxane in the nanoparticle composition is
administered every three weeks. In some embodiments, the other agent is administered 1x,
2x, 3x, 4x, 5x, 6x, or 7 times a week. In some embodiments, the other agent is administered
every two weeks or two out of three weeks. In some embodiments, the taxane is paclitaxel.
In some embodiment, the other agent is a platinum-based agent (such as carboplatin). In some
embodiments of the above dosages and/or administrations, the taxane is paclitaxel and the
other agent is carboplatin.
                                                114

[0173]    The administration of the nanoparticle composition (and for the other agent) can be
extended over an extended period of time, such as from about a month up to about seven
years. In some embodiments, the composition is administered over a period of at least about
any of 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 18, 24, 30, 36, 48, 60, 72, or 84 months. In some
embodiments, the taxane (e.g., paclitaxel) is administered over a period of at least one month,
wherein the interval between each administration is no more than about a week, and wherein
the dose of the taxane (e.g., paclitaxel) at each administration is about 0.25 mg/m2 to about 75
mg/m 2 , such as about 0.25 mg/m2 to about 25 mg/m2 or about 25 mg/m2 to about 50 mg/m2
10174]    The dosing frequency of the other agent (e.g., a platinum-based agent such as
carboplatin) can be the same or different from that of the nanoparticle composition.
Exemplary frequencies are provided above. As further example, the other agent can be
administered three times a day, two times a day, daily, 6 times a week, 5 times a week, 4
times a week, 3 times a week, two times a week, weekly, weekly for two weeks of three
weeks, or weekly for three weeks of four weeks. In some embodiments, the other agent is
administered twice daily or three times daily.
101751    In some embodiments, the dosage of a taxane (e.g., paclitaxel) in a nanoparticle
composition can be in the range of 5-400 mg/m 2 when given on a 3 week schedule, or 5-250
mg/m 2 when given on a weekly schedule. For example, the amount of a taxane (e.g.,
paclitaxel) can be about 60 to about 300 mg/m 2 (e.g., about 260 mg/m 2 ) when given on a
three week schedule.
10176]    Other exemplary dosing schedules for the administration of the nanoparticle
composition (e.g., paclitaxel/albumin nanoparticle composition) include, but are not limited
to, 100 mg/m 2 , weekly, without break; 75 mg/n       2 weekly, 3 out of four weeks; 100 mg/n 2 ,
weekly, 3 out of 4 weeks; 125 mg/m 2, weekly, 3 out of 4 weeks; 125 mg/m2 , weekly, 2 out of
3 weeks; 130 mg/m2 , weekly, without break; 175 mg/m 2 , once every 2 weeks; 260 mg/mn2,
once every 2 weeks; 260 mg/m 2, once every 3 weeks; 180-300 mg/m 2 , every three weeks; 60
 175 mg/m 2 , weekly, without break; 20-150 mg/m2 , twice a week; and 150-250 mg/m2 twice a
week. The dosing frequency of the composition may be adjusted over the course of the
treatment based on the judgment of the administering physician.
10177]    In some embodiments, the individual is treated for at least about any of one, two,
three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, or ten treatment cycles. The compositions described
herein allow infusion of the composition to an individual over an infusion time that is shorter
than about 24 hours. For example, in some embodiments, the composition is administered
                                                   115

over an infusion period of less than about any of 24 hours, 12 hours, 8 hours, 5 hours, 3
hours, 2 hours, 1 hour, 30 minutes, 20 minutes, or 10 minutes. In some embodiments, the
composition is administered over an infusion period of about 30 minutes.
10178]    Other exemplary dose of the taxane (in some embodiments paclitaxel) in the
nanoparticle composition include, but is not limited to, about any of 50 mg/m2, 60 mg/m 2, 75
mg/m 2 , 80 mg/i  2
                    , 90 mg/m 2 , 100 mg/m 2 , 120 mg/m 2 , 160 mg/m 2 , 175 mg/m 2, 200 mg/m 2 ,
210 mg/m 2, 220 mng/m2, 260 mg/m 2 , and 300 mg/m2. For example, the dosage of paclitaxel
                                                                              2
in a nanoparticle composition can be in the range of about 100-400 mg/n         when given on a 3
week schedule, or about 50-250 mg/m 2 when given on a weekly schedule.
10179]    The dosage of the other agent (e.g., a platinum-based agent such as carboplatin)
may be determined using methods known in the field. For example, the dosage of the other
agent may be determined by calculating the area under the blood plasma concentration curve
(AUC) by methods known in the field, taking into account the individual's creatinine
clearance rate. The dosage of the other agent may be adjusted (e.g., reduced) based on the
individual's symptoms (such as adverse reactions). In some embodiments, the dosage of the
other agent for combination treatment along with the taxane nanoparticles is calculated to
provide an AUC of about 0.1-10 mg/ml min, about 1-8 mg/ml min, about 1.5 to about 7.5
mg/ml min, about 2 to about 6 mg/ml min or about any of 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, or 7 mg/ml min.
The other agent such as carboplatin may be administered systematically. The other agent may
be administered intravenously. The other agent may be administered over a period of about
10 to about 300 minutes, about 30 to about 180 minutes, about 45 to about 120 minutes or
about 60 minutes.
[0180]    Other exemplary amounts of the other agent (e.g., a platinum-based agent such as
carboplatin) include, but are not limited to, any of the following ranges: about 0.5 to about 5
mg, about 5 to about 10 mg, about 10 to about 15 mg, about 15 to about 20 mg, about 20 to
about 25 mg, about 20 to about 50 mg, about 25 to about 50 mg, about 50 to about 75 mg,
about 50 to about 100 mg, about 75 to about 100 mg, about 100 to about 125 mg, about 125
to about 150 mg, about 150 to about 175 mg, about 175 to about 200 ng, about 200 to about
225 mug, about 225 to about 250 mg, about 250 to about 300 mg, about 300 to about 350 mg,
about 350 to about 400 mg, about 400 to about 450 mg, or about 450 to about 500 mg. For
example, the other agent can be administered at a dose of about 1 mg/kg to about 200 mg/kg
(including for example about 1 mg/kg to about 20 mg/kg, about 20 mg/kg to about 40 mg/kg,
about 40 mg/kg to about 60 mg/kg, about 60 mg/kg to about 80 mg/kg, about 80 mg/kg to
                                                  116

about 100 mg/kg, about 100 mg/kg to about 120 mg/kg, about 120 mg/kg to about 140
mg/kg, about 140 mg/kg to about 200 mg/kg).
10181]    The dosage of the other agent (e.g., carboplatin) may be determined by calculating
the area under the blood plasma concentration curve (AUC) by methods known in the field,
taking into account the individual's creatinine clearance rate. The dosage of the other agent
may be adjusted (e.g., reduced) based on the individual's symptoms (such as adverse
reactions). In some embodiments, the dosage of the other agent such as carboplatin for
combination treatment along with the taxane nanoparticles is calculated to provide an AUC
of about 0.1-10 mg/mil min, about 1-8 mg/mil min, about 1.5 to about 7.5 mg/ml min, about 2
to about 6 mg/ml min or about any of 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, or 7 mg/ml min. The other agent such as
carboplatin may be administered systematically. The other agent such as carboplatin may be
administered intravenously. The other agent such as carboplatin may be administered via
portacath. The other agent such as carboplatin may be administered over a period of about 10
to about 300 minutes, about 30 to about 180 minutes, about 45 to about 120 minutes or about
60 minutes.
101821    The dosing frequency of the other agent can be the same or different from that of
the nanoparticle composition. Exemplary frequencies are provided above. As further
example, the other agent can be administered three times a day, two times a day, daily, 6
times a week, 5 times a week, 4 times a week, 3 times a week, two times a week, weekly. In
some embodiments, the other agent is administered twice daily or three times daily.
10183]    In some embodiments, the amount (dose) of taxane in the nanoparticle composition
is between about 45 mg/m2 to about 350 mg/m 2 and the amount (dose) of the other agent is
about 1 mg/kg to about 200 mg/kg (including for example about 1 mg/kg to about 20 mg/kg,
about 20 mg/kg to about 40 mg/kg, about 40 mg/kg to about 60 mg/kg, about 60 mg/kg to
about 80 mg/kg, about 80 mg/kg to about 100 mg/kg, about 100 mg/kg to about 120 mg/kg,
about 120 mg/kg to about 140 mg/kg, about 140 mg/kg to about 200 mg/kg). In some
embodiments, the amount (dose) of taxane in the nanoparticle composition is between about
80 mg/m 2 to about 350 mg/m 2 and the amount (dose) of the other agent is about 1 mg/kg to
about 200 mg/kg (including for example about I mg/kg to about 20 mg/kg, about 20 mg/kg to
about 40 mg/kg, about 40 mg/kg to about 60 mg/kg, about 60 mg/kg to about 80 mg/kg,
about 80 mg/kg to about 100 mg/kg, about 100 mg/kg to about 120 mg/kg, about 120 mg/kg
to about 140 mg/kg, about 140 mg/kg to about 200 mg/kg). In some embodiments, the
amount (dose) of taxane in the nanoparticle composition is between about 80 mg/m 2 to about
                                               117

300 mg/m 2 and the amount (dose) of the other agent is about 1 mg/kg to about 200 mg/kg
(including for example about 1 mg/kg to about 20 mg/kg, about 20 mg/kg to about 40 mg/kg,
about 40 mg/kg to about 60 mg/kg, about 60 mg/kg to about 80 mg/kg, about 80 mg/kg to
about 100 mg/kg, about 100 mg/kg to about 120 mg/kg, about 120 mg/kg to about 140
mg/kg, about 140 mg/kg to about 200 mg/kg). In some embodiments, the amount (dose) of
taxane in the nanoparticle composition is between about 150 mg/m 2 to about 350 mg/m 2 and
the amount (dose) of the other agent is about 1 mg/kg to about 200 mg/kg (including for
example about 1 mg/kg to about 20 mg/kg, about 20 mg/kg to about 40 mg/kg, about 40
mg/kg to about 60 mg/kg, about 60 mg/kg to about 80 mg/kg, about 80 mg/kg to about 100
mg/kg, about 100 mg/kg to about 120 mg/kg, about 120 mg/kg to about 140 mg/kg, about
140 mg/kg to about 200 mg/kg). In some embodiments, the amount (dose) of taxane in the
nanoparticle composition is between about 80 mg/m 2 to about 150 mg/m 2 and the amount
(dose) of the other agent is about 1 mg/kg to about 200 mg/kg (including for example about 1
mg/kg to about 20 mg/kg, about 20 mg/kg to about 40 mg/kg, about 40 mg/kg to about 60
mg/kg, about 60 mg/kg to about 80 mg/kg, about 80 mg/kg to about 100 mg/kg, about 100
mg/kg to about 120 mg/kg, about 120 mg/kg to about 140 mg/kg, about 140 mg/kg to about
200 mg/kg). In some embodiments, the amount (dose) of taxane (e.g., paclitaxel) in the
nanoparticle composition is about 100 mg/m2 . In some embodiments, the amount (dose) of
taxane in the nanoparticle composition is between about 170 mg/m 2 to about 200 mg/m 2 and
the amount (dose) of the other agent is about 1 mg/kg to about 200 mg/kg (including for
example about 1 mg/kg to about 20 mg/kg, about 20 mg/kg to about 40 mg/kg, about 40
mg/kg to about 60 mg/kg, about 60 mg/kg to about 80 mg/kg, about 80 mg/kg to about 100
mg/kg, about 100 mg/kg to about 120 mg/kg, about 120 mg/kg to about 140 mg/kg, about
140 mg/kg to about 200 mg/kg). In some embodiments, the amount (dose) of taxane in the
nanoparticle composition is between about 200 mg/m 2 to about 350 mg/m 2 and the amount
(dose) of the other agent is about 1 mg/kg to about 200 mg/kg (including for example about 1
mg/kg to about 20 mg/kg, about 20 mg/kg to about 40 mg/kg, about 40 mg/kg to about 60
mg/kg, about 60 mg/kg to about 80 mg/kg, about 80 mg/kg to about 100 mg/kg, about 100
mg/kg to about 120 mg/kg, about 120 mg/kg to about 140 mg/kg, about 140 mg/kg to about
200 mg/kg). In some embodiments, the amount (dose) of taxane (e.g., paclitaxel) in the
nanoparticle composition is about 260 mg/m2 . In some embodiments of any of the above
methods, the amount (dose) of the other agent is about 20-30 mg/kg, about 30-40 mg/kg,
                                              118

about 40-50 mg/kg, about 50-60 mg/kg, about 60-70 mg/kg, about 70-80 mg/kg, about 80
100 mg/kg, or about 100-120 mg/kg.
10184]    In some embodiments, the amount (dose) of taxane in the nanoparticle composition
is between about 45 mg/m 2 to about 350 mg/m2 and the amount (dose) of the other agent is
about 80 mg to about 1000 mg (including for example about 80 to about 100 mg, about 100
to about 200 mg, about 200 to about 300 mg, about 300 to about 400 mg, about 400 to about
500 mg, about 500 to about 600 mg, about 600 to about 700 mg, about 700 to about 800 mg,
about 800 to about 900 mg, about 900 mg to about 1000 mg). In some embodiments, the
amount of (dose) taxane in the nanoparticle composition is between about 80 mg/m 2 to about
350 mg/m 2 and the amount (dose) of the other agent is about 80 mg to about 1000 mg
(including for example about 80 to about 100 mg, about 100 to about 200 mg, about 200 to
about 300 mg, about 300 to about 400 mg, about 400 to about 500 mg, about 500 to about
600 mg, about 600 to about 700 mg, about 700 to about 800 mg, about 800 to about 900 mg,
about 900 mg to about 1000 mg). In some embodiments, the amount (dose) of taxane in the
nanoparticle composition is between about 80 mg/m 2 to about 300 mg/m 2 and the amount
(dose) of the other agent is about 80 mg to about 1000 mg (including for example about 80 to
about 100 mg, about 100 to about 200 mg, about 200 to about 300 mg, about 300 to about
400 mg, about 400 to about 500 mg, about 500 to about 600 mg, about 600 to about 700 mg,
about 700 to about 800 mg, about 800 to about 900 mg, about 900 mg to about 1000 mg). In
some embodiments, the amount (dose) of taxane in the nanoparticle composition is between
about 150 mg/m 2 to about 350 mg/m 2 and the amount (dose) of the other agent is about 80
mg to about 1000 mg (including for example about 80 to about 100 mg, about 100 to about
200 mg, about 200 to about 300 mg, about 300 to about 400 mg, about 400 to about 500 mg,
about 500 to about 600 mg, about 600 to about 700 mg, about 700 to about 800 mg, about
800 to about 900 mg, about 900 mg to about 1000 mg). In some embodiments, the amount
(dose) of taxane in the nanoparticle composition is between about 80 mg/m 2 to about 150
mg/m 2 and the amount (dose) of the other agent is about 80 mg to about 1000 mg (including
for example about 80 to about 100 mg, about 100 to about 200 mg, about 200 to about 300
mg, about 300 to about 400 mg, about 400 to about 500 mg, about 500 to about 600 mug,
about 600 to about 700 mg, about 700 to about 800 mg, about 800 to about 900 mg, about
900 mg to about 1000 mg). In some embodiments, the amount (dose) of taxane in the
nanoparticle composition is between about 170 mg/m2 to about 200 mg/m 2 and the amount
(dose) of the other agent is about 80 mg to about 1000 mg (including for example about 80 to
                                              119

about 100 mg, about 100 to about 200 mg, about 200 to about 300 mg, about 300 to about
400 mg, about 400 to about 500 mg, about 500 to about 600 mg, about 600 to about 700 mg,
about 700 to about 800 mg, about 800 to about 900 mg, about 900 mg to about 1000 mg). In
some embodiments, the amount (dose) of taxane in the nanoparticle composition is between
about 200 mg/m2 to about 350 mg/m 2 and the amount (dose) of the other agent is about 80
mg to about 1000 mg (including for example about 80 to about 100 mg, about 100 to about
200 mg, about 200 to about 300 mg, about 300 to about 400 mg, about 400 to about 500 mg,
about 500 to about 600 mg, about 600 to about 700 mg, about 700 to about 800 mg, about
800 to about 900 mg, about 900 mg to about 1000 mg). In some embodiments, the amount
(dose) of taxane (e.g., paclitaxel) in the nanoparticle composition is about 100 mg/m 2 . In
some embodiments of any of the above methods, the amount (dose) of the other agent is
about 100-200 mg, about 200-300 mg, about 300-400 mg, about 400-500 mg.
[0185]    In some embodiments, the amount (dose) of taxane in the nanoparticle composition
is between about 50 mg/m 2 to about 400 mg/m 2 (including for example about 100 mg/m 2 to
about 300 mg/in 2, about 75 mg/m 2 to about 150 mg/m2, or about 100 mg/m 2 to about 150
mg/m 2 ) and the amount (dose) of the other agent (e.g., carboplatin) is about AUCI to about
AUC7 (including for example about AUC2 to about AUC6, or about any of AUC1, AUC2,
AUC3, AUC4, AUC5, or AUC6). In some embodiments, the amount (dose) of taxane in the
nanoparticle composition is between about 100 mg/m2 to about 300 mg/m2 (e.g., about 100
mg/m 2 to about 150 mg/m 2 ) and the amount (dose) of the other agent is about AUC2 to about
AUC6 (e.g., about any of AUC2, AUC3, AUC4, AUC5, or AUC6). In some embodiments,
the amount (dose) of taxane in the nanoparticle composition is between about 100 mg/m 2 to
about 150 mg/m 2 and the amount (dose) of the other agent is about AUC4 to about AUC6
(e.g., about any of AUC4, AUC5, or AUC6).
10186]    In some embodiments, there is provided a method of treating melanoma in an
individual (e.g., human) comprising administering to the individual (a) an effective amount of
a composition comprising nanoparticles comprising a taxane (e.g., paclitaxel) and a carrier
protein (e.g., albumin such as human serum albumin or human albumin) and (b) an effective
amount of at least one other agent (e.g., carboplatin), wherein the dose of taxane in the
nanoparticle composition is between about 50 mg/m 2 to about 400 mg/m 2 (including for
example about 100 mg/m2 to about 300 mg/m 2 , about 100 mg/m2 to about 200 mg/m 2 , or
about 100 mg/n 2 to about 150 mg/m 2 , or about 100 mg/m2 , or about 150 mg/m 2 ) and the dose
of the other agent (e.g., carboplatin) is about AUCI to about AUC7 (including for example
                                                120

about AUC2 to about AUC6, or about any of AUCI, AUC2, AUC3, AUC4, AUC5, or
AUC6). In some embodiments, the nanoparticle composition is administered weekly for three
weeks of four weeks or weekly. In some embodiments, the other agent is administered
weekly for three weeks of four weeks or weekly. In some embodiments, the carrier protein is
albumin such as human serum albumin or human albumin. In some embodiments, the taxane
is paclitaxel. In some embodiments, the one other agent is a platinum-based agent. In some
embodiments, the one other agent is carboplatin.
10187]     The nanoparticle composition (and the other agent) described herein can be
administered to an individual (such as human) via various routes, including, for example,
intravenous, intra-arterial, intraperitoneal, intrapulmonary, oral, inhalation, intravesicular,
intramuscular, intra-tracheal, subcutaneous, intraocular, intrathecal, transmucosal, and
transdermal. In some embodiments, sustained continuous release formulation of the
composition may be used. In one variation of the invention, nanoparticles (such as albumin
nanoparticles) can be administered by any acceptable route including, but not limited to,
orally, intramuscularly, transdermally, intravenously, through an inhaler or other air borne
delivery systems and the like. Any of the routes that may be used to administer a nanoparticle
composition described herein may be used to administer the other agent. The other agent
described herein can be administered to an individual (such as human) via various routes,
such as parenterally, including intravenous, intraventricular, intra-arterial, intraperitoneal,
intrapulmonary, oral, inhalation, intravesicular, intramuscular, intra-tracheal, subcutaneous,
intraocular, intrathecal, or transdernal. In some embodiments, the other agent is
administrated systemically. In some embodiments, the other agent is administrated
intravenously. In some embodiments, the other agent is administrated by infusion. In some
embodiments, the other agent is administrated by a port or portacath. In some embodiments,
the nanoparticle composition is administered orally.
10188]     As will be understood by those of ordinary skill in the art, the appropriate doses of
other agents will be approximately those already employed in clinical therapies wherein the
other agent are administered alone or in combination with other agents. Variation in dosage
will likely occur depending on the condition being treated. As described above, in some
embodiments, the other agents may be administered at a reduced level.
10189]     A combination of the administration configurations described herein can be used.
The combination therapy methods described herein may be performed alone or in conjunction
with an additional therapy, such as chemotherapy, radiation therapy (e.g., whole brain
                                                 121

radiation therapy), surgery, hormone therapy, gene therapy, immunotherapy,
chemoimmunotherapy, cryotherapy, ultrasound therapy, liver transplantation, local ablative
therapy, radiofrequency ablation therapy, photodynamic therapy, and the like. Additionally,
a person having a greater risk of developing the proliferative disease may receive treatments
to inhibit and/or delay the development of the disease.
Nanoparticle Compositions
10190]     The nanoparticle compositions described herein comprise nanoparticles comprising
(in various embodiments consisting essentially of) a taxane (such as paclitaxel) and a carrier
protein (e.g., an albumin such as human serum albumin or human albumin). Nanoparticles of
poorly water soluble drugs (such as taxane) have been disclosed in, for example, U.S. Pat.
Nos. 5,916,596; 6,506,405; 6,749,868, 6,537,579, 7,820,788, and also in U.S. Pat. Pub. Nos.
2006/0263434, and 2007/0082838; PCT Patent Application W008/137148, each of which is
incorporated by reference in their entirety.
10191]     In some embodiments, the composition comprises nanoparticles with an average or
mean diameter of no greater than about 1000 nanometers (nm), such as no greater than about
(or less than about) any of 900, 800, 700, 600, 500, 400, 300, 200, and 100 nm. In some
embodiments, the average or mean diameters of the nanoparticles is no greater than about
200 nm (such as less than about 200 nm). In some embodiments, the average or mean
diameters of the nanoparticles is no greater than about 150 nm. In some embodiments, the
average or mean diameters of the nanoparticles is no greater than about 100 nm. In some
embodiments, the average or mean diameter of the nanoparticles is about 20 to about 400 nm.
In some embodiments, the average or mean diameter of the nanoparticles is about 40 to about
200 nm. In some embodiments, the nanoparticles are sterile-filterable.
10192]     In some embodiments, the nanoparticles in the composition described herein have
an average diameter of no greater than about 200 nm, including for example no greater than
about any one of 190, 180, 170, 160, 150, 140, 130, 120, 110, 100, 90, 80, 70, or 60 nm. In
some embodiments, at least about 50% (for example at least about any one of 60%, 70%,
80%, 90%, 95%, or     9 9 %) of the nanoparticles in the composition have a diameter of no
greater than about 200 nm, including for example no greater than about any one of 190, 180,
170, 160, 150, 140, 130, 120, 110, 100, 90, 80, 70, or 60 nm. In some embodiments, at least
about 50% (for example at least any one of 60%, 70%, 80%, 90%, 95%, or 99%) of the
nanoparticles in the composition fall within the range of about 20 to about 400 nm, including
                                                 122

for example about 20 to about 200 nm, about 40 to about 200 nm, about 30 to about 180 nm,
and any one of about 40 to about 150, about 50 to about 120, and about 60 to about 100 nm.
10193]     In some embodiments, the carrier protein (e.g., albumin) has sulfhydral groups that
can form disulfide bonds. In some embodiments, at least about 5% (including for example at
least about any one of 10%, 15%, 20%, 25%, 30%, 40%, 50%, 60%, 70%, 80%, or 90%) of
carrier protein (e.g., albumin) in the nanoparticle portion of the composition are crosslinked
(for example crosslinked through one or more disulfide bonds).
10194]     In some embodiments, the nanoparticles comprise the taxane (such as paclitaxel)
coated with a carrier protein (e.g., an albumin such as human albumin or human serum
albumin). In some embodiments, the composition comprises a taxane in both nanoparticle
and non-nanoparticle forms (e.g., in the form of paclitaxel solutions or in the form of soluble
carrier protein/nanoparticle complexes), wherein at least about any one of 50%, 60%, 70%,
80%, 90%, 95%, or 99% of the taxane in the composition are in nanoparticle form. In some
embodiments, the taxane in the nanoparticles constitutes more than about any one of 50%,
60%, 70%, 80%, 90%, 95%, or 99% of the nanoparticles by weight. In some embodiments,
the nanoparticles have a non-polymeric matrix. In some embodiments, the nanoparticles
comprise a core of a taxane that is substantially free of polymeric materials (such as
polymeric matrix).
10195]     In some embodiments, the composition comprises a carrier protein (e.g., albumin) in
both nanoparticle and non-nanoparticle portions of the composition, wherein at least about
any one of 50%, 60%, 70%, 80%, 90%, 95%, or 99% of the carrier protein (e.g., albumin) in
the composition are in non-nanoparticle portion of the composition.
[0196]     In some embodiments, the weight ratio of albumin (such as human albumin or
human serum albumin) and a taxane in the nanoparticle composition is about 18:1 or less,
such as about 15:1 or less, for example about 10:1 or less. In some embodiments, the weight
ratio of albumin (such as human albumin or human serum albumin) and taxane in the
composition falls within the range of any one of about 1:1 to about 18:1, about 2:1 to about
15:1, about 3:1 to about 13:1, about 4:1 to about 12:1, about 5:1 to about 10:1. In some
embodiments, the weight ratio of albumin and taxane in the nanoparticle portion of the
composition is about any one of 1:2, 1:3, 1:4, 1:5, 1:9, 1:10, 1:15, or less. In some
embodiments, the weight ratio of the albumin (such as human albumin or human serum
albumin) and the taxane in the composition is any one of the following: about 1:1 to about
18:1, about 1:1 to about 15:1, about 1:1 to about 12:1, about 1:1 to about 10:1, about 1:1 to
                                                123

about 9:1, about 1:1 to about 8:1, about 1:1 to about 7:1, about 1:1 to about 6:1, about 1:1 to
about 5:1, about 1:1 to about 4:1, about 1:1 to about 3:1, about 1:1 to about 2:1, about 1:1 to
about 1:1.
101971    In some embodiments, the nanoparticle composition comprises one or more of the
above characteristics.
10198]    The nanoparticles described herein may be present in a dry formulation (such as
lyophilized composition) or suspended in a biocompatible medium. Suitable biocompatible
media include, but are not limited to, water, buffered aqueous media, saline, buffered saline,
optionally buffered solutions of amino acids, optionally buffered solutions of proteins,
optionally buffered solutions of sugars, optionally buffered solutions of vitamins, optionally
buffered solutions of synthetic polymers, lipid-containing emulsions, and the like.
10199]    In some embodiments, the pharmaceutically acceptable carrier comprises a carrier
protein (e.g., albumin such as human albumin or human serum albumin). Examples of
suitable carrier proteins include proteins normally found in blood or plasma, which include,
but are not limited to, albumin, immunoglobulin including IgA, lipoproteins, apolipoprotein
B, a-acid glycoprotein, P-2-macroglobulin, thyroglobulin, transferrin, fibronectin, factor VII,
factor VIII, factor IX, factor X, and the like. In some embodiments, the carrier protein is non
blood protein, such as casein, a-lactalbumin,    p-lactoglobulin. The proteins may either be
natural in origin or synthetically prepared. In some embodiments, the protein is albumin, such
as human albumin or human serum albumin. In some embodiments, the albumin is a
recombinant albumin.
10200]    Human serum albumin (HSA) is a highly soluble globular protein of Mr 65K and
consists of 585 amino acids. HSA is the most abundant protein in the plasma and accounts
for 70-80 % of the colloid osmotic pressure of human plasma. The amino acid sequence of
HSA contains a total of 17 disulphide bridges, one free thiol (Cys 34), and a single
tryptophan (Trp 214). Intravenous use of HSA solution has been indicated for the prevention
and treatment of hypovolumic shock (see, e.g., Tullis, JAMA, 237, 355-360, 460-463,
(1977)) and Houser et al., Surgery, Gynecology and Obstetrics, 150, 811-816 (1980)) and in
conjunction with exchange transfusion in the treatment of neonatal hyperbilirubinemia (see,
e.g., Finlayson, Seminars in Thrombosis and Hemostasis, 6, 85-120, (1980)).       Other
albumins are contemplated, such as bovine serum albumin. Use of such non-human albumins
could be appropriate, for example, in the context of use of these compositions in non-human
mammals, such as the veterinary (including domestic pets and agricultural context). Human
                                                 124

serum albumin (HSA) has multiple hydrophobic binding sites (a total of eight for fatty acids,
an endogenous ligand of HSA) and binds a diverse set of taxanes, especially neutral and
negatively charged hydrophobic compounds (Goodman et al., The Pharmacological Basis of
Therapeutics, 9th ed, McGraw-Hill New York (1996)). Two high affinity binding sites have
been proposed in subdomains IIA and IIIA of HSA, which are highly elongated hydrophobic
pockets with charged lysine and arginine residues near the surface which function as
attachment points for polar ligand features (see, e.g., Fehske et al., Biochem. Pharmcol., 30,
687-92 (198a), Vorum, Dan. Med. Bull., 46, 3 79-99 (1999), Kragh-Hansen, Dan. Med. Bull.,
1441, 131-40 (1990), Curry et al., Nat. Struct. Biol., 5, 827-35 (1998), Sugio et al., Protein.
Eng., 12, 439-46 (1999), He et al., Nature, 358, 209-15 (199b), and Carter et al., Adv.
Protein. Chem., 45, 153-203 (1994)). Paclitaxel and propofol have been shown to bind HSA
(see, e.g., Paal et al., Eur. J. Biochem., 268(7), 2187-91 (200a), Purcell et al., Biochim.
Biophys. Acta, 1478(a), 61-8 (2000), Altmayer et al., Arzneimittelforschung, 45, 1053-6
(1995), and Garrido et al., Rev. Esp. Anestestiol. Reanim., 41, 308-12 (1994)). In addition,
docetaxel has been shown to bind to human plasma proteins (see, e.g., Urien et al., Invest.
New Drugs, 14(b), 147-51 (1996)).
10201]     The carrier protein (e.g., albumin such as human albumin or human serum albumin)
in the composition generally serves as a carrier for the taxane, i.e., the albumin in the
composition makes the taxane more readily suspendable in an aqueous medium or helps
maintain the suspension as compared to compositions not comprising a carrier protein. This
can avoid the use of toxic solvents (or surfactants) for solubilizing the taxane, and thereby
can reduce one or more side effects of administration of the taxane into an individual (such as
a human). Thus, in some embodiments, the composition described herein is substantially free
(such as free) of surfactants, such as Cremophor (or polyoxyethylated castor oil) (including
Cremophor EL (BASF)). In some embodiments, the nanoparticle composition is
substantially free (such as free) of surfactants. A composition is "substantially free of
Cremophor" or "substantially free of surfactant" if the amount of Cremophor or surfactant in
the composition is not sufficient to cause one or more side effect(s) in an individual when the
nanoparticle composition is administered to the individual. In some embodiments, the
nanoparticle composition contains less than about any one of 20%, 15%, 10%, 7.5%, 5%,
2.5%, or 1% organic solvent or surfactant. In some embodiments, the carrier protein is an
albumin. In some embodiments, the albumin is human albumin or human serum albumin. In
some embodiments, the albumin is recombinant albumin.
                                                 125

[0202]     The amount of a carrier protein such as albumin in the composition described herein
will vary depending on other components in the composition. In some embodiments, the
composition comprises a carrier protein such as an albumin in an amount that is sufficient to
stabilize the taxane in an aqueous suspension, for example, in the form of a stable colloidal
suspension (such as a stable suspension of nanoparticles). In some embodiments, the carrier
protein such as albumin is in an amount that reduces the sedimentation rate of the taxane in
an aqueous medium. For particle-containing compositions, the amount of the carrier protein
such as albumin also depends on the size and density of nanoparticles of the taxane.
10203]     A taxane is "stabilized" in an aqueous suspension if it remains suspended in an
aqueous medium (such as without visible precipitation or sedimentation) for an extended
period of time, such as for at least about any of 0.1, 0.2, 0.25, 0.5, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10,
11, 12, 24, 36, 48, 60, or 72 hours. The suspension is generally, but not necessarily, suitable
for administration to an individual (such as human). Stability of the suspension is generally
(but not necessarily) evaluated at a storage temperature (such as room temperature (such as
20-25 C) or refrigerated conditions (such as 4 C)). For example, a suspension is stable at a
storage temperature if it exhibits no flocculation or particle agglomeration visible to the
naked eye or when viewed under the optical microscope at 1000 times, at about fifteen
minutes after preparation of the suspension. Stability can also be evaluated under accelerated
testing conditions, such as at a temperature that is higher than about 40 'C.
[02041     In some embodiments, the carrier protein (e.g., albumin) is present in an amount
that is sufficient to stabilize the taxane in an aqueous suspension at a certain concentration.
For example, the concentration of the taxane in the composition is about 0.1 to about 100
mg/ml, including for example any of about 0.1 to about 50 mg/ml, about 0.1 to about 20
mg/ml, about I to about 10 mg/ml, about 2 mg/ml to about 8 mg/ml, about 4 to about 6
mg/ml, or about 5 mg/ml. In some embodiments, the concentration of the taxane is at least
about any of 1.3 mg/ml, 1.5 mg/ml, 2 mg/ml, 3 mg/ml, 4 mg/ml, 5 mg/ml, 6 mg/ml, 7 mg/ml,
8 mg/ml, 9 mg/ml, 10 mg/ml, 15 mg/ml, 20 mg/ml, 25 mg/ml, 30 mg/ml, 40 mg/ml, and 50
mg/ml. In some embodiments, the carrier protein (e.g., albumin) is present in an amount that
avoids use of surfactants (such as Cremophor), so that the composition is free or substantially
free of surfactant (such as Cremophor).
10205]     In some embodiments, the composition, in liquid form, comprises from about 0.1%
to about 50% (w/v) (e.g. about 0.5% (w/v), about 5% (w/v), about 10% (w/v), about 15%
(w/v), about 20% (w/v), about 30% (w/v), about 40% (w/v), or about 50% (w/v)) of carrier
                                                  126

protein (e.g., albumin). In some embodiments, the composition, in liquid form, comprises
about 0.5% to about 5% (w/v) of carrier protein (e.g., albumin).
10206]    In some embodiments, the weight ratio of a carrier protein (e.g., albumin) to the
taxane in the nanoparticle composition is such that a sufficient amount of taxane binds to, or
is transported by, the cell. While the weight ratio of a carrier protein (e.g., albumin) to taxane
will have to be optimized for different carrier protein (e.g., albumin) and taxane
combinations, generally the weight ratio of carrier protein (e.g., albumin), to taxane (w/w) is
about 0.01:1 to about 100:1, about 0.02:1 to about 50:1, about 0.05:1 to about 20:1, about
0.1:1 to about 20:1, about 1:1 to about 18:1, about 2:1 to about 15:1, about 3:1 to about 12:1,
about 4:1 to about 10:1, about 5:1 to about 9:1, or about 9:1. In some embodiments, the
carrier protein (e.g., albumin) to taxane weight ratio is about any of 18:1 or less, 15:1 or less,
14:1 or less, 13:1 or less, 12:1 or less, 11:1 or less, 10:1 or less, 9:1 or less, 8:1 or less, 7:1 or
less, 6:1 or less, 5:1 or less, 4:1 or less, and 3:1 or less. In some embodiments, the carrier
protein is albumin. In some embodiments, the weight ratio of the albumin ( such as human
albumin or human serum albumin) to the taxane in the composition is any one of the
following: about 1:1 to about 18:1, about 1:1 to about 15:1, about 1:1 to about 12:1, about 1:1
to about 10:1, about 1:1 to about 9:1, about 1:1 to about 8:1, about 1:1 to about 7:1, about 1:1
to about 6:1, about 1:1 to about 5:1, about 1:1 to about 4:1, about 1:1 to about 3:1, about 1:1
to about 2:1, about 1:1 to about 1:1.
[0207]    In some embodiments, the carrier protein (e.g., albumin) allows the composition to
be administered to an individual (such as human) without significant side effects. In some
embodiments, the carrier protein (e.g., albumin such as human serum albumin or human
albumin) is in an amount that is effective to reduce one or more side effects of administration
of the taxane to a human. The term "reducing one or more side effects of administration of
the taxane" refers to reduction, alleviation, elimination, or avoidance of one or more
undesirable effects caused by the taxane, as well as side effects caused by delivery vehicles
(such as solvents that render the taxanes suitable for injection) used to deliver the taxane.
Such side effects include, for example, myelosuppression, neurotoxicity, hypersensitivity,
inflammation, venous irritation, phlebitis, pain, skin irritation, peripheral neuropathy,
neutropenic fever, anaphylactic reaction, venous thrombosis, extravasation, and combinations
thereof These side effects, however, are merely exemplary and other side effects, or
combination of side effects, associated with taxanes can be reduced.
                                                   127

[0208]    In some embodiments, the nanoparticle compositions described herein comprises
nanoparticles comprising a taxane (such as paclitaxel) and an albumin (such as human
albumin or human serum albumin), wherein the nanoparticles have an average diameter of no
greater than about 200 nm. In some embodiments, the nanoparticle compositions described
herein comprises nanoparticles comprising a taxane (such as paclitaxel) and an albumin (such
as human albumin or human serum albumin), wherein the nanoparticles have an average
diameter of no greater than about 150 nm. In some embodiments, the nanoparticle
compositions described herein comprises nanoparticles comprising a taxane (such as
paclitaxel) and an albumin (such as human albumin or human serum albumin), wherein the
nanoparticles have an average diameter of about 130 nm. In some embodiments, the
nanoparticle compositions described herein comprises nanoparticles comprising paclitaxel
and human albumin (such as human serum albumin), wherein the nanoparticles have an
average diameter of about 130 nm.
10209]    In some embodiments, the nanoparticle compositions described herein comprises
nanoparticles comprising a taxane (such as paclitaxel) and an albumin (such as human
albumin or human serum albumin), wherein the nanoparticles have an average diameter of no
greater than about 200 nm, wherein the weight ratio of the albumin and the taxane in the
composition is no greater than about 9:1 (such as about 9:1). In some embodiments, the
nanoparticle compositions described herein comprises nanoparticles comprising a taxane
(such as paclitaxel) and an albumin (such as human albumin or human serum albumin),
wherein the nanoparticles have an average diameter of no greater than about 150 nm, wherein
the weight ratio of the albumin and the taxane in the composition is no greater than about 9:1
(such as about 9:1). In some embodiments, the nanoparticle compositions described herein
comprises nanoparticles comprising a taxane (such as paclitaxel) and an albumin (such as
human albumin or human serum albumin), wherein the nanoparticles have an average
diameter of about 150 nm, wherein the weight ratio of the albumin and the taxane in the
composition is no greater than about 9:1 (such as about 9:1). In some embodiments, the
nanoparticle compositions described herein comprises nanoparticles comprising paclitaxel
and human albumin (such as human serum albumin), wherein the nanoparticles have an
average diameter of about 130 nm, wherein the weight ratio of albumin and the taxane in the
composition is about 9:1.
10210]    In some embodiments, the nanoparticle compositions described herein comprises
nanoparticles comprising a taxane (such as paclitaxel) coated with an albumin (such as
                                              128

human albumin or human serum albumin). In some embodiments, the nanoparticle
compositions described herein comprises nanoparticles comprising a taxane (such as
paclitaxel) coated with an albumin (such as human albumin or human serum albumin),
wherein the nanoparticles have an average diameter of no greater than about 200 nm. In
some embodiments, the nanoparticle compositions described herein comprises nanoparticles
comprising a taxane (such as paclitaxel) coated with an albumin (such as human albumin or
human serum albumin), wherein the nanoparticles have an average diameter of no greater
than about 150 nm. In some embodiments, the nanoparticle compositions described herein
comprises nanoparticles comprising a taxane (such as paclitaxel) coated with an albumin
(such as human albumin or human serum albumin), wherein the nanoparticles have an
average diameter of about 130 nm. In some embodiments, the nanoparticle compositions
described herein comprises nanoparticles comprising paclitaxel coated with human albumin
(such as human serum albumin), wherein the nanoparticles have an average diameter of about
130 nm.
10211]    In some embodiments, the nanoparticle compositions described herein comprises
nanoparticles comprising a taxane (such as paclitaxel) coated with an albumin (such as
human albumin or human serum albumin), wherein the weight ratio of the albumin and the
taxane in the composition is no greater than about 9:1 (such as about 9:1). In some
embodiments, the nanoparticle compositions described herein comprises nanoparticles
comprising a taxane (such as paclitaxel) coated with an albumin (such as human albumin or
human serum albumin), wherein the nanoparticles have an average diameter of no greater
than about 200 nm, wherein the weight ratio of the albumin and the taxane in the composition
is no greater than about 9:1 (such as about 9:1). In some embodiments, the nanoparticle
compositions described herein comprises nanoparticles comprising a taxane (such as
paclitaxel) coated with an albumin (such as human albumin or human serum albumin),
wherein the nanoparticles have an average diameter of no greater than about 150 nm, wherein
the weight ratio of the albumin and the taxane in the composition is no greater than about 9:1
(such as about 9:1). In some embodiments, the nanoparticle compositions described herein
comprises nanoparticles comprising a taxane (such as paclitaxel) coated with an albumin
(such as human albumin or human serum albumin), wherein the nanoparticles have an
average diameter of about 150 nm, wherein the weight ratio of the albumin and the taxane in
the composition is no greater than about 9:1 (such as about 9:1). In some embodiments, the
nanoparticle compositions described herein comprises nanoparticles comprising paclitaxel
                                               129

coated with human albumin (such as human serum albumin), wherein the nanoparticles have
an average diameter of about 130 nm, wherein the weight ratio of albumin and the taxane in
the composition is about 9:1.
10212]    In some embodiments, the nanoparticle compositions described herein comprises
nanoparticles comprising a taxane (such as paclitaxel) stabilized by an albumin (such as
human albumin or human serum albumin). In some embodiments, the nanoparticle
compositions described herein comprises nanoparticles comprising a taxane (such as
paclitaxel) stabilized by an albumin (such as human albumin or human serum albumin),
wherein the nanoparticles have an average diameter of no greater than about 200 nm. In
some embodiments, the nanoparticle compositions described herein comprises nanoparticles
comprising a taxane (such as paclitaxel) stabilized by an albumin (such as human albumin or
human serum albumin), wherein the nanoparticles have an average diameter of no greater
than about 150 nm. In some embodiments, the nanoparticle compositions described herein
comprises nanoparticles comprising a taxane (such as paclitaxel) stabilized by an albumin
(such as human albumin or human serum albumin), wherein the nanoparticles have an
average diameter of about 130 nm. In some embodiments, the nanoparticle compositions
described herein comprises nanoparticles comprising paclitaxel stabilized by human albumin
(such as human serum albumin), wherein the nanoparticles have an average diameter of about
130 nm.
[02131    In some embodiments, the nanoparticle compositions described herein comprises
nanoparticles comprising a taxane (such as paclitaxel) stabilized by an albumin (such as
human albumin or human serum albumin), wherein the weight ratio of the albumin and the
taxane in the composition is no greater than about 9:1 (such as about 9:1). In some
embodiments, the nanoparticle compositions described herein comprises nanoparticles
comprising a taxane (such as paclitaxel) stabilized by an albumin (such as human albumin or
human serum albumin), wherein the nanoparticles have an average diameter of no greater
than about 200 nm, wherein the weight ratio of the albumin and the taxane in the composition
is no greater than about 9:1 (such as about 9:1). In some embodiments, the nanoparticle
compositions described herein comprises nanoparticles comprising a taxane (such as
paclitaxel) stabilized by an albumin (such as human albumin or human serum albumin),
wherein the nanoparticles have an average diameter of no greater than about 150 nm, wherein
the weight ratio of the albumin and the taxane in the composition is no greater than about 9:1
(such as about 9:1). In some embodiments, the nanoparticle compositions described herein
                                               130

comprises nanoparticles comprising a taxane (such as paclitaxel) stabilized by an albumin
(such as human albumin or human serum albumin), wherein the nanoparticles have an
average diameter of about 150 nm, wherein the weight ratio of the albumin and the taxane in
the composition is no greater than about 9:1 (such as about 9:1). In some embodiments, the
nanoparticle compositions described herein comprises nanoparticles comprising paclitaxel
stabilized by human albumin (such as human serum albumin), wherein the nanoparticles have
an average diameter of about 130 nm, wherein the weight ratio of albumin and the taxane in
the composition is about 9:1.
10214]     In some embodiments, the nanoparticle composition comprises Nab-paclitaxel (or
Abraxane*). In some embodiments, the nanoparticle composition is Nab-paclitaxel (or
Abraxane*). Abraxane* is a formulation of paclitaxel stabilized by human albumin USP,
which can be dispersed in directly injectable physiological solution. The weight ratio of
human albumin and paclitaxel is about 9:1. When dispersed in a suitable aqueous medium
such as 0.9% sodium chloride injection or 5% dextrose injection, Nab-paclitaxel (or
Abraxane*) forms a stable colloidal suspension of paclitaxel. The mean particle size of the
nanoparticles in the colloidal suspension is about 130 nanometers. Since HSA is freely
soluble in water, Nab-paclitaxel (or Abraxane*) can be reconstituted in a wide range of
concentrations ranging from dilute (0.1 mg/mil paclitaxel) to concentrated (20 mg/ml
paclitaxel), including for example about 2 mg/ml to about 8 mg/ml, or about 5 mg/ml.
[02151     Methods of making nanoparticle compositions are known in the art. For example,
nanoparticles containing taxanes (such as paclitaxel) and carrier protein (e.g., albumin such
as human serum albumin or human albumin) can be prepared under conditions of high shear
forces (e.g., sonication, high pressure homogenization, or the like). These methods are
disclosed in, for example, U.S. Pat. Nos. 5,916,596; 6,506,405; 6,749,868, 6,537,579 and
7,820,788 and also in U.S. Pat. Pub. Nos. 2007/0082838, 2006/0263434 and PCT Application
W008/137148.
10216]     Briefly, the taxane (such as paclitaxel) is dissolved in an organic solvent, and the
solution can be added to a carrier protein solution such as an albumin solution. The mixture
is subjected to high pressure homogenization. The organic solvent can then be removed by
evaporation. The dispersion obtained can be further lyophilized. Suitable organic solvent
include, for example, ketones, esters, ethers, chlorinated solvents, and other solvents known
in the art. For example, the organic solvent can be methylene chloride or chloroform/ethanol
                                                131

(for example with a ratio of 1:9, 1:8, 1:7, 1:6, 1:5, 1:4, 1:3, 1:2, 1:1, 2:1, 3:1, 4:1, 5:1, 6:1,
7:1, 8:1, or 9:1).
Other Components in the Nanoparticle Compositions
10217]    The nanoparticles described herein can be present in a composition that includes
other agents, excipients, or stabilizers. For example, to increase stability by increasing the
negative zeta potential of nanoparticles, one or more of negatively charged components may
be added. Such negatively charged components include, but are not limited to bile salts of
bile acids consisting of glycocholic acid, cholic acid, chenodeoxycholic acid, taurocholic
acid, glycochenodeoxycholic acid, taurochenodeoxycholic acid, litocholic acid,
ursodeoxycholic acid, dehydrocholic acid and others; phospholipids including lecithin (egg
yolk) based phospholipids which include the following phosphatidylcholines:
palmitoyloleoylphosphatidylcholine, palmitoyllinoleoylphosphatidylcholine ,
stearoyllinoleoylphosphatidylcholine      stearoyloleoylphosphatidylcholine,
stearoylarachidoylphosphatidylcholine, and dipalmitoylphosphatidylcholine. Other
phospholipids including L-a-dinyristoylphosphatidylcholine (DMPC),
dioleoylphosphatidylcholine (DOPC), distearyolphosphatidylcholine (DSPC), hydrogenated
soy phosphatidylcholine (HSPC), and other related compounds. Negatively charged
surfactants or emulsifiers are also suitable as additives, e.g., sodium cholesteryl sulfate and
the like.
10218]    In some embodiments, the composition is suitable for administration to a human. In
some embodiments, the composition is suitable for administration to a mammal such as, in
the veterinary context, domestic pets and agricultural animals. There are a wide variety of
suitable formulations of the nanoparticle composition (see, e.g., U.S. Pat. Nos. 5,916,596,
6,096,331, and 7,820,788). The following formulations and methods are merely exemplary
and are in no way limiting. Formulations suitable for oral administration can consist of (a)
liquid solutions, such as an effective amount of the compound dissolved in diluents, such as
water, saline, or orange juice, (b) capsules, sachets or tablets, each containing a
predetermined amount of the active ingredient, as solids or granules, (c) suspensions in an
appropriate liquid, and (d) suitable emulsions. Tablet forms can include one or more of
lactose, mannitol, corn starch, potato starch, microcrystalline cellulose, acacia, gelatin,
colloidal silicon dioxide, croscarmellose sodium, talc, magnesium stearate, stearic acid, and
other excipients, colorants, diluents, buffering agents, moistening agents, preservatives,
                                                 132

flavoring agents, and pharmacologically compatible excipients. Lozenge forns can comprise
the active ingredient in a flavor, usually sucrose and acacia or tragacanth, as well as pastilles
comprising the active ingredient in an inert base, such as gelatin and glycerin, or sucrose and
acacia, emulsions, gels, and the like containing, in addition to the active ingredient, such
excipients as are known in the art.
10219]     Examples of suitable carriers, excipients, and diluents include, but are not limited
to, lactose, dextrose, sucrose, sorbitol, mannitol, starches, gum acacia, calcium phosphate,
alginates, tragacanth, gelatin, calcium silicate, microcrystalline cellulose,
polyvinylpyrrolidone, cellulose, water, saline solution, syrup, methylcellulose, methyl and
propylhydroxybenzoates, talc, magnesium stearate, and mineral oil. The formulations can
additionally include lubricating agents, wetting agents, emulsifying and suspending agents,
preserving agents, sweetening agents or flavoring agents.
[0220]     Formulations suitable for parenteral administration include aqueous and non
aqueous, isotonic sterile injection solutions, which can contain anti-oxidants, buffers,
bacteriostats, and solutes that render the formulation compatible with the blood of the
intended recipient, and aqueous and non-aqueous sterile suspensions that can include
suspending agents, solubilizers, thickening agents, stabilizers, and preservatives. The
formulations can be presented in unit-dose or multi-dose sealed containers, such as ampules
and vials, and can be stored in a freeze-dried lyophilizedd) condition requiring only the
addition of the sterile liquid excipient, for example, water, for injections, immediately prior to
use. Extemporaneous injection solutions and suspensions can be prepared from sterile
powders, granules, and tablets of the kind previously described. Injectable formulations are
preferred.
[0221]     In some embodiments, the composition is formulated to have a pH range of about
4.5 to about 9.0, including for example pH ranges of any of about 5.0 to about 8.0, about 6.5
to about 7.5, and about 6.5 to about 7.0. In some embodiments, the pH of the composition is
formulated to no less than about 6, including for example no less than about any of 6.5, 7, or
8 (such as about 8).   The composition can also be made to be isotonic with blood by the
addition of a suitable tonicity modifier, such as glycerol.
Articles of Manufacture, Kits, Compositions, and Medicines
10222]     The invention also provides kits, medicines, compositions, unit dosage forms, and
articles of manufacture for use in any of the methods described herein.
                                                 133

[0223]     Kits of the invention include one or more containers comprising taxane-containing
nanoparticle compositions (or unit dosage forms and/or articles of manufacture) and/or
another agent (such as at least one other agent described herein), and in some embodiments,
further comprise instructions for use in accordance with any of the methods described herein.
The kit may further comprise a description of selection of individual suitable for treatment.
Instructions supplied in the kits of the invention are typically written instructions on a label or
package insert (e.g., a paper sheet included in the kit), but machine-readable instructions
(e.g., instructions carried on a magnetic or optical storage disk) are also acceptable.
10224]     For example, in some embodiments, the kit comprises a composition comprising
nanoparticles comprising a taxane and a carrier protein (e.g., albumin such as human serum
albumin or human albumin). In some embodiments, the kit further comprises instructions for
administering the nanoparticle composition for treatment of melanoma in an individual. For
another example, in some embodiments, the kit comprises a) a composition comprising
nanoparticles comprising a taxane (e.g., paclitaxel) and a carrier protein (e.g., albumin such
as human serum albumin or human albumin), b) an effective amount of at least one other
agent described herein. In some embodiments, the kit further comprises instructions for
administering the nanoparticle composition and at least one other agent for treatment of
melanoma in an individual. The nanoparticles and the other agents can be present in separate
containers or in a single container. For example, the kit may comprise one distinct
composition or two or more compositions wherein one composition comprises nanoparticles
and one composition comprises another agent. The instructions may be on a package insert or
a package label. The treatment may be according to any one of the methods described herein.
[0225]     The kits of the invention are in suitable packaging. Suitable packaging include, but
is not limited to, vials, bottles, jars, flexible packaging (e.g., seled Mylar or plastic bags), and
the like. Kits may optionally provide additional components such as buffers and
interpretative information. The present application thus also provides articles of manufacture,
which include vials (such as sealed vials), unit dosages or unit dosage forms, bottles, jars,
flexible packaging, and the like.
[0226]     The instructions relating to the use of the nanoparticle compositions generally
include information as to dosage, dosing schedule, and route of administration for the
intended treatment. The containers may be unit doses, bulk packages (e.g., multi-dose
packages) or sub-unit doses. For example, kits may be provided that contain sufficient
dosages of the taxane (such as taxane) as disclosed herein to provide effective treatment of an
                                                   134

individual for an extended period, such as any of a week, 8 days, 9 days, 10 days, 11 days, 12
days, 13 days, 2 weeks, 3 weeks, 4 weeks, 6 weeks, 8 weeks, 3 months, 4 months, 5 months,
7 months, 8 months, 9 months, or more. Kits may also include multiple unit doses of the
taxane and pharmaceutical compositions and instructions for use and packaged in quantities
sufficient for storage and use in pharmacies, for example, hospital pharmacies and
compounding pharmacies.
10227]    Also provided are medicines, compositions, and unit dosage forms useful for the
methods described herein. In some embodiments, there is provided a medicine (or
composition or the unit dosage form) for use in treating melanoma in an individual,
comprising effective amount of nanoparticles comprising a taxane (e.g., paclitaxel) and a
carrier protein (e.g., an albumin such as human serum albumin or human albumin). In some
embodiments, there is provided a medicine (or composition or a unit dosage form) for use in
treating melanoma in an individual in conjunction with another agent, comprising
nanoparticles comprising a taxane and a carrier protein (e.g., an albumin such as human
serum albumin).
Additional exemplary embodiments
10228]    In some embodiments, there is a method of treating melanoma (such as metastatic
melanoma or metastatic malignant melanoma) in a human individual comprising
administering to the individual an effective amount of a composition comprising
nanoparticles comprising paclitaxel and albumin (such as nanoparticles having average
particle size of no greater than about 200 nm). In some embodiments, there is a method of
treating cutaneous melanoma (such as metastatic cutaneous melanoma such as metastatic
malignant cutaneous melanoma) in a human individual comprising administering to the
individual an effective amount of a composition comprising nanoparticles comprising
paclitaxel and albumin (such as nanoparticles having average particle size of no greater than
about 200 nm). In some embodiments, there is a method of treating melanoma (such as
metastatic melanoma or metastatic malignant melanoma) in a human individual comprising
administering to the individual an effective amount of a composition comprising
nanoparticles comprising paclitaxel coated with albumin (such as nanoparticles having
average particle size of no greater than about 200 nm, for example Nab-paclitaxel). In some
embodiments, there is a method of treating cutaneous melanoma (such as metastatic
cutaneous melanoma such as metastatic malignant cutaneous melanoma) in a human
                                               135

individual comprising administering to the individual an effective amount of a composition
comprising nanoparticles comprising paclitaxel coated with albumin (such as nanoparticles
having average particle size of no greater than about 200 nm, for example Nab-paclitaxel).
In some embodiments, there is a method of treating cutaneous melanoma (such as metastatic
cutaneous melanoma such as metastatic malignant cutaneous melanoma) in a human
individual comprising intravenously administering (for example infusing over about 30-40
minutes) to the individual an effective amount of Nab-paclitaxel (for example about 5 mg/ml
Nab-paclitaxel), wherein the dose of paclitaxel in the nanoparticle composition is about 80 to
about 200 mg/m 2 (including for example about 90 mg/m 2 , about 120 mg/i     2, or about 150
mg/m 2 ). In some embodiments, there is a method of treating cutaneous melanoma (such as
metastatic cutaneous melanoma such as metastatic malignant cutaneous melanoma) in a
human individual comprising intravenously administering by infusing over about 30-40
minutes to the individual an effective amount of Nab-paclitaxel (for example about 5 mg/ml
Nab-paclitaxel), wherein the dose of paclitaxel in the nanoparticle composition is about 150
mg/m 2 on days 1, 8, 15 of every 28 day cycle. In some embodiments, there is a method of
treating cutaneous melanoma (such as metastatic cutaneous melanoma such as metastatic
malignant cutaneous melanoma) in a human individual comprising intravenously
administering by infusing over about 30-40 minutes to the individual an effective amount of
Nab-paclitaxel (for example about 5 mg/ml Nab-paclitaxel), wherein the dose of paclitaxel in
the nanoparticle composition is about 120 mg/n 2 on days 1, 8, 15 of every 28 day cycle. In
some embodiments, there is a method of treating cutaneous melanoma (such as metastatic
cutaneous melanoma such as metastatic malignant cutaneous melanoma) in a human
individual comprising intravenously administering by infusing over about 30-40 minutes to
the individual an effective amount of Nab-paclitaxel (for example about 5 mg/ml Nab
paclitaxel), wherein the dose of paclitaxel in the nanoparticle composition is about 90 mg/m2
on days 1, 8, 15 of every 28 day cycle. In some embodiments, the individual is treated for at
least about 2 months, including for example at least about any of 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, or
12 months. In some embodiments, the individual is chemotherapy naYve. In some
embodiments, the melanoma is stage IV melanoma. In some embodiments, the individual has
distant metastases. In some embodiments, the metastatic melanoma is at stage Mla. In some
embodiments, the metastatic melanoma is at stage Mib. In some embodiments, the metastatic
melanoma is at stage MIc. In some embodiments, the individual has measurable disease. In
some embodiments, the individual has melanoma with brain metastases. In some
                                                136

embodiments, the individual does not have brain metastases. In some embodiments, the
individual comprises a wild-type BRAF. In some embodiments, the individual comprises a
mutant BRAF (such as BRAF with a V600E mutation). In some embodiments, the individual
has elevated LDH level. In some embodiments, the individual is a female. In some
embodiments, the individual is under about 65 years old. In some embodiments, the
individual is at least about 65 years old (for example at least about any of 70, 75, or 80 years
old).
10229]    In some embodiments, there is a method of treating melanoma (such as metastatic
melanoma or metastatic malignant melanoma) in a human individual, wherein said individual
has not previously been treated for melanoma or has not received prior cytotoxic
chemotherapy such as prior adjuvant cytotoxic therapy, comprising administering to the
individual an effective amount of a composition comprising nanoparticles comprising
paclitaxel and albumin (such as nanoparticles having average particle size of no greater than
about 200 nm). In some embodiments, there is a method of treating melanoma (such as
metastatic melanoma or metastatic malignant melanoma) in a human individual, wherein said
individual has not previously been treated for melanoma or has not received prior cytotoxic
chemotherapy such as prior adjuvant cytotoxic therapy, comprising administering to the
individual an effective amount of a composition comprising nanoparticles comprising
paclitaxel coated with albumin (such as nanoparticles having average particle size of no
greater than about 200 nm, for example Nab-paclitaxel). In some embodiments, there is a
method of treating melanoma (such as metastatic melanoma or metastatic malignant
melanoma) in a human individual, wherein said individual has not previously been treated for
melanoma or has not received prior cytotoxic chemotherapy such as prior adjuvant cytotoxic
therapy, comprising intravenously administering (for example infusing over about 30-40
minutes) to the individual an effective amount of Nab-paclitaxel (for example about 5 mg/ml
Nab-paclitaxel), wherein the dose of paclitaxel in the nanoparticle composition is about 80 to
about 200 mg/m2 (including for example about 90 mg/m2 , about 120 mg/m 2 , or about 150
mg/m 2 ). In some embodiments, there is a method of treating melanoma (such as metastatic
melanoma or metastatic malignant melanoma) in a human individual, wherein said individual
has not previously been treated for melanoma or has not received prior cytotoxic
chemotherapy such as prior adjuvant cytotoxic therapy, comprising intravenously
administering by intravenously administering (such as infusion over about 30-40 minutes) to
the individual an effective amount of Nab-paclitaxel (for example about 5 mg/ml Nab
                                                137

paclitaxel), wherein the dose of paclitaxel in the nanoparticle composition is about 80 to
about 200 mg/m 2 (including for example about 90 mg/m 2 , about 120 mg/m 2 , or about 150
mg/m 2) on days 1, 8, 15 of every 28 day cycle. In some embodiments, there is a method of
treating melanoma (such as metastatic melanoma or metastatic malignant melanoma) in a
human individual, wherein said individual has not previously been treated for melanoma or
has not received prior cytotoxic chemotherapy such as prior adjuvant cytotoxic therapy,
comprising intravenously administering by infusing over about 30-40 minutes to the
individual an effective amount of Nab-paclitaxel (for example about 5 mg/ml Nab
paclitaxel), wherein the dose of paclitaxel in the nanoparticle composition is about 150
mg/m 2 on days 1, 8, 15 of every 28 day cycle. In some embodiments, there is a method of
treating melanoma (such as metastatic melanoma or metastatic malignant melanoma) in a
human individual, wherein said individual has not previously been treated for melanoma or
has not received prior cytotoxic chemotherapy such as prior adjuvant cytotoxic therapy,
comprising intravenously administering by infusing over about 30-40 minutes to the
individual an effective amount of Nab-paclitaxel (for example about 5 mg/mI Nab
paclitaxel), wherein the dose of paclitaxel in the nanoparticle composition is about 120
mg/m 2 on days 1, 8, 15 of every 28 day cycle. In some embodiments, there is a method of
treating melanoma (such as metastatic melanoma or metastatic malignant melanoma) in a
human individual, wherein said individual has not previously been treated for melanoma or
has not received prior cytotoxic chemotherapy such as prior adjuvant cytotoxic therapy,
comprising intravenously administering by infusing over about 30-40 minutes to the
individual an effective amount of Nab-paclitaxel (for example about 5 mg/ml Nab
paclitaxel), wherein the dose of paclitaxel in the nanoparticle composition is about 90 mg/m 2
on days 1, 8, 15 of every 28 day cycle. In some embodiments, the individual is treated for at
least about 2 months, including for example at least about any of 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, or
12 months. In some embodiments, the melanoma is stage IV melanoma. In some
embodiments, the individual has distant metastases. In some embodiments, the metastatic
melanoma is at stage MIa. In some embodiments, the metastatic melanoma is at stage Mib.
In some embodiments, the metastatic melanoma is at stage Mlc. In some embodiments, the
individual has measurable disease. In some embodiments, the individual has melanoma with
brain metastases. In some embodiments, the individual does not have brain metastases. In
some embodiments, the individual comprises a wild-type BRAF. In some embodiments, the
individual comprises a mutant BRAF (such as BRAF with a V600E mutation). In some
                                                138

embodiments, the individual has elevated LDH level. In some embodiments, the individual is
a female. In some embodiments, the individual is under about 65 years old. In some
embodiments, the individual is at least about 65 years old (for example at least about any of
70, 75, or 80 years old).
10230]     In some embodiments, there is a method of treating melanoma (such as metastatic
melanoma or metastatic malignant melanoma) in a human individual, wherein said individual
has previously been treated for melanoma or has received prior cytotoxic chemotherapy such
as prior adjuvant cytotoxic therapy, comprising administering to the individual an effective
amount of a composition comprising nanoparticles comprising paclitaxel and albumin (such
as nanoparticles having average particle size of no greater than about 200 nm). In some
embodiments, there is a method of treating melanoma (such as metastatic melanoma or
metastatic malignant melanoma) in a human individual, wherein said individual has
previously been treated for melanoma or has received prior cytotoxic chemotherapy such as
prior adjuvant cytotoxic therapy, comprising administering to the individual an effective
amount of a composition comprising nanoparticles comprising paclitaxel coated with albumin
(such as nanoparticles having average particle size of no greater than about 200 nm, for
example Nab-paclitaxel). In some embodiments, there is a method of treating melanoma
(such as metastatic melanoma or metastatic malignant melanoma) in a human individual,
wherein said individual has previously been treated for melanoma or has received prior
cytotoxic chemotherapy such as prior adjuvant cytotoxic therapy, comprising intravenously
administering (for example infusing over about 30-40 minutes) to the individual an effective
amount of Nab-paclitaxel (for example about 5 mg/ml Nab-paclitaxel), wherein the dose of
paclitaxel in the nanoparticle composition is about 80 to about 200 mg/m 2 (including for
example about 90 mg/In 2 , about 120 mg/m 2 , or about 150 mg/m 2 ). In some embodiments,
there is a method of treating melanoma (such as metastatic melanoma or metastatic malignant
melanoma) in a human individual, wherein said individual has previously been treated for
melanoma or has received prior cytotoxic chemotherapy such as prior adjuvant cytotoxic
therapy, comprising intravenously administering (for example infusing over about 30-40
minutes) to the individual an effective amount of Nab-paclitaxel (for example about 5 mg/ml
Nab-paclitaxel), wherein the dose of paclitaxel in the nanoparticle composition is about 80 to
about 200 mg/m2 (including for example about 90 mg/m2 , about 120 mg/mn2 , or about 150
mg/m 2 ) on days 1, 8, 15 of every 28 day cycle. In some embodiments, there is a method of
treating melanoma (such as metastatic melanoma or metastatic malignant melanoma) in a
                                               139

human individual, wherein said individual has previously been treated for melanoma or has
received prior cytotoxic chemotherapy such as prior adjuvant cytotoxic therapy, comprising
infusing over about 30-40 minutes to the individual an effective amount of Nab-paclitaxel
(for example about 5 mg/ml Nab-paclitaxel), wherein the dose of paclitaxel in the
nanoparticle composition is about 150 mg/m2 on days 1, 8, 15 of every 28 day cycle. In some
embodiments, the individual is treated for at least about 2 months, including for example at
least about any of 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, or 12 months. In some embodiments, there is a
method of treating melanoma (such as metastatic melanoma or metastatic malignant
melanoma) in a human individual, wherein said individual has previously been treated for
melanoma or has received prior cytotoxic chemotherapy such as prior adjuvant cytotoxic
therapy, comprising infusing over about 30-40 minutes to the individual an effective amount
of Nab-paclitaxel (for example about 5 mg/ml Nab-paclitaxel), wherein the dose of paclitaxel
in the nanoparticle composition is about 120 mg/m 2 on days 1, 8, 15 of every 28 day cycle. In
some embodiments, there is a method of treating melanoma (such as metastatic melanoma or
metastatic malignant melanoma) in a human individual, wherein said individual has
previously been treated for melanoma or has received prior cytotoxic chemotherapy such as
prior adjuvant cytotoxic therapy, comprising infusing over about 30-40 minutes to the
individual an effective amount of Nab-paclitaxel (for example about 5 mg/ml Nab
paclitaxel), wherein the dose of paclitaxel in the nanoparticle composition is about 90 mg/m 2
on days 1, 8, 15 of every 28 day cycle. In some embodiments, the individual is treated for at
least about 2 months, including for example at least about any of 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, or
12 months. In some embodiments, the melanoma is stage IV melanoma. In some
embodiments, the individual has distant metastases. In some embodiments, the metastatic
melanoma is at stage MIa. In some embodiments, the metastatic melanoma is at stage MIb.
In some embodiments, the metastatic melanoma is at stage MIc. In some embodiments, the
individual has measurable disease. In some embodiments, the individual has melanoma with
brain metastases. In some embodiments, the individual does not have brain metastases. In
some embodiments, the individual comprises a wild-type BRAF. In some embodiments, the
individual comprises a mutant BRAF (such as BRAF with a V600E mutation). In some
embodiments, the individual has elevated LDH level. In some embodiments, the individual is
a female. In some embodiments, the individual is under about 65 years old. In some
embodiments, the individual is at least about 65 years old (for example at least about any of
70, 75, or 80 years old).
                                                  140

[0231]     In some embodiments, there is a method of treating melanoma (such as metastatic
melanoma or metastatic malignant melanoma) in a human individual, wherein said individual
has an elevated LDH level, comprising administering to the individual an effective amount of
a composition comprising nanoparticles comprising paclitaxel and albumin (such as
nanoparticles having average particle size of no greater than about 200 nm). In some
embodiments, there is a method of treating melanoma (such as metastatic melanoma or
metastatic malignant melanoma) in a human individual, wherein said individual has an
elevated LDH level, comprising administering to the individual an effective amount of a
composition comprising nanoparticles comprising paclitaxel coated with albumin (such as
nanoparticles having average particle size of no greater than about 200 nm, for example Nab
paclitaxel).  In some embodiments, there is a method of treating melanoma (such as
metastatic melanoma or metastatic malignant melanoma) in a human individual, wherein said
individual has an elevated LDH level, comprising intravenously administering (for example
infusing over about 30-40 minutes) to the individual an effective amount of Nab-paclitaxel
(for example about 5 mg/ml Nab-paclitaxel), wherein the dose of paclitaxel in the
nanoparticle composition is about 80 to about 200 mg/m 2 (including for example about 90
mg/m 2 , about 120 mg/m2 , or about 150 mg/n 2 ). In some embodiments, there is a method of
treating melanoma (such as metastatic melanoma or metastatic malignant melanoma) in a
human individual, wherein said individual has an elevated LDH level, comprising
intravenously administering (for example infusing over about 30-40 minutes) to the
individual an effective amount of Nab-paclitaxel (for example about 5 mg/ml Nab
paclitaxel), wherein the dose of paclitaxel in the nanoparticle composition is about 80 to
about 200 mg/m 2 (including for example about 90 mg/m 2 , about 120 mg/m 2 , or about 150
mg/n 2) on days 1, 8, 15 of every 28 day cycle. In some embodiments, there is a method of
treating melanoma (such as metastatic melanoma or metastatic malignant melanoma) in a
human individual, wherein said individual has an elevated LDH level, comprising infusing
over about 30-40 minutes to the individual an effective amount of Nab-paclitaxel (for
example about 5 mg/ml Nab-paclitaxel), wherein the dose of paclitaxel in the nanoparticle
composition is about 150 mg/m2 on days 1, 8, 15 of every 28 day cycle. In some
embodiments, there is a method of treating melanoma (such as metastatic melanoma or
metastatic malignant melanoma) in a human individual, wherein said individual has an
elevated LDH level, comprising infusing over about 30-40 minutes to the individual an
effective amount of Nab-paclitaxel (for example about 5 mg/ml Nab-paclitaxel), wherein the
                                                141

dose of paclitaxel in the nanoparticle composition is about 120 mg/m 2 on days 1, 8, 15 of
every 28 day cycle. In some embodiments, there is a method of treating melanoma (such as
metastatic melanoma or metastatic malignant melanoma) in a human individual, wherein said
individual has an elevated LDH level, comprising infusing over about 30-40 minutes to the
individual an effective amount of Nab-paclitaxel (for example about 5 mg/ml Nab
                                                                                                 2
paclitaxel), wherein the dose of paclitaxel in the nanoparticle composition is about 90 mg/n
on days 1, 8, 15 of every 28 day cycle. In some embodiments, the individual is treated for at
least about 2 months, including for example at least about any of 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, or
12 months. In some embodiments, the individual has serum LDH at about 0.8 x to about 1.1
x ULN. In some embodiments, the individual has serum LDH of between greater than about
1.1 x to about 2.0 x ULN. In some embodiments, the individual comprises a wild-type
BRAF. In some embodiments, the individual comprises a mutant BRAF (such as BRAF with
a V600E mutation). In some embodiments, the individual has stage Mlc metastatic
melanoma. In some embodiments, the individual is a female. In some embodiments, the
individual is under about 65 years old. In some embodiments, the individual is at least about
65 years old (for example at least about any of 70, 75, or 80 years old).
10232]    In some embodiments, there is a method of treating melanoma (such as metastatic
melanoma or metastatic malignant melanoma) in a human individual, wherein said individual
comprises wild-type BRAF, comprising administering to the individual an effective amount
of a composition comprising nanoparticles comprising paclitaxel and albumin (such as
nanoparticles having average particle size of no greater than about 200 nm). In some
embodiments, there is a method of treating melanoma (such as metastatic melanoma or
metastatic malignant melanoma) in a human individual, wherein said individual comprises
wild-type BRAF, comprising administering to the individual an effective amount of a
composition comprising nanoparticles comprising paclitaxel coated with albumin (such as
nanoparticles having average particle size of no greater than about 200 nm, for example Nab
paclitaxel). In some embodiments, there is a method of treating melanoma (such as
metastatic melanoma or metastatic malignant melanoma) in a human individual, wherein said
individual comprises wild-type BRAF, comprising intravenously administering (for example
infusing over about 30-40 minutes) to the individual an effective amount of Nab-paclitaxel
(for example about 5 mg/ml Nab-paclitaxel), wherein the dose of paclitaxel in the
                                                          2
nanoparticle composition is about 80 to about 200 mg/n      (including for example about 90
mg/m 2 , about 120 mg/m 2 , or about 150 mg/m2 ). In some embodiments, there is a method of
                                                142

treating melanoma (such as metastatic melanoma or metastatic malignant melanoma) in a
human individual, wherein said individual comprises wild-type BRAF, comprising
intravenously administering (for example infusing over about 30-40 minutes) to the
individual an effective amount of Nab-paclitaxel (for example about 5 mg/ml Nab
paclitaxel), wherein the dose of paclitaxel in the nanoparticle composition is about 80 to
about 200 mg/m 2 (including for example about 90 mg/m 2 , about 120 mg/m 2 , or about 150
mg/n 2 ) on days 1, 8, 15 of every 28 day cycle. In some embodiments, there is a method of
treating melanoma (such as metastatic melanoma or metastatic malignant melanoma) in a
human individual, wherein said individual comprises wild-type BRAF, comprising infusing
over about 30-40 minutes to the individual an effective amount of Nab-paclitaxel (for
example about 5 mg/ml Nab-paclitaxel), wherein the dose of paclitaxel in the nanoparticle
composition is about 150 mg/m 2 on days 1, 8, 15 of every 28 day cycle. In some
embodiments, there is a method of treating melanoma (such as metastatic melanoma or
metastatic malignant melanoma) in a human individual, wherein said individual comprises
wild-type BRAF, comprising infusing over about 30-40 minutes to the individual an effective
amount of Nab-paclitaxel (for example about 5 mg/ml Nab-paclitaxel), wherein the dose of
paclitaxel in the nanoparticle composition is about 120 mg/m 2 on days 1, 8, 15 of every 28
day cycle. In some embodiments, there is a method of treating melanoma (such as metastatic
melanoma or metastatic malignant melanoma) in a human individual, wherein said individual
comprises wild-type BRAF, comprising infusing over about 30-40 minutes to the individual
an effective amount of Nab-paclitaxel (for example about 5 mg/ml Nab-paclitaxel), wherein
the dose of paclitaxel in the nanoparticle composition is about 90 mg/n    2 on days 1, 8, 15 of
every 28 day cycle. In some embodiments, the individual is treated for at least about 2
months, including for example at least about any of 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, or 12 months.
In some embodiments, the individual has stage MIc melanoma. In some embodiments, the
individual has elevated LDH level. In some embodiments, the individual is a female. In some
embodiments, the individual is under about 65 years old. In some embodiments, the
individual is at least about 65 years old (for example at least about any of 70, 75, or 80 years
old).
10233]    In some embodiments, there is a method of treating melanoma (such as metastatic
melanoma or metastatic malignant melanoma) in a human individual, wherein said individual
comprises a mutation in BRAF (such as a V600E mutation), comprising administering to the
individual an effective amount of a composition comprising nanoparticles comprising
                                                143

paclitaxel and albumin (such as nanoparticles having average particle size of no greater than
about 200 nm). In some embodiments, there is a method of treating melanoma (such as
metastatic melanoma or metastatic malignant melanoma) in a human individual, wherein said
individual comprises a mutation in BRAF (such as a V600E mutation), comprising
administering to the individual an effective amount of a composition comprising
nanoparticles comprising paclitaxel coated with albumin (such as nanoparticles having
average particle size of no greater than about 200 nm, for example Nab-paclitaxel). In some
embodiments, there is a method of treating melanoma (such as metastatic melanoma or
metastatic malignant melanoma) in a human individual, wherein said individual comprises a
mutation in BRAF (such as a V600E mutation), comprising intravenously administering (for
example infusing over about 30-40 minutes) to the individual an effective amount of Nab
paclitaxel (for example about 5 mg/ml Nab-paclitaxel), wherein the dose of paclitaxel in the
nanoparticle composition is about 80 to about 200 mg/m 2 (including for example about 90
mg/mi2 , about 120 mg/m2 , or about 150 mg/" ). In some embodiments, there is a method of
                                              2
treating melanoma (such as metastatic melanoma or metastatic malignant melanoma) in a
human individual, wherein said individual comprises a mutation in BRAF (such as a V600E
mutation), comprising intravenously administering (for example infusing over about 3 0-40
minutes) to the individual an effective amount of Nab-paclitaxel (for example about 5 mg/ml
Nab-paclitaxel), wherein the dose of paclitaxel in the nanoparticle composition is about 80 to
about 200 mg/n    2 (including for example about 90 mg/m 2 , about 120 mg/m 2 , or about 150
mg/m 2 ) on days 1, 8, 15 of every 28 day cycle. In some embodiments, there is a method of
treating melanoma (such as metastatic melanoma or metastatic malignant melanoma) in a
human individual, wherein said individual comprises a mutation in BRAF (such as a V600E
mutation), comprising infusing over about 30-40 minutes to the individual an effective
amount of Nab-paclitaxel (for example about 5 mg/ml Nab-paclitaxel), wherein the dose of
paclitaxel in the nanoparticle composition is about 150 mg/m 2 on days 1, 8, 15 of every 28
day cycle. In some embodiments, there is a method of treating melanoma (such as metastatic
melanoma or metastatic malignant melanoma) in a human individual, wherein said individual
comprises a mutation in BRAF (such as a V600E mutation), comprising infusing over about
30-40 minutes to the individual an effective amount of Nab-paclitaxel (for example about 5
mg/ml Nab-paclitaxel), wherein the dose of paclitaxel in the nanoparticle composition is
about 120 mg/m 2 on days 1, 8, 15 of every 28 day cycle. In some embodiments, there is a
method of treating melanoma (such as metastatic melanoma or metastatic malignant
                                                144

melanoma) in a human individual, wherein said individual comprises a mutation in BRAF
(such as a V600E mutation), comprising infusing over about 30-40 minutes to the individual
an effective amount of Nab-paclitaxel (for example about 5 mg/ml Nab-paclitaxel), wherein
the dose of paclitaxel in the nanoparticle composition is about 90 mg/m 2 on days 1, 8, 15 of
every 28 day cycle. In some embodiments, the individual is treated for at least about 2
months, including for example at least about any of 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, or 12 months.
In some embodiments, the individual has stage Ml c melanoma. In some embodiments, the
individual has elevated LDH level. In some embodiments, the individual is a female. In some
embodiments, the individual is under about 65 years old. In some embodiments, the
individual is at least about 65 years old (for example at least about any of 70, 75, or 80 years
old).
10234]     In some embodiments of any of the methods described herein, the composition
comprising nanoparticles comprising paclitaxel and an albumin is used as a monotherapy for
treating the melanoma.
10235]     Also provided herein are methods of combination therapy comprising a therapy
comprising administration of the nanoparticle compositions described herein and a second
therapy. In some embodiments, the second therapy is selected from the group consisting of
chemotherapy, immunotherapy, surgery, radiation therapy, targeted therapy, or a combination
thereof. In some embodiments, the method comprises administration of at least one other
therapeutic agent. In some embodiments, the one other therapeutic agent is a BRAF inhibitor.
In some embodiments, the one other therapeutic agent is Ipilimumab. In some embodiments,
the method is used as a first line therapy. In some embodiments, the method is used as a
second line therapy. In some embodiments of any of the methods described herein, the
composition comprising nanoparticles comprising taxane (e.g., paclitaxel) and a carrier
protein (e.g., albumin) is administered intravenously. In some embodiments, the amount
(dose) of taxane (e.g., paclitaxel) in the nanoparticle composition is about 50 mg/m 2 to about
400 mg/m2 . In some embodiments, the amount (dose) of taxane (e.g., paclitaxel) in the
nanoparticle composition is about 100 mg/m 2 to about 200 mg/m 2. In some embodiments, the
amount (dose) of taxane (e.g., paclitaxel) in the nanoparticle composition is about 150
mg/m 2 . In some embodiments, the composition comprising nanoparticles comprising taxane
(e.g., paclitaxel) and a carrier protein (e.g., albumin) is administered weekly. In some
embodiments, the method comprises at least one 28-day treatment cycle. In some
embodiments, the composition comprising nanoparticles comprising taxane (e.g., paclitaxel)
                                                  145

and a carrier protein (e.g., albumin) is administered on days 1, 8, and 15 of the 28-day
treatment cycle.
10236]     In some embodiments, the albumin is human serum albumin. In some embodiments,
the albumin is human albumin. In some embodiments, the albumin is recombinant albumin.
In some embodiments, the nanoparticles in the composition have an average diameter of no
greater than about 200 nm. In some embodiments, the weight ratio of albumin and taxane
(e.g., paclitaxel) in the nanoparticle composition is about 9:1 or less. In some embodiments,
the weight ratio of albumin and taxane (e.g., paclitaxel) in the nanoparticle composition is
about 9:1. In some embodiments, the taxane (e.g., paclitaxel) in the nanoparticles are coated
with the albumin. In some embodiments, the taxane is paclitaxel. In some embodiments, there
is provided a method of treating melanoma in an individual (e.g., human) comprising
administering to the individual an effective amount of a composition comprising
nanoparticles comprising paclitaxel and albumin (e.g., human albumin or human serum
albumin).
10237]     The present application in some embodiments provides a method of treating
melanoma in a human individual comprising administering to the individual an effective
amount of a composition comprising nanoparticles comprising paclitaxel and an albumin.
10238]     In some embodiments according to (or as applied to) any of the embodiments
above, the melanoma is cutaneous melanoma.
[0239]     In some embodiments according to (or as applied to) any of the embodiments
above, the melanoma is metastatic melanoma.
10240]     In some embodiments according to (or as applied to) any of the embodiments
above, the melanoma is metastatic malignant melanoma.
[0241]     In some embodiments according to (or as applied to) any of the embodiments
above, the melanoma is stage IV melanoma.
10242]     In some embodiments according to (or as applied to) any of the embodiments
above, the individual has distant metastases.
10243]     In some embodiments according to (or as applied to) any of the embodiments
above, the metastatic melanoma is at stage Mla.
10244]     In some embodiments according to (or as applied to) any of the embodiments
above, the metastatic melanoma is at stage Mlb.
10245]     In some embodiments according to (or as applied to) any of the embodiments
above, the metastatic melanoma is at stage Mic.
                                               146

[0246]   In some embodiments according to (or as applied to) any of the embodiments
above, the individual has measurable disease.
10247]   In some embodiments according to (or as applied to) any of the embodiments
above, the individual does not have brain metastases.
10248]   In some embodiments according to (or as applied to) any of the embodiments
above, the individual has not been previously treated for melanoma.
10249]   In some embodiments according to (or as applied to) any of the embodiments
above, the individual has not received prior cytotoxic chemotherapy for the metastatic
malignant melanoma.
10250]   In some embodiments according to (or as applied to) any of the embodiments
above, the individual has not received prior adjuvant cytotoxic chemotherapy.
10251]   In some embodiments according to (or as applied to) any of the embodiments
above, the individual is a male.
10252]   In some embodiments according to (or as applied to) any of the embodiments
above, the individual is a female.
10253]   In some embodiments according to (or as applied to) any of the embodiments
above, the individual is under about 65 years old.
10254]   In some embodiments according to (or as applied to) any of the embodiments
above, the individual is at least about 65 years old (for example at least about any of 70, 75,
or 80 years old).
10255]   In some embodiments according to (or as applied to) any of the embodiments
above, the individual has elevated serum lactate dehydrogenase ("LDH") level.
[0256]   In some embodiments according to (or as applied to) any of the embodiments
above, the individual has serum LDH of less than about 0.8 x upper limit of normal ("ULN").
10257]   In some embodiments according to (or as applied to) any of the embodiments
above, the individual has serum LDH at about 0.8 x to about 1.1 x ULN.
10258]   In some embodiments according to (or as applied to) any of the embodiments
above, the individual has serum LDH of between greater than about 1.1 x to about 2.0 x
ULN.
10259]   In some embodiments according to (or as applied to) any of the embodiments
above, the melanoma comprises wild-type BRAF.
10260]   In some embodiments according to (or as applied to) any of the embodiments
above, the melanoma comprises a mutation in BRAF.
                                               147

[0261]    In some embodiments according to (or as applied to) any of the embodiments
above, the melanoma comprises a V600E mutation in BRAF.
10262]    In some embodiments according to (or as applied to) any of the embodiments
above, the composition comprising nanoparticles comprising paclitaxel and an albumin is
used as a monotherapy for treating the melanoma.
10263]    In some embodiments according to (or as applied to) any of the embodiments
above, the method further comprises a second therapy.
10264]    In some embodiments according to (or as applied to) any of the embodiments
above, the second therapy is selected from the group consisting of chemotherapy,
immunotherapy, surgery, radiation therapy, targeted therapy, or a combination thereof.
[0265]    In some embodiments according to (or as applied to) any of the embodiments
above, the method further comprises administration of at least one other therapeutic agent.
[0266]    In some embodiments according to (or as applied to) any of the embodiments
above, the one other therapeutic agent is a BRAF inhibitor.
10267]    In some embodiments according to (or as applied to) any of the embodiments
above, the one other therapeutic agent is Ipilimumab.
10268]    In some embodiments according to (or as applied to) any of the embodiments
above, the method is used as a first line therapy.
10269]    In some embodiments according to (or as applied to) any of the embodiments
above, the method is used as a second line therapy.
10270]    In some embodiments according to (or as applied to) any of the embodiments
above, the composition comprising nanoparticles comprising paclitaxel and an albumin is
administered intravenously.
[0271]    In some embodiments according to (or as applied to) any of the embodiments
above, the dose of paclitaxel in the nanoparticle composition is about 50 mg/m 2 to about 400
mg/m 2.
102721    In some embodiments according to (or as applied to) any of the embodiments
above, the dose of paclitaxel in the nanoparticle composition is about 100 mg/m 2 to about 200
mg/m2.
10273]    In some embodiments according to (or as applied to) any of the embodiments
above, the dose of paclitaxel in the nanoparticle composition is about 150 mg/in 2 .
                                               148

[0274]     In some embodiments according to (or as applied to) any of the embodiments
above, the composition comprising nanoparticles comprising paclitaxel and an albumin is
administered weekly.
102751     In some embodiments according to (or as applied to) any of the embodiments
above, the method comprises at least one 28-day treatment cycle.
10276]     In some embodiments according to (or as applied to) any of the embodiments
above, the composition comprising nanoparticles comprising paclitaxel and an albumin is
administered on days 1, 8, and 15 of the 28-day treatment cycle.
10277]     In some embodiments according to (or as applied to) any of the embodiments
above, the albumin is human serum albumin.
[0278]     In some embodiments according to (or as applied to) any of the embodiments
above, the albumin is human albumin.
[0279]     In some embodiments according to (or as applied to) any of the embodiments
above, the albumin is recombinant albumin.
10280]     In some embodiments according to (or as applied to) any of the embodiments
above, the nanoparticles in the composition have an average diameter of no greater than
about 200 nm.
10281]     In some embodiments according to (or as applied to) any of the embodiments
above, the weight ratio of albumin and paclitaxel in the nanoparticle composition is about 9:1
or less.
10282]     In some embodiments according to (or as applied to) any of the embodiments
above, the weight ratio of albumin and paclitaxel in the nanoparticle composition is about
9:1.
[0283]     In some embodiments according to (or as applied to) any of the embodiments
above, the paclitaxel in the nanoparticles are coated with the albumin.
10284]     Those skilled in the art will recognize that several embodiments are possible within
the scope and spirit of this invention. The invention will now be described in greater detail
by reference to the following non limiting examples. The following examples further
illustrate the invention but, of course, should not be construed as in any way limiting its
scope.
                                            EXAMPLES
Example 1: A phase 3 study of Nab-paclitaxelversus dacarbazinein chemotherapy-naive
patients with metastatic malignant melanoma
                                                 149

[0285]    Chemotherapy-nave patients with stage IV cutaneous metastatic malignant
melanoma were enrolled. The patients had Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) PS
0-1, measurable disease, and lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) levels < 2.0 x Upper Limit of
Normal (ULN), and had no current brain metastases. The patient baseline characteristics are
shown in Table 5. The patients were divided into two arms: (1) Nab-paclitaxel ("Nab-P,"
Abraxane*) 150 mg/m 2, intravenous, no premedication, on days 1, 8, and 15 of 28-day cycle;
(2) dacarbazine (DTIC) 1000 mg/in 2, intravenous, on day I of 21-day cycle. Figure 1 shows
the phase 3 study design.
TABLE 5. Baseline Characteristics
                               Variable         Nab-paclitaxel   Dacarbazine     All Patients
                                                    (n=264)         (n=265)       (N=529)
Age                  Median years (min, max)       62 (21, 85)    64(28, 87)     63 (21, 87)
Sex                  Male, %                           66              66             66
                     North America, %                  44              44             44
Region               Western Europe, %                 43              43             43
                     Australia, %                       13             13             13
                                                       74              68             71
ECOGPS               0,%
                     1, %                              26              31             28
                     Mla,0%                             10              8              9
Metastatic stage     Mlb, %                            25              26             26
                     Mlc, %                            65              66             65
                     <0.8 x ULN, %                     52              52             52
LDH category         0.8 - 1.1 x ULN, %                27              26             27
                     >1.1 - 2 x ULN, %                  19             21             20
                     Known, %                          69              66             67
BRAF Status           V600E, %                         36              38             37
                      Wild Type                        64              62             63
Prior Therapy        Metastatic                         7               9              8
[0286]    The primary efficacy endpoint was progression-free survival ("PFS") based on a
blinded radiology assessment (according to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors
("RECIST") v1.0). The secondary efficacy endpoint was overall survival ("OS"). Other
endpoints included objective response rate ("ORR"), disease control rate ("DCR"), and
safety/tolerability.
10287]    Figure 2 shows the PFS results of the study (PFS was conducted by independent
radiology review). Figure 3 shows the OS results of the planned interim analysis of the study.
Other efficacy endpoints from the study are shown in Table 6.
                                              150

TABLE 6. Other Efficacy Endpoints
Blinded Radiology            Nab-paclitaxel        Dacarbazine        Response Rate Ratio       P-value
Assessment                      (n=264)               (n=265)             (PNab-P/PDTIC)
ORR, % (95% Cl)              15 (10.5. 19.1)       11 (7.5, 15.1)      1.305 (0.837, 2.035)      0.239
DCR, % (95% Cl)              39 (32.8, 44.5)      27 (21.5, 32.1)      1.442 (1.123. 1.852)      0.004
     PR, %                          15                   11
     SD >16 weeks, %               24                    15
Best Response                                                                                   0.0017*
     PR, %                          15                   11
     SD., %                        25                    16
     PD,%                          35                    48
     Not Evaluable, %              25                    25
*Includes confirmed PR + SD + PD
P: proportion of improved patients; PD: progressive disease; PR: partial response; SD: stable
disease
10288]     The PFS and interim OS analysis of the study by BRAF status is shown in Table 7.
TABLE 7. PFS and Interim OS by BRAF Status
                                                                                     HR
BRAF Status                             Nab-paclitaxel       Dacarbazine            (Nab-        P-value
                                             (n=264)            (n=265)           P/DTIC)
               N                               116                 108
Wild Type      Median PFS, months               5.4                2.5              0.715         0.088
               Median OS, months               12.7               11.1              0.845         0.330
               N                                65                 67
  utation      Median   PFS. months             5.3                3.5              0.883         0.656
               Median   OS, months             16.9               11.2              0.688         0.132
               N                                83                 90
Unknown        Median   PFS, months             3.7                2.2              0.684         0.066
               Median   OS, months             11.1                9.9              0.837         0.381
[0289]     Figure 4 shows the OS interim analysis of the subgroups based on various patient
characteristics. Figure 4 shows whether a certain subgroup favors the treatment of Nab
paclitaxel versus the DTIC treatment and the extent thereof.
10290]     The adverse events from the study are shown in Table 8.
TABLE 8. Grade >3 Treatment-related Adverse Events (TRAEs) in > 5% Patients
Preferred Term                                                Nab-paclitaxel              Dacarbazine
                                                                  (n=257)                   (n=258)
Patients with at least 1 TRAE, %                                      50                      28
                                                    151

Patients with at least 1 serious TRAE, %                      9                       7
Nonhematologic Adverse Events, %*
    Peripheral Neuropathy**                                   25                      0
    Fatigue                                                    8                      2
    Alopecia                                                   5                      0
Hematologic Adverse events, %*
    Neutropenia                                               20                     10
    Leukopenia                                                12                      7
    Lymphocytopenia                                            8                     11
    Thrombocytopenia                                          0                       6
    Anemia                                                    2                       5
Neuropathy, median days
    Time to Onset                                            101
    Time to Improvement by 1 grade                            28
    Time to Improvement to grade <1                           67
* Except for lymphocytopenia, all events P < 0.05
** All but 2 neuropathy cases were grade 3
10291]    The results showed that this study met its primary endpoint of PFS: 4.8 vs 2.5
months (P   =  0.044, Nab-paclitaxel vs dacarbazine). The interim OS analysis showed a trend
in favor of the Nab-paclitaxel arm. Other endpoints (ORR, DCR) and subgroups showed
consistent benefit in favor of the Nab-paclitaxel arm. Most notable AE was grade >3
neuropathy in the Nab-paclitaxel arn, which improved within a month. This study
demonstrated that Nab-paclitaxel was superior to standard dacarbazine chemotherapy.
Example 2: A phase 3 study ofNab-paclitaxelversus dacarbazine in previously untreated
patients with metastatic malignant melanoma
10292]    The main purpose of this study is to compare the safety, tolerability, and anti-tumor
activity of an investigational drug, Nab-paclitaxel (Abraxane*) versus dacarbazine in patients
with metastatic melanoma who have not previously received chemotherapy.
[0293]    Treatment arm A: Patients who receive Nab-paclitaxel would be dosed
intravenously over approximately 30 minutes without steroid pre-medication and without G
CSF prophylaxis (unless modified as described below); 150 mg/m 2 , on days 1, 8, and 15
every 4 weeks. Treatment arm B: Patients who receive dacarbazine would be dosed
intravenously at 1000 mg/m 2 on Day I with steroid and antiemetic pre-medication; treatment
repeated every 21 days.
10294]    The primary efficacy endpoint is progression-free survival (PFS) based on a blinded
radiology assessment of response using RECIST response guidelines. The secondary
                                               152

outcome measures include the following: (1) patient survival as secondary efficacy endpoint;
(2) progression-free survival based on investigator assessment; (3) number (%) of patients
who achieve an objective confirmed complete or partial response; (4) number (%) of patients
with stable disease for > 16 weeks, or confirmed complete or partial response (i.e., total
response); (5) duration of response in responding patients; (6) correlation of SPARC and
other molecular biomarkers with efficacy outcomes; (7) incidence of treatment-emergent and
treatment related adverse events (AEs) and serious adverse events (SAEs); (8) laboratory
abnormalities; (9) nadir of myelosuppression during study drug dosing; (10) incidence of
patients experiencing dose modifications, dose interruptions, and/or premature
discontinuation of study drug; (11) the pharmacokinetic parameters being the maximum
plasma drug concentration (Cmax), the area under the plasma concentration versus time
curve (AUC and AUCinf), the half-life of the apparent terminal portion of the concentration
versus time curve (T1/2), total body clearance (CL), and the volume of distribution (Vz).
10295]     The patients enrolled in the study must be 18 years or older. Both males and females
are eligible for the study.
102961     Inclusion criteria include: (1) Histologically or cytologically confirmed cutaneous
malignant melanoma with evidence of metastasis (Stage IV); (2) No prior cytotoxic
chemotherapy for metastatic malignant melanoma (prior treatment with kinase inhibitors or
cytokines is permitted); (3) No prior adjuvant cytotoxic chemotherapy (prior adjuvant therapy
with interferon, GM-CSF and/or vaccines is permitted); (4) Male or non-pregnant and non
lactating female > 18 years of age; (5) No other current active malignancy within the past 3
years; (6) Radiographically-documented measurable disease (for example, measurable
disease may refer to the presence of at least 1 radiographically documented measurable
lesion.); (7) The patient has the following blood counts at Baseline: (a) ANC > 1.5 x 109
cells/L; (b) platelets > 100 x 109 cells/L; (c) Hgb > 9 g/dL; (8) The patient has the following
blood chemistry levels at Baseline: (a) AST (SGOT), ALT (SGPT) < 2.5x upper limit of
normal range (ULN) (< 5.0 x ULN if hepatic metastases present); (b) total bilirubin < ULN;
(c) creatinine < 1.5 mg/dL; (d) LDH < 2.0 ULNa; (9) Patient has expected survival of> 12
weeks; (10) Patient has ECOG performance status 0-1; (11) Patient or his/her legally
authorized representative or guardian is informed about the nature of the study, agrees to
participate in the study, and signs the Informed Consent form prior to participation in any
study-related activities.
                                                 153

[0297]    Exclusion criteria include: (1) History or current evidence of brain metastases,
including leptomeningeal involvement; (2) Patient has pre-existing peripheral neuropathy of
NCI CTCAE Scale of Grade > 2.; (3) Prior radiation to a target lesion is permitted only if
there has been clear progression of the lesion since radiation was completed; (4) Clinically
significant concurrent illness; (4) Unlikely to be able to complete the study through the End
of Study (EOS) visit; (5) Current enrollment in a different clinical study in which
investigational therapeutic procedures are performed or investigational therapies are
administered while participating in this study; (6) Serious medical factor involving any of the
major organ systems such that the investigator considers it unsafe for the patient to receive an
experimental research drug.
Example 3: PhaseI Study of Hepatic ArterialInfusion of Nab-Paclitaxel(Abraxane@) in
Patientswith MetastaticMelanoma in the Liver
10298]    This is an open-label, Phase I dose-escalation study to determine the response rate
of metastatic melanoma to the liver when treated with Abraxane administered via hepatic
artery one day every three weeks. Secondary objectives are to determine the duration of
response in the liver, survival (overall survival or progression-free survival), and safety.
10299]    Patients meeting all inclusion/exclusion criteria are enrolled in groups of 3 to 6 to
receive Abraxane@ infusion once every 21 days. The maximum tolerable dose is determined
after two cycles of study treatment. Dose limiting toxicity is defined as: > grade 3 non
hematologic toxicity (or the receipt of optimal symptomatic treatment for > grade 3 nausea,
vomiting, or diarrhea), any grade 4 transaminitis, grade 3 neutropenia with fever requiring
hospitalization for parenteral antibiotics, grade 4 neutropenia lasting > 7 days or complicated
by infection, or a platelet count of< 25,000/mm3. Toxicity of treatment is graded using the
NCI Common Toxicity Criteria (CTC), Version 3.0. Response to therapy is measured using
RECIST. Four dose levels are examined: 130 mg/m 2, 170 mg/m 2, 220 mg/m 2 and 285
mg/mu2 ; these are infused via hepatic artery over 30 minutes every three weeks.
Example 4: A Phase II Study of Weekly Infusion Nab-paclitaxel(Abraxane@) in Patients
with Unresectableand Metastatic Uveal Melanoma
10300]    This is a Phase II study to determine the overall response rate to single agent Nab
paclitaxel (Abraxane@) in the treatment of metastatic uveal melanoma. Secondary objectives
are to determine median progression free survival and overall survival. Inclusion criteria are:
(1) histologically or cytologically confirmed evidence of metastatic/unresectable uveal
                                                154

melanoma; (2) measurable disease, defined as at least one lesion that can be accurately
measured in at least one dimension and is > 10 mm by spiral CT scan; (3) age > 18 years or
older; (4) ECOG performance status of 0 or 1; (5) no known HIV or Hepatitis B or C; (6)
normal organ/marrow function as defined by: (a) absolute neutrophil count > 1.5 X 109/L; (b)
platelets > 100,000 X 109/L; (c) hemoglobin > 9.0 gm/100 mL; (d) total bilirubin < 1.5; (e)
AST and ALT < 2.5 X ULN; (f) creatinine < 1.8 mg/mL; (g) calcium < 12 mg/dL when
corrected for levels of serum albumin; (h) up to one prior systemic therapy. Exclusion
criteria are: (1) chemotherapy or radiotherapy within 4 weeks prior to study entry; (2)
simultaneous receipt of other study agents; (3) prior malignancy (except for adequately
treated basal cell cancer or other cancer for which patient has been disease-free for two
years); (4) serious infections or other uncontrolled medical illnesses; (5) significant
psychiatric illness; (5) pregnancy; (6) peripheral neuropathy of > grade 2. Abraxane@ is
administered via intravenous bolus over 30 minutes at a dose of 150 mg/m 2 weekly for 3 of 4
weeks every 28 days.
Example 5: A Randomized Phase I Study ofAB (Abraxane@ Plus Bevacizumab) Versus
Ipilimumabfor FirstLine Therapy of Unresectable Stage IV Metastatic Malignant
Melanoma (BRAF V600E Negative)
[0301]      This is a randomized, two-arm Phase II study of the efficacy of the Abraxane@ plus
bevacizumab (AB) combination regimen in patients undergoing first line therapy for
metastatic melanoma (BRAF V600E negative) as it compares to the current standard of care,
Ipilimumab. The primary goal of this study is to assess whether the combination of
Abraxane@ plus bevacizumab prolongs progression-free status relative to Ipilimumab as a
first line treatment in patients with unresectable stage IV melanoma. The primary endpoint is
progression-free survival defined as time from randomization to the earliest documentation of
progression as defined by the RECIST criteria (version 1.1) or death from any cause without
the documentation of progression. The secondary endpoints include overall survival (time
from randomization to death due to any cause) as well as tumor response (using RECIST
criteria, v. 1.1).
[0302]      Correlative goals are to examine the changes in: biomarkers of angiogenesis (Arm
A) and biomarkers of immunity (Arm A and Arm B), as well as to examine the
pharmacokinetics of paclitaxel when combined with bevacizumab therapy. Plasma levels of
the following angiogenesis mediators are determined: angiopoietin-2, BMP-9, EGF,
endoglin, endothelin-1, FGF-1, FGF-2, follistatin, G-CSF, HB-EGF, HGF, 1L-8, leptin,
                                                155

PLGF, VEGF-A, VEGF-C, and VEGF-D. Samples of peripheral blood (pre-treatment for all
cycles) are analyzed for numbers and activation status of T cells, B cells, NK cells, and
dendritic cells, and peripheral blood samples are also analyzed for CD3, CD4, CD8, CD20,
CD69, CD4/25, CD8/25, CD16/56, CD80, CD86, and HLA-DR.
10303]     Inclusion criteria are: (1) histologic proof of surgically unresectable stage IV
malignant melanoma; (2) no prior systemic therapy for metastatic melanoma; (3) BRAF
V600E wild type mutation not detected in metastatic tumor specimen; (4) measurable disease
defined as at least one lesion whose longest diameter can be accurately measured as > 2.0 cm
with chest x-ray, or as > 1.0 cm with CT scan, MRI scan, or CT component of a PET/CT
scan; (5) life expectancy of > 4 months; (6) age > 18 years; (7) ECOG performance score of 0
or 1; (8) the following laboratory values obtained < 14 days prior to registration or
randomization: (a) ANC > 1500 mL; (b) platelet count > 100,000 x 109/L; (c) hemoglobin > 9
g/dL; (d) creatinine < 1.5 X ULN; (e) total bilirubin < 1.5 mg/dL; (f) SGOT (AST) < 2.5 X
ULN; (g) absence of proteinuria at screening; (h) negative serum pregnancy test for women
of childbearing potential; (i) adequate use of contraception throughout the trial and for 12
weeks after the last dose of study drug; and (j) signed informed consent.
10304]     Exclusion criteria are: (1) brain metastases per MRI or CT; (2) use of other
investigational agents < 4 weeks prior to registration; (3) use of any anti-cancer therapy < 4
weeks prior to registration; (4) prior treatment with Ipilimumab, or taxane-based
chemotherapy regimens, or agents disrupting VEGF activity or targeting VEGFR; (5) major
surgical procedure, open biopsy, or significant traumatic injury < 4 weeks prior to
registration; (6) other medical conditions; (7) existence of peripheral sensory neuropathy > 2
(from any cause); (8) palliative radiation therapy < 2 weeks prior to randomization; (9) active
or recent history of hemoptysis < 30 days prior to registration; (10) known hypersensitivity to
any of the components of Ipilimumab, bevacizumab, or Abraxane@; (11) history of
inflammatory bowel disease (e.g., Crohn's ulcerative colitis); (12) patients with diagnosis of
autoimmune disease, regardless of whether or not they are currently receiving treatment at the
time of registration; (13); systemic use of corticosteroids < 2 weeks prior to registration,
regardless of indication.
10305]     Tables 5 and 6 describe the two arms for this study.
TABLE 5. Arm A: Abraxane@/Bevacizumab
Agent*               Dose                  Schedule           Route               Retreatment
                                                  156

Bevacizumab           10 mg/kg           Days 1 and 15      IV over 90          Every 28 days
                                                            minutes**           ( 2 days) until
                      150 mg/m 2         Days 1, 8, 15      IV over 30          progression
Abraxane@
                                                            minutes
*Drugs are administered in the order listed above. Bevacizumab is always infused first.
**Subsequent infusions of bevacizumab are administered over 60 or over 30 minutes, if
tolerated.
One treatment cycle = 28 days  2 days.
TABLE 6. Arm B: Ipilimumab
Drug                  Dose                Schedule          Route               Retreatment
Ipilimumab            3 mg/kg            Day I              IV over 90          Every 21 days
                                                            minutes             for a maximum
                                                                                of 4 cycles
One treatment cycle = 21 days       2 days.
Example 6: A PhaseII Study of Abraxane@ Plus Ipilimumab in Patients with Metastatic
Melanoma
10306]     This is an open-label, single-arm Phase 11 study to determine the efficacy and safety
of Abraxane@-Ipilimumab combination administered intravenously to patients with
chemotherapy naive metastatic malignant melanoma. The primary objectives are to
determine if the combination of Abraxane@ and Ipilimumab can delay disease progression in
patients with metastatic melanoma, and to determine the rate of progression-free survival at 6
months of the Abraxane plus Ipilimumab combination. The secondary objectives are: (1) to
determine the efficacy of the Abraxane plus Ipilimumab combination as measured by
complete and partial response rate, response duration, and overall survival in patients with
metastatic unresectable stage III/IV melanoma; (2) to determine the safety of the combination
of Abraxane@ plus Ipilimumab when given intravenously for the treatment of patients with
metastatic melanoma; and (3) to study the immunologic changes in patients who receive this
therapy.
[0307]     The starting dose of Abraxane@ for this trial is 150 mg/m 2 to be administered on
days 1, 8, and 15 every 28 days. Abraxane is dosed intravenously over approximately 30
minutes without steroid premedication and without G-CSF prophylaxis. The dose of
                                                157

Ipilimumab for this trial is 3 mg/kg intravenously every 3 weeks for 4 doses only; this dose of
Ipilimumab will not be increased.
10308]     Inclusion criteria are: (1) histologically documented diagnosis of advanced stage IV
or unresectable stage III mucosal or cutaneous melanoma; (2) recurrent melanoma with
measurable or evaluable sites of disease, 1.0 cm or larger, in order to assess the response to
treatment by the immune-related response criteria (irRC); (3) no previous treatment with
cytotoxic drugs and immunotherapeutic agents for unresectable Stage III or Stage IV disease;
(4) patient is between 12 and 70 years of age with an ECOG performance status of 0 or 1; (5)
normal blood counts with a white blood cell count of more than or equal to 3000/mm3 , an
absolute neutrophil count of more than or equal to 1500 mm3 and a platelet count of more
than 100,000/mm 3 , hemoglobin > 9.0 g/dL, no impairment of renal function (serum creatinine
less than 1.1 mg/dL for females and less than 1.4 mg/dL for males), no impairment of hepatic
function (serum bilirubin level of less than 1.5 mg/dL, AST and ALT < 2.5 X ULN unless
there is hepatic metastasis in which case AST and ALT < 5 ULN are acceptable), and no
evidence of significant cardiac or pulmonary dysfunction; (6) no significant concurrent
illness such as an active infection associated with fever lasting more than 24 hours requiring
antibiotics, uncontrolled psychiatric illness, hypercalcemia (calcium greater than 11 mg), or
active gastrointestinal bleeding; (7) females of child-bearing potential must use acceptable
contraception and have a negative serum or urine pregnancy test within 72 hours prior to
beginning treatment on this trial, and sexually active men must also use contraceptive
methods for the duration of the study; (8) signed informed consent.
103091     Exclusion criteria are: (1) metastatic uveal melanoma; (2) bone metastases only; (3)
symptomatic brain or spinal cord metastases, steroid therapy or leptomeningeal disease; (4)
significant cardiac illness; (5) significant impairment of pulmonary function on account of
chronic bronchitis, emphysema or chronic obstructive pulmonary disease which results in
impairment of vital capacity of FEVI to less than 75% of predicted normal values; (6)
symptomatic effusions on account of pleural, pericardial or peritoneal metastases of
melanoma; (7) history of second malignant tumor, other than the common skin cancers
basal and squamous carcinomas - within the past 3 years; (8);> grade 2 sensory neuropathy at
baseline.
10310]     Although the foregoing invention has been described in some detail by way of
illustration and example for purposes of clarity of understanding, the descriptions and
examples should not be construed as limiting the scope of the invention.
                                                  158

THE CLAIMS DEFINING THE INVENTION ARE AS FOLLOWS:
 I.     A method of treating melanoma in a human individual comprising administering to
the individual an effective amount of a composition comprising nanoparticles comprising
paclitaxel and an albumin.
2.      The method of claim 1, wherein the individual is selected for treatment based on the
individual having metastatic melanoma at stage Mlc.
3.      The method of claim 1, wherein the individual is selected for treatment based on the
individual having a serum LDH level of between greater than about 1.1    x to about 2.0 x
ULN.
4.      The method of claim 1, wherein the individual is selected for treatment based on the
individual having a melanoma comprising wild-type BRAF.
5.      The method of claim 1, wherein the individual is selected for treatment based on the
individual having a melanoma comprising a mutation in BRAF.
6.      The method of claim 7, wherein the mutation in BRAF is a V600E mutation in
BRAF.
7.      The method of claim 1, wherein the method further comprises a second therapy.
8.      The method of claim 7, wherein the method comprises administration of at least one
other therapeutic agent.
9.      The method of claim 8, wherein the other therapeutic agent is a BRAF inhibitor.
 10.    The method of claim 8, wherein the other therapeutic agent is Ipilimumab.
11.     The method of claim 1, wherein the method is used as a first line therapy.
12.      The method of claim 1, wherein the method is used as a second line therapy.
13.     The method of claim 1, wherein the composition comprising nanoparticles comprising
paclitaxel and an albumin is administered intravenously.
14.     The method claim 1, wherein the dose of paclitaxel in the nanoparticle composition is
about 80 mg/in 2 to about 200 mg/m2.
15.     The method of claim 1, wherein the dose of paclitaxel in the nanoparticle composition
is about 150 mg/m 2 .
16.     The method of claim 1, wherein the composition comprising nanoparticles comprising
paclitaxel and an albumin is administered weekly.
                                              159

17.     The method of claim 16, wherein the composition comprising nanoparticles
comprising paclitaxel and an albumin is administered on days 1, 8, and 15 of the 28-day
treatment cycle.
18.     The method of claim 1, wherein the albumin is human serum albumin.
19.     The method of claim 1, wherein the nanoparticles in the composition have an average
diameter of no greater than about 200 nm.
20.     The method of claim 1, wherein the weight ratio of albumin and paclitaxel in the
nanoparticle composition is about 9:1 or less.
21.     The method of claim 1, wherein the paclitaxel in the nanoparticles are coated with the
albumin.
22.     A kit comprising (i) a composition comprising nanoparticles comprising paclitaxel
and an albumin, and (ii) an instruction for administering the nanoparticle composition for
treating melanoma.
                                               160

                 <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
      FIGURE 1
1/4

                 <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
      FIGURE 2
2/4

                 <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
      FIGURE 3
3/4

                 <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
      FIGURE 4
4/4

