                                               - 16
  ABSTRACT
          An at least partially open sided outdoor animal shelter structure, said structure
  including a water impervious canopy, the canopy being supported above at least part of a
  floor by side supports, and at least one side curtain at least partially covering at least one
5 side of the structure, wherein the curtain extends at least some way between the canopy
  and the floor of the structure, but can be disposed so as to leave a gap between the
  ground and curtain to allow air to flow below the curtain and into the structure.

      i-v.
'3
Vt
           6
   'S

                                                 - 1
                             AN ANIMAL SHELTER STRUCTURE
   FIELD OF INVENTION
            This invention relates to an animal shelter structure and in particular though not
   exclusively to an at least partially open sided outdoor animal shelter structure.
 5 BACKGROUND OF INVENTION
            The provision of shelters for animals is becoming of ever more increased
   importance. In particular, provision of shelters for animals during periods of inclement
   weather provides for a useful scenario for improved health and comfort of animals, as
   well as for care of pastoral land.
LO           For example, ruminant animals, such as cows, are routinely farmed for their
   milk. Adverse weather conditions may impact on the health and productivity of a cow
   and its quantity and quality of milk production. In addition, pasture may become
   damaged or compacted by the hoofs of such animals where the soil or particularly moist.
   Damage to feed (e.g. grass or other growing crops from such animals) may also occur.
L5          Further, providing for a comfortable environment for animals can have improved
   health and productivity benefits. Animals are not stressed (or are less stressed by) wet,
   cold, dry, or hot weather climatic conditions when housed or provided with shelter from
   some conditions.
            Various animal shelters are provided for in the prior art, however the provision
20 for improved conditions are always being sought and should be a part of the continual
   upgrade of animal health and productive efficiencies for farmers.
            The invention is applicable and/or adapted to suit the farming of livestock such
   as cattle, sheep, deer, goats, pigs, ostriches and the like.
            Pugging and compaction damage of grazing pasture can occur by grazing
25 animals, or farm vehicles and machinery. This can occur when the soil is soft such as
   when it is wet and the weight of the animals or vehicles cannot be adequately supported
   by the soil's surface. Pugging can result in poor drainage, keeping the soil soft and wet.
   Pugging and compaction damage can also result in reduced pasture utilisation as well as
   a reduction in future pasture yield, depending upon the soil type. Pugging also allows
30 weeds and poor species of grasses to become established. Moreover, pugging and
   compaction damage requires more tractor passes for seed bed preparation and sowing
   and greater fertiliser and topsoil requirements. However, it may not always be possible
   to add the necessary increased fertiliser requirement due to some region's/country's
   regulations regarding runoff of nitrogen into the waterways.
35          In order to address the problem of runoff, and/or pugging and/or compaction
   damage of grazing pastures, stand-off pads are often used. Stand-off pads are generally
   purpose-built, loafing or standing spaces where stock can be held for long periods when

                                                  -2
   it is not suitable to have them on pasture. This may occur for example during a wet
   season, inclement weather, or when it is otherwise undesirable to have cattle or other
   livestock on pasture.
             Some presently available stand-off pads are usually constructed of wood chips or
 5 concrete. One disadvantage associated with such stand-off pads is in relation to
   drainage. That is, many pads often have poor drainage or simply allow the effluent to be
   washed off and into oxidation ponds, or directly into waterways. It is now well known
   that effluent run-off into waterways is environmentally damaging.
             Furthermore, it is found that there are usually problems associated with standing
LO livestock such as cows on presently available concrete pads (predominantly lameness)
   and wood chip pads (predominantly mastitis). The effectiveness of wood chip pads is
   generally found to be dependent upon good management and regular maintenance,
   involving regularly stripping the old surface and replacing it with new wood chips. This
   can be both time and cost intensive.
L5           W02004/022883 addresses some of these issues regarding common stand-off
   pad constructions. W02004/022883 describes a covered stand-off pad that includes a
   slatted concrete floor that allows for effluent to pass there through and into a basement
   area. This allows waste matter to be separated from the floor and to be collected in the
   basement.
20           It is therefore an object of the present invention to provide improvements in or
   relating to the animal shelter structures, which will go at least some way towards
   addressing the foregoing, or which will at least provide industry with a useful choice.
             It is also an object of the present invention to provide a method of conditioning
   milk producing animals and related means.
25 SUMMARY OF INVENTION
   1.        In a first aspect the present invention consists in at least partially open sided
   outdoor animal shelter structure, being a four sided structure with two major opposing
   sides, said structure including:
             a water impervious canopy, the canopy being supported above at least part of a
30 floor by side supports,
             at least one retractable side curtain extending at least some way between the
   canopy and the ground that the structure is placed on, said side curtain being located at
   a perimeter region of the structure and extending at least some of the way along at least
   one of the major opposing sides, wherein said side curtain is or can be disposed to allow
35 a first gap between the side curtain and the ground below to allow ambient air to flow
   below the curtain and into the space,

                                                  -3
            and wherein said side curtain is or can be disposed to allow a second gap located
   between the canopy and the side curtain which can allow air to flow above the curtain
   and into the space
            and wherein said canopy comprises a material which allows at least some light to
 5 pass there through,
            and wherein said structure further comprises at least one air flow control means
   comprising a closable opening through said canopy that can, in its open condition, allow
   airflow out of the space below the canopy.
             Herein described is an outdoor animal shelter structure, said structure
LO including:
            a water impervious canopy supported by supports above a floor on which
   animals can stand in the space between the floor and canopy,
            at least one side curtain partially extending between the canopy and the floor at
   a perimeter region of the structure there being a gap between the side curtain and the
L5 floor below to allow ambient air to flow below the curtain and into the space.
             Herein described is an outdoor animal shelter structure, said structure
   including:
            a water impervious canopy supported by supports above a floor on which
   animals can stand in the space between the floor and canopy,
20          at a perimeter region of the structure the space between the canopy and the
   floor partially covered by a side curtain, the side curtain defining a gap between the side
   curtain and the floor below to allow ambient air to flow below the curtain.
             Herein described is an ambient airflow concentrator arrangement of or for
   an outdoor animal shelter structure to encourage the evaporation of animal waste
Z5 fluids collected on a floor on which animals can stand beneath a water impervious canopy
   there being provided at a perimeter region of the structure and between the space
   between the canopy and the floor a side curtain defining a gap between the side curtain
   and the floor below to allow ambient air, whether established by convection and/or wind,
   to flow below the curtain and over the floor.
30          With respect to the aspects of the invention previously described, the following
   preferments apply:
             Preferably said structure is a four sided structure with two major opposing sides.
             Preferably the side curtain, at least in some regions, can be disposed so as to
   leave a gap between the canopy and the curtain to allow air to flow above the curtain
35 and into the structure.
             Preferably said side curtain is water impervious.
             Preferably said side curtain allows at least some light to pass therethrough.
             Preferably said two major opposing sides each have a said side curtain disposed
   over it.

                                                  -4
             Preferably each said side curtain extends the full length of each major opposing
   side.
            Alternatively each said side curtain is made up of a plurality of side curtains.
             Preferably each said side curtain is retractable (similar to retractable blind, for
 5 example) to increase the gap between the bottom of the curtain and the ground.
             Preferably said structure further comprises at least one air flow control means
   comprising a closable opening through said canopy that, in its open condition, can allow
   airflow out of the space below the canopy, through said canopy, to thereby allow
   adjustment of the climate that any animal standing on the ground inside the structure
LO experiences.
             Preferably said canopy is curved and said closable opening is positioned at or
   adjacent the apex of said canopy.
             Preferably said airflow control means is also at least one louvre board that (a) is
   proximate said canopy to define a gap between said louvre board and said canopy, and
L5 (b) extends outwardly and downwardly along one or more open side of the structure, to
   encourage airflow incident the structure at each said side, into the area below the canopy
   and in a direction to travel at least partially along at least part of the underside of the
   canopy.
             Preferably said airflow control means is also at least one louvre board located
20 adjacent at least one edge of the canopy yet separated therefrom to define a gap
   between the canopy and the louvre board, said louvre board oriented to direct part of
   any appropriately directed ambient airflow incident on the structure, through said gap
   and along at least part of the underside of said canopy to encourage a circulation of air in
   said space.
Z5           Preferably said at least one louvre board is provided at or near each of said
   major sides of the structure.
             Preferably the closable opening is closable by a closure that is movably
   supported to move relative said canopy between a position closing said opening and a
   position to allow airflow through said opening.
30           Preferably the structure includes a retractable shade cloth that can be extended
   to be positioned above at least part of the ground and below said canopy to shade at
   least part of the floor from sunlight entering the structure.
             Preferably the structure includes a removable shade cloth that can be positioned
   above at least part of the ground and below said canopy to shade at least part of the
35 floor from sunlight entering the structure.
             Preferably the canopy extends upwardly from each of said two sides, which are
   opposite each other, toward the apex.
             Preferably said canopy is uni-directionally curved and defines an elongate apex
   or ridge extending intermediate of two opposed sides of said structure.

                                                  - 5
             Preferably said canopy allows at least some light to pass there through.
             Preferably said canopy comprises a translucent cover material to allow at least
   some light to pass there through.
             Preferably the ground or floor beneath the canopy and structure is provided with
 5 at least in part a covering of a farm aggregate material.
             Preferably said farm aggregate material is any one or more of limestone, soft
   rock or stone, compactable shales or any other similar material.
             Preferably at least one of the structures major opposing sides is placed such that
   the prevailing wind is directed to it.
LO           Preferably said side supports supporting said canopy is a frame of posts.
             Preferably at least one protective rail is attached to said frame, particularly
   extending along at least one major opposing side of the structure, preferably along both
   major sides, so as to protect said side curtains from damage from animals within the
   structure.
L5           Preferably said at least one protective rail is one protective rails.
             Preferably said at least one protective rail is two protective rails extending
   parallel to one another.
             Preferably said at least one protective rail is three protective rails extending
   parallel to one another.
20           Preferably feeding troughs are provided within the structure.
             Preferably the feeding troughs can run along the inside or outside of the
   structure.
             Preferably the feeding troughs extend inside said structure along the major side
   walls of the structure.
Z5           Alternatively or additionally the feeding troughs extend inside said structure
   through the middle of the structure.
             Preferably the gap is quadrilateral in shape.
             Preferably the bottom of the curtain is linear and extends in a direction parallel
   the direction of the major side at which it is disposed.
30           Preferably the structure is 4 sided rectangular in plan, and at least one major
   sides is disposed of a said curtain.
             Preferably a secondary gap may also be created above the side curtain and
   between the side curtain and the canopy.
             Preferably the curtain is transparent or translucent.
35           Preferably the curtain is opaque.
             Preferably the curtain is supported by a spool onto which it can be wound to
   increase the size of the gap.
   In another aspect the present invention may be said to broadly consist in a method of
   consolidating animal effluent and/or waste material with some fibre content

                                                  -6
   which has collected on the floor of an at least partially open sided outdoor
   animal shelter structure into a solid sheet form, said method including the steps of:
            a) providing an animal shelter structure as claimed in any one of the preceding
            claims,
 5          b)     disposing the side curtain, if not already so disposed, to leave a first gap
            between the side curtain and the ground below the side curtain,
            c)     optionally disposing the side curtain, if not already so disposed, to leave a
            second gap between the side curtain and the canopy above the side curtain,
            d)     opening said closable opening in the canopy, and
LO          e)     at least periodically allowing animals to move about inside the structure so
            as to compact the animal effluent and/or waste material as it dries on the floor,
            until a solid sheet has formed.
            Preferably said structure is a four sided structure with two major opposing sides.
            Preferably the side curtain, at least in some regions, can be disposed so as to
L5 leave a gap between the canopy and the curtain to allow air to flow above the curtain
   and into the structure.
            Preferably said method further comprises the step of disposing the curtain so as
   to leave a gap between the canopy and the curtain.
            Preferably said side curtain allows at least some light to pass therethrough.
20          Preferably said two major opposing sides each have a said side curtain disposed
   over it.
            Preferably each said side curtain extends the full length of each major opposing
   side.
            Alternatively each said side curtain is made up of a plurality of side curtains.
Z5          Preferably each said side curtain is retractable (similar to retractable blind, for
   example) to increase the gap between the bottom of the curtain and the ground.
            Preferably said structure further comprises at least one air flow control means
   comprising a closable opening through said canopy that, in its open condition, can allow
   airflow out of the space below the canopy, through said canopy, to thereby allow
30 adjustment of the climate that any animal standing on the ground inside the structure
   experiences.
            Preferably said canopy is curved and said closable opening is positioned at or
   adjacent the apex of said canopy.
            Preferably said airflow control means is also at least one louvre board that (a) is
35 proximate said canopy to define a gap between said louvre board and said canopy, and
   (b) extends outwardly and downwardly along one or more open side of the structure, to
   encourage airflow incident the structure at each said side, into the area below the canopy
   and in a direction to travel at least partially along at least part of the underside of the
   canopy.

                                                 -7
             Preferably said airflow control means is also at least one louvre board located
   adjacent at least one edge of the canopy yet separated therefrom to define a gap
   between the canopy and the louvre board, said louvre board oriented to direct part of
   any appropriately directed ambient airflow incident on the structure, through said gap
 5 and along at least part of the underside of said canopy to encourage a circulation of air in
   said space.
            Preferably said at least one louvre board is provided at or near each of said
   major sides of the structure.
            Preferably the closable opening is closable by a closure that is movably
LO supported to move relative said canopy between a position closing said opening and a
   position to allow airflow through said opening.
             Preferably the structure includes a retractable shade cloth that can be extended
   to be positioned above at least part of the ground and below said canopy to shade at
   least part of the floor from sunlight entering the structure.
L5           Preferably the structure includes a removable shade cloth that can be positioned
   above at least part of the ground and below said canopy to shade at least part of the
   floor from sunlight entering the structure.
            Preferably the canopy extends upwardly from each of said two sides, which are
   opposite each other, toward the apex.
20          Preferably said canopy is uni-directionally curved and defines an elongate apex
   or ridge extending intermediate of two opposed sides of said structure.
            Preferably said canopy allows at least some light to pass there through.
            Preferably said canopy comprises a translucent cover material to allow at least
   some light to pass there through.
Z5          Preferably the ground or floor beneath the canopy and structure is provided with
   at least in part a covering of a farm aggregate material.
            Preferably said farm aggregate material is any one or more of limestone, soft
   rock or stone, compactable shales or any other similar material.
            Preferably at least one of the structures major opposing sides is placed such that
30 the prevailing wind is directed to it.
            In yet a further aspect the present invention consists in a structure as herein
   before described and with reference to the accompanying drawings.
            Herein described is a method of consolidating animal effluent and/or waste
   material with some fibre content which has collected on the floor of an at least partially
35 open sided outdoor animal shelter structure into a solid sheet form as herein described
   and with reference to the accompanying drawings.
            In this specification, where reference has been made to external sources of
    information, including patent specifications and other documents, this is generally for the
    purpose of providing a context for discussing the features of the present invention.

                                                  -8
    Unless stated otherwise, reference to such sources of information is not to be construed,
    in any jurisdiction, as an admission that such sources of information are prior art or form
    part of the common general knowledge in the art.
             As used herein the term "and/or" means "and" or "or", or both.
 5           As used herein "(s)" following a noun means the plural and/or singular forms of
   the noun.
             The term "comprising" as used in this specification means "consisting at least in
   part of". When interpreting statements in this specification which include that term, the
   features, prefaced by that term in each statement, all need to be present but other
LO features can also be present. Related terms such as "comprise" and "comprised" are to
   be interpreted in the same manner.
             The entire disclosures of all applications, patents and publications, cited above
   and below, if any, are hereby incorporated by reference.
             This invention may also be said broadly to consist in the parts, elements and
L5 features referred to or indicated in the specification of the application, individually or
   collectively, and any or all combinations of any two or more of said parts, elements or
   features, and where specific integers are mentioned herein which have known
   equivalents in the art to which this invention relates, such known equivalents are deemed
   to be incorporated herein as if individually set forth.
20 BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF DRAWINGS
             Further aspects of the present invention will become apparent from the following
   description which is given by way of example only and with reference to the
   accompanying drawings.
             Figure 1 is an end view of an animal shelter structure that includes a canopy
25 above a ventilated covered space and side curtains.
             Figure 2 is a perspective view of an animal shelter structure with side curtains.
             Figure 3 is an alternative view of the animal shelter structure of Figure 2.
             Figure 4a shows an illustration of a vent that may be disposed in a canopy of
   the covered structure in any of the embodiments of the present invention. The vent is
30 shown in the closed position.
             Figure 4b is a shows the vent of Figure 4a in an open position.
   DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS
             In Figure 1, there is shown a shelter structure 20. The structure 20 is preferably
   a four side structure that includes a canopy 22 covering a covered space. The canopy is
35 preferably water impervious, yet may allow light to pass there through. The structure is
   preferably is an open sided structure having at least one and preferably all of its four
   sides at least partially open. The structure 20 preferably has a curved and closed canopy

                                                 -9
   22, supported by and above side supports 23 such as posts or props. The posts or props
   preferably form a framework, see 30.
   Venting
             The structure is preferably provided with louvre boards 24 that are provided to
 5 assist in modifying the environment within the covered space. The louvre boards are
   preferably provided along at least two opposed sides of the structure. There is at least
   one louvre board at each side although a plurality of louvre boards positioned end on end
   may be provided. A louvre board 24 may extend along at least two opposing or all sides
   of the structure 20. Where the structure 20 is rectangular in plan shape the louvre
LO boards are preferably located at the major opposing sides. The louvre boards 24 are
   preferably situated below the lower edges 25 of the canopy 22. There is thus an air
   space, generally indicated by arrows 28 between the louvre boards 24 and the lower
   edges 25 of the roof 22. In other forms such as that of Figure 3, that airspace may be
   very small or not exist at all.
L5           The louvre boards are preferably downwardly and outwardly extending from the
   lower edge 25 of the canopy 22. They are preferably angled at approximately 45 degrees
   with respect to the side supports 23 and extend generally the length of the sides of the
   structure 1. One or more louvre boards end on end may be used. One or more at least
   partially overlapping louvre boards may also be used.
20           The louvre boards 24 deflect and/or scoop and thereby encourage or enhance
   airflow passing through the gaps 28 into the covered space.
             Airflow passing into the covered space through each of the gaps 28 is initially
   deflected upwards by the louvre boards 24 into the upper zones of the covered space.
   The airflow is then deflected downwards by the canopy and/or the opposing airflow
Z5 entering from the other side of the covered space 20. This results in a generally
   downward displacement of air such as in a spiralling motion as indicated by the arrows
   26. We have found that this downward spiralling motion of the airflow 10 only occurs
   effectively when the canopy 22 is non-flat, preferably pitched and most preferably curved
   with its apex midway between opposed side walls at where the louvre boards are
30 provided.
             The end result is that the louvre boards can enhance environmental conditions
   within the covered space. Such enhancement may be to increase air circulation within
   the covered space to improve drying and/or evaporation of waste matter. The increased
   air circulation can also improve air displacement rates through the covered space to
35 displace evaporated waste to the surrounding environment. Enhanced environmental
   conditions resultant from the louvre boards may also be established to aid in a cooling of
   animals that may be inside covered space. This may be desirable on hot days and where
   the temperature inside the enclosed space would otherwise be much higher than the
   ambient temperature.

                                                 - 10
             The louvre boards may be adjustable in their position to control the nature of the
   airflow through the airspace 28. They may be adjusted by pivoting at the inner edge of
   the louvre boards. They may be adjusted to an extent to close the airspace so that their
   effect on the airflow within the covered space is nil or minimal.
 5 Side curtains
             The sides (preferably the major opposing sides) of the structure are preferably
   provided with side curtains 31 which at least partially cover the open sides of the
   structure. Preferably the curtains extend some distance between the canopy and the
   ground, but do not necessarily extend from the canopy to the ground. In the preferred
LO form of the structure, the side curtains do not extend to the ground. Thus an area or
   gap is provided below each curtain for venting and air flow. Therefore, as well as airflow
   26, air may simultaneously be drawn into the covered space through the gap 32 below
   the curtains 31. The flow of air under the curtains is indicated in Figure 1 by arrows 27.
   Smoke tests have shown that this airflow 27 is enhanced by the spiralling motion of the
L5 airflow 26.
             Similarly there may be a gap between the canopy 22 and the top of the curtain
   31 through which airflow can be drawn into the covered space, regardless of whether a
   louvre board is present or not. It is preferably possible to close the gaps at the top
   and/or bottom of the curtain, for example by further extension of the curtain to cover the
20 gap or by otherwise closing over the gap, so that the open side(s) of the structure can be
   fully closed in driving rain conditions. Preferably the curtain prevents or impedes
   windflow, such that when the gap 32 is open, wind that blows against the curtain will
   tend to be diverted through the gap 32 and flow across the floor of the structure. The
   airflow assists in the removal of moisture from animal effluent and waste material that
Z5 may have collected on the floor inside the structure.
             The side curtains are preferably one curtain per major side that each extends the
   entire length of the structure. However in other forms a number of curtains may be
   provided down each side. This allows for retraction of any number of curtains, for
   example, allowing for additional airflow into the structure. However, in the embodiments
30 when a full curtain extends the length of the side the curtain may also be retractable in
   height.
             The canopy and side curtains preferably exclude rain (are water impervious) yet
   allow at least some amount of light into the structure. Thus they are made from an at
   least partially see-through material, for example, a plastics type material. The light into
35 the structure provides evaporation of liquid from the flooring surface.
             As the canopy and curtains exclude rain, farm aggregates, for example,
   limestone, soft rock or stone, compactable shales and other similar materials may be
   used with this structure as an alternative to concrete flooring. This type of flooring in the
   past was prone to pugging. However, with the exclusion of rain and drying due to

                                                   - 11
   airflows within the structure, these farm aggregates stay drier. Thus, the floor of the
   structure can be provided with a surface of such farm aggregates as a standoff pad for
   animals. Such flooring is softer than concrete and provides advantages for animals, such
   as cows and the like, who do not naturally like being on concrete.
 5           Additionally, as such flooring materials can be dried out, over time the material
   will compact with animal treading and can be scrapped out with scrapers, for example,
   on tractors, along with waste materials into covered or uncovered effluent storage bins or
   ponds.
             In the preferred structure, animal effluent and waste material on the floor inside
LO the structure can be thoroughly dried, even where a non-aggregate (for example
   concrete) floor is used. Moisture is removed from the effluent and/or animal waste which
   may collect upon the floor by the circulation of air and by evaporation. As the animals
   tread upon the matter on the floor it may be compacted into a dried fibrous mat. Fibre
   may be provided by animal faecal matter, and/or waste such as food scraps.
L5           The dried fibrous mat may be, for example, compacted to a thickness of less
   than 50mm, and preferably less than 20mm. The dried fibrous mat may act as a more
   pleasing underfoot floor covering for animals, such as cows and the like, who do not
   naturally like being on a concrete surface.
             Because the canopy and curtain(s) exclude rain, the dried fibrous mat will
20 remain in a dry state even in wet weather, thus the effluent and waste material can
   periodically be removed from the structure by peeling or scraping the mat off the floor
   surface and disposing of it. It may be easier to deal with the waste in this compacted
   form, rather than having to process the effluent in an uncompacted form and with its full
   natural moisture content.
Z5           To assist in the drying of the flooring material and/or the drying of effluent and
   waste material which may have collected on the floor, the structure is preferably placed
   such that the major sides of the structure face predominate (prevailing) wind direction so
   as to increase airflow through the structure yet reducing driving rain from the prevailing
   wind direction from entering the structure and causing dampening of the flooring
30 material.
             The louver boards and venting areas surrounding boards may be used to move
   air out from under the curved roof.
             Alternatively, the venting areas (at the louver boards) near the canopy can be
   closed, as can the side curtains be extended to obstruct the gap 32.
35           Additionally, in some embodiments of the structure of the present invention the
   side curtains 31 may need to be protected from the animals within the structure. Thus,
   the structure 22 may be provided with protector rails 41, one example of this is shown in
   Figure 3. While two rails 41 are shown in Figure 3 any number of rails, from one to

                                                  - 12
   many, may be provided to prevent animals from damaging the curtains or attempting to
   move through them.
             Feeding troughs (not shown) may also be provided within the structure 20. The
   feeding troughs can run inside or outside the structure. They may run inside along the
 5 major side walls of the structure, or through the middle of the structure.
             In various embodiments, the animal structure 20 of this invention may be
   coupled with, or use in conjunction with the features as described by any one or more of
   PCT/NZ03/000195, PCT/NZ2006/000324, PCT/NZ2008/000044, PCT/NZ2008/000121,
   PCT/IB2010/044117, NZ650883, NZ659255, NZ599727 the contents of each of which are
LO herein incorporated in their entirety by reference.
             The roof comprising a canopy (or where the roof is a canopy) can be curved.
   Such curvature may assist with air-flow into or through the structure 20.
             Referring now to Figures 2 and 3, it is preferred that the canopy 22 is supported
   by a canopy frame and ridge 39 that runs the length of the structure. The canopy frame
L5 35 is comprised of radial trusses 37. It is preferred that multiple frames of radial trusses
   are set out along the length of the structure 20 to provide support for the canopy 22 and
   ridge 39. The radial trusses 37 are formed by a rigid horizontal support member 40 that
   spans the width of the structure 20. The horizontal member 40 supports one or more
   rigid angled members 37. The angled members 37 extend between the horizontal
20 member 40 and the canopy 22.
   Canopy venting
             The canopy may include at least one closeable vent at the ridge 39. This vent(s)
   is (are) preferably at least one thermal vent that is capable of letting hot air that has
   accumulated inside the structure to be let out. Or the vent(s) can be closed to allow hot
Z5 air within the structure 20 to be pushed down by the louvered directed air entering the
   barn.
             A vent that may be utilised at the ridge 39, such a vent 50 is shown in Figures
   4a and 4b. Figure 4a shows the vent 50 closed and Figure 4b shows the vent 50 open.
   The vent 50 is comprised of a stack 51 and a vent cap 52. The stack is a hollow extrusion
30 formed perpendicularly to the surface of the canopy.
             Alternatively, the stack may be a column of either a square, rectangular or
   cylindrical shape, placed perpendicular to the surface of the canopy. The vent cap 52 is
   preferably of a similar square, rectangular or cylindrical shape to the stack to enable the
   cap 52 to completely close the stack 51 as required.
35           In the preferred form, the vent cap 52 abuts the stack and consists of one or
   more flexible displaceable arms 52a. The cap is preferably temperature-actuated such
   that it allows the vent to be partially or fully open or fully closed depending on the
   temperature within the structure.

                                                - 13
            The actuating mechanism is coupled with braces 53 to the canopy 22. It
   comprises a hydraulic system 54, or springs, or any other type of biasing member. In
   one preferred form, the hydraulic system (not shown) that comprises of a cylinder, a
   piston and a temperature sensitive fluid contained within the cylinder. The temperature
 5 sensitive fluid expands and contracts in response to rising or falling temperature inside
   the covered structure which consequently actuates the piston.
            The piston in the hydraulic system is connected to an elongate member 55, the
   other end of which joins the vent cap 52. As the piston responds to the fluid (or other
   such biasing member), the elongated member displaces vertically, thus actuating the
LO vent cap 52.
            In the open position of Figure 4b, where the vent 50 is in an open position, the
   vertical displacement of the vent cap 50 is indicated as B.
            In other embodiments, such vents 50 may be coupled or placed in a different
   position on the covered structure such as on the sides, adjacent to the walls or at the
L5 corners of the canopy.
   Retractable shade cloth
            In yet other embodiments of the structure of the present invention, a retractable
   shade cloth (not shown) can be provided that can be extended to be positioned above at
   least part of the floor and below the canopy to shade at least part of the flooring from
20 sunlight entering the structure.
            The removable shade cloth can be provided that is positioned or positionable
   above at least part of the floor and below said canopy to shade at least part of the floor
   from sunlight entering the structure. The shade cloth may also increase thermal
   convection within the structure.
Z5         Where in the foregoing description reference has been made to elements or
   integers having known equivalents, then such equivalents are included as if they were
   individually set forth.
           Although the invention has been described by way of example and with reference
   to particular embodiments, it is to be understood that modifications and/or
30 improvements may be made without departing from the scope or spirit of the invention.

                                                  - 14
   WE CLAIM:
   1.        An at least partially open sided outdoor animal shelter structure, being a four
        sided structure with two major opposing sides, said structure including:
             a water impervious canopy, the canopy being supported above at least part of a
 5 floor by side supports,
             at least one retractable side curtain extending at least some way between the
   canopy and the ground that the structure is placed on, said side curtain being located at
   a perimeter region of the structure and extending at least some of the way along at least
   one of the major opposing sides, wherein said side curtain is or can be disposed to allow
LO a first gap between the side curtain and the ground below to allow ambient air to flow
   below the curtain and into the space,
             and wherein said side curtain is or can be disposed to allow a second gap located
   between the canopy and the side curtain which can allow air to flow above the curtain
   and into the space
L5           and wherein said canopy comprises a material which allows at least some light to
   pass there through,
             and wherein said structure further comprises at least one air flow control means
   comprising a closable opening through said canopy that can, in its open condition, allow
   airflow out of the space below the canopy.
20 2.        The structure of claim 1 wherein the side curtain is made up of a plurality of side
   curtains.
   3.        The structure of any one of the preceding claims wherein said canopy is uni
   directionally curved and defines an elongate apex or ridge extending intermediate of two
   opposed sides of said structure, and the canopy extends upwardly from each of said two
25 sides, which are opposite each other, toward the apex.
   4.        A method of consolidating animal effluent and/or waste material with some fibre
   content which has collected on the floor of an outdoor animal shelter structure into a
   solid sheet form, said method including the steps of:
             a) providing an animal shelter structure as claimed in any one of the preceding
30           claims,
             b)    disposing the side curtain, if not already so disposed, to leave a first gap
             between the side curtain and the ground below the side curtain,
             c)    optionally disposing the side curtain, if not already so disposed, to leave a
             second gap between the side curtain and the canopy above the side curtain,
35           d)    opening said closable opening in the canopy, and
             e)    at least periodically allowing animals to move about inside the structure so
             as to compact the animal effluent and/or waste material as it dries on the floor,
             until a solid sheet has formed.

                                             - 15
5.       A method of consolidating animal effluent and/or waste material, with some fibre
content which has collected on the floor of an at least partially open sided outdoor animal
shelter structure as claimed in claim 1, into a solid sheet form.

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           1/4

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           2/4

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           3/4

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           4/4

