   Docunt7 -,09/2016
   ABSTRACT
   A method useful in the continuous ore extraction in underground works intended for the
   permanent production of extraction from draw points or trenches, comprising the
 5 construction of reduced size drifts wherein through the center defined by a group of drifts
   crossed a drift which is intended for ore haulage, such drift crosses successively all drift
   groups defined at the exploitation face, such extraction points are arranged to form a
   regular layout at certain distances which are compatible with an interactive gravitational
   flow; once such drifts, trenches, and haulage drifts are constructed the pre-conditioning,
10 caving and extraction stages are carried out.

                                               1
                                 CONTINUOUS MINING
The present application for invention patent relates to a method of underground mining
exploitation which allows for continuous ore extraction. Specifically, it relates to a
mining method comprising rock pre-conditioning, as a way to prepare the rock to
facilitate its response to caveability and fragmentation and then it relates to an ore
material handling system whose main features are: simultaneous extraction from several
draw points and haulage with stationary equipment towards main haulage systems. All
theses processes are carried out continuously.
PREVIOUS ART
Overall mining process comprises two major stages: rock fracturing and its subsequent
haulage. The aim of the first stage is to transform the solid material - which is the
natural state of ore deposit - into fragmented material, and the aim of the second stage
is to haul such fragments to their final destination.
In caving exploitation, ground breaking itself is a continuous process of fracturing and
fragmentation that makes use of natural forces of gravity and tectonism to achieve its
goal. This process occurs naturally as a consequence of the unbalance caused by the
extraction of the produced fragments, i.e., each time an amount of fragmented material
is drawn, a condition of instability is originated which produces more fracturing and
fragmentation, thereby, more ground breaking.
However, within the conventional system of caving exploitation, material handling,
which comprises extraction (loading) of ore available at points and its haulage to
destination, occurs discreetly and intermittently; discreetly because the extraction is not
simultaneously made from every point where ore is available, but rather from just a
fraction of them; and intermittently because the extraction is made by wheel loaders
working within a cycle which comprises: loading, traveling to dump, unloading and
traveling back to load another bucketful. Usually, such bucketful of ore extracted
discreetly and intermittently is dumped into shafts which serve as silos - where it will
be loaded again at intervals into rail wagons or trucks to be hauled to the surface.

                                              2
Then, the whole process is based on this discreet and intermittent hauling process, since
the ground breaking depends on haulage. Therefore, in order to achieve an entirely new
continuous process, a continuous material handling system is required.
The concept "Continuous Mining" comprises a stage of modifying the features of the
rock mass where the ore deposit is located, the stage being called Pre-conditioning. At
this stage, the extent of the rock mass fracturing is increased in situ, in order to obtain,
in the following stage of caving, fragmented material in sizes which are compatible with
continuous and automated material handling systems. Another main aspect of the pre
conditioning application is to guarantee that the rock breaking will occur at a constant
rate and at the same rate as the extraction process.
It is well known that upon choosing an exploitation method, the location and depth of
the ore deposit, deposit geometry (vein, seam, massive) and the quality of the host and
mineralized rock are assessed, and based on several combinations of such elements,
different solutions for each case are known. On the other hand, in the past 100 years,
exploitation systems, with the exception of coal mining, have adopted the mining
designs to incorporate the use of advanced construction and grund movement
equipment. The development of such equipment (front loaders, trucks and others) is
mainly due to the fact that within the civil work industry, the productivity is a decisive
factor for business survival.
Therefore, it is clear that the proposed concept of Continuous Mining breaks both
paradigms. The first one, because it is not the process which is adapted to the rock
conditions but the quality of the rock in situ is modified to be adapted to an efficient
process of rock breaking and extraction; and the second one, because construction
 industry equipment are no longer used because this method requires equipment
 specially designed.
 Continuous Mining is conceived as a highly mechanized and automated process which
permits to make the most of the resources invested in equipment and infrastructure.
 The idea is that the mine operates 18 to 22 hours a day, 360 days a year, at full capacity
 and within an environment complying with high safety and hygiene standards.

                                              3
The Continuous Mining method is rather a mining process of continuous and permanent
ore flow from the deposit to the treatment plant, which could be similar to a "rock
factory" where at one end, in situ reserves are fed and at the other end "treated rocks"
are obtained.
The method relates mainly to the continuity of the ore flow from its natural location to
its final destination, which can be described as a "flow" of ore which goes through a
pipe-network or means of transport without interruptions. In turn and as a consequence
of the continuity of flow, there is no need to halt the process when changing shifts and
thereby, Continuous Mining also means of temporal continuity in the use of mine
infrastructure.
Even though the term continuous mining has been somehow used, this is mainly due to
the utilization of large equipment at the working face. Basically, the equipment
comprises rotary drills to weaken and fragment the rock mass but later loading
equipment is used to carry the ore to the treatment plant.
Additionally, some developments directed to improve rock mass exploitation can be
seen. Patent RU2186980 for example, describes a method comprising the exploitation
of front faces as ore continuous fragmentation without pillars by driving drills on the
work levels. However, neither the way ore is extracted from the mining zone nor
whether this extraction is made continuously are mentioned. Similar solution can be
found in patent publications RU2182663 and RU 2148712 which generally describes
that caving itself is a continuous process, but if no continuous extraction or loading
process is added, this caving processes will became intermittent and discontinuous,
which is precisely the solution proposed by the present invention.
 DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
 The method of the present invention comprises the design and construction of
 exploitation drifts or draw points arranged in such a way that the ore material extracted
 therefrom is driven to the ore haulage drifts. Strictly speaking, the construction of
 exploitation drifts takes into account that haulage drifts cross the center of two groups
 of exploitation drifts and subsequently through every group of exploitation drifts

                                             4
defined for the exploitation. Optionally, parallel to haulage drifts, service drifts should
be constructed whose function is to allow personnel to reach the drift zone and service
drifts when maintenance jobs and eventual failures are needed.
Within exploitation drifts, trenches or draw points are arranged where, due the effect of
ore fragmentation described below, rock mass detaches and continuous ore caving is
induced. Draw point should be constructed in such a way to arrange a regular layoumii
with determined distances compatible with interactive gravitational flow. When
trenches are already constructed, necessary equipment is installed for extracting the ore.
Likewise, necessary means are arranged in haulage drifts so that the material extracted
from trenches flow permanently through haulage drifts. For that purpose, haulage drifts
have for example, belt or chain conveyors, endless and stationary, commonly called
"Panzer" for its high resistance to hard works (movement of large, hard and abrasive
rocks). The use of this kind of conveyors replaces typical mobile low height loaders or
LHD used in conventional mining.
An optional way of constructing drifts comprises the construction of a material
transferring level located one level downward regarding to the level of exploitation
drifts, and consequently, with regard to the level of trenches. This layout allows
receiving simultaneously ore material from more than one trench or draw point and
accumulating in the duct material falling from the trench; this duct is formed between
the trench and transferring levels. With this alternative, by accumulating material in the
aforementioned duct, allows performing maintenance services in haulage drifts without
stopping the exploitation process since the accumulated material can be unloaded
afterwards.
 When drifts have been built according to the previous description, the method
 comprises the following stages:
 a) Pre-conditioning: this stage is fundamental for the method's success and comprises
 modifying in situ rock quality, increasing the extent of fracturing until levels which
 confer rocks features similar to secondary rock mass. Pre-conditioning stage can be
 achieved by i) hydraulic fracturing, which is a technology known in applications of oil
 wells exploitation, where it is used to cause fractures which facilitate oil flow from

                                              5
wells, and in the case of metal mining, it generates fractures which facilitate the action
of the natural stresses, both for generating caving and for improving granulometry; or
by ii) confined blasting which is the combined action of several firings to fracture the
rock mass. Finally, both techniques can be combined.
Primary rock is a highly competent rock mass and massive pre-conditioning or pre
treatment converts it on a material which is easy to cave and fragment by caving
exploitation, which could be also called process of "secondarization" for primary ore.
Nevertheless, test have shown that the best way to carry out the pre-conditioning stage
is by combining Hydraulic Fracturing with Explosive Driven Dynamic Weakening,
which in last case we make use of dynamic wave force collision, which is technically
possible nowadays due to the electronic detonation technologies available in the market.
This pre-conditioning alternative allows producing pre-stimulation of drill-holes
induced by hydraulic fracturing and carrying out the electronic detonation process
immediately.
Another alternative is carrying out drilling pre-stimulation induced by propellant (solid
fuel-based explosive) and then applying the hydraulic fracturing technology in order to
propagate the fractures, the latter is a methodology used usually in oil wells.
    b) Caving: this stage is the rock mass caving operation by undercutting the base of
         rock mass by means of known procedures of caving method in well-fragmented
         rock environment; and its application does not present any innovation for this
         purpose. With the induced fracturing in the previous stage (a) it is expected that
         most of fragments can be processed by the continuous extraction and haulage
         system.
    The layout of draw point that should be used will be defined by the rock
     fragmentation features. For instance, in sectors with fine fragmentation carried out
    by caving methods, a layout with close points with distances ranging from 8 to 11
     meters is required. This point closeness condition, makes it necessary the drifts must
     be small, in order to maintain the stability of the sector. The known and extensively
     applied solutions in the world are the extraction with grizzlies and shafts or scrapers,
     which allow extracting from multiple points and collect the extracted product in

                                          6
haulage drifts. On the other hand, larger layouts with spacing ranging from 13 to 17
meters are used for primary rock sectors, with thick fragmentation. In the
conventional system these layouts require using very large LHD equipment and it is
not possible to make parallel extraction from those points.
In the case of Continuous Mining, the sizes of the layouts that have been assessed
are between 13 x 13 square meters and 15 x 15 square meters. Both layouts are quite
wide and are useful to handle oversize mucks or boulders.
c) Extraction: this stage is conceived as a simultaneous operation from
multiple draw points arranged on a regular layouts at certain distances which are
compatible with the interactive gravitational flow. For that purpose, as it has already
been mentioned, each draw point is equipped with a stationary extraction unit which
feeds a collecting system that conveys the ore to the haulage drift by continuous
means that leads it to its destination. The extraction and haulage equipments have an
automatic command- assisted by a remote driver operated from a control room as in
any modem industry. Eventually, crushers could be installed at the end of the
collecting systems to produce in the mine the final feeding size for the plant. In
short, wheel loaders are not used because they are replaced by continuous loading
systems. By way of example, stationary "feeders" that unload continuous conveyors
can be considered.
The main haulage alternative used is a metal belt conveyor (panzer) in which the
preliminary assessments show lower operation costs compared to the traditional
raildrift haulage system.
Applying a continuous mining system as the one that have been described has a
great impact on the caved area performance which is usually expressed as
"extraction rate" and is measured in tpd/m2.
In fact, in the conventional LHD-extraction system, discreet and intermittent, each
loading system extracts ore from a set of draw points (generally 16 draw points per
equipment) at the rate of 200 t/hour. Approximately 250 m 2 influence area is
associated to each extraction point so a 16 point module comprises approximately
4,000 m2 , thus in a maximum operation of 15 hours a day an extraction of 3,000 t

                                          7
                           2
equivalent to 0.75 tpd/m can be achieved. On the other hand if we assume that the
extraction is made regularly, less than 200 t a day is drawn from each point which is
equivalent to using less than one hour daily (let us remember that LHD can draw
200t/hour).
The historical figures for actual extraction rate are around 0.4 tpd/m2 and for
effective extraction rate are around 0.5 tpd/m2., since the ore flow through the
extraction points is no fast enough to saturate the production capacity of the
equipments. The expression "actual extraction rate (AER)" is used to refer to the
total extraction achieved in a day from a certain active area, if the points have or
have not been available for extraction; and the terms "effective extraction rate
(EER)" relates to the estimated extraction rate considering only the area of those
points that effectively were object of extraction during that day. The difference is
explained because one portion of the active area can be transiently out of service due
to direct maintenance or repair of draw points, hauling or destination facilities.
Continuous Mining aims to improve these figures by increasing the use of extraction
points to an average of 16 hours daily (two operation shifts and one maintenance
shift) with a 40 t/hour production per stationary extractor.
Thus if we consider in an easy exercise where 8 points of 225 m2 influence (1800
m 2) operating 16 hours a day, a 5,400 tpd production, a 3 tpd/m2 extraction rate
(EER) and an actual extraction rate (AER) around 1,5 tpd/m2 are provided. This
results in a better use of the caved area as well as a concentrated operation with its
consequent resource rationalization.
For the fragmented material in such conditions, the achievable extraction rate in the
caving propagation stage can reach 300 mm/day which is equivalent to
approximately 0.8 tpd/m 2 and theoretically there are no limitations for the
gravitational extraction stage post propagation except the extraction capacity, that in
the invented system could reach rates above 3 tpd/m2

                                        8
WHAT IS CLAIMED:
  1. A method useful in the continuous ore extraction in underground works
     intended for the permanent production of extraction from draw points or
     trenches, comprising the construction of reduced size drifts wherein through
     the center defined by a group of drifts crosses a drift which is intended for
     ore haulage, such drift crosses successively all drift groups defined at the
     exploitation face; such extraction points are arranged to form a regular
     layouttm2] at certain distances which are compatible with an interactive
     gravitational flow; once such drifts, trenches and haulage drifts are
     constructed the following stages are carried out:
         a. Pre-conditioning consisting in modifying the in situ rock by
             intensifying its fracturing degree until reaching the levels that turn
             such rock into a rock with secondary rock mass features,
         b. Caving consisting in caving the rock mass by undermining its base
             through well known procedures in well-fragmented rock
             environment, and
         c. Extraction consisting in the simultaneous operation from multiple
             draw points defined during the construction stage of such exploitation
             drift.
  2. A method useful in the continuous ore extraction of Claim 1 wherein once
     such trenches have already been constructed, stationary equipments are
     installed on such trenches in order to produce the extraction of ore.
  3. A method useful in the continuous ore extraction of Claim 1 wherein in such
     haulage drifts permanent haulage means are provided for hauling the
     material that is being extracted from the trenches across such drifts.
  4. A method useful in the continuous ore extraction of Claim 3 wherein such
     means that are provided in the haulage drifts are belt conveyors or endless
     chain belt conveyor usually known as "Panzer" in the mining jargon.

                                      9
5. A method useful in the continuous ore extraction in Claim 1, further
    comprising the construction of a level for material transference located at a
    downward level with regard to the level defined by such exploitation drifts
    and consequently at a downward level with regard to such trench level.
6. A method useful in the continuous ore extraction of Claim 6 wherein a
    construction of a duct is carried out between such exploitation drift level and
    such transference level, into such duct the material falls from the trench to
    such transference level, and also it allows material accumulation.
7. A method useful in the continuous ore extraction of Claim 1 wherein such
    pre-conditioning stage is carried out by hydraulic fracturing.
8. A method useful in the continuous ore extraction of Claim 1 wherein such
    pre-conditioning stage is carried out by confined blast or explosive-driven
    dynamic weakening.
9. A method useful in the continuous ore extraction of Claim 1 wherein such
    preconditioning stage is carried out by the combination of hydraulic
    fracturing with explosive-driven dynamic weakening
10. A method useful in the continuous ore extraction of Claim 1 wherein such
    regular layout[m3] is provided with extraction points at distances ranging from
    8 to 15 meters.
11. A method useful in the continuous ore extraction of Claim 1 wherein such
    pre-conditioning stage should produce a fragment size capable of being
    drawn and hauled by the system.
12. A method useful in the continuous ore extraction of Claim 1 wherein each
    draw point is provided with a stationary extraction unit that extracts the ore
    from the trench and feeds a collecting system provided at trench outlet so as

                                     10
    to convey the ore towards such haulage drift by continuous means leading it
    to its destination.
13. A method useful in the continuous ore extraction of the previous Claims
    wherein the extracting, collecting and haulage means have an automatic
    command-assisted remote driver operated from a control room.
14. A method useful in the continuous ore extraction of Claim 13 wherein
    crushers are installed at each end of such collection system to produce the
    plant final feeding size inside de mine.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
