ABSTRACT
The present disclosure is directed to compounds and methods for the treatment of disorders
associated with fluid retention or salt overload, such as heart failure (in particular, congestive
heart failure), chronic kidney disease, end-stage renal disease, liver disease, and peroxisome
proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR) gamma agonist-induced fluid retention. The present
disclosure is also directed to compounds and methods for the treatment of hypertension. The
present disclosure is also directed to compounds and methods for the treatment of
gastrointestinal tract disorders, including the treatment or reduction of pain associated with
gastrointestinal tract disorders.

                                                     1
   COMPOUNDS AND METHODS FOR INHIBITING NHE-MEDIATED ANTIPORT IN
   THE TREATMENT OF DISORDERS ASSOCIATED WITH FLUID RETENTION OR
   SALT OVERLOAD AND GASTROINTESTINAL TRACT DISORDERS
 5              The present application is a divisional application from Australian patent
   application number <removed-apn>, which is in turn a divisional application of Australian patent
   application number 2013304812, the entire disclosures of which are incorporated herein by
   reference.
10 BACKGROUND
   Field
                The present disclosure is directed to compounds that are substantially active in the
   gastrointestinal tract to inhibit NHE-mediated antiport of sodium ions and hydrogen ions, and
   the use of such compounds in the treatment of disorders associated with fluid retention or salt
15 overload and in the treatment of gastrointestinal tract disorders, including the treatment or
   reduction of pain associated with a gastrointestinal tract disorder.
   Description of the Related Art
           Disorders Associated with Fluid Retention and Salt Overload
20              According to the American Heart Association, more than 5 million Americans
   have suffered from heart failure, and an estimated 550,000 cases of congestive heart failure
   (CHF) occur each year (Schocken, D. D. et al., Prevention of heartfailure:a scientific
   statementfrom the American HeartAssociation Councils on Epidemiology and Prevention,
   Clinical Cardiology, CardiovascularNursing, and High Blood PressureResearch; Quality of
25 Care and Outcomes Research Interdisciplinary Working Group; and Functional Genomics and
   Translational Biology Interdisciplinary Working Group: Circulation, v. 117, no. 19, p. 2544
   2565 (2008)). The clinical syndrome of congestive heart failure occurs when cardiac
   dysfunction prevents adequate perfusion of peripheral tissues. The most common form of
   heart failure leading to CHF is systolic heart failure, caused by contractile failure of the
30 myocardium. A main cause of CHF is due to ischemic coronary artery disease, with or
   without infarction. Long standing hypertension, particularly when it is poorly controlled, may
   lead to CHF.
                In patients with CHF, neurohumoral compensatory              mechanisms       (i.e., the
   sympathetic nervous system and the renin-angiotensin system) are activated in an effort to
35 maintain normal circulation.        The renin-angiotensin system is activated in response to
   decreased cardiac output, causing increased levels of plasma renin, angiotensin II, and

    WO 2014/029983                                                           PCT/GB2013/052192
                                                   2
   aldosterone. As blood volume increases in the heart, cardiac output increases
   proportionally, to a point where the heart is unable to dilate further. In the failing heart,
   contractility is reduced, so the heart operates at higher volumes and higher filling pressures
   to maintain output. Filling pressures may eventually increase to a level that causes
 5 transudation of fluid into the lungs and congestive symptoms (e.g., edema, shortness of
   breath). All of these symptoms are related to fluid volume and salt retention, and this
   chronic fluid and salt overload further contribute to disease progression.
                    Compliance with the medication regimen and with dietary sodium
   restrictions is a critical component of self-management for patients with heart failure and
10 may lengthen life, reduce hospitalizations and improve quality of life. Physicians often
   recommend keeping salt intake below 2.3 g per day and no more than 2 g per day for
   people with heart failure. Most people eat considerably more than this, so it is likely that a
   person with congestive heart failure will need to find ways to reduce dietary salt.
                    A number of drug therapies currently exist for patients suffering from CHF.
is For example, diuretics may be used or administered to relieve congestion by decreasing
   volume and, consequently, filling pressures to below those that cause pulmonary edema.
   By counteracting the volume increase, diuretics reduce cardiac output; however, fatigue
   and dizziness may replace CHF symptoms. Among the classes or types of diuretics
   currently being used is thiazides. Thiazides inhibit NaCl transport in the kidney, thereby
20 preventing reabsorption of Na in the cortical diluting segment at the ending portion of the
   loop of Henle and the proximal portion of the distal convoluted tubule. However, these
   drugs are not effective when the glomerular filtration rate (GFR) is less than 30 ml/min.
   Additionally, thiazides, as well as other diuretics, may cause hypokalemia. Also among
   the classes or types of diuretics currently being used is loop diuretics (e.g., furosemide).
25 These are the most potent diuretics and are particularly effective in treating pulmonary
   edema. Loop diuretics inhibit the NaKCl transport system, thus preventing reabsorption of
   Na in the loop of Henle.
                    Patients that have persistent edema despite receiving high doses of diuretics
   may be or become diuretic-resistant. Diuretic resistance may be caused by poor
30 availability of the drug. In patients with renal failure, which has a high occurrence in the
   CHF population, endogenous acids compete with loop diuretics such as furosemide for the
   organic acid secretory pathway in the tubular lumen of the nephron. Higher doses, or

    WO 2014/029983                                                            PCT/GB2013/052192
                                                  3
   continuous infusion, are therefore needed to achieve entrance of an adequate amount of
   drug into the nephron. However, recent meta-analysis have raised awareness about the
   long-term risk of chronic use of diuretics in the treatment of CHF. For instance, in a recent
   study (Ahmed et al., Int J Cardiol.2008 April 10; 125(2): 246-253) it was shown that
 5 chronic diuretic use was associated with significantly increased mortality and
   hospitalization in ambulatory older adults with heart failure receiving angiotensin
   converting enzyme inhibitor and diuretics.
                   Angiotensin-converting enzyme ("ACE") inhibitors are an example of
   another drug therapy that may be used to treat congestive heart failure. ACE inhibitors
10 cause vasodilatation by blocking the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system. Abnormally
   low cardiac output may cause the renal system to respond by releasing renin, which then
   converts angiotensinogen into angiotensin I. ACE converts angiotensin I into angiotensin
   II. Angiotensin II stimulates the thirst centers in the hypothalamus and causes
   vasoconstriction, thus increasing blood pressure and venous return. Angiotensin II also
is causes aldosterone to be released, causing reabsorption of Na and concomitant passive
   reabsorption of fluid, which in turn causes the blood volume to increase. ACE inhibitors
   block this compensatory system and improve cardiac performance by decreasing systemic
   and pulmonary vascular resistance. ACE inhibitors have shown survival benefit and
   conventionally have been a treatment of choice for CHF. However, since ACE inhibitors
20 lower aldosterone, the K-secreting hormone, one of the side-effects of their use is
   hyperkalemia. In addition, ACE inhibitors have been show to lead to acute renal failure in
   certain categories of CHF patients. (See, e.g., C.S. Cruz et al., "Incidence and Predictors
   of Development of Acute Renal Failure Related to the Treatment of Congestive Heart
   Failure with ACE Inhibitors, Nephron Clin. Pract., v. 105, no. 2, pp c77-c83 (2007)).
25                 Patients with end stage renal disease ("ESRD"), i.e., stage 5 chronic kidney
   failure, must undergo hemodialysis three times per week. The quasi-absence of renal
   function and ability to eliminate salt and fluid results in large fluctuations in body weight
   as fluid and salt build up in the body (sodium/volume overload). The fluid overload is
   characterized as interdialytic weight gain. High fluid overload is also worsened by heart
30 dysfunction, specifically CHF. Dialysis is used to remove uremic toxins and also adjust
   salt and fluid homeostasis. However, symptomatic intradialytic hypotension (SIH) may
   occur when patients are over-dialyzed. SIH is exhibited in about 15% to 25% of the ESRD

    WO 2014/029983                                                           PCT/GB2013/052192
                                                  4
   population (Davenport, A., C. Cox, and R. Thuraisingham, Bloodpressure controland
   symptomatic intradialytichypotension in diabetic haemodialysispatients: a cross-sectional
   survey; Nephron Clin. Pract., v. 109, no. 2, p. c65-c71 (2008)). Like in hypertensive and
   CHF patients, dietary restrictions of salt and fluid are highly recommended but poorly
 5 followed because of the poor palatability of low-salt food
                    The cause of primary or "essential" hypertension is elusive. However,
   several observations point to the kidney as a primary factor. The strongest data for excess
   salt intake and elevated blood pressure come from INTERSALT, a cross-sectional study of
   greater than 10,000 participants. For individuals, a significant, positive, independent linear
10 relation between 24-hour sodium excretion and systolic blood pressure was found. Higher
   individual 24-hour urinary sodium excretions were found to be associated with higher
   systolic/diastolic blood pressure on average, by 6-3/3-0 mm Hg. Primary hypertension is
   a typical example of a complex, multifactorial, and polygenic trait. All these monogenic
   hypertensive syndromes are virtually confined to mutated genes involving gain of function
15 of various components of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system, resulting in excessive
   renal sodium retention. In a broad sense, these syndromes are characterized by increased
   renal sodium reabsorption arising through either primary defects in sodium transport
   systems or stimulation of inineralocorticoid receptor activity (Altun, B., and M. Arici,
   2006, Salt and bloodpressure:time to challenge; Cardiology, v. 105, no. 1, p. 9-16
20 (2006)). A much larger number of controlled studies have been performed on hypertensive
   subjects during the last three decades to determine whether sodium reduction will reduce
   established high blood pressure. Meta-analyses of these studies have clearly shown a large
   decrease in blood pressure in hypertensive patients.
                   In end stage liver disease (ESLD), accumulation of fluid as ascites, edema
25 or pleural effusion due to cirrhosis is common and results from a derangement in the
   extracellular fluid volume regulatory mechanisms. Fluid retention is the most frequent
   complication of ESLD and occurs in about 50% of patients within 10 years of the
   diagnosis of cirrhosis. This complication significantly impairs the quality of life of
   cirrhotic patients and is also associated with poor prognosis. The one-year and five-year
30 survival rate is 85% and 56%, respectively (Kashani et al., Fluidretention in cirrhosis:
   pathophysiology andmanagement; QJM, v. 101, no. 2, p. 71-85 (2008)). The most
   acceptable theories postulate that the initial event in ascites formation in the cirrhotic

    WO 2014/029983                                                            PCT/GB2013/052192
                                                   5
   patient is sinusoidal hypertension. Portal hypertension due to an increase in sinusoidal
   pressure activates vasodilatory mechanisms. In advanced stages of cirrhosis, arteriolar
   vasodilation causes underfilling of systemic arterial vascular space. This event, through a
   decrease in effective blood volume, leads to a drop in arterial pressure. Consequently,
 5 baroreceptor-mediated activation of renin-angiotensin aldosterone system, sympathetic
   nervous system and nonosmotic release of antidiuretic hormone occur to restore the normal
   blood homeostasis. These events cause further retention of renal sodium and fluid.
   Splanchnic vasodilation increases splanchnic lymph production, exceeding the lymph
   transportation system capacity, and leads to lymph leakage into the peritoneal cavity.
10 Persistent renal sodium and fluid retention, alongside increased splanchnic vascular
   permeability in addition to lymph leakage into the peritoneal cavity, play a major role in a
   sustained ascites formation.
                    Thiazolidinediones (TZD's), such as rosiglitazone, are peroxisome
   proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR) gamma agonist agents used for the treatment of
is type-2 diabetes and are widely prescribed. Unfortunately, fluid retention has emerged as
   the most common and serious side-effect of TZD's and has become the most frequent
   cause of discontinuation of therapy. The incidence of TZD-induced fluid retention ranges
   from 7% in monotherapy and to as high as 15% when combined with insulin (Yan, T.,
   Soodvilai, S., PPAR Research volume 2008, article ID 943614). The mechanisms for such
20 side-effects are not fully understood but may be related in Na and fluid re-absorption in the
   kidney. However TZD-induced fluid retention is resistant to loop diuretics or thiazide
   diuretics, and combination of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR) alpha
   with PPAR gamma agonists, which were proposed to reduce such fluid overload, are
   associated with major adverse cardiovascular events.
25                  In view of the foregoing, it is recognized that salt and fluid accumulation
   contribute to the morbidity and mortality of many diseases, including heart failure (in
   particular, congestive heart failure), chronic kidney disease, end-stage renal disease, liver
   disease and the like. It is also accepted that salt and fluid accumulation are risk factors for
   hypertension. Accordingly, there is a clear need for a medicament that, when administered
30 to a patient in need, would result in a reduction in sodium retention, fluid retention, or
   preferably both. Such a medicament would more preferably also not involve or otherwise
   impair renal mechanisms of fluid/Na homeostasis.

    WO 2014/029983                                                            PCT/GB2013/052192
                                                   6
                     One option to consider for treating excessive fluid overload is to induce
   diarrhea. Diarrhea may be triggered by several agents including, for example, laxatives
   such as sorbitol, polyethyleneglycol, bisacodyl and phenolphthaleine. Sorbitol and
   polyethyleneglycol triggers osmotic diarrhea with low levels of secreted electrolytes; thus,
 5 their utility in removing sodium salt from the GI tract is limited. The mechanism of action
   of phenolphthalein is not clearly established, but is thought to be caused by inhibition of
   the Na/K ATPase and the Cl/HCO 3 anion exchanger and stimulation of electrogenic anion
   secretion (see, e.g., Eherer, A. J., C. A. Santa Ana, J. Porter, and J. S. Fordtran, 1993,
   Gastroenterology, v. 104, no. 4, p. 1007-1012). However, some laxatives, such as
10 phenolphthalein, are not viable options for the chronic treatment of fluid overload, due to
   the potential risk of carcinogenicity in humans. Furthermore, laxatives may not be used
   chronically, as they have been shown to be an irritant and cause mucosal damage.
   Accordingly, it should also be recognized that the induction of chronic diarrhea as part of
   an effort to control salt and fluid overload would be an undesired treatment modality for
is most patients. Any medicament utilizing the GI tract for this purpose would therefore need
   to control diarrhea in order to be of practical benefit.
                     One approach for the treatment of mild diarrhea is the administration of a
   fluid-absorbing polymer, such as the natural plant fiber psyllium. Polymeric materials, and
   more specifically hydrogel polymers, may also be used for the removal of fluid from the
20 gastrointestinal (GI) tract. The use of such polymers is described in, for example, U.S. Pat.
   No. 4,470,975 and No. 6,908,609, the entire contents of which are incorporated herein by
   reference for all relevant and consistent purposes. However, for such polymers to
   effectively remove significant quantities of fluid, they must desirably resist the static and
   osmotic pressure range existing in the GI tract. Many mammals, including humans, make
25 a soft feces with a water content of about 70%, and do so by transporting fluid against the
   high hydraulic resistance imposed by the fecal mass. Several studies show that the
   pressure required to dehydrate feces from about 80% to about 60% is between about 500
   kPa and about 1000 kPa (i.e., about 5 to about 10 atm). (See, e.g., McKie, A. T., W.
   Powrie, and R. J. Naftalin, 1990, Am J Physiol, v. 258, no. 3 Pt 1, p. G391-G394;
30 Bleakman, D., and R. J. Naftalin, 1990, Am J Physiol, v. 258, no. 3 Pt 1, p. G377-G390;
   Zammit, P. S., M. Mendizabal, and R. J. Naftalin, 1994, J Physiol, v. 477 (Pt 3), p. 539
   548.) However, the static pressure measured intraluminally is usually between about 6 kPa

    WO 2014/029983                                                           PCT/GB2013/052192
                                                  7
   and about 15 kPa. The rather high pressure needed to dehydrate feces is essentially due to
   an osmotic process and not a mechanical process produced by muscular forces. The
   osmotic pressure arises from the active transport of salt across the colonic mucosa that
   ultimately produces a hypertonic fluid absorption. The osmotic gradient produced drives
 5 fluid from the lumen to the serosal side of the mucosa. Fluid-absorbing polymers, such as
   those described in for example U.S. Patent Nos. 4,470,975 and 6,908,609, may not be able
   to sustain such pressure. Such polymers may collapse in a normal colon where the salt
   absorption process is intact, hence removing a modest quantity of fluid and thereby salt.
                   Synthetic polymers that bind sodium have also been described. For
10 example, ion-exchange polymeric resins, such as Dowex-type cation exchange resins, have
   been known since about the 1950's. However, with the exception of KayexalateTM (or
   KionexTM), which is a polystyrene sulfonate salt approved for the treatment of
   hyperkalemia, cation exchange resins have very limited use as drugs, due at least in part to
   their limited capacity and poor cation binding selectivity. Additionally, during the ion
is exchange process, the resins may release a stochiometric amount of exogenous cations
   (e.g., H, K, Ca), which may in turn potentially cause acidosis (H), hyperkalemia (K) or
   contribute to vascular calcification (Ca). Such resins may also cause constipation.
            Gastrointestinal Tract Disorders
20                 Constipation is characterized by infrequent and difficult passage of stool
   and becomes chronic when a patient suffers specified symptoms for over 12 non
   consecutive weeks within a 12-month period. Chronic constipation is idiopathic if it is not
   caused by other diseases or by use of medications.     An evidence-based approach to the
   management of chronic constipation in North America (Brandt et al., 2005, Am. J.
25 Gastroenterol. 100(Suppl. 1):S5-S21) revealed that prevalence is approximately 15% of the
   general population. Constipation is reported more commonly in women, the elderly, non
   whites, and individuals from lower socioeconomic groups.
                   Irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) is a common GI disorder associated with
   alterations in motility, secretion and visceral sensation. A range of clinical symptoms
30 characterizes this disorder, including stool frequency and form, abdominal pain and
   bloating. The recognition of clinical symptoms of IBS are yet to be defined, but it is now
   common to refer to diarrhea-predominant IBS (D-IBS) and constipation-predominant IBS

    WO 2014/029983                                                          PCT/GB2013/052192
                                                   8
   (C-IBS), wherein D-IBS is defined as continuous passage of loose or watery stools and C
   IBS as a group of functional disorders which present as difficult, infrequent or seemingly
   incomplete defecation. The pathophysiology of IBS is not fully understood, and a number
   of mechanisms have been suggested. Visceral hypersensitivity is often considered to play a
 5 major etiologic role and has been proposed to be a biological marker even useful to
   discriminate IBS from other causes of abdominal pain. In a recent clinical study (Posserud,
   I. et al, Gastroenterology,2007; 133:1113-1123) IBS patients were submitted to a visceral
   sensitivity test (Balloon distention) and compared with healthy subjects. It revealed that
   61% of the IBS patients had an altered visceral perception as measured by pain and
10 discomfort threshold. Other reviews have documented the role of visceral hypersensitivity
   in abdominal pain symptomatic of various gastrointestinal tract disorders (Akbar, A, et al,
   Aliment. Pharmaco.Ther., 2009, 30, 423-43 5; Bueno et al., NeurogastroenterolMotility
   (2007) 19 (suppl. 1), 89-119). Colonic and rectal distention have been widely used as a tool
   to assess visceral sensitivity in animal and human studies. The type of stress used to induce
is visceral sensitivity varies upon the models (see for instance Eutamen, H
   NeurogastroenterolMotil.2009 Aug 25. [Epub ahead of print]), however stress such as
   Partial restraint stress (PRS) is a relatively mild, non-ulcerogenic model that is considered
   more representative of the IBS setting.
                    Constipation is commonly found in the geriatric population, particularly
20 patients with osteoporosis who have to take calcium supplements. Calcium supplements
   have shown to be beneficial in ostoporotic patients to restore bone density but compliance
   is poor because of calcium-induced constipation effects.
                    Opioid-induced constipation (OIC) (also referred to as opioid-induced
   bowel dysfunction or opioid bowel dysfuntion (OBD)) is a common adverse effect
25 associated with opioid therapy. OIC is commonly described as constipation; however, it is
   a constellation of adverse gastrointestinal (GI) effects, which also includes abdominal
   cramping, bloating, and gastroesophageal reflux. Patients with cancer may have disease
   related constipation, which is usually worsened by opioid therapy. However, OIC is not
   limited to cancer patients. A recent survey of patients taking opioid therapy for pain of
30 non-cancer origin found that approximately 40% of patients experienced constipation
   related to opioid therapy (<3 complete bowel movements per week) compared with 7.6%
   in a control group. Of subjects who required laxative therapy, only 46% of opioid-treated

    WO 2014/029983                                                             PCT/GB2013/052192
                                                    9
   patients (control subjects, 84%) reported achieving the desired treatment results >50% of
   the time (Pappagallo, 2001, Am. J. Surg. 182(5A Suppl.):11S-18S).
                    Some patients suffering from chronic idiopathic constipation can be
   successfully treated with lifestyle modification, dietary changes and increased fluid and
 5 fiber intake, and these treatments are generally tried first. For patients who fail to respond
   to these approaches, physicians typically recommend laxatives, most of which are
   available over-the-counter. Use of laxatives provided over-the-counter is judged inefficient
   by about half of the patients (Johanson and Kralstein, 2007, Aliment. Pharmacol. Ther.
   25(5):599-608). Other therapeutic options currently prescribed or in clinical development
10 for the treatment of IBS and chronic constipation including OIC are described in, for
   example: Chang et al., 2006, Curr. Teat. Options Gastroenterol. 9(4):314-323; Gershon and
   Tack, 2007, Gastroenterology 132(1):397-414; and, Hammerle and Surawicz, 2008, World
   J. Gastroenterol. 14(17):2639-2649. Such treatments include but are not limited to
   serotonin receptor ligands, chloride channel activators, opioid receptor antagonists,
15 guanylate-cyclase receptor agonists and nucleotide P2Y(2) receptor agonists. Many of
   these treatment options are inadequate, as they may be habit forming, ineffective in some
   patients, may cause long term adverse effects, or otherwise are less than optimal.
           Na+ / H+ Exchanger (NHE) Inhibitors
20                  A major function of the GI tract is to maintain water/Na homeostasis by
   absorbing virtually all water and Na to which the GI tract is exposed. The epithelial layer
   covering the apical surface of the mammalian colon is a typical electrolyte-transporting
   epithelium, which is able to move large quantities of salt and water in both directions
   across the mucosa. For example, each day the GI tract processes about 9 liters of fluid and
25 about 800 meq of Na. (See, e.g., Zachos et al., Molecularphysiology of intestinalNa+ H+
   exchange; Annu. Rev. Physiol., v. 67, p.    4 1 1 -4 4 3 (2005).) Only about 1.5 liters of this
   fluid and about 150 meq of this sodium originates from ingestion; rather, the majority of
   the fluid (e.g., about 7.5 liters) and sodium (about 650 meq) is secreted via the GI organs
   as part of digestion. The GI tract therefore represents a viable target for modulating
30 systemic sodium and fluid levels.
                    Many reviews have been published on the physiology and secretory and/or
   absorption mechanisms of the GI tract (see, e.g., Kunzelmann et al., Electrolyte transport

    WO 2014/029983                                                            PCT/GB2013/052192
                                                   10
   in the mammalian colon: mechanisms and implicationsfor disease; Physiol. Rev., v. 82,
   no. 1, p. 245-289 (2002); Geibel, J. P.; Secretion and absorption by colonic crypts; Annu.
   Rev. Physiol, v. 67, p. 471-490 (2005); Zachos et al., supra; Kiela, P. R. et al., Apical
   NA+ H+ exchangers in the mammalian gastrointestinaltract; J. Physiol. Pharmacol., v. 57
 5 Suppl. 7, p. 51-79 (2006)). The two main mechanisms of Na absorption are electroneutral
   and electrogenic transport. Electroneutral transport is essentially due to the Na/H
   antiport NHE (e.g., NHE-3) and is responsible for the bulk of Na absorption. Electrogenic
   transport is provided by the epithelium sodium channel ("ENaC"). Electroneutral transport
   is located primarily in the ileal segment and proximal colon and electrogenic transport is
10 located in the distal colon.
                    Plasma membrane NHEs contribute to maintenance of intracellular pH and
   volume, transcellular absorption of NaCl and NaHCO 3, and fluid balance carried out by
   epithelial cells, especially in the kidney, intestine, gallbladder, and salivary glands, as well
   as regulation of systemic pH. There exists a body of literature devoted to the role and
is clinical intervention on systemic NHEs to treat disorders related to ischemia and
   reperfusion for cardioprotection or renal protection. Nine isoforms of NHEs have been
   identified (Kiela, P. R., et al.; ApicalNA+ H+ exchangers in the mammalian
   gastrointestinaltract; J. Physiol. Pharmacol., v. 57 Suppl 7, p. 51-79 (2006)), of which
   NHE-2, NHE-3 and NHE-8 are expressed on the apical side of the GI tract, with NHE-3
20 providing a larger contribution to transport. Another, yet to be identified, Cl-dependant
   NHE has been identified in the crypt of rat cells. In addition, much research has been
   devoted to identifying inhibitors of NHEs. The primary targets of such research have been
   NHE-I and NHE-3. Small molecule NHE inhibitors are, for example, described in: U.S.
   Patent Nos. 5,866,610; 6,399,824; 6,911,453; 6,703,405; 6,005,010; 6,736,705; 6,887,870;
25 6,737,423; 7,326,705; 5,824,691 (WO 94/026709); 6,399,824 (WO 02/024637); U.S. Pat.
   Pub. Nos. 2004/0039001 (WO 02/020496); 2005/0020612 (WO 03/055490);
   2004/0113396 (WO 03/051866); 2005/0020612; 2005/0054705; 2008/0194621;
   2007/0225323; 2004/0039001; 2004/0224965; 2005/0113396; 2007/0135383;
   2007/0135385; 2005/0244367; 2007/0270414; International Publication Nos. WO
30 01/072742; WO 01/021582 (CA2387529); WO 97/024113 (CA02241531) and European
   Pat. No. EP0744397 (CA2177007); all of which are incorporated herein by reference in
   their entirety for all relevant and consistent purposes.

    WO 2014/029983                                                            PCT/GB2013/052192
                                                      11
                    However, such research failed to develop or recognize the value or
   importance of NHE inhibitors that are not absorbed (i.e., not systemic) and target the
   gastrointestinal tract, as disclosed recently in WO 2010/078449. Such inhibitors can be
   utilized in the treatment of disorders associated with fluid retention and salt overload and
 5 in the treatment of GI tract disorders, including the treatment or reduction of pain
   associated with a gastrointestinal tract disorder. Such inhibitors are particular
   advantageous because they can be delivered with reduced fear of systemic on-target or off
   target effects (e.g., little or no risk of renal involvement or other systemic effects.
                    Accordingly, while progress has been made in the foregoing fields, there
10 remains a need in the art for novel compounds for use in the disorders associated with fluid
   retention and salt overload and in the treatment of gastrointestinal tract disorders, including
   the treatment or reduction of pain associated with a gastrointestinal tract disorder. The
   present invention fulfills this need and provides further related advantages.
is BRIEF SUMMARY
                    In brief, the present invention is directed to compounds that are
   substantially active in the gastrointestinal tract to inhibit NHE-mediated antiport of sodium
   ions and hydrogen ions, and the use of such compounds in the treatment of disorders
   associated with fluid retention and salt overload and in the treatment of gastrointestinal
20 tract disorders, including the treatment or reduction of pain associated with a
   gastrointestinal tract disorder.
                    In one embodiment, a compound is provided having the following structure
   of Formula (I):
    Core      L        NHE) n
   (I)
   or a stereoisomer, prodrug or pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof,
            wherein:
                    (a)       n is an integer of 2 or more;
30                  (b)       Core is a Core moiety having two or more sites thereon for
   attachment to two or more NHE-inhibiting small molecule moieties;

    WO 2014/029983                                                          PCT/GB2013/052192
                                                  12
                   (c)     L is a bond or linker connecting the Core moiety to the two or more
   NHE-inhibitory small molecule moieties; and
                   (d)     NHE is a NHE-inhibiting small molecule moiety having the
   following structure of Formula (XI):
 5
                                       R3
                                                0        B       (R5)4
                                                        R  1
                                                  R   1
   (XI)
           wherein:
                  B is selected from the group consisting of aryl and heterocyclyl;
10                 each R 5 is independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen,
   halogen, optionally substituted C1_4alkyl, optionally substituted C1_ 4alkoxy, optionally
   substituted C1_4thioalkyl, optionally substituted heterocyclyl, optionally substituted
   heterocyclylalkyl, optionally substituted aryl, optionally substituted heteroaryl, hydroxyl,
   oxo, cyano, nitro, -NR 7Rs, -NR 7C(=O)Rs, --NR 7 C(=0)ORs,
15 -NR 7C(=O)NRsR 9 , -NR 7 S0 2Rs, -NR7S(O) 2NRsR 9 , -C(=O)OR 7, -C(=O)R 7 ,
   -C(=O)NR 7Rs, -S(O)i- 2 R 7 , and -SO 2NR 7Rs, wherein R 7, Rs, and R 9 are independently
   selected from the group consisting of hydrogen, C1. 4 alkyl, or a bond linking the NHE
   inhibiting small molecule moiety to L, provided at least one is a bond linking the NHE
   inhibiting small molecule moiety to L;
20                R 3 and R 4 are independently selected from the group consisting of
   hydrogen, optionally substituted C1_4alkyl, optionally substituted cycloalkyl, optionally
   substituted cycloalkylalkyl, optionally substituted aryl, optionally substituted aralkyl,
   optionally substituted heterocyclyl and optionally substituted heteroaryl; or
                  R 3 and R 4 form together with the nitrogen to which they are bonded an
25 optionally substituted 4-8 membered heterocyclyl; and

    WO 2014/029983                                                             PCT/GB2013/052192
                                                     13
                    each R 1 is independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen,
   halogen, optionally substituted C1_6alkyl and optionally substituted C1_6alkoxy.
                   In more specific embodiments, n is 2.
                   In other more specific embodiments, L is a polyalkylene glycol linker. For
 5 example, in certain embodiments, L is a polyethylene glycol linker.
                   In other more specific embodiments, the Core has the following structure:
    I-X-Y-X-j
           wherein:
                   X is selected from the group consisting of a bond, -0-, -NH-, -S-,
10 C1_6alkylene, -NHC(=0)-, -C(=0)NH-, -NHC(=0)NH-, -SO 2NH-, and
   -NHSO 2-;
                   Y is selected from the group consisting of a bond, optionally substituted
   C1.salkylene, optionally substituted aryl, optionally substituted heteroaryl, a polyethylene
   glycol linker, -(CH 2 )i- 6 0(CH 2 )1-6- and -(CH 2 )i-6NYi(CH 2 )1-6-; and
15                 Yi is selected from the group consisting of hydrogen, optionally substituted
   C1.salkyl, optionally substituted aryl or optionally substituted heteroaryl.
                   For example, in certain embodiments, the Core is selected from the group
   consisting of:
                                    0                             H
                 H2 N
                                                               NN
                                                                                N     N
          o                                                                     H     H
                                                                                 0
                                                                                    H
                                     0H
      H      HN
            NNN                   )     N                   .N
                                H       H
                       00

   WO 2014/029983                                                             PCT/GB2013/052192
                                                 14
                                                                    OH      0
                                                               HH
          N                        s                                             N
           o
           o          HN     0o                              00,OH      O
                                                                              0  H
                         H       H                                                 H
                    N      N      HH
                                                               0  0
            O                     and                                HO
                  In other more specific embodiments, the NHE-inhibiting small molecule
   moiety has the following structure of Formula (XII):
                                               O                 R5
                                       RR4
                                          RR
 5                                               R1
   (XII)
          wherein:
                   each R 3 and R 4 are independently selected from the group consisting of
   hydrogen and optionally substituted C 1 _4alkyl, or R 3 and R 4, taken together with the
10 nitrogen to which they are bonded, form an optionally substituted 4-8 membered
   heterocyclyl;

    WO 2014/029983                                                            PCT/GB2013/052192
                                                  15
                    each R 1 is independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen,
   halogen, C1_6alkyl, and C1_6 haloalkyl; and
                   R 5 is selected from the group consisting of -S0 2 -NR 7 - and
   NHC(=0)NH-, wherein R 7 is hydrogen or C1_4 alkyl.
 5                 In further more specific embodiments, R 3 and R 4, taken together with the
   nitrogen to which they are bonded, form an optionally substituted 5 or 6 membered
   heterocyclyl. For example, in certain embodiments, (i) the optionally substituted 5 or 6
   membered heterocyclyl is pyrrolidinyl or piperidinyl, or (ii) the optionally substituted 5 or
   6 membered heterocyclyl is pyrrolidinyl or piperidinyl, each substituted with at least one
10 amino or hydroxyl.
                   In other further more specific embodiments, R 3 and R 4 are independently
   C1_4alkyl. For example, in certain embodiments, R 3 and R 4 are methyl.
                   In other further more specific embodiments, each R 1 is independently
   selected from the group consisting of hydrogen or halogen. For example, in certain
15 embodiments, each Ri is independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen, F
   and Cl.
                   In another embodiment, a pharmaceutical composition is provided
   comprising a compound as set forth above, or a stereoisomer, pharmaceutically acceptable
   salt or prodrug thereof, and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier, diluent or excipient.
20                 In further embodiments, the composition further comprises a fluid
   absorbing polymer. In further embodiments, the fluid-absorbing polymer is delivered
   directly to the colon. In further embodiments, the fluid-absorbing polymer has a fluid
   absorbency of at least about 15 g of isotonic fluid per g of polymer under a static pressure
   of about 5 kPa. In further embodiments, the fluid-absorbing polymer has a fluid
25 absorbency of at least about 15 g of isotonic fluid per g of polymer under a static pressure
   of about 10 kPa. In further embodiments, the fluid-absorbing polymer is characterized by
   a fluid absorbency of at least about 10 g/g. In further embodiments, the fluid-absorbing
   polymer is characterized by a fluid absorbency of at least about 15 g/g. In further
   embodiments, the fluid-absorbing polymer is superabsorbent. In further embodiments, the
30 fluid-absorbing polymer is a crosslinked, partially neutralized polyelectrolyte hydrogel. In
   further embodiments, the fluid-absorbing polymer is a crosslinked polyacrylate. In further
   embodiments, the fluid-absorbing polymer is a polyelectrolyte. In further embodiments,

    WO 2014/029983                                                           PCT/GB2013/052192
                                                  16
   the fluid-absorbing polymer is calcium Carbophil. In further embodiments, the fluid
   absorbing polymer is prepared by a high internal phase emulsion process. In further
   embodiments, the fluid-absorbing polymer is a foam. In further embodiments, the fluid
   absorbing polymer is prepared by a aqueous free radical polymerization of acrylamide or a
 5 derivative thereof, a crosslinker and a free radical initiator redox system in water. In
   further embodiments, the fluid-absorbing polymer is a hydrogel. In further embodiments,
   the fluid-absorbing polymer is an N-alkyl acrylamide. In further embodiments, the fluid
   absorbing polymer is a superporous gel. In further embodiments, the fluid-absorbing
   polymer is naturally occurring. In further embodiments, the fluid-absorbing polymer is
10 selected from the group consisting of xanthan, guar, wellan, hemicelluloses, alkyl-cellulose
   hydro-alkyl-cellulose, carboxy-alkyl-cellulose, carrageenan, dextran, hyaluronic acid and
   agarose. In further embodiments, the fluid-absorbing polymer is psyllium. In further
   embodiments, the fluid-absorbing polymer is a polysaccharide that includes xylose and
   arabinose. In further embodiments, the fluid-absorbing polymer is a polysaccharide that
is includes xylose and arabinose, wherein the ratio of xylose to arabinose is at least about 3:1,
   by weight.
                   In further embodiments, the composition further comprises another
   pharmaceutically active agent or compound. In further embodiments, the composition
   further comprises another pharmaceutically active agent or compound selected from the
20 group consisting of a diuretic, cardiac glycoside, ACE inhibitor, angiotensin-2 receptor
   antagonist, aldosterone antagonist, aldosterone synthase inhibitor, renin inhibitor, calcium
   channel blocker, beta blocker, alpha blocker, central alpha agonist, vasodilator, blood
   thinner, anti-platelet agent, lipid-lowering agent, and peroxisome proliferator-activated
   receptor (PPAR) gamma agonist agent. In further embodiments, the diuretic is selected
25 from the group consisting of a high ceiling loop diuretic, a benzothiadiazide diuretic, a
   potassium sparing diuretic, and a osmotic diuretic. In further embodiments, the
   composition further comprises another pharmaceutically active agent or compound
   selected from the group consisting of an analgesic peptide or agent. In further
   embodiments, the composition further comprises another pharmaceutically active agent or
30 compound selected from the group consisting of a laxative agent selected from a bulk
   producing agent (e.g. psyllium husk (Metamucil)), methylcellulose (Citrucel),
   polycarbophil, dietary fiber, aples, stool softeners/surfactant (e.g., docusate, Colace,

    WO 2014/029983                                                          PCT/GB2013/052192
                                                  17
   Diocto), a hydrating or osmotic agent (e.g., dibasic sodium phosphate, magnesium citrate,
   magnesium hydroxide (Milk of magnesia), magnesium sulfate (which is Epsom salt),
   monobasic sodium phosphate, sodium biphosphate), a hyperosmotic agent (e.g., glycerin
   suppositories, sorbitol, lactulose, and polyethylene glycol (PEG)).
 5                 In another embodiment, a method for inhibiting NHE-mediated antiport of
   sodium and hydrogen ions is provided, the method comprising administering to a mammal
   in need thereof a pharmaceutically effective amount of a compound or pharmaceutical
   composition as set forth above.
                   In another embodiment, a method for treating a disorder associated with
10 fluid retention or salt overload is provided, the method comprising administering to a
   mammal in need thereof a pharmaceutically effective amount of a compound or
   pharmaceutical composition as set forth above.
                   In another embodiment, a method for treating a disorder selected from the
   group consisting of heart failure (such as congestive heart failure), chronic kidney disease,
is end-stage renal disease, liver disease, and peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor
   (PPAR) gamma agonist-induced fluid retention is provided, the method comprising
   administering to a mammal in need thereof a pharmaceutically effective amount of a
   compound or pharmaceutical composition as set forth above.
                   In another embodiment, a method for treating hypertension is provided, the
20 method comprising administering to a mammal in need thereof a pharmaceutically
   effective amount of a compound or pharmaceutical composition as set forth above.
                   In further embodiments, the method comprises administering a
   pharmaceutically effective amount of the compound to the mammal in order to increase the
   mammal's daily fecal output of sodium and/or fluid. In further embodiments, the method
25 comprises administering a pharmaceutically effective amount of the compound to the
   mammal in order to increase the mammal's daily fecal output of sodium by at least about
   30 mmol, and/or fluid by at least about 200 ml. In further embodiments, the mammal's
   fecal output of sodium and/or fluid is increased without introducing another type of cation
   in a stoichiometric or near stoichiometric fashion via an ion exchange process. In further
30 embodiments, the method further comprises administering to the mammal a fluid
   absorbing polymer to absorb fecal fluid resulting from the use of the compound that is

    WO 2014/029983                                                          PCT/GB2013/052192
                                                   18
   substantially active in the gastrointestinal tract to inhibit NHE-mediated antiport of sodium
   ions and hydrogen ions therein.
                    In further embodiments, the compound or composition is administered to
   treat hypertension. In further embodiments, the compound or composition is administered
 5 to treat hypertension associated with dietary salt intake. In further embodiments,
   administration of the compound or composition allows the mammal to intake a more
   palatable diet. In further embodiments, the compound or composition is administered to
   treat fluid overload. In further embodiments, the fluid overload is associated with
   congestive heart failure. In further embodiments, the fluid overload is associated with end
10 stage renal disease. In further embodiments, the fluid overload is associated with
   peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR) gamma agonist therapy. In further
   embodiments, the compound or composition is administered to treat sodium overload. In
   further embodiments, the compound or composition is administered to reduce interdialytic
   weight gain in ESRD patients. In further embodiments, the compound or composition is
15 administered to treat edema. In further embodiments, the edema is caused by
   chemotherapy, pre-menstrual fluid overload or preeclampsia.
                    In further embodiments, the compound or composition is administered
   orally, by rectal suppository, or enema.
                    In further embodiments, the method comprises administering a
20 pharmaceutically effective amount of the compound or composition in combination with
   one or more additional pharmaceutically active compounds or agents. In further
   embodiments, the one or more additional pharmaceutically active compounds or agents is
   selected from the group consisting of a diuretic, cardiac glycoside, ACE inhibitor,
   angiotensin-2 receptor antagonist, aldosterone antagonist, aldosterone synthase inhibitor,
25 renin inhibitor, calcium channel blocker, beta blocker, alpha blocker, central alpha agonist,
   vasodilator, blood thinner, anti-platelet agent, lipid-lowering agent, and peroxisome
   proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR) gamma agonist agent. In further embodiments, the
   diuretic is selected from the group consisting of a high ceiling loop diuretic, a
   benzothiadiazide diuretic, a potassium sparing diuretic, and a osmotic diuretic. In further
30 embodiments, the pharmaceutically effective amount of the compound or composition, and
   the one or more additional pharmaceutically active compounds or agents, are administered
   as part of a single pharmaceutical preparation. In further embodiments, the

    WO 2014/029983                                                           PCT/GB2013/052192
                                                   19
   pharmaceutically effective amount of the compound or composition, and the one or more
   additional pharmaceutically active compounds or agents, are administered as individual
   pharmaceutical preparations. In further embodiments, the individual pharmaceutical
   preparation are administered sequentially. In further embodiments, the individual
 5 pharmaceutical preparation are administered simultaneously.
                    In another embodiment, a method for treating a gastrointestinal tract
   disorder is provided, the method comprising administering to a mammal in need thereof a
   pharmaceutically effective amount of a compound or pharmaceutical composition as set
   forth above.
10                  In further embodiments, the gastrointestinal tract disorder is a
   gastrointestinal motility disorder. In further embodiments, the gastrointestinal tract
   disorder is irritable bowel syndrome. In further embodiments, the gastrointestinal tract
   disorder is chronic constipation. In further embodiments, the gastrointestinal tract disorder
   is chronic idiopathic constipation. In further embodiments, the gastrointestinal tract
is disorder is chronic constipation occurring in cystic fibrosis patients. In further
   embodiments, the gastrointestinal tract disorder is opioid-induced constipation. In further
   embodiments, the gastrointestinal tract disorder is a functional gastrointestinal tract
   disorder. In further embodiments, the gastrointestinal tract disorder is selected from the
   group consisting of chronic intestinal pseudo-obstruction and colonic pseudo-obstruction.
20 In further embodiments, the gastrointestinal tract disorder is Crohn's disease. In further
   embodiments, the gastrointestinal tract disorder is ulcerative colitis. In further
   embodiments, the gastrointestinal tract disorder is a disease referred to as inflammatory
   bowel disease. In further embodiments, the gastrointestinal tract disorder is associated
   with chronic kidney disease (stage 4 or 5). In further embodiments, the gastrointestinal
25 tract disorder is constipation induced by calcium supplement. In further embodiments, the
   gastrointestinal tract disorder is constipation, and the constipation to be treated is
   associated with the use of a therapeutic agent. In further embodiments, the gastrointestinal
   tract disorder is constipation, and the constipation to be treated is associated with a
   neuropathic disorder. In further embodiments, the gastrointestinal tract disorder is
30 constipation, and the constipation to be treated is post-surgical constipation (postoperative
   ileus). In further embodiments, the gastrointestinal tract disorder is constipation, and the
   constipation to be treated is idiopathic (functional constipation or slow transit

    WO 2014/029983                                                           PCT/GB2013/052192
                                                   20
   constipation). In further embodiments, the gastrointestinal tract disorder is constipation,
   and the constipation to be treated is associated with neuropathic, metabolic or an endocrine
   disorder (e.g., diabetes mellitus, renal failure, hypothyroidism, hyperthyroidism,
   hypocalcaemia, Multiple Sclerosis, Parkinson's disease, spinal cord lesions,
 5 neurofibromatosis, autonomic neuropathy, Chagas disease, Hirschsprung's disease or cystic
   fibrosis, and the like). In further embodiments, the gastrointestinal tract disorder is
   constipation, and the constipation to be treated is due the use of drugs selected from
   analgesics (e.g., opioids), antihypertensives, anticonvul sants, antidepressants,
   antispasmodics and antipsychotics.
10                 In another embodiment, a method for treating irritable bowel syndrome is
   provided, the method comprising administering to a mammal in need thereof a
   pharmaceutically effective amount of a compound or pharmaceutical composition as set
   forth above.
                   In further embodiments of the above embodiments, the compound or
15 composition is administered to treat or reduce pain associated with a gastrointestinal tract
   disorder. In further embodiments, the compound or composition is administered to treat or
   reduce visceral hypersensitivity associated with a gastrointestinal tract disorder. In further
   embodiments, the compound or composition is administered to treat or reduce
   inflammation of the gastrointestinal tract. In further embodiments, the compound or
20 composition is administered to reduce gastrointestinal transit time.
                   In further embodiments, the compound or composition is administered
   either orally or by rectal suppository.
                   In further embodiments, the method comprises administering a
   pharmaceutically effective amount of the compound or composition, in combination with
25 one or more additional pharmaceutically active compounds or agents. In further
   embodiments, the one or more additional pharmaceutically active agents or compounds are
   an analgesic peptide or agent. In further embodiments, the one or more additional
   pharmaceutically active agents or compounds are selected from the group consisting of a
   laxative agent selected from a bulk-producing agent (e.g. psyllium husk (Metamucil)),
30 methylcellulose (Citrucel), polycarbophil, dietary fiber, apples, stool softeners/surfactant
   (e.g., docusate, Colace, Diocto), a hydrating or osmotic agent (e.g., dibasic sodium
   phosphate, magnesium citrate, magnesium hydroxide (Milk of magnesia), magnesium

    WO 2014/029983                                                            PCT/GB2013/052192
                                                  21
   sulfate (which is Epsom salt), monobasic sodium phosphate, sodium biphosphate), and a
   hyperosmotic agent (e.g., glycerin suppositories, sorbitol, lactulose, and polyethylene
   glycol (PEG)). In further embodiments, the pharmaceutically effective amount of the
   compound or composition, and the one or more additional pharmaceutically active
 5 compounds or agents, are administered as part of a single pharmaceutical preparation. In
   further embodiments, the pharmaceutically effective amount of the compound or
   composition, and the one or more additional pharmaceutically active compounds or agents,
   are administered as individual pharmaceutical preparations. In further embodiments, the
   individual pharmaceutical preparation are administered sequentially. In further
10 embodiments, the individual pharmaceutical preparation are administered simultaneously.
                    These and other aspects of the invention will be apparent upon reference to
   the following detailed description.
   DETAILED DESCRIPTION
15                 In accordance with the present disclosure, and as further detailed herein
   below, it has been found that the inhibition of NHE-mediated antiport of sodium ions (Na')
   and hydrogen ions (Hz) in the gastrointestinal tract, and more particularly the
   gastrointestinal epithelia, is a powerful approach to the treatment of various disorders that
   may be associated with or caused by fluid retention and/or salt overload, and/or disorders
20 such as heart failure (in particular, congestive heart failure), chronic kidney disease, end
   stage renal disease, liver disease, and/or peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR)
   gamma agonist-induced fluid retention. More specifically, it has been found that the
   inhibition of the NHE-mediated antiport of sodium ions and hydrogen ions in the GI tract
   increases the fecal excretion of sodium, effectively reducing systemic levels of sodium and
25 fluid. This, in turn, improves the clinical status of a patient suffering from, for example,
   CIF, ESRD/CKD and/or liver disease. It has further been found that such a treatment may
   optionally be enhanced by the co-administration of other beneficial compounds or
   compositions, such as for example a fluid-absorbing polymer. The fluid-absorbing
   polymer may optimally be chosen so that it does not block or otherwise negatively
30 interfere with the mechanism of action of the co-dosed NHE-inhibiting compound.
                   Additionally, and also as further detailed herein below, it has further been
   found that the inhibition of NHE-mediated antiport of sodium ions (Na*) and hydrogen

    WO 2014/029983                                                            PCT/GB2013/052192
                                                  22
   ions (Hz) in the gastrointestinal tract, and more particularly the gastrointestinal epithelia, is
   a powerful approach to the treatment of hypertension, that may be associated with or
   caused by fluid retention and/or salt overload. More specifically, it has been found that the
   inhibition of the NHE-mediated antiport of sodium ions and hydrogen ions in the GI tract
 5 increases the fecal excretion of sodium, effectively reducing systemic levels of sodium and
   fluid. This, in turn, improves the clinical status of a patient suffering from hypertension.
   Such a treatment may optionally be enhanced by the co-administration of other beneficial
   compounds or compositions, such as for example a fluid-absorbing polymer. The fluid
   absorbing polymer may optimally be chosen so that it does not block or otherwise
io negatively interfere with the mechanism of action of the co-dosed NHE-inhibiting
   compound.
                   Additionally, and also as further detailed herein below, it has further been
   found that the inhibition of NHE-mediated antiport of sodium ions (Na*) and hydrogen
   ions (Hz) in the gastrointestinal tract, and more particularly the gastrointestinal epithelia, is
is a powerful approach to the treatment of various gastrointestinal tract disorders, including
   the treatment or reduction of pain associated with gastrointestinal tract disorders, and more
   particularly to the restoration of appropriate fluid secretion in the gut and the improvement
   of pathological conditions encountered in constipation states. Applicants have further
   recognized that by blocking sodium ion re-absorption, the compounds of the present
20 disclosure restore fluid homeostasis in the GI tract, particularly in situations wherein fluid
   secretion/absorption is altered in such a way that it results in a high degree of feces
   dehydration, low gut motility, and/or a slow transit-time producing constipation states and
   GI discomfort generally. It has further been found that such a treatment may optionally be
   enhanced by the co-administration of other beneficial compounds or compositions, such as
25 for example a fluid-absorbing polymer. The fluid-absorbing polymer may optimally be
   chosen so that it does not block or otherwise negatively interfere with the mechanism of
   action of the co-dosed NHE-inhibiting compound.
                   Due to the presence of NHEs in other organs or tissues in the body, the
   method of the present disclosure employs the use of compounds and compositions that are
30 desirably highly selective or localized, thus acting substantially in the gastrointestinal tract
   without exposure to other tissues or organs. In this way, any systemic effects can be
   minimized (whether they are on-target or off-target). Accordingly, it is to be noted that, as

    WO 2014/029983                                                             PCT/GB2013/052192
                                                    23
   used herein, and as further detailed elsewhere herein, "substantially active in the
   gastrointestinal tract" generally refers to compounds that are substantially systemically
   non-bioavailable and/or substantially impermeable to the layer of epithelial cells, and more
   specifically epithelium of the GI tract. It is to be further noted that, as used herein, and as
 5 further detailed elsewhere herein, "substantially impermeable" more particularly
   encompasses compounds that are impermeable to the layer of epithelial cells, and more
   specifically the gastrointestinal epithelium (or epithelial layer). "Gastrointestinal
   epithelium" refers to the membranous tissue covering the internal surface of the
   gastrointestinal tract. Accordingly, by being substantially impermeable, a compound has
10 very limited ability to be transferred across the gastrointestinal epithelium, and thus contact
   other internal organs (e.g., the brain, heart, liver, etc.). The typical mechanism by which a
   compound can be transferred across the gastrointestinal epithelium is by either
   transcellular transit (a substance travels through the cell, mediated by either passive or
   active transport passing through both the apical and basolateral membranes) and/or by
15 paracellular transit, where a substance travels between cells of an epithelium, usually
   through highly restrictive structures known as "tight junctions".
                     The compounds of the present disclosure may therefore not be absorbed,
   and are thus essentially not systemically bioavailable at all (e.g., impermeable to the
   gastrointestinal epithelium at all), or they show no detectable concentration of the
20 compound in serum. Alternatively, the compounds may: (i) exhibit some detectable
   permeability to the layer of epithelial cells, and more particularly the epithelium of the GI
   tract, of less than about 20% of the administered compound (e.g., less than about 15%,
   about 10%, or even about 50%, and for example greater than about 0.50%, or 1%), but then
   are rapidly cleared in the liver (i.e., hepatic extraction) via first-pass metabolism; and/or
25 (ii) exhibit some detectable permeability to the layer of epithelial cells, and more
   particularly the epithelium of the GI tract, of less than about 20% of the administered
   compound (e.g., less than about 15%, about 10%, or even about 5%, and for example
   greater than about 0.5%, or 1%), but then are rapidly cleared in the kidney (i.e., renal
   excretion).
30                   Compounds may also be cleared from circulation unchanged into the bile by
   biliary excretion. The compounds of the present disclosure may therefore not exhibit
   detectable concentrations in the bile. Alternatively, the compounds may exhibit some

    WO 2014/029983                                                               PCT/GB2013/052192
                                                      24
   detectable concentration in the bile and more particularly the epithelium of the biliary tract
   and gallbladder of 10 piM, less than 1 piM, less than 0.1 piM, less than 0.01 p.M or less than
   about 0.001 piM.
                    In this regard it is to be still further noted that, as used herein, "substantially
 5 systemically non-bioavailable" generally refers to the inability to detect a compound in the
   systemic circulation of an animal or human following an oral dose of the compound. For a
   compound to be bioavailable, it must be transferred across the gastrointestinal epithelium
   (that is, substantially permeable as defined above), be transported via the portal circulation
   to the liver, avoid substantial metabolism in the liver, and then be transferred into systemic
io circulation.
                    Without being being held to any particular theory, the NHE-inhibiting
   compounds (e.g., NHE-3, -2 and/or -8 inhibitors) of the present disclosure are believed to
   act via a distinct and unique mechanism, causing the retention of fluid and ions in the GI
   tract (and stimulating fecal excretion) rather than stimulating increased secretion of said
is fluid and ions. For example, lubiprostone (Amitiza Sucampo/Takeda) is a bicyclic fatty
   acid prostaglandin El analog that activates the Type 2 Chloride Channel (ClC-2) and
   increases chloride-rich fluid secretion from the serosal to the mucosal side of the GI tract
   (see, e.g., Pharmacological Reviews for Amitiza, NDA package). Linaclotide (MD-i 100
   acetate, Microbia/Forest Labs) is a 14 amino acid peptide analogue of an endogenous
20 hormone, guanylin, and indirectly activates the Cystic Fibrosis Transmembrane
   Conductance Regulator (CFTR) thereby inducing fluid and electrolyte secretion into the GI
   (see, e.g., Li et al., J. Exp. Med., vol. 202 (2005), pp. 975-986). The substantially
   impermeable NHE-inhibiting compounds of the present disclosure act to inhibit the
   reuptake of salt and fluid rather than promote secretion. Since the GI tract processes about
25 9 liters of fluid and about 800 meq of Na each day, it is anticipated that NHE inhibition
   could permit the removal of substantial quantities of systemic fluid and sodium to resorb
   edema and resolve CIF symptoms.
    .       Substantially Impermeable or Substantially Systemically Non-Bioavailable
30          NHE-Inhibiting Compounds

    WO 2014/029983                                                             PCT/GB2013/052192
                                                   25
                   In one embodiment, the compounds of the present disclosure may be
   generally represented by Formula (I):
                                        Core -L
                                                         NHE) n
 5 (I)
   or a stereoisomer, prodrug or pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, wherein: (i) NHE
   represents a NHE-inhibiting small molecule moiety as set forth below, (ii) n is an integer
   of 2 or more, (iii) Core is a Core moiety having two or more sites thereon for attachment to
   two or more NHE-inhibiting small molecule moieties, and (iv) L is a bond or linker
10 connecting the Core moiety to the two or more NHE-inhibitory small molecule moieties,
   the resulting NHE-inhibiting compound (i.e., a compound of Formula (I)) possessing
   overall physicochemical properties that render it substantially impermeable or substantially
   systemically non-bioavailable. The Core moiety may be bound to essentially any position
   on, or within, the NHE-inhibiting small molecule moiety, provided that the installation
is thereof does not significantly adversely impact NHE-inhibiting activity.
                   It is to be noted that, in the many structures illustrated herein, all of the
   various linkages or bonds will not be shown in every instance. For example, in one or
   more of the structures illustrated above, a bond or connection between the NHE-inhibiting
   small molecule moiety and the Core moiety is not always shown. However, this should
20 not be viewed in a limiting sense. Rather, it is to be understood that the NHE-inhibiting
   small molecule moiety is bound or connected in some way (e.g., by a bond or linker of
   some kind) to the Core moiety, such that the resulting NHE-inhibiting compound is
   suitable for use (i.e., substantially impermeable or substantially systemically non
   bioavailable in the GI tract).
25                 NHE-inhibiting small molecule moieties suitable for use (i.e., suitable for
   modification or functionalization in accordance with the present disclosure) in the
   prepartion of the substantially impermeable or substantially systemically nonbioavailable
   NHE-inhibiting compounds of the present disclosure are disclosed in WO 2010/025856,
   the entire contents of which are incorporated herein by reference for all relevant and
30 consistent purposes, and have the following structure of Formula (X):

    WO 2014/029983                                                            PCT/GB2013/052192
                                                    26
                                    R3                    B       R5
                                       N--R4         L
                                               X,
                                         )q
                                               A
                                                      R,
   (X)
   The variables in the structure are defined in the cited references, the details of which are
   incorporated herein by reference.
 5                  In more specific emboodiments, the NHE-inhibiting small molecule moiety
   has the following structure of Formula (XI):
                                         R3
                                       N          0               (R5)4
                                             RR,
                                                     OR   1
                                                     R,
   (XI)
10         wherein:
                    B is selected from the group consisting of aryl and heterocyclyl;
                     each R5 is independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen,
   halogen, optionally substituted C1_4alkyl, optionally substituted C1_ 4alkoxy, optionally
   substituted C 1 _4thioalkyl, optionally substituted heterocyclyl, optionally substituted
15 heterocyclylalkyl, optionally substituted aryl, optionally substituted heteroaryl, hydroxyl,
   oxo, cyano, nitro, -NR 7Rs, -NR 7C(=O)Rs, -NR 7 C(=O)ORs,
   -NR 7C(=O)NRsR 9 , -NR 7 S0 2Rs, -NR7S(O) 2NRsR 9 , -C(=O)OR 7, -C(=O)R         7,
   -C(=O)NR 7Rs, -S(O) 1 -2 R 7, and -SO 2NR 7Rg, wherein R 7, Rs, and R 9 are independently
   selected from the group consisting of hydrogen, C1 4 alkyl, or a bond linking the NHE-

    WO 2014/029983                                                            PCT/GB2013/052192
                                                  27
   inhibiting small molecule moiety to L, provided at least one is a bond linking the NHE
   inhibiting small molecule moiety to L;
                   R 3 and R 4 are independently selected from the group consisting of
   hydrogen, optionally substituted C1_4alkyl, optionally substituted cycloalkyl, optionally
 5 substituted cycloalkylalkyl, optionally substituted aryl, optionally substituted aralkyl,
   optionally substituted heterocyclyl and optionally substituted heteroaryl; or
                   R 3 and R 4 form together with the nitrogen to which they are bonded an
   optionally substituted 4-8 membered heterocyclyl; and
   each R 1 is independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen, halogen,
10 optionally substituted C1_6 alkyl and optionally substituted C1_6 alkoxy.
                   In yet further more specific emboodiments, the NHE-inhibiting small
   molecule moiety has the following structure of Formula (XII):
                                      -N "  RR3   0
                                                      R,
                                             R1,
                                                  Ri
is (XII)
          wherein:
                   each R 3 and R 4 are independently selected from the group consisting of
   hydrogen and optionally substituted C1_ 4alkyl, or R 3 and R4, taken together with the
   nitrogen to which they are bonded, form an optionally substituted 4-8 membered
20 heterocyclyl;
                   each R 1 is independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen,
   halogen, C1_6alkyl, and C1_6 haloalkyl; and
                   R 5 is selected from the group consisting of -S0 2 -NR 7 - and
   NHC(=0)NH-, wherein R 7 is hydrogen or C1_4 alkyl.
25                 In various alternative embodiments, the NHE-inhibiting small molecule
   moiety may be rendered substantially impermeable or substantially systemically non
   bioavailable by forming a polymeric structure from multiple NHE-inhibiting small

    WO 2014/029983                                                            PCT/GB2013/052192
                                                    28
   molecule moieties, which may be the same or different, connected or bound by a series of
   linkers, L, which also may be the same or different, the compound having for example the
   structure of Formula (II):
                                  NH E     L--NHE -         L-   NHE
   (II)
   wherein: NHE is as defined above; L is a bond or linker, as further defined elsewhere
   herein; and m is 0 or an integer of 1 or more. In this embodiment, the physicochemical
   properties, and in particular the molecular weight or polar surface area, of the NHE
10 inhibiting small molecule moeity is modified (e.g., increased) by having a series of NHE
   inhibiting small molecule moieties linked together, in order to render them substantially
   impermeable or substantially systemically non-bioavailable.
                   In yet additional alternative embodiments, the polyvalent NHE-inhibiting
   compound may be in oligomeric or polymeric form, wherein a backbone is bound (by
is means of a linker, for example) to multiple NHE-inhibiting small molecule moieties. Such
   compounds may have, for example, the structures of Formulas (IIIA) or (IIIB):
                                             repeat unit        L-    NHE
                                                  (IIIA)
20
                                                repeat unit
                                                       NHE
                                                  (IIIB)
   wherein: NHE is as defined above; L is a bond or linker, as further defined elsewhere
25 herein; and n is a non-zero integer (i.e., an integer of 1 or more). It is to be noted that the
   repeat unit in Formulas (IIIA) and (IIIB) generally encompasses repeating units of various
   polymeric embodiments, including linear, branched and dendritic structures, which may

     WO 2014/029983                                                            PCT/GB2013/052192
                                                     29
    optionally be produced by methods referred to herein. In each polymeric, or more general
    polyvalent, embodiment, it is to be noted that each repeat unit may be the same or
    different, and may or may not be linked to the NHE-inhibiting small molecule moiety by a
    linker, which in turn may be the same or different when present. In this regard it is to be
  5 noted that as used herein, "polyvalent" refers to a molecule that has multiple (e.g., 2, 4, 6,
    8, 10 or more) NHE-inhibiting small molecule moieties therein.
                      In the foregoing polyvalent embodiments, L may be a polyalkylene glycol
    linker, such as a polyethylene glycol linker; and/or the Core may have the following
    structure:
10
                                                I-X-Y-X-j
    wherein: X is selected from the group consisting of a bond, -0-, -NH-, -S-, C1. 6 alkylene,
    NHC(=0)-, -C(=0)NH-, -NHC(=0)NH-, -SO 2NH-, and -NHSO 2-; Y is selected from the
    group consisting of a bond, optionally substituted C1.salkylene, optionally substituted aryl,
is  optionally substituted heteroaryl, a polyethylene glycol linker, -(CH 2 )i-6 0(CH 2)i-6 - and
    (CH 2 )i-6NYi(CH 2 )i-6 -; and Yi is selected from the group consisting of hydrogen, optionally
    substituted C 1.salkyl, optionally substituted aryl or optionally substituted heteroaryl. For
    example, in more specific embodiments, the Core may be selected, for example, from the
    group consisting of:
20
                                                         O OHH                    OH
                                         'r          N.         N       --N.           N
                NN                        H         H                     N
                                                                          H
                H      H    ;       0                    OH O                  OH O
                       o      OHO
                           OH      H          H              H                      H     ;
                    N         N-                            H
                                            S         O-NH
                                                NN              HN            NH
                        H=H                     H
                         0                           ; and  4   0
    In other more specific embodiments, the Core may be selected, for example, from the
25  group consisting of:

   WO 2014/029983                                                           PCT/GB2013/052192
                                                30
         O                                            H      H                           ,
                            NH     A    2             NN0    N               N
                            H                                                H       H
                                                                              0
                                                                                   N
                                                                                  H
          o                                                0
                                                               O         0N
                     00                                             O
                            H                0H
                                                                    OH    0
                   0                                                            H
       H  o                o         ,o
                         HH
                                                                        0
       N                    NN
           o                     and                             HO
                  The above noted embodiments are further illustrated herein below. For
  example, the first representation below of an exemplary oligomer compound, wherein the
5 various parts of the compound are identified, is intended to provide a broad context for the
  disclosure provided herein. It is to be noted that while each NHlE-inhibiting small
  molecule moiety in the structure below is the same, it is within the scope of this disclosure
  that each is independently selected and may be the same or different. In the illustration

    WO 2014/029983                                                                  PCT/GB2013/052192
                                                    31
   below, the linker moiety is a polyethylene glycol (PEG) motif PEG derivatives are
   advantageous due in part to their aqueous solubility, which may help avoid hydrophobic
   collapse (the intramolecular interaction of hydrophobic motifs that can occur when a
   hydrophobic molecule is exposed to an aqueous environment (see, e.g., Wiley, R. A.; Rich,
 5 D. H. Medical Research Reviews 1993, 13(3), 327-384). The core moiety illustrated
   below is also advantageous because it provides some rigidity to the molecule, allowing an
   increase in distance between the NHE-inhibiting small molecule moieties while minimally
   increasing rotational degrees of freedom.
                                              "Core"                "Linker"
                       NHE      O      O      O             O       O      O       NHE
                                                     0
10                                                                          NHE
                   In an alternative embodiment, wherein m           = 0, the structure may be, for
   example:
                                                   ('^N          NHE
                                      NHE         N
                                                    Linker, L
15 or
                                             NHE -         NHE
                                                          n
                                         n = 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, etc.
                                                   Linker, L
   or

    WO 2014/029983                                                            PCT/GB2013/052192
                                                    32
                                        NHEJ                NH E
                                                         n
                                           n = 2, 3,4;
                                           3.4 kDa, 5 kDa, etc.
                                               Linker, L
                   Within the polyvalent compounds utilized for treatments according to the
   present disclosure, n and m (when m is not zero) may be independently selected from the
 5 range of from about I to about 10, more preferably from about I to about 5, and even more
   preferably from about 1 to about 2. In alternative embodiments, however, n and m may be
   independently selected from the range of from about 1 to about 500, preferably from about
    I to about 300, more preferably from about 1 to about 100, and most preferably from about
    1 to about 50. In these or other particular embodiments, E, n and m may be within the
10 range of from about I to about 50, or from about I to about 20.
                   In designing and making the substantially impermeable or substantially
   systemically non-bioavailable NHE-inhibiting compounds that may be utilized for the
   treatments detailed in the instant disclosure, it may in some cases be advantageous to first
   determine a likely point of attachment on a NHE-inhibiting small molecule moiety, where
is a core or linker might be installed or attached before making a series of candidate
   multivalent or polyvalent compounds. This may be done by one skilled in the art via
   known methods by systematically installing functional groups, or functional groups
   displaying a fragment of the desired core or linker, onto various positions of the NHE
   inhibiting small molecule moiety and then testing these adducts to determine whether the
20 modified compound still retains desired biological properties (e.g., NHE-inhibiting
   activity). An understanding of the SAR of the compound also allows the design of cores
   and/or linkers that contribute positively to the activity of the resulting compounds.
                   Another aspect to be considered in the design of cores and linkers is the
   limiting or preventing of hydrophobic collapse. Compounds with extended hydrocarbon
25 functionalities may collapse upon themselves in an intramolecular fashion, causing an
   increased enthalpic barrier for interaction with the desired biological target. Accordingly,
   when designing cores and linkers, these are preferably designed to be resistant to
   hydrophobic collapse. For example, conformational constraints such as rigid monocyclic,
   bicyclic or polycyclic rings can be installed in a core or linker to increase the rigidity of the

    WO 2014/029983                                                             PCT/GB2013/052192
                                                   33
   structure. Unsaturated bonds, such as alkenes and alkynes, may also or alternatively be
   installed. Such modifications may ensure the NHE-inhibiting compound is accessible for
   productive binding with its target. Furthermore, the hydrophilicity of the linkers may be
   improved by adding hydrogen bond donor or acceptor motifs, or ionic motifs such as
 5 amines that are protonated in the GI, or acids that are deprotonated. Such modifications
   will increase the hydrophilicity of the core or linker and help prevent hydrophobic
   collapse. Furthermore, such modifications will also contribute to the impermeability of the
   resulting compounds by increasing tPSA.
                    One skilled in the art may consider a variety of functional groups that will
10 allow the facile and specific attachment of a NHE-inhibiting small molecule moiety to a
   core or linker. These functional groups can include electrophiles, which can react with
   nucleophilic cores or linkers, and nucleophiles, which can react with electrophilic cores or
   linkers. NHE-inhibiting small molecule moieties may be similarly derivatized with, for
   example, boronic acid groups which can then react with appropriate cores or linkers via
is palladium mediated cross-coupling reactions. The NHE-inhibiting small molecule moiety
   may also contain olefins which can then react with appropriate cores or linkers via olefin
   metathesis chemistry, or alkynes or azides which can then react with appropriate cores or
   linkers via [2 + 3] cycloaddition.
                   It is to be noted that one skilled in the art can envision a number of core or
20 linker moieties that may be functionalized with an appropriate electrophile or nucleophile.
   Shown below are a series of such compounds selected based on several design
   considerations, including solubility, steric effects, and their ability to confer, or be
   consistent with, favorable structure-activity relationships. In this regard it is to be further
   noted, however, that the structures provided below, and above, are for illustration purposes
25 only, and therefore should not be viewed in a limiting sense.
                   Exemplary electrophilic and nucleophilic linker moieties include, but are
   not limited to, the linker moieties illustrated in the Examples and the following:

   WO 2014/029983                                                                                          PCT/GB2013/052192
                                                                    34
       Nucleophilic linkers (for use with electrophilic NHEs)
                                         H
                                N        N'R                H                   H
            2  N       _NR                                  N                n
               H                                              n = 2,3,4,etc.;
                                                              3.4 kDa, 5 kDa, etc.
                                              H                           H
           R2,  N             N-,             N',           R2    -TN'-R,
                      H      HH                                          n
                      (-H, -CH3, etc.)                     n = 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, etc.
                                                                   H
                                                    HR             N                  R3
           N             N               N          NRR                         n
           H                                                         n= 2, 3, 4, etc.;
                        (R' = -H, -CH3, etc.)                        R3 = -N3 , -CO 2 H, -CHO, -OH, -SH,
                                                                     -C=CH 2 , -C=CH, etc
                                                                     3.4 kDa, 5 kDa, etc.
         Electrophilic linkers (for use with nucleophilic NHEs)
                     0      0                               0    0
                  X             X                        X "I        "X                      ROJ ,OY_            OR
               n = 0, 1,2,3,4, etc                   n = 1, 2,3,4, etc                         n = 2, 3,4, etc.;
               X = -OH, -CI, -NHS, etc              X = -OH, -C, -NHS, etc                     3.4 kDa, 5 kDa, etc.
                                                                                                R = tosyl, mesyl, etc
                                                        0              Hn
         OHC"-O+          -O     -CHO
                                 n                Xf
                                                  X         N          NTX                XO2C       I         CO 2X
                                                                                                               CO2X
               n = 2,3,4,etc.;                              H         n 0
               3.4 kDa, 5 kDa, etc.                  n = 2,3,4,5,6, etc.                      n = 1, 2,3, etc.
               R = tosyl, mesyl, etc                 X = -CI, -Br, -OTs, etc.                 X = -CI, -NHS, OH, etc.
                               n      2X          RO
                                                   RCO        O         R2
          XO2C       N                                           n
                      (Yn                         n = 2, 3, 4, etc.;
               n = 1, 2, 3, etc.                  3.4 kDa, 5 kDa, etc.
               X = -CI, -NHS, OH, etc.            R, = tosyl, mesyl, etc
                                                  R2 = -N3 , -CO 2 H, -CHO, -OH, -SH,
                                                  -C=CH 2, -C=CH, etc
                      The linking moiety, L, in each of the described embodiments (including
  embodiments in which a NHE-inhibiting small molecule moiety is linked to a Core such as
5 an atom, another small molecule, a polymer moiety, an oligomer moiety, or a non
  repeating moiety) can be a chemical linker, such as a bond or other moiety, for example,
  comprising about 1 to about 200 atoms, or about I to about 100 atoms, or about I to about
  50 atoms, that can be hydrophilic and/or hydrophobic. In one embodiment, the linking
  moiety can be a polymer moiety grafted onto a polymer backbone, for example, using

     WO 2014/029983                                                          PCT/GB2013/052192
                                                   35
    living free radical polymerization approaches known in the art. Preferred L structures or
    moieties may also be selected from, for example, oligoethylene glycol, oligopeptide,
    oligoethyleneimine, oligotetramethylene glycol and oligocaprolactone.
                     As noted, the core moiety can be an atom, a small molecule, an oligomer, a
  5 dendrimer or a polymer moiety, in each case having one or more sites of attachment for L.
    For example, the core moiety can be a non-repeating moiety (considered as a whole
    including linking points to the NHE-inhibiting small molecule moieties), selected for
    example from the group consisting of alkyl, phenyl, aryl, alkenyl, alkynyl, heterocyclic,
    amine, ether, sulfide, disulfide, hydrazine, and any of the foregoing substituted with
10  oxygen, sulfur, sulfonyl, phosphonyl, hydroxyl, alkoxyl, amine, thiol, ether, carbonyl,
    carboxyl, ester, amide, alkyl, alkenyl, alkynyl, aryl, heterocyclic, and moieties comprising
    combinations thereof (in each permutation). A non-repeating moiety can include repeating
    units (e.g., methylene) within portions or segments thereof (e.g., within an alkyl segment),
    without having discrete repeat units that constitute the moiety as a whole (e.g., in the sense
is  of a polymer or oligomer).
                     Exemplary core moieties include but are not limited to the core moieties
    illustrated in the Examples and ether moieties, ester moieties, sulfide moieties, disulfide
    moieties, amine moieties, aryl moieties, alkoxyl moieties, etc., such as, for example, the
    following:
20

WO 2014/029983                                                    PCT/GB2013/052192
                                             36
  - -o o*
               0-S-S       -1-S-1- Yo-        jOc              - R         0
                                                                 R         O
      O             -- o                                   OSO              O
                          Ap           qL~                            0   O7-l
                        O                                              O
                R
          O                                0   OH
                  HNOH                           0
     N                N   X                                                   p
                                                       Op    4
                .O                                       0 1
             HH    PH
                                                     N
                                               0
                                    1-4 N            H
                                                   0

WO 2014/029983                           PCT/GB2013/052192
                                37
           N     N            N
                   H          I
                           0  N       N~
            X-'
                H
                     NN
                        0~          N            NO H
                          Irv KNrAS

    WO 2014/029983                                                          PCT/GB2013/052192
                                                  38
   wherein the broken bonds (i.e., those having a wavy bond,       , through them) are points of
   connection to either a NHE-inhibiting small molecule moiety or a linker moiety displaying
   a NHE-inhibiting small molecule moiety, where said points of connection can be made
   using chemistries and functional groups known to the art of medicinal chemistry; and
 5 further wherein each p, q, r and s is an independently selected integer ranging from about 0
   to about 48, preferably from about 0 to about 36, or from about 0 to about 24, or from
   about 0 to about 16. In some instances, each p, q, r and s can be an independently selected
   integer ranging from about 0 to 12. Additionally, R can be a substituent moiety generally
   selected from halide, hydroxyl, amine, thiol, ether, carbonyl, carboxyl, ester, amide,
10 carbocyclic, heterocyclic, and moieties comprising combinations thereof
                  In another approach, the core moiety may be a dendrimer, defined as a
   repeatedly branched molecule (see, e.g., J. M. J. Fr6chet, D. A. Tomalia, Dendrimersand
   Other DendriticPolymers, John Wiley & Sons, Ltd. NY, NY, 2001) and schematically
   represented below:
15
                        DENDRIMER                                         DENDRON
                   In this approach, the NHE-inhibiting small molecule moiety is attached
   through L to one, several or optionally all termini located at the periphery of the
20 dendrimer. In another approach, a dendrimer building block named dendron, and
   illustrated above, is used as a core, wherein the NHE-inhibiting small molecule moiety is

    WO 2014/029983                                                           PCT/GB2013/052192
                                                    39
   attached to one, several or optionally all termini located at the periphery of the dendron.
   The number of generations herein is typically between about 0 and about 6, and preferably
   between about 0 and about 3. (Generation is defined in, for example, J. M. J. Frechet, D.
   A. Tomalia, Dendrimersand Other DendriticPolymers, John Wiley & Sons, Ltd. NY,
 5 NY.) Dendrimer and/or dendron structures are well known in the art and include, for
   example, those shown in or illustrated by: (i) J. M. J. Frechet, D. A. Tomalia, Dendrimers
   and Other DendriticPolymers, John Wiley & Sons, Ltd. NY, NY; (ii) George R
   Newkome, Charles N. Moorefield and Fritz Vogtle, Dendrimers andDendrons: Concepts,
   Syntheses, Applications, VCH Verlagsgesellschaft Mbh; and, (iii) Boas, U., Christensen,
10 J.B., Heegaard, P.M.H., Dendrimers in Medicine andBiotechnology: New Molecular Tools
     Springer, 2006.
                     In yet another approach, the core moiety may be a polymer moiety or an
   oligomer moiety. The polymer or oligomer may, in each case, be independently
   considered and comprise repeat units consisting of a repeat moiety selected from alkyl
is (e.g., -CH 2 -), substituted alkyl (e.g., -CHR- , wherein, for example, R is hydroxy), alkenyl,
   substituted alkenyl, alkynyl, substituted alkynyl, phenyl, aryl, heterocyclic, amine, ether,
   sulfide, disulfide, hydrazine, and any of the foregoing substituted with oxygen, sulfur,
   sulfonyl, phosphonyl, hydroxyl, alkoxyl, amine, thiol, ether, carbonyl, carboxyl, ester,
   amide, alkyl, alkenyl, alkynyl, aryl, heterocyclic, as well as moieties comprising
20 combinations thereof. In still another approach, the core moiety comprises repeat units
   resulting from the polymerization of ethylenic monomers (e.g., such as those ethylenic
   monomers listed elsewhere herein below).
                     Preferred polymers for polymeric moieties useful in constructing
   substantially impermeable or substantially systemically non-bioavailable NHE-inhibiting
25 compounds that are multivalent, for use in the treatment various treatment methods
   disclosed herein, can be prepared by any suitable technique, such as by free radical
   polymerization, condensation polymerization, addition polymerization, ring-opening
   polymerization, and/or can be derived from naturally occurring polymers, such as
   saccharide polymers. Further, in some embodiments, any of these polymer moieties may
30 be functionalized.
                     Examples of polysaccharides useful in preparation of such compounds
   include but are not limited to materials from vegetable or animal origin, including cellulose

    WO 2014/029983                                                           PCT/GB2013/052192
                                                  40
   materials, hemicellulose, alkyl cellulose, hydroxyalkyl cellulose, carboxymethylcellulose,
   sulfoethylcellulose, starch, xylan, amylopectine, chondroitin, hyarulonate, heparin, guar,
   xanthan, mannan, galactomannan, chitin, and/or chitosan. More preferred, in at least some
   instances, are polymer moieties that do not degrade, or that do not degrade significantly,
 5 under the physiological conditions of the GI tract (such as, for example,
   carboxymethylcellulose, chitosan, and sulfoethylcellulose).
                   When free radical polymerization is used, the polymer moiety can be
   prepared from various classes of monomers including, for example, acrylic, methacrylic,
   styrenic, vinylic, and dienic, whose typical examples are given thereafter: styrene,
io substituted styrene, alkyl acrylate, substituted alkyl acrylate, alkyl methacrylate,
   substituted alkyl methacrylate, acrylonitrile, methacrylonitrile, acrylamide,
   methacrylamide, N-alkylacrylamide, N-alkylmethacrylamide, N,N-dialkylacrylamide,
   N,N-dialkylmethacrylamide, isoprene, butadiene, ethylene, vinyl acetate, and combinations
   thereof. Functionalized versions of these monomers may also be used and any of these
is monomers may be used with other monomers as comonomers. For example, specific
   monomers or comonomers that may be used in this disclosure include methyl
   methacrylate, ethyl methacrylate, propyl methacrylate (all isomers), butyl methacrylate (all
   isomers), 2-ethylhexyl methacrylate, isobomyl methacrylate, methacrylic acid, benzyl
   methacrylate, phenyl methacrylate, methacrylonitrile, a-methylstyrene, methyl acrylate,
20 ethyl acrylate, propyl acrylate (all isomers), butyl acrylate (all isomers), 2-ethylhexyl
   acrylate, isobomyl acrylate, acrylic acid, benzyl acrylate, phenyl acrylate, acrylonitrile,
   styrene, glycidyl methacrylate, 2-hydroxyethyl methacrylate, hydroxypropyl methacrylate
   (all isomers), hydroxybutyl methacrylate (all isomers), N,N-dimethylaminoethyl
   methacrylate, N,N-diethylaminoethyl methacrylate, triethyleneglycol methacrylate,
25 itaconic anhydride, itaconic acid, glycidyl acrylate, 2-hydroxyethyl acrylate,
   hydroxypropyl acrylate (all isomers), hydroxybutyl acrylate (all isomers), N,N
   dimethylaminoethyl acrylate, N,N-diethylaminoethyl acrylate, triethyleneglycol acrylate,
   methacrylamide, N-methylacrylamide, N,N-dimethylacrylamide, N-tert
   butylmethacrylamide, N-n-butylmethacrylamide, N-methylolmethacrylamide, N
30 ethylolmethacrylamide, N-tert-butylacrylamide, N-N-butylacrylamide, N
   methylolacrylamide, N-ethylolacrylamide, 4-acryloylmorpholine, vinyl benzoic acid (all
   isomers), diethylaminostyrene (all isomers), a-methylvinyl benzoic acid (all isomers),

     WO 2014/029983                                                          PCT/GB2013/052192
                                                 41
    diethylamino a-methylstyrene (all isomers), p-vinylbenzene sulfonic acid, p-vinylbenzene
    sulfonic sodium salt, alkoxy and alkyl silane functional monomers, maleic anhydride, N
    phenylmaleimide, N-butylmaleimide, butadiene, isoprene, chloroprene, ethylene, vinyl
    acetate, vinylformamide, allylamine, vinylpyridines (all isomers), fluorinated acrylate,
  5 methacrylates, and combinations thereof. Main chain heteroatom polymer moieties can
    also be used, including polyethyleneimine and polyethers such as polyethylene oxide and
    polypropylene oxide, as well as copolymers thereof.
                    In one particular embodiment, the polymer to which the NHE-inhibiting
    small molecule moiety is attached, or otherwise a part of, is a polyol (e.g., a polymer
10  having a repeat unit of, for example, a hydroxyl-substituted alkyl, such as -CH(OH)-).
    Polyols, such as mono- and disaccharides, with or without reducing or reducible end
    groups thereon, may be good candidates, for example, for installing additional
    functionality that could render the compound substantially impermeable.
                    In one particular embodiment, the NHE-inhibiting small molecule moiety is
is  attached at one or both ends of the polymer chain. More specifically, in yet another
    alternative approach to the polyvalent embodiment of the present disclosure, a
    macromolecule (e.g., a polymer or oligomer) having one of the following exemplary
    structures (wherein is a NHE-inhibiting small molecule moity) may be designed and
    constructed as described herein:
20

WO 2014/029983                                            PCT/GB2013/052192
                                      42
                               H N N ("        NHE
               NHE             N
                               n
                     n = 1, 2, 3-10, or more
                NHE                            NHE
                           n = 0, 1, 2, 3-10, or more
                NHE-           NHE
                 n = 1, 2, 3-10, or more
               N HE                     osH           N E
                                       n
                         n =0, 1, 2, 3-10, or more

WO 2014/029983                                          PCT/GB2013/052192
                                      43
               NHE
                             n = 0,n1,2,3-10,      NHE
                             or more
               NHE                n                 NHE
                           n = 0, 1, 2, 3-10, or more
               N HE - k-Io                    N-NH E
                         n = 0, 1, 2, 3-10, or
                         more
                      NHENHE
                      n =0, 1 23-10 or more
                  NHE                         n
                             n = 0,1, 2,3-10, or more
                           n = 0, 1, 2, 3-10,
                           or more
                   NHE                    Ni N HE
                                 0    0

WO 2014/029983                                            PCT/GB2013/052192
                                                 44
                 NHE                 O                NHE
                                     n
                      n = 0, 1, 2, 3, 4-10, or more
               NH E                                 NH E
                                  .n
                     n = 0, 1, 2, 3, 4-10, or more
                     NHE                       n
                                        -   NHE
                                           n
                      n = 0, 1, 2, 3, 4-10,
                      or more
                      NHE      nNHE         n'
                      n = 0, 1, 2, 3, 4-10,
                      or more
                     n = 0, 1, 2, 3, 4-10, or more
                NHE                          9NNHE
                                    n

    WO 2014/029983                                                            PCT/GB2013/052192
                                                        45
                            NHE                                     NHE
                                                  n
                                  n = 0, 1, 2, 3, 4-10, or more
                               NHE                                    NHE
                                                     n
                                      n = 0, 1, 2, 3, 4-10, or more
                                       NHE                    NHE
                                                             nn
                                           n = 0, 1, 2, 3,4-10,
                                           or more
                                  NHE
                                                        nNH E
                                               n = 0, 1, 2,3,4-10,
                                               or more
                   It is understood that any embodiment of the compounds of the present
   invention, as set forth above, and any specific substituent set forth herein in such
   compounds, as set forth above, may be independently combined with other embodiments
 5 and/or substituents of such compounds to form embodiments of the inventions not
   specifically set forth above. In addition, in the event that a list of substituents is listed for
   any particular substituent in a particular embodiment and/or claim, it is understood that
   each individual substituent may be deleted from the particular embodiment and/or claim
   and that the remaining list of substituents will be considered to be within the scope of the
10 invention. Furthermore, it is understood that in the present description, combinations of
   substituents and/or variables of the depicted formulae are permissible only if such
   contributions result in stable compounds.

    WO 2014/029983                                                           PCT/GB2013/052192
                                                   46
   II.      Terminology, Physical and Performance Properties
            A.      Terminology
                    Unless the context requires otherwise, throughout the present specification
   and claims, the word "comprise" and variations thereof, such as, "comprises" and
 5 "comprising" are to be construed in an open, inclusive sense, that is as "including, but not
   limited to".
                    Reference throughout this specification to "one embodiment" or "an
   embodiment" means that a particular feature, structure or characteristic described in
   connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment of the present
10 invention. Thus, the appearances of the phrases "in one embodiment" or "in an
   embodiment" in various places throughout this specification are not necessarily all
   referring to the same embodiment. Furthermore, the particular features, structures, or
   characteristics may be combined in any suitable manner in one or more embodiments.
                    "Amino" refers to the -NH 2 radical.
15                  "Cyano" refers to the -CN radical.
                    "Hydroxy" or "hydroxyl" refers to the -OH radical.
                    "Imino" refers to the =NH substituent.
                    "Nitro" refers to the -NO2 radical.
                    "Oxo" refers to the =0 substituent.
20                  "Thioxo" refers to the =S substituent.
                    "Alkyl" refers to a straight or branched hydrocarbon chain radical
   consisting solely of carbon and hydrogen atoms, which is saturated or unsaturated (i.e.,
   contains one or more double and/or triple bonds), having from one to twelve carbon atoms
   (CI-C1 2 alkyl), preferably one to eight carbon atoms (C1 -Cs alkyl) or one to six carbon
25 atoms (CI-C 6 alkyl), and which is attached to the rest of the molecule by a single bond,
   e.g., methyl, ethyl, n-propyl, 1-methylethyl (iso-propyl), n-butyl, n-pentyl,
    1,1 -dimethylethyl (t-butyl), 3-methylhexyl, 2-methylhexyl, ethenyl, prop-1-enyl,
   but-1-enyl, pent-1-enyl, penta-1,4-dienyl, ethynyl, propynyl, butynyl, pentynyl, hexynyl,
   and the like. Unless stated otherwise specifically in the specification, an alkyl group may
30 be optionally substituted.
                    "Alkylene" or "alkylene chain" refers to a straight or branched divalent
   hydrocarbon chain linking the rest of the molecule to a radical group, consisting solely of

    WO 2014/029983                                                           PCT/GB2013/052192
                                                   47
   carbon and hydrogen, which is saturated or unsaturated (i.e., contains one or more double
   and/or triple bonds), and having from one to twelve carbon atoms, e.g., methylene,
   ethylene, propylene, n-butylene, ethenylene, propenylene, n-butenylene, propynylene,
   n-butynylene, and the like. The alkylene chain is attached to the rest of the molecule
 5 through a single or double bond and to the radical group through a single or double bond.
   The points of attachment of the alkylene chain to the rest of the molecule and to the radical
   group can be through one carbon or any two carbons within the chain. Unless stated
   otherwise specifically in the specification, an alkylene chain may be optionally substituted.
                   "Alkoxy" refers to a radical of the formula -ORa where Ra is an alkyl radical
10 as defined above containing one to twelve carbon atoms. Unless stated otherwise
   specifically in the specification, an alkoxy group may be optionally substituted.
                   "Alkylamino" refers to a radical of the formula -NHRa or -NRaRa where
   each Ra is, independently, an alkyl radical as defined above containing one to twelve
   carbon atoms. Unless stated otherwise specifically in the specification, an alkylamino
is group may be optionally substituted.
                   "Thioalkyl" refers to a radical of the formula -SRa where Ra is an alkyl
   radical as defined above containing one to twelve carbon atoms. Unless stated otherwise
   specifically in the specification, a thioalkyl group may be optionally substituted.
                   "Aryl" refers to a hydrocarbon ring system radical comprising hydrogen, 6
20 to 18 carbon atoms and at least one aromatic ring. For purposes of this invention, the aryl
   radical may be a monocyclic, bicyclic, tricyclic or tetracyclic ring system, which may
   include fused or bridged ring systems. Aryl radicals include, but are not limited to, aryl
   radicals derived from aceanthrylene, acenaphthylene, acephenanthrylene, anthracene,
   azulene, benzene, chrysene, fluoranthene, fluorene, as-indacene, s-indacene, indane,
25 indene, naphthalene, phenalene, phenanthrene, pleiadene, pyrene, and triphenylene.
   Unless stated otherwise specifically in the specification, the term "aryl" or the prefix "ar-"
   (such as in "aralkyl") is meant to include aryl radicals that are optionally substituted.
                   "Aralkyl" refers to a radical of the formula -Rb-Re where Rb is an alkylene
   chain as defined above and R, is one or more aryl radicals as defined above, for example,
30 benzyl, diphenylmethyl and the like. Unless stated otherwise specifically in the
   specification, an aralkyl group may be optionally substituted.

    WO 2014/029983                                                          PCT/GB2013/052192
                                                  48
                   "Cycloalkyl" or "carbocyclic ring" refers to a stable non-aromatic
   monocyclic or polycyclic hydrocarbon radical consisting solely of carbon and hydrogen
   atoms, which may include fused or bridged ring systems, having from three to fifteen
   carbon atoms, preferably having from three to ten carbon atoms, and which is saturated or
 5 unsaturated and attached to the rest of the molecule by a single bond. Monocyclic radicals
   include, for example, cyclopropyl, cyclobutyl, cyclopentyl, cyclohexyl, cycloheptyl, and
   cyclooctyl. Polycyclic radicals include, for example, adamantyl, norbornyl, decalinyl,
   7,7-dimethyl-bicyclo[2.2. 1]heptanyl, and the like. Unless otherwise stated specifically in
   the specification, a cycloalkyl group may be optionally substituted.
10                 "Cycloalkylalkyl" refers to a radical of the formula -RbR where     R  is an
   alkylene chain as defined above and Rg is a cycloalkyl radical as defined above. Unless
   stated otherwise specifically in the specification, a cycloalkylalkyl group may be optionally
   substituted.
                   "Fused" refers to any ring structure described herein which is fused to an
is existing ring structure in the compounds of the invention. When the fused ring is a
   heterocyclyl ring or a heteroaryl ring, any carbon atom on the existing ring structure which
   becomes part of the fused heterocyclyl ring or the fused heteroaryl ring may be replaced
   with a nitrogen atom.
                   "Halo" or "halogen" refers to bromo, chloro, fluoro or iodo.
20                 "Haloalkyl" refers to an alkyl radical, as defined above, that is substituted
   by one or more halo radicals, as defined above, e.g., trifluoromethyl, difluoromethyl,
   trichloromethyl, 2,2,2-trifluoroethyl, 1,2-difluoroethyl, 3-bromo-2-fluoropropyl,
    1,2-dibromoethyl, and the like. Unless stated otherwise specifically in the specification, a
   haloalkyl group may be optionally substituted.
25                 "Heterocyclyl" or "heterocyclic ring" refers to a stable 3- to 18-membered
   non-aromatic ring radical which consists of two to twelve carbon atoms and from one to
   six heteroatoms selected from the group consisting of nitrogen, oxygen and sulfur. Unless
   stated otherwise specifically in the specification, the heterocyclyl radical may be a
   monocyclic, bicyclic, tricyclic or tetracyclic ring system, which may include fused or
30 bridged ring systems; and the nitrogen, carbon or sulfur atoms in the heterocyclyl radical
   may be optionally oxidized; the nitrogen atom may be optionally quaternized; and the
   heterocyclyl radical may be partially or fully saturated. Examples of such heterocyclyl

    WO 2014/029983                                                            PCT/GB2013/052192
                                                   49
   radicals include, but are not limited to, dioxolanyl, thienyl[1,3]dithianyl,
   decahydroisoquinolyl, imidazolinyl, imidazolidinyl, isothiazolidinyl, isoxazolidinyl,
   morpholinyl, octahydroindolyl, octahydroisoindolyl, 2-oxopiperazinyl, 2-oxopiperidinyl,
   2-oxopyrrolidinyl, oxazolidinyl, piperidinyl, piperazinyl, 4-piperidonyl, pyrrolidinyl,
 5 pyrazolidinyl, quinuclidinyl, thiazolidinyl, tetrahydrofuryl, trithianyl, tetrahydropyranyl,
   thiomorpholinyl, thiamorpholinyl, 1-oxo-thiomorpholinyl, and 1,1-dioxo-thiomorpholinyl.
   Unless stated otherwise specifically in the specification, Unless stated otherwise
   specifically in the specification, a heterocyclyl group may be optionally substituted.
                    "N-heterocyclyl" refers to a heterocyclyl radical as defined above
10 containing at least one nitrogen and where the point of attachment of the heterocyclyl
   radical to the rest of the molecule is through a nitrogen atom in the heterocyclyl radical.
   Unless stated otherwise specifically in the specification, a N-heterocyclyl group may be
   optionally substituted.
                    "Heterocyclylalkyl" refers to a radical of the formula -RbRe where Rb is an
is alkylene chain as defined above and Re is a heterocyclyl radical as defined above, and if
   the heterocyclyl is a nitrogen-containing heterocyclyl, the heterocyclyl may be attached to
   the alkyl radical at the nitrogen atom. Unless stated otherwise specifically in the
   specification, a heterocyclylalkyl group may be optionally substituted.
                    "Heteroaryl" refers to a 5- to 14-membered ring system radical comprising
20 hydrogen atoms, one to thirteen carbon atoms, one to six heteroatoms selected from the
   group consisting of nitrogen, oxygen and sulfur, and at least one aromatic ring. For
   purposes of this invention, the heteroaryl radical may be a monocyclic, bicyclic, tricyclic
   or tetracyclic ring system, which may include fused or bridged ring systems; and the
   nitrogen, carbon or sulfur atoms in the heteroaryl radical may be optionally oxidized; the
25 nitrogen atom may be optionally quaternized. Examples include, but are not limited to,
   azepinyl, acridinyl, benzimidazolyl, benzothiazolyl, benzindolyl, benzodioxolyl,
   benzofuranyl, benzooxazolyl, benzothiazolyl, benzothiadiazolyl, benzo[b][1,4]dioxepinyl,
    1,4-benzodioxanyl, benzonaphthofuranyl, benzoxazolyl, benzodioxolyl, benzodioxinyl,
   benzopyranyl, benzopyranonyl, benzofuranyl, benzofuranonyl, benzothienyl
30 (benzothiophenyl), benzotriazolyl, benzo[4,6]imidazo[1,2-a]pyridinyl, carbazolyl,
   cinnolinyl, dibenzofuranyl, dibenzothiophenyl, furanyl, furanonyl, isothiazolyl,
   imidazolyl, indazolyl, indolyl, indazolyl, isoindolyl, indolinyl, isoindolinyl, isoquinolyl,

    WO 2014/029983                                                              PCT/GB2013/052192
                                                    50
   indolizinyl, isoxazolyl, naphthyridinyl, oxadiazolyl, 2-oxoazepinyl, oxazolyl, oxiranyl, 1
   oxidopyridinyl, 1-oxidopyrimidinyl, 1-oxidopyrazinyl, 1-oxidopyridazinyl,
    1-phenyl-1H-pyrrolyl, phenazinyl, phenothiazinyl, phenoxazinyl, phthalazinyl, pteridinyl,
   purinyl, pyrrolyl, pyrazolyl, pyridinyl, pyrazinyl, pyrimidinyl, pyridazinyl, quinazolinyl,
 5 quinoxalinyl, quinolinyl, quinuclidinyl, isoquinolinyl, tetrahydroquinolinyl, thiazolyl,
   thiadiazolyl, triazolyl, tetrazolyl, triazinyl, and thiophenyl (i.e., thienyl). Unless stated
   otherwise specifically in the specification, a heteroaryl group may be optionally
   substituted.
                    "N-heteroaryl" refers to a heteroaryl radical as defined above containing at
10 least one nitrogen and where the point of attachment of the heteroaryl radical to the rest of
   the molecule is through a nitrogen atom in the heteroaryl radical. Unless stated otherwise
   specifically in the specification, an N-heteroaryl group may be optionally substituted.
                    "Heteroarylalkyl" refers to a radical of the formula -RbRf where Rb is an
   alkylene chain as defined above and Rf is a heteroaryl radical as defined above.        Unless
is stated otherwise specifically in the specification, a heteroarylalkyl group may be optionally
   substituted.
                    The term "substituted" used herein means any of the above groups (i.e.,
   alkyl, alkylene, alkoxy, alkylamino, thioalkyl, aryl, aralkyl, cycloalkyl, cycloalkylalkyl,
   haloalkyl, heterocyclyl, N-heterocyclyl, heterocyclylalkyl, heteroaryl, N-heteroaryl and/or
20 heteroarylalkyl) wherein at least one hydrogen atom is replaced by a bond to a non
   hydrogen atoms such as, but not limited to: a halogen atom such as F, Cl, Br, and I; an
   oxygen atom in groups such as hydroxyl groups, alkoxy groups, and ester groups; a sulfur
   atom in groups such as thiol groups, thioalkyl groups, sulfone groups, sulfonyl groups, and
   sulfoxide groups; a nitrogen atom in groups such as amines, amides, alkylamines,
25 dialkylamines, arylamines, alkylarylamines, diarylamines, N-oxides, imides, and
   enamines; a silicon atom in groups such as trialkylsilyl groups, dialkylarylsilyl groups,
   alkyldiarylsilyl groups, and triarylsilyl groups; and other heteroatoms in various other
   groups. "Substituted" also means any of the above groups in which one or more hydrogen
   atoms are replaced by a higher-order bond (e.g., a double- or triple-bond) to a heteroatom
30 such as oxygen in oxo, carbonyl, carboxyl, and ester groups; and nitrogen in groups such
   as imines, oximes, hydrazones, and nitriles. For example, "substituted" includes any of the
   above groups in which one or more hydrogen atoms are replaced with -NRgRh,

    WO 2014/029983                                                           PCT/GB2013/052192
                                                  51
   -NRgC(=0)Rh, -NRgC(=O)NRgRh, -NRgC(=O)ORh, -NRgSO2Rh, -OC(=O)NRgRh, -ORg,
   -SRg, -SORg, -SO2Rg, -OSO2Rg, -SO2ORg, =NSO2Rg, and -SO2NRgRh. "Substituted" also
   means any of the above groups in which one or more hydrogen atoms are replaced with
   -C(=O)Rg, -C(=O)ORg, -C(=O)NRgRh, -CH 2SO2Rg, -CH 2SO2NRgRh, -(CH 2 CH 2 0) 2 -ioRg.
 5 In the foregoing, Rg and Rh are the same or different and independently hydrogen, alkyl,
   alkoxy, alkylamino, thioalkyl, aryl, aralkyl, cycloalkyl, cycloalkylalkyl, haloalkyl,
   heterocyclyl, N-heterocyclyl, heterocyclylalkyl, heteroaryl, N-heteroaryl and/or
   heteroarylalkyl. "Substituted" further means any of the above groups in which one or
   more hydrogen atoms are replaced by a bond to an amino, cyano, hydroxyl, imino, nitro,
10 oxo, thioxo, halo, alkyl, alkoxy, alkylamino, thioalkyl, aryl, aralkyl, cycloalkyl,
   cycloalkylalkyl, haloalkyl, heterocyclyl, N-heterocyclyl, heterocyclylalkyl, heteroaryl, N
   heteroaryl and/or heteroarylalkyl group. In addition, each of the foregoing substituents
   may also be optionally substituted with one or more of the above substituents.
                   "Prodrug" is meant to indicate a compound that may be converted under
is physiological conditions or by solvolysis to a biologically active compound of the
   invention. Thus, the term "prodrug" refers to a metabolic precursor of a compound of the
   invention that is pharmaceutically acceptable. A prodrug may be inactive when
   administered to a subject in need thereof, but is converted in vivo to an active compound of
   the invention. Prodrugs are typically rapidly transformed in vivo to yield the parent
20 compound of the invention, for example, by hydrolysis in blood. The prodrug compound
   often offers advantages of solubility, tissue compatibility or delayed release in a
   mammalian organism (see, Bundgard, H., Design of Prodrugs (1985), pp. 7-9, 21-24
   (Elsevier, Amsterdam)). A discussion of prodrugs is provided in Higuchi, T., et al., A.C.S.
   Symposium Series, Vol. 14, and in Bioreversible Carriers in Drug Design, Ed. Edward B.
25 Roche, American Pharmaceutical Association and Pergamon Press, 1987.
                   The term "prodrug" is also meant to include any covalently bonded carriers,
   which release the active compound of the invention in vivo when such prodrug is
   administered to a mammalian subject. Prodrugs of a compound of the invention may be
   prepared by modifying functional groups present in the compound of the invention in such
30 a way that the modifications are cleaved, either in routine manipulation or in vivo, to the
   parent compound of the invention. Prodrugs include compounds of the invention wherein
   a hydroxy, amino or mercapto group is bonded to any group that, when the prodrug of the

    WO 2014/029983                                                            PCT/GB2013/052192
                                                   52
   compound of the invention is administered to a mammalian subject, cleaves to form a free
   hydroxy, free amino or free mercapto group, respectively. Examples of prodrugs include,
   but are not limited to, acetate, formate and benzoate derivatives of alcohol or amide
   derivatives of amine functional groups in the compounds of the invention and the like.
 5                  The invention disclosed herein is also meant to encompass the in vivo
   metabolic products of the disclosed compounds. Such products may result from, for
   example, the oxidation, reduction, hydrolysis, amidation, esterification, and the like of the
   administered compound, primarily due to enzymatic processes. Accordingly, the invention
   includes compounds produced by a process comprising administering a compound of this
10 invention to a mammal for a period of time sufficient to yield a metabolic product thereof.
   Such products are typically identified by administering a radiolabelled compound of the
   invention in a detectable dose to an animal, such as rat, mouse, guinea pig, monkey, or to
   human, allowing sufficient time for metabolism to occur, and isolating its conversion
   products from the urine, blood or other biological samples.
15                  "Stable compound" and "stable structure" are meant to indicate a compound
   that is sufficiently robust to survive isolation to a useful degree of purity from a reaction
   mixture, and formulation into an efficacious therapeutic agent.
                    "Optional" or "optionally" means that the subsequently described event or
   circumstances may or may not occur, and that the description includes instances where said
20 event or circumstance occurs and instances in which it does not. For example, "optionally
   substituted aryl" means that the aryl radical may or may not be substituted and that the
   description includes both substituted aryl radicals and aryl radicals having no substitution.
                    "Pharmaceutically acceptable carrier, diluent or excipient" includes without
   limitation any adjuvant, carrier, excipient, glidant, sweetening agent, diluent, preservative,
25 dye/colorant, flavor enhancer, surfactant, wetting agent, dispersing agent, suspending
   agent, stabilizer, isotonic agent, solvent, or emulsifier which has been approved by the
   United States Food and Drug Administration as being acceptable for use in humans or
   domestic animals.
                    "Pharmaceutically acceptable salt" includes both acid and base addition
30 salts.
                    "Pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salt" refers to those salts which
   retain the biological effectiveness and properties of the free bases, which are not

    WO 2014/029983                                                           PCT/GB2013/052192
                                                  53
   biologically or otherwise undesirable, and which are formed with inorganic acids such as,
   but are not limited to, hydrochloric acid, hydrobromic acid, sulfuric acid, nitric acid,
   phosphoric acid and the like, and organic acids such as, but not limited to, acetic acid, 2,2
   dichloroacetic acid, adipic acid, alginic acid, ascorbic acid, aspartic acid, benzenesulfonic
 5 acid, benzoic acid, 4-acetamidobenzoic acid, camphoric acid, camphor-0-sulfonic acid,
   capric acid, caproic acid, caprylic acid, carbonic acid, cinnamic acid, citric acid, cyclamic
   acid, dodecylsulfuric acid, ethane-1,2-disulfonic acid, ethanesulfonic acid, 2
   hydroxyethanesulfonic acid, formic acid, fumaric acid, galactaric acid, gentisic acid,
   glucoheptonic acid, gluconic acid, glucuronic acid, glutamic acid, glutaric acid, 2-oxo
10 glutaric acid, glycerophosphoric acid, glycolic acid, hippuric acid, isobutyric acid, lactic
   acid, lactobionic acid, lauric acid, maleic acid, malic acid, malonic acid, mandelic acid,
   methanesulfonic acid, mucic acid, naphthalene- 1,5-disulfonic acid, naphthalene-2-sulfonic
   acid, 1-hydroxy-2-naphthoic acid, nicotinic acid, oleic acid, orotic acid, oxalic acid,
   palmitic acid, pamoic acid, propionic acid, pyroglutamic acid, pyruvic acid, salicylic acid,
15 4-aminosalicylic acid, sebacic acid, stearic acid, succinic acid, tartaric acid, thiocyanic
   acid, p-toluenesulfonic acid, trifluoroacetic acid, undecylenic acid, and the like.
                   "Pharmaceutically acceptable base addition salt" refers to those salts which
   retain the biological effectiveness and properties of the free acids, which are not
   biologically or otherwise undesirable. These salts are prepared from addition of an
20 inorganic base or an organic base to the free acid. Salts derived from inorganic bases
   include, but are not limited to, the sodium, potassium, lithium, ammonium, calcium,
   magnesium, iron, zinc, copper, manganese, aluminum salts and the like. Preferred
   inorganic salts are the ammonium, sodium, potassium, calcium, and magnesium salts.
   Salts derived from organic bases include, but are not limited to, salts of primary,
25 secondary, and tertiary amines, substituted amines including naturally occurring
   substituted amines, cyclic amines and basic ion exchange resins, such as ammonia,
   isopropylamine, trimethylamine, diethylamine, triethylamine, tripropylamine,
   diethanolamine, ethanolamine, deanol, 2-dimethylaminoethanol, 2-diethylaminoethanol,
   dicyclohexylamine, lysine, arginine, histidine, caffeine, procaine, hydrabamine, choline,
30 betaine, benethamine, benzathine, ethylenediamine, glucosamine, methylglucamine,
   theobromine, triethanolamine, tromethamine, purines, piperazine, piperidine,
   N-ethylpiperidine, polyamine resins and the like. Particularly preferred organic bases are

    WO 2014/029983                                                          PCT/GB2013/052192
                                                  54
   isopropylamine, diethylamine, ethanolamine, trimethylamine, dicyclohexylamine, choline
   and caffeine.
                    Often crystallizations produce a solvate of the compound of the invention.
   As used herein, the term "solvate" refers to an aggregate that comprises one or more
 5 molecules of a compound of the invention with one or more molecules of solvent. The
   solvent may be water, in which case the solvate may be a hydrate. Alternatively, the
   solvent may be an organic solvent. Thus, the compounds of the present invention may
   exist as a hydrate, including a monohydrate, dihydrate, hemihydrate, sesquihydrate,
   trihydrate, tetrahydrate and the like, as well as the corresponding solvated forms. The
io compound of the invention may be true solvates, while in other cases, the compound of the
   invention may merely retain adventitious water or be a mixture of water plus some
   adventitious solvent.
                    A "pharmaceutical composition" refers to a formulation of a compound of
   the invention and a medium generally accepted in the art for the delivery of the
is biologically active compound to mammals, e.g., humans. Such a medium includes all
   pharmaceutically acceptable carriers, diluents or excipients therefor.
                    The compounds of the invention, or their pharmaceutically acceptable salts
   may contain one or more asymmetric centers and may thus give rise to enantiomers,
   diastereomers, and other stereoisomeric forms that may be defined, in terms of absolute
20 stereochemistry, as (R)- or (S)- or, as (D)- or (L)- for amino acids. The present invention is
   meant to include all such possible isomers, as well as their racemic and optically pure
   forms. Optically active (+) and (-), (R)- and (S)-, or (D)- and (L)- isomers may be prepared
   using chiral synthons or chiral reagents, or resolved using conventional techniques, for
   example, chromatography and fractional crystallization. Conventional techniques for the
25 preparation/isolation of individual enantiomers include chiral synthesis from a suitable
   optically pure precursor or resolution of the racemate (or the racemate of a salt or
   derivative) using, for example, chiral high pressure liquid chromatography (HPLC). When
   the compounds described herein contain olefinic double bonds or other centres of
   geometric asymmetry, and unless specified otherwise, it is intended that the compounds
30 include both E and Z geometric isomers. Likewise, all tautomeric forms are also intended
   to be included.

    WO 2014/029983                                                             PCT/GB2013/052192
                                                    55
                    A "stereoisomer" refers to a compound made up of the same atoms bonded
   by the same bonds but having different three-dimensional structures, which are not
   interchangeable. The present invention contemplates various stereoisomers and mixtures
   thereof and includes "enantiomers", which refers to two stereoisomers whose molecules
 5 are nonsuperimposeable mirror images of one another.
                    A "tautomer" refers to a proton shift from one atom of a molecule to
   another atom of the same molecule. The present invention includes tautomers of any said
   compounds.
                    In accordance with the present disclosure, the compounds described herein
10 are designed to be substantially active or localized in the gastrointestinal lumen of a human
   or animal subject. The term "gastrointestinal lumen" is used interchangeably herein with
   the term "lumen," to refer to the space or cavity within a gastrointestinal tract (GI tract,
   which can also be referred to as the gut), delimited by the apical membrane of GI epithelial
   cells of the subject. In some embodiments, the compounds are not absorbed through the
is layer of epithelial cells of the GI tract (also known as the GI epithelium). "Gastrointestinal
   mucosa" refers to the layer(s) of cells separating the gastrointestinal lumen from the rest of
   the body and includes gastric and intestinal mucosa, such as the mucosa of the small
   intestine. A "gastrointestinal epithelial cell" or a "gut epithelial cell" as used herein refers
   to any epithelial cell on the surface of the gastrointestinal mucosa that faces the lumen of
20 the gastrointestinal tract, including, for example, an epithelial cell of the stomach, an
   intestinal epithelial cell, a colonic epithelial cell, and the like.
                    "Substantially systemically non-bioavailable" and/or "substantially
   impermeable" as used herein (as well as variations thereof) generally refer to situations in
   which a statistically significant amount, and in some embodiments essentially all of the
25 compound of the present disclosure (which includes the NHE-inhibitor small molecule),
   remains in the gastrointestinal lumen. For example, in accordance with one or more
   embodiments of the present disclosure, preferably at least about 70%, about 80%, about
   90%, about   9 5 %, about  98%, about 99%, or even about 99.5%, of the compound remains
   in the gastrointestinal lumen. In such cases, localization to the gastrointestinal lumen
30 refers to reducing net movement across a gastrointestinal layer of epithelial cells, for
   example, by way of both transcellular and paracellular transport, as well as by active
   and/or passive transport. The compound in such embodiments is hindered from net

    WO 2014/029983                                                             PCT/GB2013/052192
                                                     56
   permeation of a layer of gastrointestinal epithelial cells in transcellular transport, for
    example, through an apical membrane of an epithelial cell of the small intestine. The
    compound in these embodiments is also hindered from net permeation through the "tight
   junctions" in paracellular transport between gastrointestinal epithelial cells lining the
 5 lumen.
                    In this regard it is to be noted that, in one particular embodiment, the
    compound is essentially not absorbed at all by the GI tract or gastrointestinal lumen. As
   used herein, the terms "substantially impermeable" or "substantially systemically non
   bioavailable" refers to embodiments wherein no detectable amount of absorption or
10 permeation or systemic exposure of the compound is detected, using means generally
   known in the art.
                    In this regard it is to be further noted, however, that in alternative
    embodiments "substantially impermeable" or "substantially systemically non-bioavailable"
   provides or allows for some limited absorption in the GI tract, and more particularly the
is gut epithelium, to occur (e.g., some detectable amount of absorption, such as for example
    at least about 0.l1%, 0.5%, 1% or more and less than about 30%, 20%, 10%, 5%, etc., the
   range of absorption being for example between about 1% and 3 0%, or 5% and 2 0%, etc.;
    stated another way, "substantially impermeable" or "substantially systemically non
   bioavailable" refers to compounds that exhibit some detectable permeability to an
20  epithelium layer of cells in the GI tract of less than about 2 0% of the administered
    compound (e.g., less than about 15%, about 10%, or even about 5%, and for example
   greater than about 0.5%, or 1%), but then are cleared by the liver (i.e., hepatic extraction)
    and/or the kidney (i.e., renal excretion).
25           B.     Permeability
                    In this regard it is to be noted that, in various embodiments, the ability of a
    compound to be substantially systemically non-bioavailable is based on the compound
    charge, size, and/or other physicochemical parameters (e.g., polar surface area, number of
   hydrogen bond donors and/or acceptors therein, number of freely rotatable bonds, etc.).
30 More specifically, it is to be noted that the absorption character of a compound can be
    selected by applying principles of pharmacodynamics, for example, by applying Lipinski's
   rule, also known as "the rule of five." Although not a rule, but rather a set of guidelines,

    WO 2014/029983                                                            PCT/GB2013/052192
                                                   57
   Lipinski shows that small molecule drugs with (i) a molecular weight, (ii) a number of
   hydrogen bond donors, (iii) a number of hydrogen bond acceptors, and/or (iv) a
   water/octanol partition coefficient (Moriguchi Log P), greater than a certain threshold
   value, generally do not show significant systemic concentration (i.e., are generally not
 5 absorbed to any significant degree). (See, e.g., Lipinski et al., Advanced DrugDelivery
   Reviews, 46, 2001 3-26, incorporated herein by reference.) Accordingly, substantially
   systemically non-bioavailable compounds (e.g., substantially systemically non
   bioavailable NHE-inhibiting compounds) can be designed to have molecular structures
   exceeding one or more of Lipinski's threshold values. (See also Lipinski et al.,
10 Experimentaland ComputationalApproaches to Estimate Solubility and Permeabilityin
   DrugDiscovery and Development Settings, Adv. Drug Delivery Reviews, 46:3-26 (2001);
   and Lipinski, Drug-like Propertiesand the Causes of Poor Solubility andPoor
   Permeability,J. Pharm. & Toxicol. Methods, 44:235-249 (2000), incorporated herein by
   reference.) In some embodiments, for example, a substantially impermeable or
is substantially systemically non-bioavailable NHE-inhibiting compound of the present
   disclosure can be constructed to feature one or more of the following characteristics: (i) a
   MW greater than about 500 Da, about 1000 Da, about 2500 Da, about 5000 Da, about
    10,000 Da or more (in the non-salt form of the compound); (ii) a total number of NH
   and/or OH and/or other potential hydrogen bond donors greater than about 5, about 10,
20 about 15 or more; (iii) a total number of 0 atoms and/or N atoms and/or other potential
   hydrogen bond acceptors greater than about 5, about 10, about 15 or more; and/or (iv) a
   Moriguchi partition coefficient greater than about 105 (i.e., Log P greater than about 5,
   about 6, about 7, etc.), or alternatively less than about 10 (i.e., a Log P of less than 1, or
   even 0).
25                 In addition to the parameters noted above, the molecular polar surface area
   (i.e., "PSA"), which may be characterized as the surface belonging to polar atoms, is a
   descriptor that has also been shown to correlate well with passive transport through
   membranes and, therefore, allows prediction of transport properties of drugs. It has been
   successfully applied for the prediction of intestinal absorption and Caco2 cell monolayer
30 penetration. (For Caco2 cell monolayer penetration test details, see for example the
   description of the Caco2 Model provided in Example 31 of U.S. Pat. No. 6,737,423, the
   entire contents of which are incorporated herein by reference for all relevant and consistent

    WO 2014/029983                                                               PCT/GB2013/052192
                                                     58
   purposes, and the text of Example 31 in particular, which may be applied for example to
   the evaluation or testing of the compounds of the present disclosure.) PSA is expressed in
   A2 (squared       angstroms) and is computed from a three-dimensional molecular
   representation. A fast calculation method is now available (see, e.g., Ertl et al., Journalof
 5 Medicinal Chemistry, 2000, 43, 3714-3717, the entire contents of which are incorporated
   herein by reference for all relevant and consistent purposes) using a desktop computer and
   commercially available chemical graphic tools packages, such as ChemDraw. The term
   "topological PSA" (tPSA) has been coined for this fast-calculation method. tPSA is well
   correlated with human absorption data with common drugs (see, e.g., Table 1, below):
10
   Table 1
               name          % FA      TPSAk
       netcpiroo              102         50,
      nonazepam                19         41-5
      dize'pamnI               97         32.
      oxprenoki                97         50.7
      phenane                  97         2:6,
      aoxazepami               27         61L7
      alpl-..IOreok            96         41I2
                                  l95     701
      pindo)nI                 92         57.3
      C1pmfr1xatcin            09         746
       miet.1aJamne              4        q2
      tranex            icid
                       aic     55         63 3
      aten-Old:                54         8416
      SIlpiride                3        11
       mannta                  26       121 A
               fosaret17                  04.8
      sul]fa salin             12       1413
         aLsazine                2-3    1398
                                 au6    197A
      ra(ln.ise.                 03     2
   (from Ertl et al., J. Med. Chem., 2000, 43:3714-3717). Accordingly, in some preferred
   embodiments, the compounds of the present disclosure may be constructed to exhibit a
is tPSA value greater than about 100 A 2, about 120 A2 , about 130 A 2, or about 140 A 2, and in
   some instances about 150 A 2, about 200 A2 , about 250 A 2, about 270 A 2, about 300 A2,
   about 400 A 2,or even about 500 A 2, such that the compounds are substantially
   impermeable or substantially systemically non-bioavailable (as defined elsewhere herein).
                        Because there are exceptions to Lipinski's "rule," or the tPSA model, the
20 permeability properties of the compounds of the present disclosure may be screened

    WO 2014/029983                                                           PCT/GB2013/052192
                                                  59
   experimentally. The permeability coefficient can be determined by methods known to
   those of skill in the art, including for example by Caco-2 cell permeability assay and/or
   using an artificial membrane as a model of a gastrointestinal epithelial cell. (As previously
   noted above, see for example U.S. Patent No. 6,737,423, Example 31 for a description of
 5 the Caco-2 Model, which is incorporated herein by reference). A synthetic membrane
   impregnated with, for example, lecithin and/or dodecane to mimic the net permeability
   characteristics of a gastrointestinal mucosa, may be utilized as a model of a gastrointestinal
   mucosa. The membrane can be used to separate a compartment containing the compound
   of the present disclosure from a compartment where the rate of permeation will be
10 monitored. Also, parallel artificial membrane permeability assays (PAMPA) can be
   performed. Such in vitro measurements can reasonably indicate actual permeability in
   vivo. (See, for example, Wohnsland et al., J. Med. Chem., 2001, 44:923-930; Schmidt et
   al., Millipore Corp. Application Note, 2002, n' AN1725ENOO, and n' AN1728ENOO,
   incorporated herein by reference.)
is                  Accordingly, in some embodiments, the compounds utilized in the methods
   of the present disclosure may have a permeability coefficient, Papp, of less than about 100 x
    10-6 cm/s, or less than about 10 x 10-6 cm/s, or less than about 1 x 10-6 cm/s, or less than
   about 0.1 x 10-6 cm/s, when measured using means known in the art (such as for example
   the permeability experiment described in Wohnsland et al., J. Med. Chem., 2001, 44. 923
20 930, the contents of which is incorporated herein by reference).
                    As previously noted, in accordance with the present disclosure, a NHE
   inhibiting small molecule moiety is modified as described above to hinder the net
   absorption through a layer of gut epithelial cells, rendering the resulting compound
   substantially systemically non-bioavailable. In various embodiments, the compounds of
25 the present disclosure comprise an NHE-inhibiting small molecule moiety linked, coupled
   or otherwise attached to a moiety which renders the overall compound substantially
   impermeable or substantially systemically non-bioavailable. More specifically, the NHE
   inhibiting small molecule moiety is coupled to a dimer, multimer or polymer moiety, such
   that the resulting compound is substantially impermeable or substantially systemically non
30 bioavailable. The dimer, multimer or polymer portion or moiety may be of a molecular
   weight greater than about 500 Daltons (Da), about 1000 Da, about 2500 Da, about 5000
   Da, about 10,000 Da or more, and in particular may have a molecular weight in the range

    WO 2014/029983                                                             PCT/GB2013/052192
                                                   60
   of about 1000 Daltons (Da) to about 500,000 Da, preferably in the range of about 5000 to
   about 200,000 Da, and more preferably may have a molecular weight that is sufficiently
   high to essentially preclude any net absorption through a layer of gut epithelial cells of the
   compound.
 5
            C.      Persistent Inhibitory Effect
                    In other embodiments, the substantially impermeable or substantially
   systemically non-bioavailable NHE-inhibiting compounds utilized in the treatment
   methods of the present disclosure may additionally exhibit a persistent inhibitor effect.
10 This effect manifests itself when the inhibitory action of a compound at a certain
   concentration in equilibrium with the epithelial cell (e.g., at or above its inhibitory
   concentration, IC) does not revert to baseline (i.e., sodium transport without inhibitor) after
   the compound is depleted by simple washing of the luminal content.
                    This effect can be interpreted as a result of the tight binding of the NHE
15 inhibiting compounds to the NHE protein at the intestinal apical side of the gut epithelial
   cell. The binding can be considered as quasi-irreversible to the extent that, after the
   compound has been contacted with the gut epithelial cell and subsequently washed off said
   gut epithelial cell, the flux of sodium transport is still significantly lower than in the control
   without the compound. This persistent inhibitory effect has the clear advantage of
20 maintaining drug activity within the GI tract even though the residence time of the active
   in the upper GI tract is short, and when no entero-biliary recycling process is effective to
   replenish the compound concentration near its site of action.
                    Such a persistent inhibitory effect has an obvious advantage in terms of
   patient compliance, but also in limiting drug exposure within the GI tract.
25                  The persistence effect can be determined using in vitro methods; in one
   instance, cell lines expressing NHE transporters are split in different vials and treated with
   a NHE-inhibiting compound and sodium solution to measure the rate of sodium uptake.
   The cells in one set of vials are washed for different periods of time to remove the
   inhibitor, and sodium uptake measurement is repeated after the washing. Compounds that
30 maintain their inhibitory effect after multiple/lengthy washing steps (compared to the
   inhibitory effect measured in the vials where washing does not occur) are persistent
   inhibitors. Persistence effect can also be characterized ex vivo by using the everted sac

    WO 2014/029983                                                              PCT/GB2013/052192
                                                    61
   technique, whereby transport of Na is monitored using an excised segment of GI perfused
   with a solution containing the inhibitor and shortly after flushing the bathing solution with
   a buffer solution free from inhibitor. A persistence effect can also be characterized in vivo
   by observing the time needed for sodium balance to return to normal when the inhibitor
 5 treatment is discontinued. The limit of the method resides in the fact that apical cells (and
   therefore apical NHE transporters) are sloughed off after a period of 3 to 4 days, the typical
   turnover time of gut epithelial cells. A persistence effect can be achieved by increasing the
   residence time of the active compound at the apical surface of the gut epithelial cells; this
   can be obtained by designing NHE antiport inhibitors with several NHE-inhibiting small
10 molecule moieties built-in the small molecule or oligomer (wherein "several" as used
   herein typically means at least about 2, about 4, about 6 or more). Examples of such
   structures in the context of analogs of the antibiotic vancomycin are given in Griffin, et al.,
   J. Am. Chem. Soc., 2003, 125, 6517-653 1. Alternatively the compound comprises groups
   that contribute to increase the affinity towards the gut epithelial cell so as to increase the
15 time of contact with the gut epithelial cell surface. Such groups are referred to as being
   "mucoadhesive." More specifically, the Core or L moiety can be substituted by such
   mucoadhesive groups, such as polyacrylates, partially deacetylated chitosan or
   polyalkylene glycol. (See also Patil, S.B. et al., Curr. Drug.Deliv., 2008, Oct. 5(4), pp.
   312-8.)
20
           D.      GI Enzyme Resistance
                   Because the compounds utilized in the treatment methods of the present
   disclosure are preferably substantially systemically non-bioavailable, and/or preferably
   exhibit a persistent inhibitory effect, it is also desirable that, during their prolonged
25 residence time in the gut, these compounds sustain the hydrolytic conditions prevailing in
   the upper GI tract. In such embodiments, compounds of the present disclosure are resistant
   to enzymatic metabolism. For example, administered compounds are preferably resistant
   to the activity of P450 enzymes, glucurosyl transferases, sulfotransferases, glutathione S
   transferases, and the like, in the intestinal mucosa, as well as gastric (e.g., gastric lipase,
30 and pepsine), pancreatic (e.g., trypsin, triglyceride pancreatic lipase, phospholipase A2,
   endonucleases, nucleotidases, and alpha-amylase), and brush-border enzymes (e.g.,
   alkaline phosphatase, glycosidases, and proteases) generally known in the art.

    WO 2014/029983                                                             PCT/GB2013/052192
                                                    62
                   The compounds that are utilized in methods of the present disclosure are
   also preferably resistant to metabolism by the bacterial flora of the gut; that is, the
   compounds are not substrates for enzymes produced by bacterial flora. In addition, the
   compounds administered in accordance with the methods of the present disclosure may be
 5 substantially inactive towards the gastrointestinal flora, and do not disrupt bacterial growth
   or survival. As a result, in various embodiments herein, the minimal inhibitory
   concentration (or "MIC") against GI flora is desirably greater than about 15 [ag/ml, about
   30 [tg/ml, about 60 [tg/ml, about 120 [tg/ml, or even about 240 [tg/ml, the MIC in various
   embodiments being for example between about 16 and about 32 [ag/ml, or between about
10 64 and about 128 [tg/ml, or greater than about 256 [tg/ml.
                   To one skilled in the art of medicinal chemistry, metabolic stability can be
   achieved in a number of ways. Functionality susceptible to P450-mediated oxidation can
   be protected by, for example, blocking the point of metabolism with a halogen or other
   functional group. Alternatively, electron withdrawing groups can be added to a conjugated
is system to generally provide protection to oxidation by reducing the electrophilicity of the
   compound. Proteolytic stability can be achieved by avoiding secondary amide bonds, or
   by incorporating changes in stereochemistry or other modifications that prevent the drug
   from otherwise being recognized as a substrate by the metabolizing enzyme.
20         E.      Sodium and/or Fluid Output
                   It is also to be noted that, in various embodiments of the present disclosure,
   one or more of the NHE-inhibiting compounds detailed herein, when administered either
   alone or in combination with one or more additional pharmaceutically active compounds or
   agents (including, for example, a fluid-absorbing polymer) to a patient in need thereof,
25 may act to increase the patient's daily fecal output of sodium by at least about 20, about 30
   mmol, about 40 mmol, about 50 mmol, about 60 mmol, about 70 mmol, about 80 mmol,
   about 90 mmol, about 100 mmol, about 125 mmol, about 150 mmol or more, the increase
   being for example within the range of from about 20 to about 150 mmol/day, or from about
   25 to about 100 mmol/day, or from about 30 to about 60 mmol/day
30                 Additionally, or alternatively, it is also to be noted that, in various
   embodiments of the present disclosure, one or more of the NHE-inhibiting compounds
   detailed herein, when administered either alone or in combination with one or more

    WO 2014/029983                                                              PCT/GB2013/052192
                                                     63
   additional pharmaceutically active compounds or agents (including, for example, a fluid
   absorbing polymer) to a patent in need thereof, may act to increase the patient's daily fluid
   output by at least about 100 ml, about 200 ml, about 300 ml, about 400 ml, about 500 ml,
   about 600 ml, about 700 ml, about 800 ml, about 900 ml, about 1000 ml or more, the
 5 increase being for example within the range of from about 100 to about 1000 ml/day, or
   from about 150 to about 750 ml/day, or from about 200 to about 500 ml/day (assuming
   isotonic fluid).
           F.       Cmax and IC50
10                  It is also to be noted that, in various embodiments of the present disclosure,
   one or more of the NHE-inhibiting compounds detailed herein, when administered either
   alone or in combination with one or more additional pharmaceutically active compounds or
   agents (including, for example, a fluid-absorbing polymer) to a patient in need thereof at a
   dose resulting in at least a 10% increase in fecal water content, has a Cmax that is less than
is the ICso for NHE-3, more specifically, less than about lOX (10 times) the ICso, and, more
   specifically still, less than about 1OX (100 times) the IC50 .
                    Additionally, or alternatively, it is also to be noted that, in various
   embodiments of the present disclosure, one or more of the NHE-inhibiting compounds
   detailed herein, when administered either alone or in combination with one or more
20 additional pharmaceutically active compounds or agents (including, for example, a fluid
   absorbing polymer) to a patient in need thereof, may have a Cmax of less than about 10
   ng/ml, about 7.5 ng/ml, about 5 ng/ml, about 2.5 ng/ml, about 1 ng/ml, or about 0.5 ng/ml,
   the Cmx being for example within the range of about 1 ng/ml to about 10 ng/ml, or about
   2.5 ng/ml to about 7.5 ng/ml.
25                  Additionally, or alternatively, it is also to be noted that, in various
   embodiments of the present disclosure, one or more of the NHE-inhibiting compounds
   detailed herein, when administered either alone or in combination with one or more
   additional pharmaceutically active compounds or agents (including, for example, a fluid
   absorbing polymer) to a patient in need thereof, may have a IC50 of less than about 10 piM,
30 about 7.5 piM, about 5 piM, about 2.5 piM, about 1 piM, or about 0.5 piM, the ICso being for
   example within the range of about 1 pM to about 10 piM, or about 2.5 pM to about 7.5
   piM.

    WO 2014/029983                                                              PCT/GB2013/052192
                                                   64
                    Additionally, or alternatively, it is also to be noted that, in various
   embodiments of the present disclosure, one or more of the NHE-inhibiting compounds
   detailed herein, when administered to a patient in need thereof, may have a ratio of
   ICso.:Cm,   wherein ICso and Cmax are expressed in terms of the same units, of at least about
 5  10, about 50, about 100, about 250, about 500, about 750, or about 1000.
                    Additionally, or alternatively, it is also to be noted that, in various
   embodiments of the present disclosure, wherein one or more of the NHE-inhibiting
   compounds as detailed herein is orally administered to a patent in need thereof, within the
   therapeutic range or concentration, the maximum compound concentration detected in the
10 serum, defined as Cma, is lower than the NHE inhibitory concentration ICso of said
   compound. As previously noted, as used herein, ICso is defined as the quantitative measure
   indicating the concentration of the compound required to inhibit 50% of the NHE-mediated
   Na / H antiport activity in a cell based assay.
is III.     Pharmaceutical Compositions and Methods of Treatment
            A.      Compositions and Methods
                    1.      Fluid Retention and/or Salt Overload Disorders
                    A pharmaceutical composition or preparation that may be used in
   accordance with the present disclosure for the treatment of various disorders associated
20 with fluid retention and/or salt overload in the gastrointestinal tract (e.g., hypertension,
   heart failure (in particular, congestive heart failure), chronic kidney disease, end-stage
   renal disease, liver disease and/or peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR)
   gamma agonist-induced fluid retention) comprises, in general, the substantially
   impermeable or substantially systemically non-bioavailable NHE-inhibiting compound of
25 the present disclosure, as well as various other optional components as further detailed
   herein below (e.g., pharmaceutically acceptable excipients, etc.). The compounds utilized
   in the treatment methods of the present disclosure, as well as the pharmaceutical
   compositions comprising them, may accordingly be administered alone, or as part of a
   treatment protocol or regiment that includes the administration or use of other beneficial
30 compounds (as further detailed elsewhere herein). In some particular embodiments, the
   NHE-inhibiting compound, including any pharmaceutical composition comprising the

    WO 2014/029983                                                             PCT/GB2013/052192
                                                   65
   compound, is administered with a fluid-absorbing polymer (as more fully described
   below).
                   A "subject" or "mammal" is preferably a human, but can also be an animal
   in need of treatment with a compound of the disclosure, e.g., companion animals (e.g.,
 5 dogs, cats, and the like), farm animals (e.g., cows, pigs, horses and the like) and laboratory
   animals (e.g., rats, mice, guinea pigs and the like).
                    Subjects "in need of treatment" with a compound of the present disclosure,
   or subjects "in need of NHE inhibition" include subjects with diseases and/or conditions
   that can be treated with substantially impermeable or substantially systemically non
10 bioavailable NHE-inhibiting compounds, with or without a fluid-absorbing polymer, to
   achieve a beneficial therapeutic and/or prophylactic result. A beneficial outcome includes
   a decrease in the severity of symptoms or delay in the onset of symptoms, increased
   longevity and/or more rapid or more complete resolution of the disease or condition. For
   example, a subject in need of treatment may be suffering from hypertension; from salt
is sensitive hypertension which may result from dietary salt intake; from a risk of a
   cardiovascular disorder (e.g., myocardial infarction, congestive heart failure and the like)
   resulting from hypertension; from heart failure (e.g., congestive heart failure) resulting in
   fluid or salt overload; from chronic kidney disease resulting in fluid or salt overload, from
   end stage renal disease resulting in fluid or salt overload; from liver disease resulting in
20 fluid or salt overload; from peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR) gamma
   agonist-induced fluid retention; or from edema resulting from congestive heart failure or
   end stage renal disease. In various embodiments, a subject in need of treatment typically
   shows signs of hypervolemia resulting from salt and fluid retention that are common
   features of congestive heart failure, renal failure or liver cirrhosis. Fluid retention and salt
25 retention manifest themselves by the occurrence of shortness of breath, edema, ascites or
   interdialytic weight gain. Other examples of subjects that would benefit from the treatment
   are those suffering from congestive heart failure and hypertensive patients and,
   particularly, those who are resistant to treatment with diuretics, i.e., patients for whom very
   few therapeutic options are available. A subject "in need of treatment" also includes a
30 subject with hypertension, salt-sensitive blood pressure and subjects with systolic /
   diastolic blood pressure greater than about 130-139 / 85-89 mm Hg.

    WO 2014/029983                                                            PCT/GB2013/052192
                                                  66
                   Administration of NHE-inhibiting compounds, with or without
   administration of fluid-absorbing polymers, may be beneficial for patients put on "non
   added salt" dietary regimen (i.e., 60-100 mmol of Na per day), to liberalize their diet while
   keeping a neutral or slightly negative sodium balance (i.e., the overall uptake of salt would
 5 be equal of less than the secreted salt). In that context, "liberalize their diet" means that
   patients treated may add salt to their meals to make the meals more palatable, or/and
   diversify their diet with salt-containing foods, thus maintaining a good nutritional status
   while improving their quality of life.
                   The treatment methods described herein may also help patients with edema
10 associated with chemotherapy, pre-menstrual fluid overload and preeclampsia (pregnancy
   induced hypertension).
                   Accordingly, it is to be noted that the present disclosure is further directed
   to methods of treatment involving the administration of the compound of the present
   disclosure, or a pharmaceutical composition comprising such a compound. Such methods
is may include, for example, a method for treating hypertension, the method comprising
   administering to the patient a substantially impermeable or substantially systemically non
   bioavailable NHE-inhibiting compound, or a pharmaceutical composition comprising it.
   The method may be for reducing fluid overload associated with heart failure (in particular,
   congestive heart failure), the method comprising administering to the patient a
20 substantially impermeable or substantially systemically non-bioavailable NHE-inhibiting
   compound or pharmaceutical composition comprising it. The method may be for reducing
   fluid overload associated with end stage renal disease, the method comprising
   administering to the patient a substantially impermeable or substantially systemically non
   bioavailable NHE-inhibiting compound or composition comprising it. The method may be
25 for reducing fluid overload associated with peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor
   (PPAR) gamma agonist therapy, the method comprising administering to the patient a
   substantially impermeable or substantially systemically non-bioavailable NHE-inhibiting
   compound or composition comprising it. Additionally, or alternatively, the method may be
   for decreasing the activity of an intestinal NHE transporter in a patient, the method
30 comprising: administering to the patient a substantially impermeable or substantially
   systemically non-bioavailable NHE-inhibiting compound, or a composition comprising it.

    WO 2014/029983                                                          PCT/GB2013/052192
                                                   67
                   2.       Gastrointestinal Tract Disorders
                   A pharmaceutical composition or preparation that may be used in
   accordance with the present disclosure for the treatment of various gastrointestinal tract
   disorders, including the treatment or reduction of pain associated with gastrointestinal tract
 5 disorders, comprises, the substantially impermeable or substantially systemically non
   bioavailable NHE-inhibiting compound of the present disclosure, as well as various other
   optional components as further detailed herein below (e.g., pharmaceutically acceptable
   excipients, etc.). The compounds utilized in the treatment methods of the present
   disclosure, as well as the pharmaceutical compositions comprising them, may accordingly
10 be administered alone, or as part of a treatment protocol or regiment that includes the
   administration or use of other beneficial compounds (as further detailed elsewhere herein).
   In some particular embodiments, the NHE-inhibiting compound, including any
   pharmaceutical composition comprising the compound, is administered with a fluid
   absorbing polymer (as more fully described below).
15                 A "subject" is preferably a human, but can also be an animal in need of
   treatment with a compound of the disclosure, e.g., companion animals (e.g., dogs, cats, and
   the like), farm animals (e.g., cows, pigs, horses and the like) and laboratory animals (e.g.,
   rats, mice, guinea pigs and the like).
                    Subjects "in need of treatment" with a compound of the present disclosure,
20 or subjects "in need of NHE inhibition" include subjects with diseases and/or conditions
   that can be treated with substantially impermeable or substantially systemically non
   bioavailable NHE-inhibiting compounds, with or without a fluid-absorbing polymer, to
   achieve a beneficial therapeutic and/or prophylactic result. A beneficial outcome includes
   a decrease in the severity of symptoms or delay in the onset of symptoms, increased
25 longevity and/or more rapid or more complete resolution of the disease or condition. For
   example, a subject in need of treatment is suffering from a gastrointestinal tract disorder;
   the patient is suffering from a disorder selected from the group consisting of. a
   gastrointestinal motility disorder, irritable bowel syndrome, chronic constipation, chronic
   idiopathic constipation, chronic constipation occurring in cystic fibrosis patients, chronic
30 constipation occurring in chronic kidney disease patients, calcium-induced constipation in
   osteoporotic patients, opioid-induced constipation, a functional gastrointestinal tract
   disorder, gastroesophageal reflux disease, functional heartburn, dyspepsia, functional

    WO 2014/029983                                                            PCT/GB2013/052192
                                                   68
   dyspepsia, non-ulcer dyspepsia, gastroparesis, chronic intestinal pseudo-obstruction,
   Crohn's disease, ulcerative colitis and related diseases referred to as inflammatory bowel
   syndrome, colonic pseudo-obstruction, and the like.
                    In various preferred embodiments, the constipation to be treated is:
 5 associated with the use of a therapeutic agent; associated with a neuropathic disorder; post
   surgical constipation (postoperative ileus); associated with a gastrointestinal tract disorder;
   idiopathic (functional constipation or slow transit constipation); associated with
   neuropathic, metabolic or endocrine disorder (e.g., diabetes mellitus, renal failure,
   hypothyroidism, hyperthyroidism, hypocalcaemia, Multiple Sclerosis, Parkinson's disease,
10 spinal cord lesions, neurofibromatosis, autonomic neuropathy, Chagas disease,
   Hirschsprung's disease or cystic fibrosis, and the like). Constipation may also be the result
   of surgery (postoperative ileus) or due the use of drugs such as analgesics (e.g., opioids),
   antihypertensives, anticonvul sants, antidepressants, antispasmodics and antipsychotics.
                    Accordingly, it is to be noted that the present disclosure is further directed
is to methods of treatment involving the administration of the compound of the present
   disclosure, or a pharmaceutical composition comprising such a compound. Such methods
   may include, for example, a method for increasing gastrointestinal motility in a patient, the
   method comprising administering to the patient a substantially non-permeable or
   substantially non-bioavailable NHE-inhibiting compound, or a pharmaceutical composition
20 comprising it. Additionally, or alternatively, the method may be for decreasing the activity
   of an intestinal NHE transporter in a patient, the method comprising administering to the
   patient a substantially non-permeable or substantially non-bioavailable NHE-inhibiting
   compound, or a pharmaceutical composition comprising it. Additionally, or alternatively,
   the method may be for treating a gastrointestinal tract disorder, a gastrointestinal motility
25 disorder, irritable bowel syndrome, chronic calcium-induced constipation in osteoporotic
   patients, chronic constipation occurring in cystic fibrosis patients, chronic constipation
   occurring in chronic kidney disease patients, a functional gastrointestinal tract disorder,
   gastroesophageal reflux disease, functional heartburn, dyspepsia, functional dyspepsia,
   non-ulcer dyspepsia, gastroparesis, chronic intestinal pseudo-obstruction, colonic pseudo
30 obstruction, Crohn's disease, ulcerative colitis, inflammatory bowel disease, the method
   comprising administering an antagonist of the intestinal NHE, and more specifically, a
   substantially non-permeable or substantially non-bioavailable NHE-inhibiting compound,

    WO 2014/029983                                                           PCT/GB2013/052192
                                                 69
   or a pharmaceutical composition comprising it, either orally or by rectal suppository.
   Additionally, or alternatively, the method may be for treating or reducing pain, including
   visceral pain, pain associated with a gastrointestinal tract disorder or pain associated with
   some other disorder, the method comprising administering to a patient a substantially non
 5 permeable or substantially non-bioavailable NHE-inhibiting compound, or a
   pharmaceutical composition comprising it. Additionally, or alternatively, the method may
   be for treating inflammation, including inflammation of the gastrointestinal tract, e.g.,
   inflammation associated with a gastrointestinal tract disorder or infection or some other
   disorder, the method comprising administering to a patient a substantially non-permeable
10 or substantially non-bioavailable NHE-inhibiting compound, or a pharmaceutical
   composition comprising it.
                    3.     Metabolic disorders
                    A pharmaceutical composition or preparation that may be used in
15 accordance with the present disclosure for the treatment of various metabolic disorders
   including the treatment or reduction of type II diabetes mellitus (T2DM), metabolic
   syndrome, and/or symptoms associated with such disorders comprises, in general, the
   substantially impermeable or substantially systemically non-bioavailable NHE-inhibiting
   compound of the present disclosure, as well as various other optional components as
20 further detailed herein below (e.g., pharmaceutically acceptable excipients, etc.). The
   compounds utilized in the treatment methods of the present disclosure, as well as the
   pharmaceutical compositions comprising them, may accordingly be administered alone, or
   as part of a treatment protocol or regiment that includes the administration or use of other
   beneficial compounds (as further detailed elsewhere herein).
25                  Obesity is becoming a worldwide epidemic. In the United States,
   approximately 2/3rds of the population is either overweight (body mass index [BMI] 25 to
   29.9) or obese (BMI > 30) (Ogden, CL et al, "Prevalence of overweight and obesity in the
   united states, 1999-2004" JAMA 2006, 295, 1549-1555). Obesity is a major risk factor for
   the development of diabetes and related complications, including cardiovascular disease
30 and chronic kidney disease (CKD). The prevalence of T2DM has increased alarmingly in
   the United States. The American Diabes Associated (ADA) estimates that more than 23
   million U.S. adults aged 20 years or older have diabetes, with T2DM accounting for

    WO 2014/029983                                                          PCT/GB2013/052192
                                                   70
   approximately 95% of these cases. The World Health Organization (WHO) has put the
   number of persons with diabetes worldwide at approximately 170 million (Campbell, R. K.
   "Type 2 diabetes: where we are today: an overview of disease burden, current treatments,
   and treatment strategies" Journal of the American Pharmacists Association 2009, 49(5),
 5 S3-S9).
                    Obesity is also a major risk factor for the development of metabolic
   syndrome, and subsequently the development of CKD. Metabolic syndrome, previously
   known as Syndrome X, the plurimetabolic syndrome, the dysmetabolic syndrome, and
   other names, consists of a clustering of metabolic abnormalities including abdominal
10 obesity, hypertriglyceridemia, low levels of high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol,
   elevated blood pressure (BP), and elevations in fasting glucose or diabetes (Townsend, R.
   R. et al "Metabolic Syndrome, Components, and Cardiovascular Disease Prevalence in
   Chronic Kidney Disease: Findings from the Chronic Renal Insufficiency Cohort (CRIC)
   Study" American Journal of Nephrology 2011, 33, 477-484). Metabolic syndrome is
is common in patients with CKD and an important risk factor for the development and
   progression of CKD.
                    Hemodynamic factors appear to play a significant role in obesity-induced
   renal dysfunction. Hypertension, which is closely linked to obesity, appears to be a major
   cause of renal dysfunction in obese patients (Wahba, I. M. et al "Obesity and obesity
20 initiated metabolic syndrome: mechanistic links to chronic kidney disease" Clinical
   Journal of the American Society of Nephrology 2007, 2, 550-562). Studies in animals and
   in humans have shown that obesity is associated with elevated glomerular filtration rate
   (GFR) and increased renal blood flow. This likely occurs because of afferent arteriolar
   dilation as a result of proximal salt reabsorption, coupled with efferent renal arteriolar
25 vasoconstriction as a result of elevated angiotensin II levels. These effects may contribute
   to hyperfiltration, glomerulomegaly, and later focal glomerulosclerosis. Even though GFR
   is increased in obesity, urinary sodium excretion in response to a saline load is often
   delayed, and individuals exhibit an abnormal pressure natriuresis, indicating avid proximal
   tubular sodium reabsorption. In addition, increased fat distribution can cause increased
30 intra-abdomial pressure, leading to renal vein compression, thus raising renal venous
   pressure and diminishing renal perfusion. In creased fat, through a variety of mechanisms,

     WO 2014/029983                                                           PCT/GB2013/052192
                                                   71
    can cause elevated renal interstitial fluid hydrostatic fluid and may stimulate renal sodium
    retention the thereby contribute to hypertension (Wahba_2007).
                    In view of the above, there exists a need in the art for agents that can divert
    sodium and fluid from a subject via mechanisms that either avoid the kidney, or do not
  5 depend upon normal kidney function. A "subject" with metabolic disease, including
    T2DM, metabolic syndrome, and the like, is preferably a human, but can also be an animal
    in need of treatment with a compound of the disclosure, e.g., companion animals (e.g.,
    dogs, cats, and the like), farm animals (e.g., cows, pigs, horses and the like) and laboratory
    animals (e.g., rats, mice, guinea pigs and the like).
10                  Subjects "in need of treatment" with a compound of the present disclosure,
    or subjects "in need of NHE inhibition" include subjects with diseases and/or conditions
    that can be treated with substantially impermeable or substantially systemically non
    bioavailable NHE-inhibiting compounds, with or without a fluid-absorbing polymer, to
    achieve a beneficial therapeutic and/or prophylactic result. A beneficial outcome includes
is  a decrease in the severity of symptoms or delay in the onset of symptoms, increased
    longevity and/or more rapid or more complete resolution of the disease or condition. For
    example, a subject with a metabolic disorder causing or exacerbating chronic kidney
    disease would benefit from a treatment modality that could divert excess sodium and fluid
    from the body by a method that does not require normally functionaling kidneys. Such a
20  treatment would include the method comprising administering to a patient a substantially
    non-permeable or substantially non-bioavailable NHE-inhibiting compound, or a
    pharmaceutical composition comprising it.
                    The compounds utilized in the treatment methods of the present disclosure,
    as well as the pharmaceutical compositions comprising them, may accordingly be
25  administered alone, or as part of a combination therapy or regimen that includes the
    administration or use of other therapeutic compounds related to the treatment of metabolic
    disorders such as T2DM and metabolic syndrome. In some particular embodiments, the
    NHE-inhibiting compound, including any pharmaceutical composition comprising the
    compound, is administered with a fluid absorbing polymer.
30
            B.      Combination Therapies
                    1.      Fluid Retention and/or Salt Overload Disorders

    WO 2014/029983                                                              PCT/GB2013/052192
                                                   72
                    As previously noted, the compounds described herein can be used alone or
   in combination with other agents. For example, the compounds can be administered
   together with a diuretic (i.e., High Ceiling Loop Diuretics, Benzothiadiazide Diuretics,
   Potassium Sparing Diuretics, Osmotic Diuretics), cardiac glycoside, ACE inhibitor,
 5 angiotensin-2 receptor antagonist, aldosterone antagonist, aldosterone synthase inhibitor,
   renin inhibitor, calcium channel blocker, beta blocker, alpha blocker, central alpha agonist,
   vasodilator, blood thinner, anti-platelet agent, lipid-lowering agent, peroxisome
   proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR) gamma agonist agent or compound or with a fluid
   absorbing polymer as more fully described below. The agent can be covalently attached to
10 a compound described herein or it can be a separate agent that is administered together
   with or sequentially with a compound described herein in a combination therapy.
                    Combination therapy can be achieved by administering two or more agents,
   e.g., a substantially non-permeable or substantially systemically non-bioavailable NHE
   inhibiting compound described herein and a diuretic, cardiac glycoside, ACE inhibitor,
15 angiotensin-2 receptor antagonist, aldosterone antagonist, aldosterone synthase inhibitor,
   renin inhibitor, calcium channel blocker, beta blocker, alpha blocker, central alpha agonist,
   vasodilator, blood thinner, anti-platelet agent or compound, each of which is formulated
   and administered separately, or by administering two or more agents in a single
   formulation. Other combinations are also encompassed by combination therapy. For
20 example, two agents can be formulated together and administered in conjunction with a
   separate formulation containing a third agent. While the two or more agents in the
   combination therapy can be administered simultaneously, they need not be. For example,
   administration of a first agent (or combination of agents) can precede administration of a
   second agent (or combination of agents) by minutes, hours, days, or weeks. Thus, the two
25 or more agents can be administered within minutes of each other or within 1, 2, 3, 6, 9, 12,
    15, 18, or 24 hours of each other or within 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 12, 14 days of each
   other or within 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, or weeks of each other. In some cases even longer
   intervals are possible. While in many cases it is desirable that the two or more agents used
   in a combination therapy be present in within the patient's body at the same time, this need
30 not be so.
                    Combination therapy can also include two or more administrations of one or
   more of the agents used in the combination. For example, if agent X and agent Y are used

    WO 2014/029983                                                          PCT/GB2013/052192
                                                 73
   in a combination, one could administer them sequentially in any combination one or more
   times, e.g., in the order X-Y-X, X-X-Y, Y-X-Y, Y-Y-X, X-X-Y-Y, etc.
                    The compounds described herein can be used in combination therapy with a
   diuretic. Among the useful diuretic agents are, for example: High Ceiling Loop Diuretics
 5 [Furosemide (Lasix), Ethacrynic Acid (Edecrin), Bumetanide (Bumex)], Benzothiadiazide
   Diuretics [Hydrochlorothiazide (Hydrodiuril), Chlorothiazide (Diuril), Clorthalidone
   (Hygroton), Benzthiazide (Aguapres), Bendroflumethiazide (Naturetin), Methyclothiazide
   (Aguatensen), Polythiazide (Renese), Indapamide (Lozol), Cyclothiazide (Anhydron),
   Hydroflumethiazide (Diucardin), Metolazone (Diulo), Quinethazone (Hydromox),
10 Trichlormethiazide (Naqua)], Potassium Sparing Diuretics [Spironolactone (Aldactone),
   Triamterene (Dyrenium), Amiloride (Midamor)], and Osmotic Diuretics [Mannitol
   (Osmitrol)]. Diuretic agents in the various classes are known and described in the
   literature.
                    Cardiac glycosides (cardenolides) or other digitalis preparations can be
15 administered with the compounds of the disclosure in co-therapy. Among the useful
   cardiac glycosides are, for example: Digitoxin (Crystodigin), Digoxin (Lanoxin) or
   Deslanoside (Cedilanid-D). Cardiac glycosides in the various classes are described in the
   literature.
                    Angiotensin Converting Enzyme Inhibitors (ACE Inhibitors) can be
20 administered with the compounds of the disclosure in co-therapy. Among the useful ACE
   inhibitors are, for example: Captopril (Capoten), Enalapril (Vasotec), Lisinopril (Prinivil).
   ACE inhibitors in the various classes are described in the literature.
                    Angiotensin-2 Receptor Antagonists (also referred to as ATi-antagonists or
   angiotensin receptor blockers, or ARB's) can be administered with the compounds of the
25 disclosure in co-therapy. Among the useful Angiotensin-2 Receptor Antagonists are, for
   example: Candesartan (Atacand), Eprosartan (Teveten), Irbesartan (Avapro), Losartan
   (Cozaar), Telmisartan (Micardis), Valsartan (Diovan). Angiotensin-2 Receptor
   Antagonists in the various classes are described in the literature.
                    Calcium channel blockers such as Amlodipine (Norvasc, Lotrel), Bepridil
30 (Vascor), Diltiazem (Cardizem, Tiazac), Felodipine (Plendil), Nifedipine (Adalat,
   Procardia), Nimodipine (Nimotop), Nisoldipine (Sular), Verapamil (Calan, Isoptin,
   Verelan) and related compounds described in, for example, EP 625162B1, U.S. Pat. No.

    WO 2014/029983                                                        PCT/GB2013/052192
                                                  74
   5,364,842, U.S. Pat. No. 5,587,454, U.S. Pat. No. 5,824,645, U.S. Pat. No. 5,859,186, U.S.
   Pat. No. 5,994,305, U.S. Pat. No. 6,087,091, U.S. Pat. No. 6,136,786, WO 93/13128 Al,
   EP 1336409 Al, EP 835126 Al, EP 835126 BI, U.S. Pat. No. 5,795,864, U.S. Pat. No.
   5,891,849, U.S. Pat. No. 6,054,429, WO 97/01351 Al, the entire contents of which are
 5 incorporated herein by reference for all relevant and consistent purposes, can be used with
   the compounds of the disclosure.
                   Beta blockers can be administered with the compounds of the disclosure in
   co-therapy. Among the useful beta blockers are, for example: Acebutolol (Sectral),
   Atenolol (Tenormin), Betaxolol (Kerlone), Bisoprolol/hydrochlorothiazide (Ziac),
10 Bisoprolol (Zebeta), Carteolol (Cartrol), Metoprolol (Lopressor, Toprol XL), Nadolol
   (Corgard), Propranolol (Inderal), Sotalol (Betapace), Timolol (Blocadren). Beta blockers
   in the various classes are described in the literature.
                   PPAR gamma agonists such as thiazolidinediones (also called glitazones)
   can be administered with the compounds of the disclosure in co-therapy. Among the
is useful PPAR agonists are, for example: rosiglitazone (Avandia), pioglitazone (Actos) and
   rivoglitazone.
                   Aldosterone antagonists can be administered with the compounds of the
   disclosure in co-therapy. Among the useful Aldosterone antagonists are, for example:
   eplerenone, spironolactone, and canrenone.
20                 Renin inhibitor can be administered with the compounds of the disclosure in
   co-therapy. Among the useful Renin inhibitors is, for example: aliskiren.
                   Alpha blockers can be administered with the compounds of the disclosure in
   co-therapy. Among the useful Alpha blockers are, for example: Doxazosin mesylate
   (Cardura), Prazosin hydrochloride (Minipress). Prazosin and polythiazide (Minizide),
25 Terazosin hydrochloride (Hytrin). Alpha blockers in the various classes are described in
   the literature.
                   Central alpha agonists can be administered with the compounds of the
   disclosure in co-therapy. Among the useful Central alpha agonists are, for example:
   Clonidine hydrochloride (Catapres), Clonidine hydrochloride and chlorthalidone (Clorpres,
30 Combipres), Guanabenz Acetate (Wytensin), Guanfacine hydrochloride (Tenex),
   Methyldopa (Aldomet), Methyldopa and chlorothiazide (Aldochlor), Methyldopa and

    WO 2014/029983                                                          PCT/GB2013/052192
                                                  75
   hydrochlorothiazide (Aldoril). Central alpha agonists in the various classes are described
   in the literature.
                    Vasodilators can be administered with the compounds of the disclosure in
   co-therapy. Among the useful vasodilators are, for example: Isosorbide dinitrate (Isordil),
 5 Nesiritide (Natrecor), Hydralazine (Apresoline), Nitrates / nitroglycerin, Minoxidil
   (Loniten). Vasodilators in the various classes are described in the literature.
                    Blood thinners can be administered with the compounds of the disclosure in
   co-therapy. Among the useful blood thinners are, for example: Warfarin (Coumadin) and
   Heparin. Blood thinners in the various classes are described in the literature.
10                  Anti-platelet agents can be administered with the compounds of the
   disclosure in co-therapy. Among the useful anti-platelet agents are, for example:
   Cyclooxygenase inhibitors (Aspirin), Adenosine diphosphate (ADP) receptor inhibitors
   [Clopidogrel (Plavix), Ticlopidine (Ticlid)], Phosphodiesterase inhibitors [Cilostazol
   (Pletal)], Glycoprotein IIB/IIIA inhibitors [Abciximab (ReoPro), Eptifibatide (Integrilin),
is Tirofiban (Aggrastat), Defibrotide], Adenosine reuptake inhibitors [Dipyridamole
   (Persantine)]. Anti-platelet agents in the various classes are described in the literature.
                    Lipid-lowering agents can be administered with the compounds of the
   disclosure in co-therapy. Among the useful lipid-lowering agents are, for example: Statins
   (HMG CoA reductase inhibitors), [Atorvastatin (Lipitor), Fluvastatin (Lescol), Lovastatin
20 (Mevacor, Altoprev), Pravastatin (Pravachol), Rosuvastatin Calcium (Crestor), Simvastatin
   (Zocor)], Selective cholesterol absorption inhibitors [ezetimibe (Zetia)], Resins (bile acid
   sequestrant or bile acid-binding drugs) [Cholestyramine (Questran, Questran Light,
   Prevalite, Locholest, Locholest Light), Colestipol (Colestid), Colesevelam Hcl
   (WelChol)], Fibrates (Fibric acid derivatives) [Gemfibrozil (Lopid), Fenofibrate (Antara,
25 Lofibra, Tricor, and Triglide), Clofibrate (Atromid-S)], Niacin (Nicotinic acid). Lipid
   lowering agents in the various classes are described in the literature.
                    The compounds of the disclosure can be used in combination with peptides
   or peptide analogs that activate the Guanylate Cyclase-receptor in the intestine and results
   in elevation of the intracellular second messenger, or cyclic guanosine monophosphate
30 (cGMP), with increased chloride and bicarbonate secretion into the intestinal lumen and
   concomitant fluid secretion. Example of such peptides are Linaclotide (MD- 1100
   Acetate), endogenous hormones guanylin and uroguanylin and enteric bacterial peptides of

    WO 2014/029983                                                           PCT/GB2013/052192
                                                  76
   the heat stable enterotoxin family (ST peptides) and those described in US 5140102, US
   5489670, US 5969097, WO 2006/001931A2, WO 2008/002971A2, WO 2008/106429A2,
   US 2008/0227685A1 and US 7041786, the entire contents of which are incorporated
   herein by reference for all relevant and consistent purposes.
 5                  The compounds of the disclosure can be used in combination with type-2
   chloride channel agonists, such as Amitiza (Lubiprostone) and other related compounds
   described in US 6414016, the entire contents of whch are incorporated herein by reference
   for all relevant and consistent purposes.
                    The compounds described herein can be used in combination therapy with
10 agents used for the treatment of obesity, T2DM, metabolic syndrome and the like. Among
   the useful agents include: insulin; insulin secretagogues, such as sulphonylureas; glucose
   lowering effectors, such as metformin; activators of the peroxisome proliferator-activated
   receptor y (PPARy), such as the thiazolidinediones; incretin-based agents including
   dipeptidyl peptidase-4 inhibitors such as sitagliptin, and synthetic incretin mimetics such as
is liraglutide and exenatide; alpha-glucosidase inhibitors, such as acarbose; glinides, such as
   repaglinide and nateglinide, and the like.
                    The compounds of the disclosure can be used in combination with P2Y2
   receptor agonists, such as those described in EP 1196396B1 and US 6624150, the entire
   contents of which are incorporated herein by reference for all relevant and consistent
20 purposes.
                    Other agents include natriuretic peptides such as nesiritide, a recombinant
   form of brain-natriuretic peptide (BNP) and an atrial-natriuretic peptide (ANP).
   Vasopressin receptor antagonists such as tolvaptan and conivaptan may be co-administered
   as well as phosphate binders such as renagel, renleva, phoslo and fosrenol. Other agents
25 include phosphate transport inhibitors (as described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 4,806,532;
   6,355,823; 6,787,528; 7,119,120; 7,109,184; U.S. Pat. Pub. No. 2007/021509;
   2006/0280719; 2006/0217426; International Pat. Pubs. WO 2001/005398, WO
   2001/087294, WO 2001/082924, WO 2002/028353, WO 2003/048134, WO 2003/057225,
   WO2003/080630, WO 2004/085448, WO 2004/085382; European Pat. Nos. 1465638 and
30  1485391; and JP Patent No. 2007131532, or phosphate transport antagonists such as
   Nicotinamide.

    WO 2014/029983                                                              PCT/GB2013/052192
                                                   77
                    2.      Gastrointestinal Tract Disorders
                    As previously noted, the compounds described herein can be used alone or
   in combination with other agents. For example, the compounds can be administered
   together with an analgesic peptide or compound. The analgesic peptide or compound can
 5 be covalently attached to a compound described herein or it can be a separate agent that is
   administered together with or sequentially with a compound described herein in a
   combination therapy.
                    Combination therapy can be achieved by administering two or more agents,
   e.g., a substantially non-permeable or substantially non-bioavailable NHE-inhibiting
10 compound described herein and an analgesic peptide or compound, each of which is
   formulated and administered separately, or by administering two or more agents in a single
   formulation. Other combinations are also encompassed by combination therapy. For
   example, two agents can be formulated together and administered in conjunction with a
   separate formulation containing a third agent. While the two or more agents in the
15 combination therapy can be administered simultaneously, they need not be. For example,
   administration of a first agent (or combination of agents) can precede administration of a
   second agent (or combination of agents) by minutes, hours, days, or weeks. Thus, the two
   or more agents can be administered within minutes of each other or within 1, 2, 3, 6, 9, 12,
    15, 18, or 24 hours of each other or within 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 12, 14 days of each
20 other or within 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, or weeks of each other. In some cases even longer
   intervals are possible. While in many cases it is desirable that the two or more agents used
   in a combination therapy be present in within the patient's body at the same time, this need
   not be so.
                    Combination therapy can also include two or more administrations of one or
25 more of the agents used in the combination. For example, if agent X and agent Y are used
   in a combination, one could administer them sequentially in any combination one or more
   times, e.g., in the order X-Y-X, X-X-Y, Y-X-Y, Y-Y-X, X-X-Y-Y, etc.
                    The compounds described herein can be used in combination therapy with
   an analgesic agent, e.g., an analgesic compound or an analgesic peptide. The analgesic
30 agent can optionally be covalently attached to a compound described herein. Among the
   useful analgesic agents are, for example: Ca channel blockers, 5HT3 agonists (e.g., MCK
   733), 5HT4 agonists (e.g., tegaserod, prucalopride), and 5HT1 receptor antagonists, opioid

    WO 2014/029983                                                          PCT/GB2013/052192
                                                  78
   receptor agonists (loperamide, fedotozine, and fentanyl), NK1 receptor antagonists, CCK
   receptor agonists (e.g., loxiglumide), NK1 receptor antagonists, NK3 receptor antagonists,
   norepinephrine-serotonin reuptake inhibitors (NSR1), vanilloid and cannabanoid receptor
   agonists, and sialorphin. Analgesics agents in the various classes are described in the
 5 literature.
                   Opioid receptor antagonists and agonists can be administered with the
   compounds of the disclosure in co-therapy or linked to the compound of the disclosure,
   e.g., by a covalent bond. For example, opioid receptor antagonists such as naloxone,
   naltrexone, methyl nalozone, nalmefene, cypridime, beta funaltrexamine, naloxonazine,
10 naltrindole, and nor-binaltorphimine are thought to be useful in the treatment of opioid
   induced constipaption (OIC). It can be useful to formulate opioid antagonists of this type
   in a delayed or sustained release formulation, such that initial release of the antagonist is in
   the mid to distal small intestine and/or ascending colon. Such antagonists are described in
   US 6,734,188 (WO 01/32180 A2), the entire contents of which are incorporated herein by
is reference for all relevant and consistent purposes. Enkephalin pentapeptide (HOE825;
   Tyr-D-Lys-Gly-Phe-L-homoserine) is an agonist of the p- and y-opioid receptors and is
   thought to be useful for increasing intestinal motility (Eur.J. Pharm., 219:445, 1992), and
   this peptide can be used in conjunction with the compounds of the disclosure. Also useful
   is trimebutine which is thought to bind to mu/delta/kappa opioid receptors and activate
20 release of motilin and modulate the release of gastrin, vasoactive intestinal peptide, gastrin
   and glucagons. K-opioid receptor agonists such as fedotozine, ketocyclazocine, and
   compounds described in US 2005/0176746 (WO 03/097051 A2), the entire contents of
   which are incorporated herein by reference for all relevant and consistent purposes, can be
   used with or linked to the compounds of the disclosure. In addition, p-opioid receptor
25 agonists, such as morphine, diphenyloxylate, frakefamide (H-Tyr-D-Ala-Phe(F)-Phe-NH 2;
   disclosed in WO 01/019849 Al, the entire contents of which are incorporated herein by
   reference for all relevant and consistent purposes) and loperamide can be used.
                   Tyr-Arg (kyotorphin) is a dipeptide that acts by stimulating the release of
   met-enkephalins to elicit an analgesic effect (J. Biol. Chem. 262:8165, 1987). Kyotorphin
30 can be used with or linked to the compounds of the disclosure. CCK receptor agonists such
   as caerulein from amphibians and other species are useful analgesic agents that can be used
   with or linked to the compounds of the disclosure.

    WO 2014/029983                                                         PCT/GB2013/052192
                                                 79
                   Conotoxin peptides represent a large class of analgesic peptides that act at
   voltage gated Ca channels, NMDA receptors or nicotinic receptors. These peptides can be
   used with or linked to the compounds of the disclosure.
                   Peptide analogs of thymulin (US 7,309,690 or FR 2830451, the entire
 5 contents of which are incorporated herein by reference for all relevant and consistent
   purposes) can have analgesic activity and can be used with or linked to the compounds of
   the disclosure.
                   CCK (CCKa or CCKb) receptor antagonists, including loxiglumide and
   dexloxiglumide (the R-isomer of loxiglumide) (US 5,130,474 or WO 88/05774, the entire
10 contents of which are incorporated herein by reference for all relevant and consistent
   purposes) can have analgesic activity and can be used with or linked to the compounds of
   the disclosure.
                   Other useful analgesic agents include 5-HT4 agonists such as
   tegaserod/zelnorm and lirexapride. Such agonists are described in: EP1321142 Al, WO
15 03/053432A1, EP 505322 Al, EP 505322 B1, EP 507672 Al, EP 507672 B1, U.S. Pat.
   No. 5,510,353 and U.S. Pat. No. 5,273,983, the entire contents of which are incorporated
   herein by reference for all relevant and consistent purposes.
                   Calcium channel blockers such as ziconotide and related compounds
   described in, for example, EP 625162B1, U.S. Pat. No. 5,364,842, U.S. Pat. No. 5,587,454,
20 U.S. Pat. No. 5,824,645, U.S. Pat. No. 5,859,186, U.S. Pat. No. 5,994,305, U.S. Pat. No.
   6,087,091, U.S. Pat. No. 6,136,786, WO 93/13128 Al, EP 1336409 Al, EP 835126 Al,
   EP 835126 B1, U.S. Pat. No. 5,795,864, U.S. Pat. No. 5,891,849, U.S. Pat. No. 6,054,429,
   WO 97/01351 Al, the entire contents of which are incorporated herein by reference for all
   relevant and consistent purposes, can be used with or linked to the compounds of the
25 disclosure.
                   Various antagonists of the NK-1, NK-2, and NK-3 receptors (for a review
   see Giardina et al. 2003 Drugs 6:758) can be can be used with or linked to the compounds
   of the disclosure.
                   NK1 receptor antagonists such as: aprepitant (Merck & Co Inc), vofopitant,
30 ezlopitant (Pfizer, Inc.), R-673 (Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd), SR-14033 and related
   compounds described in, for example, EP 873753 Al, U.S. 20010006972 Al, U.S.
   20030109417 Al, WO 01/52844 Al, the entire contents of which are incorporated herein

    WO 2014/029983                                                         PCT/GB2013/052192
                                                  80
   by reference for all relevant and consistent purposes, can be used with or linked to the
   compounds of the disclosure.
                   NK-2 receptor antagonists such as nepadutant (Menarini Ricerche SpA),
   saredutant (Sanofi-Synthelabo), SR-144190 (Sanofi-Synthelabo) and UK-290795 (Pfizer
 5 Inc) can be used with or linked to the compounds of the disclosure.
                   NK3 receptor antagonists such as osanetant (Sanofi-Synthelabo), talnetant
   and related compounds described in, for example, WO 02/094187 A2, EP 876347 Al, WO
   97/21680 Al, U.S. Pat. No. 6,277,862, WO 98/11090, WO 95/28418, WO 97/19927, and
   Boden et al. (J Med. Chem. 39:1664-75, 1996), the entire contents of which are
10 incorporated herein by reference for all relevant and consistent purposes, can be used with
   or linked to the compounds of the disclosure.
                   Norepinephrine-serotonin reuptake inhibitors such as milnacipran and
   related compounds described in WO 03/077897 Al, the entire contents of which are
   incorporated herein by reference for all relevant and consistent purposes, can be used with
is or linked to the compounds of the disclosure.
                   Vanilloid receptor antagonists such as arvanil and related compounds
   described in WO 01/64212 Al, the entire contents of which are incorporated herein by
   reference for all relevant and consistent purposes, can be used with or linked to the
   compounds of the disclosure.
20                 The compounds can be used in combination therapy with a
   phosphodiesterase inhibitor (examples of such inhibitors can be found in U.S. Pat. No.
   6,333,354, the entire contents of which are incorporated herein by reference for all relevant
   and consistent purposes).
                   The compounds can be used alone or in combination therapy to treat
25 disorders associated with chloride or bicarbonate secretion that may lead to constipation,
   e.g., Cystic Fibrosis.
                   The compounds can also or alternatively be used alone or in combination
   therapy to treat calcium-induced constipation effects. Constipation is commonly found in
   the geriatric population, particularly patients with osteoporosis who have to take calcium
30 supplements. Calcium supplements have shown to be beneficial in ostoporotic patients to
   restore bone density but compliance is poor because of constipation effects associated
   therewith.

    WO 2014/029983                                                            PCT/GB2013/052192
                                                     81
                    The compounds of the current disclosure have can be used in combination
   with an opioid. Opioid use is mainly directed to pain relief, with a notable side-effect
   being GI disorder, e.g. constipation. These agents work by binding to opioid receptors,
   which are found principally in the central nervous system and the gastrointestinal tract.
 5 The receptors in these two organ systems mediate both the beneficial effects, and the
   undesirable side effects (e.g. decrease of gut motility and ensuing constipation). Opioids
   suitable for use typically belong to one of the following exemplary classes: natural opiates,
   alkaloids contained in the resin of the opium poppy including morphine, codeine and
   thebaine; semi-synthetic opiates, created from the natural opioids, such as hydromorphone,
10 hydrocodone, oxycodone, oxymorphone, desomorphine, diacetylmorphine (Heroin),
   nicomorphine, dipropanoylmorphine, benzylmorphine and ethylmorphine; fully synthetic
   opioids, such as fentanyl, pethidine, methadone, tramadol and propoxyphene; endogenous
   opioid peptides, produced naturally in the body, such as endorphins, enkephalins,
   dynorphins, and endomorphins.
15                  The compound of the disclosure can be used alone or in combination
   therapy to alleviate GI disorders encountered with patients with renal failure (stage 3-5).
   Constipation is the second most reported symptom in that category of patients (Murtagh et
   al., 2006; Murtagh et al., 2007a; Murtagh et al., 2007b). Without being held by theory, it is
   believed that kidney failure is accompanied by a stimulation of intestinal Na re-absorption
20 (Hatch and Freel, 2008). A total or partial inhibition of such transport by administration of
   the compounds of the disclosure can have a therapeutic benefit to improve GI transit and
   relieve abdominal pain. In that context, the compounds of the disclosure can be used in
   combination with Angiotensin-modulating agents: Angiotensin Converting Enzyme (ACE)
   inhibitors (e.g. captopril, enalopril, lisinopril, ramipril) and Angiotensin II receptor
25 antagonist therapy (also referred to as ATi-antagonists or angiotensin receptor blockers, or
   ARB's); diuretics such as loop diuretics (e.g. furosemide, bumetanide), Thiazide diuretics
   (e.g. hydrochlorothiazide, chlorthalidone, chlorthiazide) and potassium-sparing diuretics:
   amiloride; beta blockers: bisoprolol, carvedilol, nebivolol and extended-release metoprolol;
   positive inotropes: Digoxin, dobutamine; phosphodiesterase inhibitors such as milrinone;
30 alternative vasodilators: combination of isosorbide dinitrate/hydralazine; aldosterone
   receptor antagonists: spironolactone, eplerenone; natriuretic peptides: Nesiritide, a
   recombinant form of brain-natriuretic peptide (BNP), atrial-natriuretic peptide (ANP);

    WO 2014/029983                                                           PCT/GB2013/052192
                                                  82
   vasopressin receptor antagonists: Tolvaptan and conivaptan; phosphate binder (Renagel,
   Renleva, Phoslo, Fosrenol); phosphate transport inhibitor such as those described in US
   4806532, US 6355823, US 6787528, WO 2001/005398, WO 2001/087294, WO
   2001/082924, WO 2002/028353, WO 2003/048134, WO 2003/057225, US 7119120, EP
 5  1465638, US Appl. 2007/021509, WO 2003/080630, US 7109184, US Appl.
   2006/0280719 , EP 1485391, WO 2004/085448, WO 2004/085382, US Appl.
   2006/0217426, JP 2007/131532, the entire contents of which are incorporated herein by
   reference for all relevant and consistent purposes, or phosphate transport antagonist
   (Nicotinamide).
10                  The compounds of the disclosure can be used in combination with peptides
   or peptide analogs that activate the Guanylate Cyclase-receptor in the intestine and results
   in elevation of the intracellular second messenger, or cyclic guanosine monophosphate
   (cGMP), with increased chloride and bicarbonate secretion into the intestinal lumen and
   concomitant fluid secretion. Example of such peptides are Linaclotide (MD-1 100
is Acetate), endogenous hormones guanylin and uroguanylin and enteric bacterial peptides of
   the heat stable enterotoxin family (ST peptides) and those described in US 5140102, US
   5489670, US 5969097, WO 2006/001931A2, WO 2008/002971A2, WO 2008/106429A2,
   US 2008/0227685A1 and US 7041786, the entire contents of which are incorporated
   herein by reference for all relevant and consistent purposes.
20                  The compounds of the disclosure can be used in combination with type-2
   chloride channel agonists, such as Amitiza (Lubiprostone) and other related compounds
   described in US 6414016, the entire contents of which are incorporated herein by reference
   for all relevant and consistent purposes.
                    The compounds of the disclosure can be used in combination with P2Y2
25 receptor agonists, such as those described in EP 1196396B1 and US 6624150, the entire
   contents of which are incorporated herein by reference for all relevant and consistent
   purposes.
                    The compounds of the disclosure can be used in combination with laxative
   agents such as bulk-producing agents, e.g. psyllium husk (Metamucil), methylcellulose
30 (Citrucel), polycarbophil, dietary fiber, apples, stool softeners/surfactant such as docusate
   (Colace, Diocto); hydrating agents (osmotics), such as dibasic sodium phosphate,
   magnesium citrate, magnesium hydroxide (Milk of magnesia), magnesium sulfate (which

    WO 2014/029983                                                          PCT/GB2013/052192
                                                   83
   is Epsom salt), monobasic sodium phosphate, sodium biphosphate; hyperosmotic agents:
   glycerin suppositories, sorbitol, lactulose, and polyethylene glycol (PEG). The compounds
   of the disclosure can be also be used in combination with agents that stimulate gut
   peristalsis, such as Bisacodyl tablets (Dulcolax), Casanthranol, Senna and Aloin, from
 5 Aloe Vera.
                    In one embodiment, the compounds of the disclosure accelerate
   gastrointestinal transit, and more specifically in the colon, without substantially affecting
   the residence time in the stomach, i.e. with no significant effect on the gastric emptying
   time. Even more specifically the compounds of the invention restore colonic transit
10 without the side-effects associated with delayed gastric emptying time, such as nausea. The
   GI and colonic transit are measured in patients using methods reported in, for example:
   Burton DD, Camilleri M, Mullan BP, et al., J. Nucl. Med., 1997;38:1807-1810; Cremonini
   F, Mullan BP, Camilleri M, et al., Aliment. Pharmacol.Ther., 2002;16:1781-1790;
   Camilleri M, Zinsmeister AR, Gastroenterology,1992;103:36-42; Bouras EP, Camilleri
15 M, Burton DD, et al., Gastroenterology,2001;120:354-360; Coulie B, Szarka LA,
   Camilleri M, et al., Gastroenterology,2000;119:41-50; Prather CM, Camilleri M,
   Zinsmeister AR, et al., Gastroenterology,2000; 118:463-468; and, Camilleri M, McKinzie
   S, Fox J, et al., Clin. Gastroenterol.Hepatol., 2004;2:895-904.
20          C.      Polymer Combination Therapy
                     The NHE-inhibiting compounds described therein may be administered to
   patients in need thereof in combination with a fluid-absorbing polymer ("FAP"). The
   intestinal fluid-absorbing polymers useful for administration in accordance with
   embodiments of the present disclosure may be administered orally in combination with
25 non-absorbable NHE-inhibiting compounds (e.g., a NHE-3 inhibitor) to absorb the
   intestinal fluid resulting from the action of the sodium transport inhibitors. Such polymers
   swell in the colon and bind fluid to impart a consistency to stools that is acceptable for
   patients. The fluid-absorbing polymers described herein may be selected from polymers
   with laxative properties, also referred to as bulking agents (i.e., polymers that retain some
30 of the intestinal fluid in the stools and impart a higher degree of hydration in the stools and
   facilitate transit). The fluid-absorbing polymers may also be optionally selected from

    WO 2014/029983                                                           PCT/GB2013/052192
                                                   84
   pharmaceutical polymers with anti-diarrhea function, i.e., agents that maintain some
   consistency to the stools to avoid watery stools and potential incontinence.
                    The ability of the polymer to maintain a certain consistency in stools with a
   high content of fluid can be characterized by its "water holding power." Wenzl et al. (in
 5 Determinantsof decreasedfecal consistency in patientswith diarrhea;Gastroenterology,
   v. 108, no. 6, p. 1729-1738 (1995)) studied the determinants that control the consistency of
   stools of patients with diarrhea and found that they were narrowly correlated with the water
   holding power of the feces. The water holding power is determined as the water content of
   given stools to achieve a certain level of consistency (corresponding to "formed stool"
10 consistency) after the reconstituted fecal matter has been centrifuged at a certain g number.
   Without being held to any particular theory, has been found that the water holding power
   of the feces is increased by ingestion of certain polymers with a given fluid absorbing
   profile. More specifically, it has been found that the water-holding power of said polymers
   is correlated with their fluid absorbancy under load (AUL); even more specifically the
is AUL of said polymers is greater than 15 g of isotonic fluid/g of polymer under a static
   pressure of 5kPa, even more preferably under a static pressure of 10kPa .
                    The FAP utilized in the treatment method of the present disclosure
   preferably has a AUL of at least about 10 g, about 15 g, about 20 g, aboug 25 g or more of
   isotonic fluid/g of polymer under a static pressure of about 5 kPa, and preferably about 10
20 kPA, and may have a fluid absorbency of about 20 g, about 25 g or more, as determined
   using means generally known in the art. Additionally or alternatively, the FAP may impart
   a minimum consistency to fecal matter and, in some embodiments, a consistency graded as
   "soft" in the scale described in the test method below, when fecal non water-soluble solid
   fraction is from 10% to 20%, and the polymer concentration is from 1% to 5% of the
25 weight of stool. The determination of the fecal non water-soluble solid fraction of stools is
   described in Wenz et al. The polymer may be uncharged or may have a low charge density
   (e.g., 1-2 meq/gr). Alternatively or in addition, the polymer may be delivered directly to
   the colon using known delivery methods to avoid premature swelling in the esophagus.
                    In one embodiment of the present disclosure, the FAP is a "superabsorbent"
30 polymer (i.e., a lightly crosslinked, partially neutralized polyelectrolyte hydrogel similar to
   those used in baby diapers, feminine hygiene products, agriculture additives, etc.).
   Superabsorbent polymers may be made of a lightly crosslinked polyacrylate hydrogel. The

    WO 2014/029983                                                             PCT/GB2013/052192
                                                    85
   swelling of the polymer is driven essentially by two effects: (i) the hydration of the
   polymer backbone and entropy of mixing and (ii) the osmotic pressure arising from the
   counter-ions (e.g., Na ions) within the gel. The gel swelling ratio at equilibrium is
   controlled by the elastic resistance inherent to the polymer network and by the chemical
 5 potential of the bathing fluid, i.e., the gel will de-swell at higher salt concentration because
   the background electrolyte will reduce the apparent charge density on the polymer and will
   reduce the difference of free ion concentrations inside and outside the gel that drives
   osmotic pressure. The swelling ratio SR (g of fluid per g of dry polymer and synonymously
   "fluid absorbency") may vary from 1000 in pure water down to 30 in 0.9% NaCl solution
10 representative of physiological saline (i.e., isotonic). SR may increase with the degree of
   neutralization and may decrease with the crosslinking density. SR generally decreases
   with an applied load with the extent of reduction dependent on the strength of the gel, i.e.,
   the crosslinking density. The salt concentration within the gel, as compared with the
   external solution, may be lower as a result of the Donnan effect due to the internal
is electrical potential.
                   The fluid-absorbing polymer may include crosslinked polyacrylates which
   are fluid absorbent such as those prepared from a,p-ethylenically unsaturated monomers,
   such as monocarboxylic acids, polycarboxylic acids, acrylamide and their derivatives.
   These polymers may have repeating units of acrylic acid, methacrylic acid, metal salts of
20 acrylic acid, acrylamide, and acrylamide derivatives (such as 2-acrylamido-2
   methylpropanesulfonic acid) along with various combinations of such repeating units as
   copolymers. Such derivatives include acrylic polymers which include hydrophilic grafts of
   polymers such as polyvinyl alcohol. Examples of suitable polymers and processes,
   including gel polymerization processes, for preparing such polymers are disclosed in U.S.
25 Pat. Nos. 3,997,484; 3,926,891; 3,935,099; 4,090,013; 4,093,776; 4,340,706; 4,446,261;
   4,683,274; 4,459,396; 4,708,997; 4,076,663; 4,190,562; 4,286,082; 4,857,610; 4,985,518;
   5,145,906; 5,629,377 and 6,908,609 which are incorporated herein by reference for all
   relevant and consistent purposes (in addition, see Buchholz, F. L. and Graham, A. T.,
   "Modem Superabsorbent Polymer Technology," John Wiley & Sons (1998), which is also
30 incorporated herein by reference for all relevant and consistent purposes). A class of
   preferred polymers for treatment in combination with NHE-inhibitors is polyelectrolytes.

    WO 2014/029983                                                           PCT/GB2013/052192
                                                   86
                    The degree of crosslinking can vary greatly depending upon the specific
   polymer material; however, in most applications the subject superabsorbent polymers are
   only lightly crosslinked, that is, the degree of crosslinking is such that the polymer can still
   absorb over 10 times its weight in physiological saline (i.e., 0.9% saline). For example,
 5 such polymers typically include less than about 0.2 mole % crosslinking agent.
                    In some embodiments, the FAP's utilized for treatment are Calcium
   Carbophil (Registry Number: 9003-97-8, also referred as Carbopol EX-83), and Carpopol
   934P.
                    In some embodiments, the fluid-absorbing polymer is prepared by high
10 internal phase emulsion ("HIPE") processes. The HIPE process leads to polymeric foam
   slabs with a very large porous fraction of interconnected large voids (about 100 microns)
   (i.e., open-cell structures). This technique produces flexible and collapsible foam materials
   with exceptional suction pressure and fluid absorbency (see U.S. Patent Nos. 5,650,222;
   5,763,499 and 6,107,356, which are incorporated herein for all relevant and consistent
is purposes). The polymer is hydrophobic and, therefore, the surface should be modified so
   as to be wetted by the aqueous fluid. This is accomplished by post-treating the foam
   material by a surfactant in order to reduce the interfacial tension. These materials are
   claimed to be less compliant to loads, i.e., less prone to de-swelling under static pressure.
                    In some embodiments, fluid-absorbing gels are prepared by aqueous free
20 radical polymerization of acrylamide or a derivative thereof, a crosslinker (e.g., methylene
   bis-acrylamide) and a free radical initiator redox system in water. The material is obtained
   as a slab. Typically the swelling ratio of crosslinked polyacrylamide at low crosslinking
   density (e.g., 2 %-4 %  expressed as weight % of methylene-bis-acrylamide) is between 25
   and 40 (F. Horkay, Macromolecules, 22, pp. 2007-09 (1989)). The swelling properties of
25 these polymers have been extensively studied and are essentially the same of those of
   crosslinked polyacrylic acids at high salt concentration. Under those conditions, the
   osmotic pressure is null due to the presence of counter-ions and the swelling is controlled
   by the free energy of mixing and the network elastic energy. Stated differently, a
   crosslinked polyacrylamide gel of same crosslink density as a neutralized polyacrylic acid
30 will exhibit the same swelling ratio (i.e., fluid absorbing properties) and it is believed the
   same degree of deswelling under pressure, as the crosslinked polyelectrolyte at high salt
   content (e.g., 1 M). The properties (e.g., swelling) of neutral hydrogels will not be

    WO 2014/029983                                                          PCT/GB2013/052192
                                                  87
   sensitive to the salt environment as long as the polymer remains in good solvent
   conditions. Without being held to any particular theory, it is believed that the fluid
   contained within the gel has the same salt composition than the surrounding fluid (i.e.,
   there is no salt partitioning due to Donnan effect).
 5                  Another subclass of fluid-absorbing polymers that may be utilized is
   hydrogel materials that include N-alkyl acrylamide polymers (e.g., N-isopropylacrylamide
   (NIPAM)). The corresponding aqueous polyNIPAM hydrogel shows a temperature
   transition at about 35'C. Above this temperature the hydrogel may collapse. The
   mechanism is generally reversible and the gel re-swells to its original swelling ratio when
10 the temperature reverts to room temperature. This allows production of nanoparticles by
   emulsion polymerization (R. Pelton, Advances in Colloid andInterface Science, 85, pp. 1
   33, (2000)). The swelling characteristics of poly-NIPAM nanoparticles below the
   transition temperature have been reported and are similar to those reported for bulk gel of
   polyNIPAM and equivalent to those found for polyacrylamide (i.e. 30-50 g/g) (W.
15 McPhee, Journalof Colloidand Interface Science, 156, pp. 24-30 (1993); and, K. Oh,
   JournalofApplied Polymer Science, 69, pp. 109-114 (1997)).
                    In some embodiments, the FAP utilized for treatment in combination with a
   NHE-inhibitor is a superporous gel that may delay the emptying of the stomach for the
   treatment of obesity (J. Chen, Journalof ControlledRelease, 65, pp. 73-82 (2000), or to
20 deliver proteins. Polyacrylate-based SAP's with a macroporous structure may also be used.
   Macroporous SAP and superporous gels differ in that the porous structure remains almost
   intact in the dry state for superporous gels, but disappears upon drying for macroporous
   SAP's. The method of preparation is different although both methods use a foaming agent
   (e.g., carbonate salt that generates CO 2 bubbles during polymerization). Typical swelling
25 ratios, SR, of superporous materials are around 10. Superporous gels keep a large internal
   pore volume in the dry state.
                    Macroporous hydrogels may also be formed using a method whereby
   polymer phase separation in induced by a non-solvent. The polymer may be poly-NIPAM
   and the non-solvent utilized may be glucose (see, e.g., Z. Zhang, J. Org. Chem., 69, 23
30 (2004)) or NaCl (see, e.g., Cheng et al., Journal of Biomedical Materials Research - Part A
   Vol. 67, Issue 1, 1 October 2003, Pages 96-103). The phase separation induced by the
   presence of NaCl leads to an increase in swelling ratio. These materials are preferred if the

    WO 2014/029983                                                           PCT/GB2013/052192
                                                    88
   swelling ratio of the material, SR, is maintained in salt isotonic solution and if the gels do
   not collapse under load. The temperature of "service" should be shifted beyond body
   temperature, e.g. by diluting NIPAM in the polymer with monomer devoid of transition
   temperature phenomenon.
 5                 In some embodiments, the fluid-absorbing polymer may be selected from
   certain naturally-occurring polymers such as those containing carbohydrate moieties. In a
   preferred embodiment, such carbohydrate-containing hydrogels are non-digestible, have a
   low fraction of soluble material and a high fraction of gel-forming materials. In some
   embodiments, the fluid-absorbing polymer is selected from xanthan, guar, wellan,
10 hemicelluloses, alkyl-cellulose, hydro-alkyl-cellulose, carboxy-alkyl-cellulose,
   carrageenan, dextran, hyaluronic acid and agarose. In a preferred embodiment, the gel
   forming polymer is psyllium. Psyllium (or "ispaghula") is the common name used for
   several members of the plant genus Plantagowhose seeds are used commercially for the
   production of mucilage. Most preferably, the fluid-absorbing polymer is in the gel-forming
15 fraction of psyllium, i.e., a neutral saccharide copolymer of arabinose (25%) and xylose
   (75%) as characterized in (J. Marlett, Proceedingsof the Nutrition Society, 62, pp. 2-7-209
   (2003); and, M. Fischer, CarbohydrateResearch, 339, 2009-2012 (2004)), and further
   described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 6,287,609; 7,026,303; 5,126,150; 5,445,831; 7,014,862;
   4,766,004; 4,999,200, each of which is incorporated herein for all relevant and consistent
20 purposes, and over-the-counter psillium-containing agents such as those marketed under
   the name Metamucil (The Procter and Gamble company). Preferably the a psyllium
   containing dosage form is suitable for chewing, where the chewing action disintegrates the
   tablet into smaller, discrete particles prior to swallowing but which undergoes minimal
   gelling in the mouth, and has acceptable mouthfeel and good aesthetics as perceived by the
25 patient.
                   The psyllium-containing dosage form includes physically discrete unit
   suitable as a unitary dosage for human subjects and other mammals, each containing a
   predetermined quantity of active material (e.g. the gel-forming polysaccharide) calculated
   to produce the desired therapeutic effect. Solid oral dosage forms that are suitable for the
30 present compositions include tablets, pills, capsules, lozenges, chewable tablets, troches,
   cachets, pellets, wafer and the like.

    WO 2014/029983                                                          PCT/GB2013/052192
                                                    89
                    In some embodiments, the FAP is a polysaccharide particle wherein the
   polysaccharide component includes xylose and arabinose. The ratio of the xylose to the
   arabinose may be at least about 3:1 by weight, as described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 6,287,609;
   7,026,303 and 7,014,862, each of which is incorporated herein for all relevant and
 5 consistent purposes.
                     The fluid-absorbing polymers described herein may be used in combination
   with the NHE-inhibiting compound or a pharmaceutical composition containing it. The
   NHE-inhibiting compound and the FAP may also be administered with other agents
   including those described under the heading "Combination Therapies" without departing
10 from the scope of the present disclosure.     As described above, the NHE-inhibiting
   compound may be administered alone without use of a fluid-absorbing polymer to resolve
   symptoms without eliciting significant diarrhea or fecal fluid secretion that would require
   the co-administration of a fluid-absorbing polymer.
                     The fluid-absorbing polymers described herein may be selected so as to not
is induce any substantial interaction with the NHE-inhibiting compound or a pharmaceutical
   composition containing it. As used herein, "no substantial interaction" generally means
   that the co-administration of the FAP polymer would not substantially alter (i.e., neither
   substantially decrease nor substantially increase) the pharmacological property of the
   NHE-inhibiting compounds administered alone. For example, FAPs containing negatively
20 charged functionality, such as carboxylates, sulfonates, and the like, may potentially
   interact ionically with positively charged NHE-inhibiting compounds, preventing the
   inhibitor from reaching its pharmacological target. In addition, it may be possible that the
   shape and arrangement of functionality in a FAP could act as a molecular recognition
   element, and sequestor NHE-inhibiting compounds via "host-guest" interactions via the
25 recognition of specific hydrogen bonds and/or hydrophobic regions of a given inhibitor.
   Accordingly, in various embodiments of the present disclosure, the FAP polymer may be
   selected, for co-administration or use with a compound of the present disclosure, to ensure
   that (i) it does not ionically interact with or bind with the compound of the present
   disclosure (by means of, for example, a moiety present therein possessing a charge
30 opposite that of a moiety in the compound itself), and/or (ii) it does not possess a charge
   and/or structural conformation (or shape or arrangement) that enables it to establish a
   "host-guest" interaction with the compound of the present disclosure (by means of, for

    WO 2014/029983                                                           PCT/GB2013/052192
                                                   90
   example, a moiety present therein that may act as a molecular recognition element and
   sequester the NHE inhibitor or inhibiting moiety of the compound).
            D.     Dosage
 5                 It is to be noted that, as used herein, an "effective amount" (or
   "pharmaceutically effective amount") of a compound disclosed herein, is a quantity that
   results in a beneficial clinical outcome of the condition being treated with the compound
   compared with the absence of treatment. The amount of the compound or compounds
   administered will depend on the degree, severity, and type of the disease or condition, the
10 amount of therapy desired, and the release characteristics of the pharmaceutical
   formulation. It will also depend on the subject's health, size, weight, age, sex and tolerance
   to drugs. Typically, the compound is administered for a sufficient period of time to
   achieve the desired therapeutic effect.
                   In embodiments wherein both an NHE-inhibitor compound and a fluid
is absorbing polymer are used in the treatment protocol, the NHE-inhibiting compound and
   FAP may be administered together or in a "dual-regimen" wherein the two therapeutics are
   dosed and administered separately. When the NHE-inhibiting compound and the fluid
   absorbing polymer are dosed separately, the typical dosage administered to the subject in
   need of the NHE-inhibiting compound is typically from about 5 mg per day and about
20 5000 mg per day and, in other embodiments, from about 50 mg per day and about 1000 mg
   per day. Such dosages may induce fecal excretion of sodium (and its accompanying
   anions), from about 10 mmol up to about 250 mmol per day, from about 20 mmol to about
   70 mmol per day or even from about 30 mmol to about 60 mmol per day.
                    The typical dose of the fluid-absorbing polymer is a function of the extent
25 of fecal secretion induced by the non-absorbable NHE-inhibiting compound. Typically the
   dose is adjusted according to the frequency of bowel movements and consistency of the
   stools. More specifically the dose is adjusted so as to avoid liquid stools and maintain stool
   consistency as "soft" or semi-formed, or formed. To achieve the desired stool consistency
   and provide abdominal relief to patients, typical dosage ranges of the fluid-absorbing
30 polymer to be administered in combination with the NHE- inhibiting compound, are from
   about 2 g to about 50 g per day, from about 5 g to about 25 g per day or even from about
    10 g to about 20 g per day. When the NHE-inhibiting compound and the FAP are

    WO 2014/029983                                                             PCT/GB2013/052192
                                                    91
   administered as a single dosage regimen, the daily uptake may be from about 2 g to about
   50 g per day, from about 5 g to about 25 g per day, or from about 10 g to about 20 g per
   day, with a weight ratio of NHE-inhibiting compound to fluid- absorbing polymer being
   from about 1:1000 to 1:10 or even from about 1:500 to 1:5 or about 1:100 to 1:5.
 5                  A typical dosage of the substantially impermeable or substantially
   systemically non-bioavailable, NHE-inhibiting compound when used alone without a FAP
   may be between about 0.2 mg per day and about 2 g per day, or between about 1 mg and
   about 1 g per day, or between about 5 mg and about 500 mg, or between about 10 mg and
   about 250 mg per day, which is administered to a subject in need of treatment.
10                   The frequency of administration of therapeutics described herein may vary
   from once-a-day (QD) to twice-a-day (BID) or thrice-a-day (TID), etc., the precise
   frequency of administration varying with, for example, the patient's condition, the dosage,
   etc. For example, in the case of a dual-regimen, the NHE-inhibiting compound could be
   taken once-a-day while the fluid-absorbing polymer could be taken at each meal (TID).
15 Furthermore, as disclosed in U.S. Application No. 61/584,753 filed January 9, 2012, the
   NHE-inhibiting compound is administered twice-a-day (BID), or thrice-a-day (TID), and
   in a more specific embodiment, the NHE-inhibiting compound is administered in an
   amount ranging from 2-200 mg per dose BID, or 2-100 mg per dose TID. In more specific
   embodiments, the NHE-inhibiting compound is administered in an amount of about 15 mg
20 per dose, about 30 mg per dose, or about 45 mg per dose, and in a more specific
   embodiment, in an amount of 15 mg per dose, 30 mg per dose, or 45 mg per dose.
            E.      Modes of Administration
                     The substantially impermeable or substantially systemically non
25 bioavailable NHE-inhibiting compounds of the present disclosure with or without the
   fluid-absorbing polymers described herein may be administered by any suitable route. The
   compound is preferably administrated orally (e.g., dietary) in capsules, suspensions,
   tablets, pills, dragees, liquids, gels, syrups, slurries, and the like. Methods for encapsulating
   compositions (such as in a coating of hard gelatin or cyclodextran) are known in the art
30 (Baker, et al., "Controlled Release of Biological Active Agents", John Wiley and Sons,
    1986). The compounds can be administered to the subject in conjunction with an
   acceptable pharmaceutical carrier as part of a pharmaceutical composition. The

    WO 2014/029983                                                            PCT/GB2013/052192
                                                   92
   formulation of the pharmaceutical composition will vary according to the route of
   administration selected. Suitable pharmaceutical carriers may contain inert ingredients
   which do not interact with the compound. The carriers are biocompatible, i.e., non-toxic,
   non-inflammatory, non-immunogenic and devoid of other undesired reactions at the
 5 administration site. Examples of pharmaceutically acceptable carriers include, for
   example, saline, commercially available inert gels, or liquids supplemented with albumin,
   methyl cellulose or a collagen matrix. Standard pharmaceutical formulation techniques
   can be employed, such as those described in Remington's Pharmaceutical Sciences, Mack
   Publishing Company, Easton, Pa.
10                 Pharmaceutical preparations for oral use can be obtained by combining a
   compound of the present disclosure with a solid excipient, optionally grinding a resulting
   mixture, and processing the mixture of granules, after adding suitable auxiliaries, if
   desired, to obtain tablets or dragee cores. Suitable excipients are, in particular, fillers such
   as sugars, including lactose, sucrose, mannitol, or sorbitol; cellulose preparations such as,
is for example, maize starch, wheat starch, rice starch, potato starch, gelatin, gum tragacanth,
   methyl cellulose, hydroxypropylmethylcellulose, sodium carboxymethylcellulose, and/or
   polyvinylpyrrolidone (PVP). If desired, disintegrating agents can be added, such as cross
   linked polyvinyl pyrrolidone, agar, or alginic acid or a salt thereof such as sodium alginate.
                   Dragee cores are provided with suitable coatings. For this purpose,
20 concentrated sugar solutions can be used, which can optionally contain gum arabic, talc,
   polyvinyl pyrrolidone, carbopol gel, polyethylene glycol, and/or titanium dioxide, lacquer
   solutions, and suitable organic solvents or solvent mixtures. Dyestuffs or pigments can be
   added to the tablets or dragee coatings for identification or to characterize different
   combinations of active compound doses.
25                 Pharmaceutical preparations which can be used orally include push-fit
   capsules made of a suitable material, such as gelatin, as well as soft, sealed capsules made
   of a suitable material, for example, gelatin, and a plasticizer, such as glycerol or sorbitol.
   The push-fit capsules can contain the active ingredients in admixture with filler such as
   lactose, binders such as starches, and/or lubricants such as talc or magnesium stearate and,
30 optionally, stabilizers. In soft capsules, the active compounds can be dissolved or
   suspended in suitable liquids, such as fatty oils, liquid paraffin, or liquid polyethylene

    WO 2014/029983                                                           PCT/GB2013/052192
                                                   93
   glycols. In addition, stabilizers can be added. All formulations for oral administration
   should be in dosages suitable for such administration.
                    It will be understood that, certain compounds of the disclosure may be
   obtained as different stereoisomers (e.g., diastereomers and enantiomers) or as isotopes and
 5 that the disclosure includes all isomeric forms, racemic mixtures and isotopes of the
   disclosed compounds and a method of treating a subject with both pure isomers and
   mixtures thereof, including racemic mixtures, as well as isotopes. Stereoisomers can be
   separated and isolated using any suitable method, such as chromatography.
10         F.       Delayed Release
                    NHE proteins show considerable diversity in their patterns of tissue
   expression, membrane localization and functional roles. (See, e.g., The sodium-hydrogen
   exchanger - From molecule To Its Role In Disease, Karmazyn, M., Avkiran, M., and
   Fliegel, L., eds., Kluwer Academics (2003).)
15                  In mammals, nine distinct NHE genes (NHE-I through -9) have been
   described. Of these nine, five (NHE-i through -5) are principally active at the plasma
   membrane, whereas NHE-6, -7 and -9 reside predominantly within intracellular
   compartments.
                    NHE-i is ubiquitously expressed and is chiefly responsible for restoration
20 of steady state intracellular pH following cytosolic acidification and for maintenance of
   cell volume. Recent findings show that NHE-I is crucial for organ function and survival
   (e.g., NHE-1-null mice exhibit locomotor abnormalities, epileptic-like seizures and
   considerable mortality before weaning).
                    In contrast with NHE-I expressed at the basolateral side of the nephrons
25 and gut epithelial cells, NHE-2 through -4 are predominantly expressed on the apical side
   of epithelia of the kidney and the gastrointestinal tract. Several lines of evidence show that
   NHE-3 is the major contributor of renal bulk Na+ and fluid re-absorption by the proximal
   tubule. The associated secretion of H+ by NHE-3 into the lumen of renal tubules is also
   essential for about 2/3 of renal HCO3 re-absorption. Complete disruption of NHE-3
30 function in mice causes a sharp reduction in HCO3, Na+ and fluid re-absorption in the
   kidney, which is consistently associated with hypovolemia and acidosis.

    WO 2014/029983                                                          PCT/GB2013/052192
                                                  94
                   In one embodiment, the compounds of the disclosure are intended to target
   the apical NHE antiporters (e.g. NHE-3, NHE-2 and NHE-8) without substantial
   permeability across the layer of gut epithelial cells, and/or without substantial activity
   towards NHEs that do not reside predominantly in the GI tract. This invention provides a
 5 method to selectively inhibit GI apical NHE antiporters and provide the desired effect of
   salt and fluid absorption inhibition to correct abnormal fluid homeostasis leading to
   constipations states. Because of their absence of systemic exposure, said compounds do
   not interfere with other key physiological roles of NHEs highlighted above. For instance,
   the compounds of the disclosure are expected to treat constipation in patients in need
10 thereof, without eliciting undesired systemic effects, such as for example salt wasting or
   bicarbonate loss leading to hyponatriemia and acidosis among other disorders.
                   In another embodiment, the compounds of the disclosure are delivered to
   the small bowel with little or no interaction with the upper GI such as the gastric
   compartment and the duodenum. The applicant found that an early release of the
is compounds in the stomach or the duodenum can have an untoward effect on gastric
   secretion or bicarbonate secretion (also referred to as "bicarbonate dump"). In this
   embodiment the compounds are designed so as to be released in an active form past the
   duodenum. This can be accomplished by either a prodrug approach or by specific drug
   delivery systems.
20                 As used herein, "prodrug" is to be understood to refer to a modified form of
   the compounds detailed herein that is inactive (or significantly less active) in the upper GI,
   but once administered is metabolised in vivo into an active metabolite after getting past,
   for example, the duodenum. Thus, in a prodrug approach, the activity of the NHE
   inhibiting compound can be masked with a transient protecting group that is liberated after
25 compound passage through the desired gastric compartment. For example, acylation or
   alkylation of the essential guanidinyl functionality of the NHE-inhibiting compound would
   render it biochemically inactive; however, cleavage of these functional groups by intestinal
   amidases, esterases, phosphatases, and the like, as well enzymes present in the colonic
   flora, would liberate the active parent compound. Prodrugs can be designed to exploit the
30 relative expression and localization of such phase I metabolic enzymes by carefully
   optimizing the structure of the prodrug for recognition by specific enzymes. As an

    WO 2014/029983                                                             PCT/GB2013/052192
                                                  95
   example, the anti-inflammatory agent sulfasalazine is converted to 5-aminosalicylate in the
   colon by reduction of the diazo bond by intestinal bacteria.
                    In a drug delivery approach the NHE-inhibiting compounds of the
   disclosure are formulated in certain pharmaceutical compositions for oral administration
 5 that release the active in the targeted areas of the GI, i.e., jejunum, ileum or colon, or
   preferably the distal ileum and colon, or even more preferably the colon.
                    Methods known from the skilled-in-the-art are applicable. (See, e.g.,
   Kumar, P. and Mishra, B., Colon Targeted Drug Delivery Systems - An Overview, Curr.
   DrugDeliv., 2008, 5 (3), 186-198; Jain, S. K. and Jain, A., Target-specific Drug Release to
10 the Colon., Expert Opin.Drug Deliv., 2008, 5 (5), 483-498; Yang, L., Biorelevant
   Dissolution Testing of Colon-Specific Delivery Systems Activated by Colonic Microflora,
   J. ControlRelease, 2008, 125 (2), 77-86; Siepmann, F.; Siepmann, J.; Walther, M.;
   MacRae, R. J.; and Bodmeier, R., Polymer Blends for Controlled Release Coatings, J.
   ControlRelease 2008, 125 (1), 1-15; Patel, M.; Shah, T.; and Amin, A., Therapeutic
15 Opportunities in Colon-Specific Drug-Delivery Systems, Crit. Rev. Other.Drug Carrier
   Syst., 2007, 24 (2), 147-202; Jain, A.; Gupta, Y.; Jain, S. K., Perspectives of Biodegradable
   Natural Polysaccharides for Site-specific Drug Delivery to the Colon., J. Pharm. Sci.,
   2007, 10 (1), 86-128; Van den, M. G., Colon Drug Delivery, Expert Opin. DrugDeliv.,
   2006, 3 (1), 111-125; Basit, A. W., Advances in Colonic Drug Delivery, Drugs 2005, 65
20 (14), 1991-2007; Chourasia, M. K.; Jain, S. K., Polysaccharides for Colon-Targeted Drug
   Delivery, DrugDeliv. 2004, 11 (2), 129-148; Shareef, M. A.; Khar, R. K.; Ahuja, A.;
   Ahmad, F. J.; and Raghava, S., Colonic Drug Delivery: An Updated Review, AAPS
   Pharm. Sci. 2003, 5 (2), E17; Chourasia, M. K.; Jain, S. K., Pharmaceutical Approaches to
   Colon Targeted Drug Delivery Systems, J. Pharm. Sci. 2003, 6 (1), 33-66; and, Sinha, V.
25 R.; Kumria, R., Colonic Drug Delivery: Prodrug Approach, Pharm.Res. 2001, 18 (5), 557
   564. Typically the active pharmaceutical ingredient (API) is contained in a tablet / capsule
   designed to release said API as a function of the environment (e.g., pH, enzymatic activity,
   temperature, etc.), or as a function of time. One example of this approach is EudracolTM
   (Pharrna Polymers Business Line of Degussa's Specialty Acrylics Business Unit), where
30 the API-containing core tablet is layered with various polymeric coatings with specific
   dissolution profiles. The first layer ensures that the tablet passes through the stomach
   intact so it can continue through the small intestine. The change from an acidic

    WO 2014/029983                                                           PCT/GB2013/052192
                                                   96
   environment in the stomach to an alkaline environment in the small intestine initiates the
   release of the protective outer layer. As it travels through the colon, the next layer is made
   permeable by the alkalinity and intestinal fluid. This allows fluid to penetrate to the interior
   layer and release the active ingredient, which diffuses from the core to the outside, where it
 5 can be absorbed by the intestinal wall. Other methods are contemplated without departing
   from the scope of the present disclosure.
                   In another example, the pharmaceutical compositions of the invention can
   be used with drug carriers including pectin and galactomannan, polysaccharides that are
   both degradable by colonic bacterial enzymes. (See, e.g., U.S. Pat. No. 6,413,494, the
10 entire contents of which are incorporated herein by reference for all relevant and consistent
   purposes.) While pectin or galactomannan, if used alone as a drug carrier, are easily
   dissolved in simulated gastric fluid and simulated intestinal fluid, a mixture of these two
   polysaccharides prepared at a pH of about 7 or above produces a strong, elastic, and
   insoluble gel that is not dissolved or disintegrated in the simulated gastric and intestinal
is fluids, thus protecting drugs coated with the mixture from being released in the upper GI
   tract. When the mixture of pectin and galactomannan arrives in the colon, it is rapidly
   degraded by the synergic action of colonic bacterial enzymes. In yet another aspect, the
   compositions of the invention may be used with the pharmaceutical matrix of a complex of
   gelatin and an anionic polysaccharide (e.g., pectinate, pectate, alginate, chondroitin sulfate,
20 polygalacturonic acid, tragacanth gum, arabic gum, and a mixture thereof), which is
   degradable by colonic enzymes (U.S. Pat. No. 6,319,518).
                   In yet other embodiments, fluid-absorbing polymers that are administered in
   accordance with treatment methods of the present disclosure are formulated to provide
   acceptable/pleasant organoleptic properties such as mouthfeel, taste, and/or to avoid
25 premature swelling/gelation in the mouth and in the esophagus and provoke choking or
   obstruction. The formulation may be designed in such a way so as to ensure the full
   hydration and swelling of the FAP in the GI tract and avoid the formation of lumps. The
   oral dosages for the FAP may take various forms including, for example, powder,
   granulates, tablets, wafer, cookie and the like, and are most preferably delivered to the
30 small bowel with little or no interaction with the upper GI such as the gastric compartment
   and the duodenum.

     WO 2014/029983                                                         PCT/GB2013/052192
                                                  97
                    The above-described approaches or methods are only some of the many
    methods reported to selectively deliver an active in the lower part of the intestine, and
    therefore should not be viewed to restrain or limit the scope of the disclosure.
  5 IV.     Preparation of Compounds
                    The following Reaction Schemes I-IV illustrate methods for making
    compounds of this invention, i.e., compounds of Formula (I):
                                       Core(    L       NHE) n
10  (I)
    or a stereoisomer, pharmaceutically acceptable salt or prodrug thereof, wherein Core, L
    and NHE are as defined above. In general reaction schemes I-IV, R 1, R 2, R 3, R 4 and R5 are
    as defined above, PG is defined as a protecting group and LG is a leaving group. It is
    understood that one skilled in the art may be able to make these compounds by similar
is  methods or by combining other methods known to one skilled in the art. It is also
    understood that one skilled in the art would be able to make, in a similar manner as
    described below, other compounds of Formula (I) not specifically illustrated below by
    using the appropriate starting components and modifying the parameters of the synthesis as
    needed. In general, starting components may be obtained from sources such as Sigma
20  Aldrich, Lancaster Synthesis, Inc., Maybridge, Matrix Scientific, TCI, and Fluorochem
    USA, etc. or synthesized according to sources known to those skilled in the art (see, for
    example, Advanced Organic Chemistry: Reactions, Mechanisms, and Structure, 5th edition
    (Wiley, December 2000)) or prepared as described in this invention.
25
30

    WO 2014/029983                                                                       PCT/GB2013/052192
                                                            98
   General Reaction Scheme I
         RR                                            1  R3N-R4                 00
                   R,                           R                                 S"N L\N'P       2.
                 -- NHR 3R4                                      OH    HO         S   L
         R1 A           B                             R1 C                                 D
                      '\e     L\    PG                                      0  0
                          N      N
                          H      H                                               N'L NH
              R1                                                              S H'NH   2
                           N,             3-R3R                                               4.
                                                                R1    E~
             1 1                                                 R1
                          0    0  N      0       0 )     0 R0            N R3
                          -~     N    N 'Ocore      N   *N         *
                                 H    H             H    H
             R1  0                                            1      0
                   I  N                         (Ta)N
 5                 Referring to General Reaction Scheme I, an appropriate indene oxide of
   structure A can be purchased or prepared according to methods known in the art and
   combined with an amine (B) to form compounds of the structure C. Compounds of the
   structure A are chiral and the structures drawn reflect the absolute configuration. Either
   enantiomer, or a mixture can be used. C may then be reacted with a phenol of structure D
10 in the presence of triphenylphosphine and an azodicarboxylate such as
   diisopropylazodicarboxylate, diethylazodicarboxylate or di-tert-butylazodicarboxylate.
   After removal of the protecting group, compounds of the structure E are reacted with a
   poly carboxylate or poly isocyanate to give compounds of structure (Ia).
15

   WO 2014/029983                                                                                   PCT/GB2013/052192
                                                                  99
   General Reaction Scheme II
                                                         0
                                                          N'LNH2                         00            0
                                                     R    H                                 S'    L          NO2
                                        RM,  0
                                               Nr                                              N     N
                                            9                                      N           H     H2
    HO2 C
         (+         NO2           RG
                                      I         N                     R1   -!        R3                    2R'      2
                                                                                             S 1 L      ON    2N   R"
                                                                             R1 O1
                      R1      O                    NH2
                                   N              2
           R      ,:NN R                RG                       ~N      R2                        N
                         (Ib)                                                           (2c)
 5                           Compounds of Formula (I) may also be prepared according to General
   Reaction Scheme II. A diacid of the structure F may be reacted with a a compound of the
   structure E in the presence of a carboxylate activation reagent to give a a dimer of structure
   G. Reduction of the nitro group of compound G to a compound of structure (Ib) may be
   accomplished with hydrogen and a suitable catalyst such as palladium on carbon or Raney
10 nickel and the like. Compounds of structure (Ib) may be converted to compounds of
   structure (Ic) with an activated carboxylic acid or anhydride.
   General Reaction Scheme III
                                                HNN          NH2                         0   0         0
                                         S  0       N     H                                      L            NO 2
                                                                   R3 RR    -      z"          HH2
             Ct             +                    N                                 N
                    NO 2          R1                                       *
    H0 2 C
             (
                                                                                                H
                                        RR,
                               lS    L,             NH 2
                   R1   N.'        H    H
           R1:"I          R3
          R    1'
15                        (Id)
                             Alternatively, compounds of Formula (I) may be prepared according to

    WO 2014/029983                                                               PCT/GB2013/052192
                                                   100
   General Reaction Scheme III. A compound of structure E may be reacted with a
   polycarboxylic acid such as 4-(2-carboxyethyl)-4-nitroheptanedioic acid in the presence of
   a carboxylate activation reagent to give a trimeric nitro compound of structure H.
   Reduction of the nitro compound H to a compound of structure (Id) may be accomplished
 5 with hydrogen and a suitable catalyst such as palladium on carbon or Raney nickel and the
   like.
   General Reaction Scheme IV
                                                                 NH-PG
          R1   N-R 4
    RO                 +         NH-PG      1                  R        2.
                  ,
                 "OH +                    -     R1 ~         R3
          RHO                                             N
          R, C               KR,4
                                                    R, L
                     NH2                                               H               H
              RO        2                                              N   L-L         N
                                                                           Y Core'
          RNR3           +_L  GL  Cor  Ls    LG 3.                           RRR
                                     N                   R ,                       (e)   R,
         R1 M
10
                     In another embodiment, compounds of Formula (I) are prepared according
   to General Reaction Scheme IV. An appropriate phenol of structure K is reacted with a
   compound of structure C in the presence of triphenylphosphine and an azodicarboxylate
is such as diisopropylazodicarboxylate, diethylazodicarboxylate or di-tert
   butylazodicarboxylate to form compounds of structure L, wherein PG is a suitable
   protecting group. Removal of the protecting group under appropriate conditions gives
   anilines of the structure M. M is then treated with a compound of the structure N, which
   has both the core and linking groups present, wherein LG is a leaving group, and an
20 appropriate base to produce compounds of the structure (Ie).
                     With regard to General Reaction Schemes I-IV, typical carboxylate
   activation reagents include DCC, EDCI, HATU, oxalyl chloride, thionyl chloride and the
   like. Typical bases include TEA, DIEA, pyridine, K 2 CO 3 , NaH and the like. Typical

    WO 2014/029983                                                             PCT/GB2013/052192
                                                   101
   acylation catalysts include HOBt, HOAt, 4-dimethylaminopyridine and the like. Typical
   catalysts for hydrogenation include palladium on carbon, rhodium on carbon, platinum on
   carbon, raney nickel and the like.
                    One skilled in the art will recognize that variations to the order of the steps
 5 and reagents discussed in reference to the Reaction Schemes are possible. Methodologies
   for preparation of compounds of Formula (I) are described in more detail in the following
   non-limiting exemplary schemes.
                   It will also be appreciated by those skilled in the art that in the process
   described herein the functional groups of intermediate compounds may need to be
10 protected by suitable protecting groups. Such functional groups include hydroxy, amino,
   mercapto and carboxylic acid. Suitable protecting groups for hydroxy include trialkylsilyl
   or diarylalkylsilyl (for example, t-butyldimethylsilyl, t-butyldiphenylsilyl or
   trimethylsilyl), tetrahydropyranyl, benzyl, and the like. Suitable protecting groups for
   amino, amidino and guanidino include t-butoxycarbonyl, benzyloxycarbonyl,
15 trifluoroacetyl and the like. Suitable protecting groups for carboxylic acid include alkyl,
   aryl or arylalkyl esters. Protecting groups may be added or removed in accordance with
   standard techniques, which are known to one skilled in the art and as described herein.
   The use of protecting groups is described in detail in Green, T.W. and P.G.M. Wutz,
   Protective Groups in Organic Synthesis (1999), 3rd Ed., Wiley. As one of skill in the art
20 would appreciate, the protecting group may also be a polymer resin such as a Wang resin,
   Rink resin or a 2-chlorotrityl-chloride resin.
                   It will also be appreciated by those skilled in the art, although such
   protected derivatives of compounds of this invention may not possess pharmacological
   activity as such, they may be administered to a mammal and thereafter metabolized in the
25 body to form compounds of the invention which are pharmacologically active. Such
   derivatives may therefore be described as "prodrugs". All prodrugs of compounds of this
   invention are included within the scope of the invention.
                    The following non-limiting examples are provided to further illustrate the
   present disclosure.
30

    WO 2014/029983                                                         PCT/GB2013/052192
                                                  102
                    EXAMPLES
   Exemplary Compound Synthesis
 5 Intermediate A1
   2(R), 3 (S)-5,7-dichloro- 1H-indene-2,3 -oxide
    CI                        1.             CI             '
          CI                                        CI Intermediate Al
   Scheme Al. 1. (S,S)-(+) Jacobsen salene complex, NaOCl, H2 0, DCM
10
                    Intermediate Al: 2(R), 3 (S)-5,7-dichloro- 1H-indene-2,3 -oxide: 4-(3
   Phenylpropyl)pyridine N-oxide (47 mg, 0.22 mmol) was added to a mixture of 5,7
   dichloro-1H-indene (1.00 g, 5.40 mmol) and (S,S)-(+) N,N'-bis(3,5-di-tert
   butyl salicylidine)- 1,2-cyclohexanediaminomanganese (III) chloride (34 mg, 0.054 mmol)
15 in DCM and stirred for 10 minutes. The reaction mixture was cooled to -3 0 C and water
   (1.25 mL) followed by saturated aqueous K 2 CO 3 (1.25 mL) was added. Aqueous NaOCl
   (~5.7% free chlorine, 14.0 mL) was added dropwise over 5 minutes, and then the pH was
   adjusted to 11-12 by the addition of pH 7.0 phosphate buffer (0.1 M). The mixture was
   vigorously stirred and warmed from -3 0 C to 2 0 C over 4 hours. The reaction mixture was
20 extracted with DCM (3 x 25 mL) and the combined organic extracts were washed with
    15% Na2 S2 0 3 (20 mL), dried (Na2 SO 4) and concentrated. The residue was purified by
   flash chromatography on silica gel (20-30% DCMlhexanes) to give the title compound
   (895 mg) as a light yellow solid. The product was further purified by recrystallization
   from n-heptane (5 mL) to give the title compound (692 mg) as a white powder. See
25 Jacobsen, E.N.; Zhang, W.; Muci, A.R.; Ecker, J.R.; Deng, L. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 1991,
    113, 7063-7064 for Jacobsen epoxidation of indene.
                    The following intermediates were prepared using the procedure used to
   make Intermediate Al, substituting the appropriate indene for 5,7-dichloro-1H-indene:

    WO 2014/029983                                                          PCT/GB2013/052192
                                                    103
                  O                  CI          .
     Intermediate A2                    Intermediate A3
          CI        O.
         Intermediate A4                 Intermediate A5
   Chart 1. Epoxide intermediates prepared as described for intermediate A1
   The required indenes were made by known methods:
 5 Chiba, Shunsuke; Xu, Yan-Jun; Wang, Yi-Feng; J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2009, 131,(36), 12886
   -   12887.
   Musso, David L.; Orr, G. Faye; Cochran, Felicia R.; Kelley, James L.; Selph, Jeffrey L.;
   Rigdon, Greg C.; Cooper, Barrett R.; Jones, Michael L. J. Med. Chem. 2003, 46, (3), 409
   416.
10
   Intermediate B1
   (R)-3 -(tert-butvldiphenvl silvloxv)pyrrolidine
               OH                                  O-TBDPS
           N                                  N
           H                                  H
15 Scheme Bl. 1. TBDPS-Cl, TEA, DCM.
                    Intermediate B1 (R)-3 -(tert-butyldiphenyl silyloxy)pyrrolidine: To a
   solution of R-3-pyrrolidinol (815 mg, 9.35 mmol) and imidazole (640 mg, 9.40 mmol) in
   DCM (20 mL) at 0 C was added TBDPS-chloride (2.58 g, 9.40 mmol) over 5 minutes.
20 After 1 hour the reaction was warmed to RT and stirred for 3 days. The solvent was
   removed at reduced pressure, the residue was dissolved in EtOAc (150 mL) and washed
   with saturated NaHCO 3 (50 mL), water (50 mL) and brine (50 mL), then dried (Na2 SO 4 )

     WO 2014/029983                                                             PCT/GB2013/052192
                                                    104
    and concentrated to dryness under vacuum to give the title compound (3.3g) which was
    used without further purification. MS (m z): 326.0 (M+H)j.
    Intermediate C1
  5 tert-butyl (R)-1-((1R,2R)-4,6-dichloro-2-hydroxy-2,3-dihydro-1H-inden-1-yl)piperidin-3
    vicarbamate
                                                                                  H
                                                                               N    Boc
     CI             p   +          NBoc            -,
                                N                           CI                'OH
           CI                H                                     CI Intermediate C1
    Scheme C1. 1. ACN
10
                    Intermediate Cl: tert-butyl (R)-1-((1R,2R)-4,6-dichloro-2-hydroxy-2,3
    dihydro-1H-inden-1-yl)piperidin-3-ylcarbamate:       A mixture of 2(R), 3(S)-5,7-dichloro-1H
    indene-2,3-oxide (165 mg, 0.82 mmol) and (R)-tert-butyl piperidin-3-ylcarbamate (165
    mg, .082 mmol) in ACN (0.55 mL) was heated at 70 0 C. After 15 hours, the solvent was
is  removed under vacuum to give the title compound (330 mg) which was used without
    further purification. MS (m z): 401.1 (M+H)j.
    Intermediate C2
    (1R,2R)-4,6-dichloro- 1-(pyrrolidin- 1 -vl)-2,3 -dihydro- 1H-inden-2-ol
20
     CI
                                                 .          CI              "'OH
                               H
                                                                   CI Intermediate C2
    Scheme C2. 1. ACN

    WO 2014/029983                                                         PCT/GB2013/052192
                                                105
                   Intermediate C2: (1 R,2R)-4,6-dichloro- 1-(pyrrolidin- 1-yl)-2,3 -dihydro- 1H
   inden-2-ol: A mixture of 2(R), 3(S)-5,7-dichloro-1H-indene-2,3-oxide ( 130 mg, 0.65
   mmol) and pyrrolidine (69 mg, 0.97 mmol) was heated at 70 'C. After 22 hours, additional
   pyrrolidine (69 mg, 0.97 mmol) was added and heating at 70 'C was resumed. After 5
 5 hours, the solvent was removed at reduced pressure and the residue was purified by flash
   chromatography on silica gel (0-100% EtOAc/DCM) to give the title compound (139 mg).
   MS (m z): 272.5 (M+H)j.
   Intermediate C3
10 (1R,2R)-1-(dimethylamino)-2,3-dihydro-1H-inden-2-o
                                                              N-~
                    -.                1.
                 +     NHMe 2                                    'OH
                                                         Intermediate C3
   Scheme C3. 1. H 2 0
15                 Intermediate C3: (1R,2R)-1-(dimethylamino)-2,3-dihydro-1H-inden-2-ol:
   A mixture of indene oxide (58 mg, 0.44 mmol) and 40% aqueous dimethylamine (0.28
   mL) was heated at 50 0 C for 90 minutes. After cooling, DCM (5 mL) was added and the
   mixture was dried (Na2 SO 4) and concentrated. The residue was purified by flash
   chromatography on silica gel (0-15% MeOH/EtOAc) to give the title compound (71 mg).
20 MS (mlz): 178.0 (M+H)j.

    WO 2014/029983                                                           PCT/GB2013/052192
                                                  106
   Intermediate C4
   (1R,2R)- 1-((R)-3 -(tert-butvldiphenvl silvloxv)pyrrolidin- 1-vl)-6-chloro-4-fluoro-2, 3
   dihydro-1H-inden-2-ol
                                                                        O TBDPS
                               -TBDPS      1.      CI             N     O
                                   d                                -'"OH
                          N
           F              HF                                   Intermediate C4
   Scheme C4. 1. ACN
                   Intermediate C4: (1 R,2R)- 1-((R)-3 -(tert-butyldiphenyl silyloxy)pyrrolidin
    1-yl)-6-chloro-4-fluoro-2,3-dihydro-1H-inden-2-ol:     A mixture of 2(R), 3(S)-5-chloro-7
10 fluoro-1H-indene-2,3-oxide (185 mg, 1.0 mmol) and (R)-3-(tert
   butyldiphenylsilyloxy)pyrrolidine (325 mg, 1.0 mmol) in ACN (2.0 mL) was heated at 70
   0C.  After 5 hours, the mixture was cooled and concentrated at reduced pressure. The
   residue was purified by flash chromatography on silica gel (25-60% EtOAc/DCM) to give
   the title compound (202 mg). MS (m z): 510.4 (M+H)j.
15
                   The following intermediates were made by applying the above procedures
   to the appropriate epoxide and amine:

    WO 2014/029983                                                                             PCT/GB2013/052192
                                                             107
                          CI'WOH                CI'."OH         "-OH    CI            "OH      F-,OH
                 I5        Intermediate C6         Intermediate C7       Intermediate C8        Intermediate C9
                                     N                       N-                                           N
                -O        Ci           .'OH       IF             OH     CI             OH
                                       "'OH         -          -1                             CI            -"OH
                                                                        CI                                  "'OHH
                                                F                                                    CI
     Intermediate C10     Intermediate C11        Intermediate C12      Intermediate C13       Intermediate C14
               OTBDPS            Ct fOTBDPS                   NHBoc                    NHBoc
             OH"OH                                        -IOH       CI           -"OH
                             CI                                            IF
     Intermediate C15     Intermediate C16        Intermediate C17      Intermediate C18
   Chart 2. Intermediates prepared as described for intermediate C1-C4
   Intermediate D1
 5 tert-butyl 2-(2-(2-(4-hydroxyphenylsulfonamidoethoxy)ethoxy)ethylcarbamate
              SO3Na    1.                SO3Na 2.                so                    O                       3.
    HO                       BnO                    BnO                       H
                0 0                      H                                                       O       N0
                    NS-O"        O0       'Boc                         HOOHo
                    H                                                  HO            H
      BnO                                                                              Intermediate D1
   Scheme D1. 1. BnBr, NaOH, EtOH, H 20; 2. SOCl 2 ; 3a. TEA, DCM; b. Boc 2 0, DCM; 4.
   H 2, Pd/C
10
                      Sodium 4-Phenoxybenzenesulfonate: A mixture of sodium 4
   hydroxybenzenesulfonate dihydrate (10.1 g, 43.5 mmol) and sodium hydroxide (1.77 g,
   44.3 mmol) in water (22.5 mL) was heated at 50 0 C until a clear solution was obtained. A
   solution of benzyl bromide (7.35 g, 43.0 mmol) in EtOH (18.0 mL) was then added
is dropwise over 5 minutes. The reaction was heated at 80 0 C overnight. The product was
   collected on a Buchner funnel, washed sequentially with ice water (25 mL), EtOH (25 mL)

    WO 2014/029983                                                        PCT/GB2013/052192
                                                 108
   and MTBE (25 ml) and then dried under vacuum to give the title compound (10.6 g) as a
   white powder.
                   4-Phenoxybenzenesulfonyl chloride: A mixture of sodium 4
   phenoxybenzenesulfonate (1.00 g, 3.5 mmol), thionyl chloride (6.54 g, 55 mmol) and DMF
 5 (50 ptL) was heated at 70 'C for 2 hours. The reaction was cooled and concentrated at
   reduced pressure. The residue was dissolved in ethyl acetate (75 mL) and washed with
   water (3 x 25 mL), saturated aqueous NaHCO 3 (3 x 25 mL) and brine (25 mL). The
   organic layer was dried (Na2SO 4) and concentrated to give the title compound (0.98 g) as a
   white powder.
10                 tert-Butyl 2-(2-(2-(4-(benzyloxy)phenylsulfonamido)ethoxy)ethoxy)
   ethylcarbamate: A solution of 4-phenoxybenzenesulfonyl chloride (500 mg, 1.77 mmol) in
   DCM (5.0 mL) was added dropwise to a solution of 2,2'-(ethane-1,2
   diylbis(oxy))diethanamine (1.31 g, 8.84 mmol) and triethylamine (179 mg, 1.77 mmol) in
   DCM at 0 'C. The ice bath was removed and the reaction stirred at RT for 1 hour. DCM
is (25 mL) was added and the reaction was washed with water (3 x 25 mL) and brine (25
   mL). The organic layer was concentrated and the residue was dissolved in DCM (10 mL).
   A solution of di-tert-butyl dicarbonate (5.45 g, 2.5 mmol) was added and the reaction was
   stirred for 30 minutes. The reaction mixture was concentrated at reduced pressure and the
   residue was purified by flash chromatography (50-75% EtOAc/Hexane) to give the title
20 compound (790 mg).
                   Intermediate D1: tert-Butyl 2-(2-(2-(4
   hydroxyphenylsulfonamido)ethoxy)ethoxy)ethylcarbamate:        A mixture of tert-butyl 2-(2
   (2-(4-(benzyloxy)phenylsulfonamido)ethoxy)ethoxy)ethylcarbamate (790 mg, 1.60 mmol)
   and 10% Pd/C (160 mg, containing 50% water, 80 mg dry weight) in MeOH (15 mL) was
25 stirred under one atm of H 2 for 1 hour. The reaction mixture was filtered, concentrated and
   purified by flash chromatography on silica gel (50-80% EtOAc/hexanes) to give the title
   compound (660 mg) as a thick oil that solidified on standing. MS (m z): 404.7 (M+H).

    WO 2014/029983                                                           PCT/GB2013/052192
                                                     109
   Intermediate D2
   tert-butvl 2-(2-(2-(2-(4-hydroxvphenvlsulfonamido)ethoxy)ethoxy)ethoxy)ethylcarbamate
                                                             01.                                2a.
                SO2CH2N    'O,,-.--O---,.A,''' N3                         O'   ',H^N             a
    BnO           +                                    BnO'C>
                            'S'00
              S   -sO               ,-^NH2        2b             S   -sNO              O'-'N.o
                                                           HO C    H Intermediate D2           H
        HO
   Scheme D2. 1. TEA, DCM; 2a. H 2 , Pd/C; 2b. Boc 2 0, DCM
                     N-(2-(2-(2-(2-azidoethoxy)ethoxy)ethoxy)ethyl)-4-(benzyloxy)
   benzenesulfonamide: A solution of 4-phenoxybenzenesulfonyl chloride (480 mg, 1.70
10 mmol) in DCM (5.0 mL) was added dropwise to a solution of 2-(2-(2-(2
   azidoethoxy)ethoxy)ethoxy)ethanamine (414 mg, 1.90 mmol) and triethylamine (179 mg,
    1.77 mmol) in DCM (5 mL). After 15 minutes, DCM (25 mL) was added and the reaction
   was washed with water (25 mL) and brine (25 mL), dried (Na2 SO 4) and concentrated. The
   residue was purified by flash chromatography on silica gel (50-80% EtOAc/hexanes) to
is give the title compound (625 mg).
                     Intermediate D2: tert-Butyl 2-(2-(2-(2-(4
   hydroxyphenylsulfonamido)ethoxy)ethoxy)ethoxy)ethylcarbamate:           A mixture of N-(2-(2
   (2-(2-azidoethoxy)ethoxy)ethoxy)ethyl)-4-(benzyloxy)benzenesulfonamide            (625 mg, 1.34
   mmol) and 10% Pd/C (150 mg, containing 50% water, 75 mg dry weight) in MeOH (13
20 mL) was stirred under one atm of H 2 for 4 hour. The reaction mixture was filtered and
   concentrated at reduced pressure. The residue was dissolved in DCM (5 mL) and a
   solution of di-tert-butyl dicarbonate (305 mg, 1.4 mmol) in DCM (5 mL) was added
   slowly. After 90 minutes, the reaction mixture was concentrated and the residue was
   purified by flash chromatography on silica gel (50-100% EtOAc/DCM) to give the title
25 compound (378 mg). MS (m z): 448.7 (M+H)j.

    WO 2014/029983                                                            PCT/GB2013/052192
                                                   110
   Intermediate D3
   Phenol-3 2,2,2-trifluoro-N-(2-(2-(2-(4
   hydroxyphenylsulfonamido)ethoxy)ethoxy)ethyl)acetamide
 5
               S020
               so                                1a.          0-0                         l b.
                                ,--  -,,NH             BnOC               ''O     NH2
     BnO+      S      H2 N   --       0    2
                  00H                  IF                    0**,,                  H  F
              S'      O,''^'OFF                2.               S     O             N
    BnO                             0                  HO           Intermediate D3
   Scheme D3. la. TEA, DCM; b. TFAA, TEA, DCM; 2. H 2 , Pd/C
                    N-(2-(2-(2-(4-(benzyloxy)phenylsulfonamido)ethoxy)ethoxy)ethyl)-2,2,2
10 trifluoroacetamide: A solution of 4-phenoxybenzenesulfonyl chloride (282 mg, 1.0 mmol)
   in DCM (5 mL) was added dropwise to a solution of 2,2'-(ethane-1,2
   diylbis(oxy))diethanamine (740 mg, 5.0 mmol) in DCM (5 mL). After 30 minutes, the
   reaction mixture was concentrated at reduced pressure, dissolved in EtOAc (50 mL) and
   washed with water (4 x 10 mL). The organic layer was dried (Na 2 SO 4) and concentrated.
is The resulting oil was dissolved in DCM (10 mL) and triethylamine (131 mg, 1.30 mmol) at
   0 0C. Trifluoroacetic anhydride (252 mg, 1.20 mmol) was added dropwise and the reaction
   was stirred at 0 0 C. After 30 minutes, the reaction mixture was concentrated and purified
   by flash chromatography on silica gel (50-75% EtOAc/hexanes) to give the title compound
   (501 mg).
20                  Intermediate D3: 2,2,2-trifluoro-N-(2-(2-(2-(4
   hydroxyphenylsulfonamido)ethoxy)ethoxy)ethyl)acetamide:         A mixture of N-(2-(2-(2-(4
   (benzyloxy)phenylsulfonamido)ethoxy)ethoxy)ethyl)-2,2,2-trifluoroacetamide         (501 mg,
    1.0 mmol) and 10% Pd/C (100 mg, containing 50% water, 50 mg dry weight) in MeOH (7
   mL) was stirred under one atm of H 2 for 1 hour. The reaction mixture was then filtered
25 and concentrated at reduced pressure. The residue was purified by flash chromatography
   (50-100% EtOAc/hexanes) to give the title compound (320 mg). MS (m z): 400.9 (M+H)j.

    WO 2014/029983                                                          PCT/GB2013/052192
                                                 111
   Intermediate El
   N-(2-(2-(2-aminoethoxy)ethoxy)ethyl)-4-((1S,2S)-4,6-dichloro-2-(dimethylamino)-2,3
   dihydro-1H-inden-1-yloxy)benzenesulfonamide
                CN-             O"O          s    H          1.
                   "OH             H                 oc
           CI
                     0"0                H0"
                                     I -__-O-N                           , -- ,O,     0 -'--N  H2
              O                 ''        B 2.                                      '
                                                                                    El
                                                                       Intermediate
   Scheme El. 1. DIAD, PPh 3, TIF; 2. TFA, DCM
                     N-(2-(2-(2-aminoethoxy)ethoxy)ethyl)-4-((1S,2S)-4,6-dichloro-2
   (dimethylamino)-2,3-dihydro-1H-inden-1-yloxy)benzenesulfonamide:           A solution of
10 diisopropylazodicarboxylate (210 mg, 1.04 mmol) in THF (0.60 mL) was added over 45
   minutes to a solution of (1R,2R)-4,6-dichloro-1-(dimethylamino)-2,3-dihydro-1H-inden-2
   ol (236 mg, 0.96 mmol), tert-butyl 2-(2-(2-(4
   hydroxyphenylsulfonamido)ethoxy)ethoxy)ethylcarbamate (360 mmol, 0.90 mmol) and
   PPh 3 (272 mg, 1.04 mmol) in THF (1.00 mL). After 16 hours, the solvent was removed at
is reduced pressure and the residue was purified by flash chromatography on silica gel (50
    100% EtOAc/hexanes then 2-10% MeOH/EtOAc to give the title compound (510 mg).
                     Intermediate El: N-(2-(2-(2-aminoethoxy)ethoxy)ethyl)-4-((1S,2S)-4,6
   dichloro-2-(dimethylamino)-2,3-dihydro-1H-inden-1-yloxy)benzenesulfonamide:              N-(2-(2
   (2-aminoethoxy)ethoxy)ethyl)-4-((1S,2S)-4,6-dichloro-2-(dimethylamino)-2,3-dihydro
20  1H-inden-1-yloxy)benzenesulfonamide (510 mg, 0.81 mmol) was dissolved in DCM (1.0
   mL) and TFA (1.0 mL) was added. After 30 minutes, the solvents were removed at
   reduced pressure and the residue was purified by reverse phase HPLC (ACN/water/0. 1%
   TFA). The resulting TFA salt was added to 10% Na 2 CO 3 (5 mL) and extracted with DCM
   (4 x 25 mL). The combined organic extracts were dried and concentrated to give the title
25 compound (295 mg). MS (m z): 532.1 (M+H)j.

   WO 2014/029983                                                                               PCT/GB2013/052192
                                                           112
                       The following intermediates were prepared from the appropriate
  intermediates C and D using the route shown to make intermediate El:
                           H                                             H
   ci              N           Inermediate E2          CI        N              Inermediate E10
                   NCI                                           N
               i       0_0                                F
                           'N                                       00
               p'Y             -,O,
                                H          o^,,H                      'S'N --      O     --      NH2
    CI                          Inermediate E3                           H     Inermediate El
              o1 0-0,0                                                       D
  CINC                           Inermediate E411
                 C OTTBDPS-H
         CI                                                    DnermdiaeE Inermediate E12
                         S        O           ,NH2
                          H-K                                       0-0
                                 Inermediate E5                          N
                                   N                                     H
                                                       CI        ND           Inermediate E13
                      SN     O_,-          ^NH2
                               Inermediate E6                       0 0
                     N                 'N       'OO
                                                NH2NCI                   N       'O,,----s  -H2NH2
                          H                                      N            Inermediate E14
                 N~              Inermediate E7
                                     0_0OJ                             S N       ',O, --       ,N H2
                         N'                                             S.NO-_HNH2
                                                                         H
                         HO
                                Intermediate E8         F        ND            Inermediate E15
                        00
                           S         ,,,--       ,NH2                    N
                                                                       SNO               O       NH2
                             N                                           H
                         NI H
      CI             NIr                  da  EFN/                             Inermediate E16
            h    3                Inermediate E9
            F
5 Chart 3. Intermediates prepared as described for intermediate El

    WO 2014/029983                                                            PCT/GB2013/052192
                                                    113
   Intermediate E17
   tert-butyl (R)-1-((1S,2S)-1-(4-(N-(2-(2-(2-aminoethoxy)ethoxy)ethyl)sulfamovl)phenoxv)
   4,6-dichloro-2,3-dihydro-1H-inden-2-vl)piperidin-3-vlcarbamate
                        Boc                          H  FF     1
      CI         N                                   N
                   O      HO        H
            CI
                           00H               FE                          0,,O
                                         S                 N              - ,  - ,,     O2.OANH2
                                            'F                          I"C H
                                                          C11
               p                           0        2.
                                                                     NQ CN-Boc      Intermediate E17
                    HN-Boc                                    CH
 5       CI
   Scheme E17. 1. DIAD, PPh 3, Tf;         2. NaOH, MeOH, H 2 0
                     tert-butyl (R)-1-((1S,2S)-4,6-dichloro-1-(4-(N-(2-(2-(2-(2,2,2
   trifluoroacetamido)ethoxy)ethoxy)ethyl)sulfamoyl)phenoxy)-2,3-dihydro-1H-inden-2
10 yl)piperidin-3-ylcarbamate: A solution of diisopropylazodicarboxylate (73 mg, 0.36
   mmol) in THF (0.30 mL) was added over 30 minutes to a solution of tert-butyl (R)-1
   ((1R,2R)-4,6-dichloro-2-hydroxy-2,3-dihydro-1H-inden-1-yl)piperidin-3-ylcarbamate                 (120
   mg, 0.30 mmol), 2,2,2-trifluoro-N-(2-(2-(2-(4
   hydroxyphenylsulfonamido)ethoxy)ethoxy)ethyl)acetamide (120 mg, 0.30 mmol) and PPh 3
15 (94 mg, 0.36 mmol) in THF (0.60 mL). After stirring 30 minutes, the solvent was removed
   at reduced pressure and the residue was purified by flash chromatography on silica gel (50
    100% EtOAc/hexanes) to give the title compound (285 mg).
                    Intermediate E17: tert-butyl (R)-1-((1S,2S)-i-(4-(N-(2-(2-(2
   aminoethoxy)ethoxy)ethyl)sulfamoyl)phenoxy)-4,6-dichloro-2,3-dihydro-1H-inden-2
20 yl)piperidin-3-ylcarbamate: tert-Butyl (R)-1-((1 S,2S)-4,6-dichloro-1-(4-(N-(2-(2-(2-(2,2,2
   trifluoroacetamido)ethoxy)ethoxy)ethyl)sulfamoyl)phenoxy)-2,3-dihydro-1H-inden-2
   yl)piperidin-3-ylcarbamate (285 mg, 0.3 mmol) was dissolved in MeOH ( 0.9 mL) and 3N
   NaOH (0.3 mL. 0.9 mmol) was added. After stirring for 1 hour, the solvent was removed
   at reduced pressure and the residue was purified by reverse phase HPLC (ACN/water/0. 1%
25 TFA). The resulting TFA salt was added to 10% Na 2 CO 3 (5 mL) and extracted with DCM

    WO 2014/029983                                                           PCT/GB2013/052192
                                                   114
   (3 x 10 mL). The combined organic extracts were dried and concentrated to give the title
   compound (132 mg). MS (m z): 687.1 (M+H)j.
                   The following intermediates were prepared from the intermediate D3 using
 5 the route shown to make Intermediate E17:
                  S N       O ,-O-,NH2                                .   -,O      .,O--NH2
                     H                                            I'Y H
                         Intermediate E18           CI                        Intermediate E19
                           N                                   N
                HN-Boc                                         NQ
                                                         F         HN-Boc
   Intermediate E20
10 N-(2-(2-(2-aminoethoxy)ethoxy)ethyl)-4-((1S,2S)-4,6-dichloro-2-(dimethylamino)-2,3
   dihydro-1H-inden-1-yloxy)-N-methylbenzenesulfonamide
                  0_0                     H                          0_,O
                    SS      O    O      -Boc                            '        O
                       H                      1.               O           I
    CI                                                 CI          /
                                                                        Intermediate E20
        CI                                                 CI
   Scheme E20. 1. MeOH, DIAD, PPh3, TIF; lb. TFA, DCM
15
                  Intermediate E20: N-(2-(2-(2-aminoethoxy)ethoxy)ethyl)-4-((1S,2S)-4,6
   dichloro-2-(dimethylamino)-2,3-dihydro-1H-inden-1-yloxy)-N
   methylbenzenesulfonamide:        A solution of DIAD (50 mg, 0.25 mmol) in THF (0.15 mL)
   was added over 30 minutes to a solution of tert-butyl 2-(2-(2-(4-((1S,2S)-4,6-dichloro-2
20 (dimethylamino)-2,3-dihydro-1H-inden-1
   yloxy)phenylsulfonamido)ethoxy)ethoxy)ethylcarbamate (286 mg, 1.32 mmol), MeOH
   (7.3 mg, 0.23 mmol) and PPh 3 (70 mg, 0.27 mmol) in THF (0.4 mL). After 4 hours
   additional DIAD (21 mg) was added. After a further 1 hour the reaction mixture was
   concentrated under vacuum and purified by flash chromatography (12 g Si0 2 , 0->100%
25 EtOAc in DCM over 20 minutes) to give the Boc-protected title compound (99 mg).

    WO 2014/029983                                                       PCT/GB2013/052192
                                                 115
   Trifluoroacetic acid (1 mL) was added to a solution of the Boc-protected material in DCM
   (1.5 mL). After 10 minutes the reaction mixture was concentrated under vacuum and
   purified by reverse phase HPLC (ACN/water/0. 1% TFA) to give a TFA salt of the title
   compound (77.2 mg). This salt was diluted in DCM (2 mL) and neutralized with aqueous
 5 Na2 CO 3 . The aqueous layer was extracted with DCM (8 x 5 mL) and dried over Na2 SO 4 to
   give the free base of the title compound (60.5 mg). MS: 546.31 (M+H).
                                          EXAMPLE 1
   (SS)-NN'-(10,17-dioxo-3,6,21,24-tetraoxa-9,11,16,18-tetraazahexacosane-1,26
10 diyl)bis(4-((1S,2S)-4,6-dichloro-2-(dimethylamino)-2,3-dihydro-1H-inden-1
   yloxy)benzenesulfonamide)
                      0"0                   NH2
                            -,,   ,,,O,,,H           N
                        S'N,:O
                                                                  NCO
               C  cN/     H                      +     OCN
        CI
         CI
                         0-0 ,                 H    H          0                   H0
        CI
                      N
                                                         Example                     ,O
              CI                                                          CI
                                                                                CI
   Scheme 1. 1. DMF
15
                    Example 1: (S,S)-N,N'-(10,17-dioxo-3,6,21,24-tetraoxa-9,11,16,18
   tetraazahexacosane-1,26-diyl)bis(4-((1S,2S)-4,6-dichloro-2-(dimethylamino)-2,3-dihydro
    1H-inden-1-yloxy)benzenesulfonamide): 1,4-Diisocyanatobutane (5.6 mg, 0.040 mmol)
   was added to a solution of N-(2-(2-(2-aminoethoxy)ethoxy)ethyl)-4-((1S,2S)-4,6-dichloro
20 2-(dimethylamino)-2,3-dihydro-1H-inden-1-yloxy)benzenesulfonamide       (43 mg, 0.080
   mmol) in DMF (0.80 mL). After 3 hours, the reaction mixture was concentrated under
   vacuum and purified by reverse phase IPLC (ACN/water/0. 1% TFA) to give a TFA salt of
   the title compound (44 mg). 1H-NMR (400 MHz, CD 30D): 6 7.91 (d, J= 9.0 Hz, 4H),

   WO 2014/029983                                                                PCT/GB2013/052192
                                                     116
   7.51 (d, J    1.4 Hz, 2H), 7.35 (d, J= 9.0 Hz, 4H), 7.10 (d, J        1Hz, 2H), 6.45 (d, J= 6.6
   Hz), 4.41 (dd, J1 ,2= 15.5 Hz, J1 ,3= 8.6 Hz, 2H), 6.65 (dd, J1 ,2= 16.7 Hz, J1 ,3= 8.7 Hz, 2H),
   3.57-3.50 (m, 8H), 3.48 (t, J= 5.3 Hz, 8H), 3.27-3.19 (m, 6H), 3.07 (m, 8H), 3.02 (s,
   12H), 1.44 (m, 4H). MS (m z): 1203.0 (M+H)j.
 5
                                             EXAMPLE 2
   (S, S)-NN'-(2,2'-(2,2'-(2,2'-(1,4
   phenylenebis(azanediyl))bis(oxomethylene)bis(azanediyl)bis(ethane-2, 1
   diyl))bis(oxy)bis(ethane-2, 1-diyl))bis(oxy)bis(ethane-2, 1-diyl))bis(4-((1 S,2S)-4,6
10 dichloro-2-(dimethylamino)-2,3-dihydro-1H-inden-1-yloxy)benzenesulfonamide)
                   0-0
                       S     _O,-   'O,-,NH2
                        H                        +     OCN
                ND                                                 NCO
                                         H    H
                            'N                           0                     H 0
                                          ONNN         NN                      HN
                      H                     O   a      N 1N       O    O0--    N
                                                       H H
                                                        Example 2                             N
   Scheme 2. 1. DMF
is                  Example 2: (S,S)-N,N'-(2,2'-(2,2'-(2,2'-(1,4
   phenylenebis(azanediyl))bis(oxomethylene)bis(azanediyl)bis(ethane-2,1
   diyl))bi s(oxy)bi s(ethane-2, 1-diyl))bi s(oxy)bi s(ethane-2, 1-diyl))bi s(4-((1S,2 S)-2-(piperidin
   1-yl)-2,3-dihydro-1H-inden-1-yloxy)benzenesulfonamide):            1,4-Diisocyanatobenzene (5.9
   mg, 0.037 mmol) was added to a solution of N-(2-(2-(2-aminoethoxy)ethoxy)ethyl)-4
20 ((1 S,2S)-2-(piperidin- 1-yl)-2,3 -dihydro- 1H-inden- 1-yloxy)benzenesulfonamide (39 mg,
   0.073 mmol) in DMF (0.40 mL). After 40 minutes, the reaction mixture was concentrated
   under vacuum and purified by reverse phase HPLC (ACN/water/0. 1% TFA) to give a TFA

    WO 2014/029983                                                                   PCT/GB2013/052192
                                                       117
   salt of the title compound (29 mg). 111 NMR (400 MHz, CD 30D) 6 7.87 (d, J= 8.4 Hz,
   21H), 7.44 - 7.32 (m, 31H), 7.29 (d, J= 8.7 Hz, 2H), 7.26 - 7 12 (m, 51-)          6.34 (d, J= 6.3 H z,
    1H), 4.26 (dd, J       15.0, 8.2 Hz, 2H), 3.67 - 3.57 (m, 10H), 3.57 -3.49 (m, 6H), 3.46 (t, J=
   5.4 H1z, 4H-), 3 33 (t, J       5.2 Hz, 3 1),3.26 - 3.17 (in, 21-1), 3.16 - 3.09 (m, 2H), 3.05 (t,   -
 5 5.4 Hz, 3H), 2.04 - 1.64- (m, 7H), 1.53 (s, 2H). MS 1255.21 (M+H).
                                                EXAMPLE 3
   (S,S,R)-NN'-(10,17-dioxo-3,6,21,24-tetraoxa-9,11,16,18-tetraazahexacosane-1,26
   diyl)bis(4-((1 S,2 S)-2-((R)-3 -aminopiperidin- 1-yl)-4,6-dichloro-2,3 -dihydro- 1H-inden- 1
10 yloxy)benzenesulfonamide)
                       0-0
                                                                                         1       2.
                                     O O        NH2
                     O S H-                          +    OCN            NCO0
    C   I          N
          CI           HN-Boc
                           0 O                      H H             0                      H
                              S'N' -,O     -O--N YN,                 N N-,O'''^O--N
                                                     0            H H
                   CI
                    -H
              Cl       NQ
                                                            Example3                         ,O
             CI              NH2                                                 C  I           NQ
                                                                                      CI            NH2
   Scheme 3. 1. DMF; 2. TFA, DCM
is                    Example 3: (S,S,R)-N,N'-(10,17-dioxo-3,6,21,24-tetraoxa-9,11,16,18
   tetraazahexacosane- 1,26-diyl)bis(4-((1 S,2S)-2-((R)-3 -aminopiperidin- 1 -yl)-4,6-dichloro
   2,3-dihydro-1H-inden-1-yloxy)benzenesulfonamide):               1,4-Diisocyanatobutane (6.7 mg,
   0.048 mmol) was added to a solution of tert-butyl (R)-1-((1S,2S)-1-(4-(N-(2-(2-(2
   aminoethoxy)ethoxy)ethyl)sulfamoyl)phenoxy)-4,6-dichloro-2,3-dihydro-1H-inden-2
20 yl)piperidin-3-ylcarbamate (66 mg, 0.096 mmol) in DMF (0.90 mL). After 30 minutes, the
   solvent was concentrated under vacuum. The residue was dissolved in DCM (0.5 mL) and
   TFA (0.5 mL) was added. After 30 minutes, the solvents were removed under reduced
   pressure and the residue was purified by reverse phase IPLC (ACN/water/0. 1% TFA) to

    WO 2014/029983                                                             PCT/GB2013/052192
                                                     118
   give a TFA salt of the title compound (55 mg). 1H-NMR (400 MHz, CD 30D): 6 7.86 (d, J
    = 9.0 Hz, 4H), 7.42 (d, J    1.8 Hz, 2H), 7.29 (d, J     9.0 Hz, 4H), 7.12 (d, J    1.2 Hz, 2H),
   6.12 (d, J    5.7 Hz), 3.80 (dd, J1 ,2= 13.5 Hz, J1 ,3= 7.6 Hz, 2H), 3.57-3.51 (m, 8H), 3.48 (t,
   J= 5.7 Hz, 8H), 3.39 (m, 2H), 3.31 (m, 2H), 3.28-3.25 (m, 4H), 3.09-3.00 (m, 12H), 2.84
 5 (m, 2H), 2.73-2.66 (m, 4H), 1.96-1.86 (m, 4H), 1.72-1.68 (m, 4H), 1.60-1.57 (m, 4H), 1.44
   (m, 4H). MS (m z): 1313.3 (M+H)j.
                                            EXAMPLE 4
   (S,S,R)-NN'-(10,17-dioxo-3,6,21,24-tetraoxa-9,11,16,18-tetraazahexacosane-1,26
10 divl)bis(4-((1 S,2 S)-6-chloro-4-fluoro-2-((R)-3 -hydroxypyrrolidin- 1-vl)-2,3 -dihydro- 1H
   inden-1-yloxy)benzenesulfonamide)
                      0-0
                   0    s'       O            NH 21
                           H                        +    OCN ".       NCO             2.
               o
                    IN   OTBDPS
         F
                       0.O                     H H              O                    H
                         ' N   O,              NY N           N   N     O-         , N
                           H                                  H   H
               O
    CI         '
                   NaOH                            Example 4
          F                                                                 CI
                                                                                 F              H
   Scheme 4. 1. DMF; 2. Bu 4NF, THF
15
                    Example 4: (S,S,R)-N,N'-(10,17-dioxo-3,6,21,24-tetraoxa-9,11,16,18
   tetraazahexacosane-1,26-diyl)bis(4-((1S,2S)-6-chloro-4-fluoro-2-((R)-3
   hydroxypyrrolidin- 1-yl)-2,3 -dihydro- 1H-inden- 1-yloxy)benzenesulfonamide): 1,4
   Diisocyanatobutane (11 mg, 0.080 mmol) was added to a solution of N-(2-(2-(2
20 aminoethoxy)ethoxy)ethyl)-4-((l S,2S)-2-((R)-3 -(tert-butyldiphenyl silyloxy)pyrrolidin- 1
   yl)-6-chloro-4-fluoro-2,3-dihydro-1H-inden-1-yloxy)benzenesulfonamide           (249 mg, 0.31
   mmol) in DMF (2.0 mL). After 2 hours, the reaction was concentrated under vacuum and
   the residue was purified by reverse phase HPLC (ACN/water/0. 1% TFA). The resulting

     WO 2014/029983                                                            PCT/GB2013/052192
                                                    119
    TFA salt was added to 10% Na2 CO 3 (10 mL) and extracted with DCM (3 x 15 mL). The
    combined organic phases were dried (Na2SO 4) and concentrated to give the intermediate
    free base (105 mg). The free base was dissolved in THF (0.6 mL) and IM Bu 4NF in THF
    (0.3 mL, 0.3 mmol) was added. After stirring for 3 hours, the reaction mixture was added
  5 to DCM (50 mL), washed with saturated Na2 CO 3 (25 mL) and water (2 x 25 mL), dried
    (Na2 SO 4) and concentrated.    The residue was purified by reverse phase HPLC
    (ACN/water/0.1% TFA) to give a TFA salt of the title compound (64 mg). 1H-NMR (400
    MVUlz, CD 30D): 6 7.91 (d, J     9.0 Hz, 4H), 7.34 (d, J    9.0 Hz, 4H), 7.26 (dd, JI, 2 = 8.6
    Hz, Ji,3 =1.4 Hz, 2H), 7.00 (s, 2H), 6.40 (d, J    6.8 Hz, 2H), 4.56 (s, 2H), 4.44 (m, 2H),
10  3.71-3.65 (m, 6H), 3.57-3.50 (m, 1OH), 3.49-3.44 (m, 1OH), 3.28-3.24 (m, 4H), 3.21-3.13
    (m, 2H), 3.11-3.05 (m, 8H), 2.30 (br s, 2H), 2.09-2.04 (m, 2H), 1.44 (m, 4H). MS (m z):
     1255.4 (M+H)+.
                                           EXAMPLE 5
15  (2R,3R)-N1,N4-bis(2-(2-(2-(4-((1 S,2S)-4,6-dichloro-2-(dimethylamino)-2,3-dihydro-1H
    inden-1-yloxy)phenylsulfonamido)ethoxy)ethoxy)ethyl)-2,3-dihydroxysuccinamide
                      0"0
                      I  S.N -
                           H
                                O-o--NH          2       0        OH O                 1.
     C                                                         0    OH       0
          CI
              -   "                           H    OHO                       HO~N     CI          C
       CI       C       O                       0    OHH        OI
                                                               Example 5                 0
    Scheme 5. 1. DMF
20
                    Example 5: ((2R,3R)-N1,N4-bis(2-(2-(2-(4-((1S,2S)-4,6-dichloro-2
    (dimethylamino)-2,3-dihydro-1H-inden-1-yloxy)phenylsulfonamido)ethoxy)ethoxy)ethyl)
    2,3-dihydroxysuccinamide: L-Disuccinimidyl tartrate (12.7 mg, 0.037 mmol) was added
    to a solution of N-(2-(2-(2-aminoethoxy)ethoxy)ethyl)-4-((1S,2S)-4,6-dichloro-2-

   WO 2014/029983                                                           PCT/GB2013/052192
                                                   120
   (dimethylamino)-2,3-dihydro-1H-inden-1-yloxy)benzenesulfonamide          (39 mg, 0.073
   mmol) in DMF (0.40 mL). After 1 hour a second portion of L-disuccinimidyl tartrate (5.6
   mg) was added, followed by a third portion of L-DST (2.0 mg). After an additional 30
   minutes, the reaction mixture was concentrated under vacuum and purified by reverse
 5 phase HPLC (ACN/water/0. 1% TFA) to give a TFA salt of the title compound (26 mg).
   1H- NMR (400 MHz, CD 3 OD) 6 7.91 (d, J = 8.7Hz,2H),
                                                                7.50 (sIH), 7.34 (d, J = 8.8 Hz,
   2H), 7.09 (s, 1H), 6.43 - 6.37 (m, 1H), 4.44(s, IH), 4.37 - 4.27 (m, 1H), 3.66 - 3.58 (m,
   1H), 3.58 - 3.51 (m,4H), 347 (dd, J= 10.9, 5.7 Hz, 411), 340 (s, 111), 3"22 -3 16 (n,1H),
   3.09 (dd, J= 11.1, 5.6 Hz, 3H), 2.96 (s, 6H), 2.01 (s, iH). MS 1177.3 (M+H).
10
                                           EXAMPLE 6
   NiN4-bis(2-(2-(2-(4-((1 S,2S)-2-(piperidin- 1-yl)-2,3 -dihydro- 1H-inden- 1
   yloxy)phenylsulfonamido)ethoxy)ethoxy)ethyl)terephthalamide
                   0-0
                     S        O      O      NH2
                        H                        +              COOH
               ND                                   HOOC
                                                      0                    H
                       'NH                              N     O-a
                          ,SN O       0 -N    N~        H                   6
                        H                    O                    Example 6           0
15
   Scheme 6. 1. HATU, DIEA, DMF
                   Example 6: N1,N4-bis(2-(2-(2-(4-((1 S,2S)-2-(piperidin- 1-yl)-2,3 -dihydro
   1H-inden-1-yloxy)phenylsulfonamido)ethoxy)ethoxy)ethyl)terephthalamide:          HATU (24.7
20 mg, 0.065 mmol) was added to a solution of N-(2-(2-(2-aminoethoxy)ethoxy)ethyl)-4
   ((1 S,2S)-2-(piperidin- 1-yl)-2,3 -dihydro- 1H-inden- 1-yloxy)benzenesulfonamide (30 mg,
   0.059 mmol), terephthalic acid (5.0 mg, 0.030 mmol), and DIEA (8.4 mg, 0.065 mmol) in
   DMF (0.3 mL). After 45 minutes, the reaction mixture was concentrated under vacuum
   and purified by reverse phase IPLC (ACN/water/0. 1% TFA) to give a TFA salt of the title

    WO 2014/029983                                                          PCT/GB2013/052192
                                                   121
   compound (21 mg). 'H NMR (400 MHz, CD 30D) 6 8.54 (t, J= 6.3 Hz, 1H), 7,85 (t, J=
   4.5 Hz, 4H), 7.40 - 7.34 (m, 2[H), 729 (d,dJ= 9.0 Hz, 21), 7.28 -7.13 (m, 21), 6.34 (d,,J=
   6.3 Hz, IH), 4.31 (dd,J= 14.8, 8.3 Hz,1H), 3.73 - 3.62 (m, 4H), 3.62 - 3.50 (m, 7H), 3.47
   (t, J= 5.5 fz,3H ) 3.28 - 3.19 (m, 211), 3.19 - 3.08 (n, 2H), 3 .02 (t, J= 5.5 Hz,2H), 2.08
 5  1.89 (m,2H), 1.89 - 1.64 (mn,3H), 1.64 - 1.45 (m, 1H). MS 1137.2 (M+H).
                                           EXAMPLE 7
   2,2-dimethyl-NiN3-bis(2-(2-(2-(2-(4-((1 S,2S)-2-(piperidin- 1-yl)-2,3 -dihydro- 1H-inden- 1
   yloxy)phenylsulfonamido)ethoxy)ethoxy)ethoxy)ethyl)malonamide
10
                                                            0   0              1.
                    eO                              +    HO I     OH
                   NNO                        NH2
                                               0   0                         0      I
           5-    ' '-,OrgO                                 O%-aS
                                  d                                         ~N
                           HH                         HH
                                                                  Example 7
   Scheme 7. 1. HATU, DIEA, DMF
                   Example 7: 2,2-dimethyl-N1 ,N3 -bis(2-(2-(2-(2-(4-((1 S,2S)-2-(piperidin- 1
15 yl)-2,3-dihydro-1H-inden-1
   yloxy)phenylsulfonamido)ethoxy)ethoxy)ethoxy)ethyl)malonamide:            HATU (35.1 mg,
   0.092 mmol) was added to a solution of N-(2-(2-(2-(2-aminoethoxy)ethoxy)ethoxy)ethyl)
   4-((1 S,2S)-2-(piperidin- 1-yl)-2,3 -dihydro- 1H-inden- 1-yloxy)benzenesulfonamide (46 mg,
   0.84 mmol), 2,2-dimethylmalonic acid (5.5 mg, 0.042 mmol), and DIEA (11.9 mg, 0.092
20 mmol) in DMF (0.2 mL). After 105 minutes, the reaction mixture was concentrated under
   vacuum and purified by reverse phase HPLC (ACN/water/0. 1% TFA) to give a TFA salt of
   the title compound (19.5 mg). 1H NMR (400 MHz, CD 3 OD) 6 7.92 - 7.84 (m, 211), 7.33 (d,
   J    9.1 Hz, 4H), 7.25 - 7.15 (m, 2H), 6.35 - 6.29 (m, 1H), 3.59 (s, 7H), 3.55 - 3.41 (m, SH),
   334 (s, H), 3.11 (s, 1H), 3.08 - 3,03 (M, 1l), 1,92 - 1.74 (m, 1H), 1.37 (s, 3H). MS 1191.2
25 (M+H)+.

   WO 2014/029983                                                             PCT/GB2013/052192
                                                 122
                                          EXAMPLE 8
   Ni,N4-bis(2-(2-(2-(4-((1 S,2S)-4,6-dichloro-2-(dimethylamino)-2,3-dihydro-1H-inden-1
   yloxy)phenylsulfonamido)ethoxy)ethoxy)ethyl)succinamide
 5
   CI               d        O             NH2                                   2.
             CI
                                                             O       OOC
     CI      C/        0                   H                               HI                   C
                                             ~ ~
                                           N-,O
                                      ~'~~~~~                 ,O ----- ,N                  --
    C'I   "             H                    0H                              S'       I
                                                                    Example 8
   Scheme 8. 1. DMF; 2. HATU, DIEA
                   Example 8: Ni,N4-bis(2-(2-(2-(4-((1S,2S)-4,6-dichloro-2
10 (dimethylamino)-2,3-dihydro-1H-inden-1
   yloxy)phenylsulfonamido)ethoxy)ethoxy)ethyl)succinamide:           Succinic anhydride (3.6 mg,
   0.0.037 mmol) was added to a solution of N-(2-(2-(2-aminoethoxy)ethoxy)ethyl)-4
   ((1 S,2S)-4,6-dichloro-2-(dimethylamino)-2,3-dihydro-1H-inden-1
   yloxy)benzenesulfonamide (39 mg, 0.73 mmol) in DMF (0.4 mL). After 30 minutes,
15 DIEA (9.4 mg, 0.073 mmol) and HATU (14 mg, 0.037 mmol) were added. After an
   additional 15 minutes, the reaction mixture was concentrated under vacuum and purified
   by reverse phase HPLC (ACN/water/0. 1% TFA) to give a TFA salt of the title compound
   (18.3 mg). ' H NMR (400 MHz, CDA)D) 6 7.91 (d, J            8.9 Hz, 2H), 7.52 (d, J      1.6 Hz,
   1H), 7.35 (d, J= 8.9 Hz, 2H), 7.11 (s, 1H), 6.41 (s, 1H), 4.41 (dd, J       15. 1, 8.3 Hz, 2H),
20 3.65 (dd,    -=16.6, 87 Hz, 11), 3.57 - 3.46 (rn, 9-1), 3.34 - 3.31 (in, 311), 3.20 (dd, J=
   16.6, 9.4 Hz, 2H), 3.07 (t J   5.5 Hz, 2H), 3.02 (s, 6H), 2.46 (s, 2H). MS 1145.1 (M+H).

   WO 2014/029983                                                            PCT/GB2013/052192
                                                    123
                                           EXAMPLE 9
   2,2'-oxybis(N-(2-(2-(2-(4-((1 S,2S)-4,6-dichloro-2-(dimethylamino)-2,3-dihydro-1H-inden
   1-yloxy)phenylsulfonamido)ethoxy)ethoxy)ethyl)acetamide)
      CI       C          N    ONH2                    +                         2.
               CI
                      0,                                                    0         0,,.
   CI        C      d               O             O           O                                 CI
 5
                                                                       Example 9     CI
   Scheme 9. 1. DMF, 2. HATU, DIEA
                   Example 9: 2,2'-oxybis(N-(2-(2-(2-(4-((1S,2S)-4,6-dichloro-2
   (dimethylamino)-2,3-dihydro-1H-inden-1
10 yloxy)phenylsulfonamido)ethoxy)ethoxy)ethyl)acetamide):        Diglycolic anhydride (4.3 mg,
   0.0.037 mmol) was added to a solution of N-(2-(2-(2-aminoethoxy)ethoxy)ethyl)-4
   ((1 S,2S)-4,6-dichloro-2-(dimethylamino)-2,3-dihydro-1H-inden-1
   yloxy)benzenesulfonamide (39 mg, 0.73 mmol) in DMF (0.4 mL). After 30 minutes,
   DIEA (9.4 mg, 0.073 mmol) and HATU (14 mg, 0.037 mmol) were added. After an
15 additional 45 minutes, the reaction mixture was concentrated under vacuum and purified
   by reverse phase HPLC (ACN/water/0. 1% TFA) to give a TFA salt of the title compound
   (11.3 mg). 'H NMR (400 MHz, CD 3 0D) 6 7.90 (d, J-= 8.9 lz, 21H), 7.51 (d, J            1.6 Hz,
   1H), 7.34 (d, .1   9.0 Hz, 2H), 7.11 (d, J    0.7 Hz, 1H), 6.38 (d, J   7.4 Hz, 1H.), 4.42
   4.34 (m, 1H), 4.03 (s, 2H), 3.63 (dd, J= 15.7, 8,2 Hz, 1H), 3.59 - 3.55 (i, 41), 3.55
20 3.50 (m, 3H), 3.50 - 3.45 (m, 3H), 3.45 - 3.39 (m 2H), 3.19 (dd, J       16.3, 8.8 Hz, IH),
   3,06 (t, J= 5.6 Hz, 211), 2.99 (s, 611), 2.01 (s, 111). MS 1161.4 (M+H).

    WO 2014/029983                                                           PCT/GB2013/052192
                                                  124
                                           EXAMPLE 10
   4-amino-4-(13-oxo-1 -(4-((1 S,2S)-2-(piperidin-1 -vl)-2,3-dihydro-1H-inden- 1
   yloxy)phenylsulfonamido)-3,6,9-trioxa- 12-azapentadecan- 15-yl)-NiN7-bis(2-(2-(2-(2-(4
   ((1 S,2S)-2-(piperidin- 1-yl)-2,3-dihydro- 1H-inden- 1
 5 yloxy)phenylsulfonamido)ethoxy)ethoxy)ethoxy)ethyl)heptanediamide
                                       F
          O  O H                                   2F                     01   0
                             F     FNH
    HO           ,OH   -   F                 ~                                             3FO
                                                                                            O
      0r  NO 2 0           F    FF
               0~            0               F                              b
                                    0a    FF
                                F 0    o0                                 0                 C
                                                                 'O
                         H                 H          H              HL
                         N                ~Example         10N
   Scheme 10. 1. C6 F5 0-COCF3 , TEA, DCM; 2. Intermediate E12 TEA, ACN; 3. Raney Ni,
   H2,  MeGH, 50 0C.
10
                   Intermediate 10a: bis(perfluorophenyl) 4-nitro-4-(3-oxo-3
   (perfluorophenoxy)propyl)heptanedioate: A solution of 4-(2-carboxyethyl)-4
   nitroheptanedioic acid (3.00 g, 10.8 mmol) in DCM (54 mL) was charged in an additional
   funnel and added dropwise to a solution of perfluorophenyl 2,2,2-trifluoroacetate (6.15
is mL, 35.7 mmol) and TEA (9.0 mL, 65 mmol) in DCM (54 mL). Upon completion of
   addition, the solution was stirred an additional 20 min at room temperature, during which
   time a white precipitate formed. The precipitate was filtered and washed with 3 : 7 DCM
   hexanes and then washed with hexanes to give the title compound (6.87 g, 82%) as a white
   solid.
20                 Intermediate 10b: 4-nitro-4-(3 -oxo-6-(2-(2-(2-(4-((1 S,2S)-2-(piperidin- 1
   yl)-2,3-dihydro-1H-inden-1-yloxy)phenylsulfonamido)ethoxy)ethoxy)ethoxy)hexyl)
   N1,N7-bis(2-(2-(2-(2-(4-((1 S,2S)-2-(piperidin- I-yl)-2,3 -dihydro- IH-inden- 1
   yloxy)phenylsulfonamido)ethoxy)ethoxy)ethoxy)ethyl)heptanediamide:
   Bis(perfluorophenyl) 4-nitro-4-(3-oxo-3-(perfluorophenoxy)propyl)heptanedioate (39.2

     WO 2014/029983                                                           PCT/GB2013/052192
                                                    125
    mg, 0.051 mmol) was added to a solution of N-(2-(2-(2-(2
    aminoethoxy)ethoxy)ethoxy)ethyl)-4-((1 S,2 S)-2-(piperidin- 1-yl)-2,3 -dihydro- 1H-inden- 1
    yloxy)benzenesulfonamide (84.1 mg, 0.154 mmol) and triethylamine (17.1 mg, 0.169
    mmol) in acetonitrile (0.3 mL). After 50 minutes the reaction mixture was diluted with
  5 water and purified by reverse phase HPLC to give a TFA salt of the title compound (16.8
    mg). MS 1865.5 (M+H)j.
                    Example 10: 4-amino-4-(3 -oxo-6-(2-(2-(2-(4-((1 S,2S)-2-(piperidin- 1-yl)
    2,3-dihydro-1H-inden-1-yloxy)phenylsulfonamido)ethoxy)ethoxy)ethoxy)hexyl)-N1,N7
    bis(2-(2-(2-(2-(4-((1 S,2S)-2-(piperidin- 1-yl)-2,3 -dihydro- 1H-inden- 1
10  yloxy)phenylsulfonamido)ethoxy)ethoxy)ethoxy)ethyl)heptanediamide             Raney Nickel
    (-30 mg, washed with water (4 mL) and MeOH (2 mL)) was added to a solution of 4-nitro
    4-(3-oxo-6-(2-(2-(2-(4-((1 S,2S)-2-(piperidin- 1-yl)-2,3 -dihydro- 1H-inden- 1
    yloxy)phenylsulfonamido)ethoxy)ethoxy)ethoxy)hexyl)-N1,N7-bis(2-(2-(2-(2-(4-((1S,2S)
    2-(piperidin- 1-yl)-2,3 -dihydro-1H-inden- 1
15  yloxy)phenylsulfonamido)ethoxy)ethoxy)ethoxy)ethyl)heptanediamide           (16.8 mg) in
    MeOH (1 mL). The vigorously stirred suspension was placed under an atmosphere of
    hydrogen and heated to 50 'C. After 5 hours the mixture was purged with N 2 , cooled and
    filtered. The solvent was removed and the residue purified by reverse phase HPLC
    (ACN/water/0.1% TFA) to give a TFA salt of the title compound (7.0 mg).          1HNMR    (400
20  MVUlz, DMSO-d) 6 9.94 (s, 1H), 7.98 (t, J       5.3 Hz, 1H), 7.88 (s, 1H), 7.78 (d, J  8.6 Hz,
    2H), 7.61 (t, J= 5.7 Hz, 1H), 7.41 - 7.29 (m, 4H), 7.25 - 7.17 (m, 1H), 7.13 (d, J= 7.8 Hz,
     1H), 6.45 (s, 1H), 4.32 (s, 1H), 3.56 - 3.20 (m, 40H), 3.16 (dd, J= 11.5, 5.8 Hz, 3H), 3.04
    (s, 3H), 2.88 (q, J    5.8 Hz, 2H), 2.22 - 2.07 (m, 2H), 1.84 (s, 2H), 1.76 - 1.50 (m, 5H),
     1.50 - 1.31 (m, 1H). MS 1835.7 (M+H)f.
25

    WO 2014/029983                                                            PCT/GB2013/052192
                                                   126
                                           EXAMPLE 11
   4-amino-NiN7-bis(2-(2-(2-(4-((1 S,2S)-4,6-dichloro-2-(dimethylamino)-2,3-dihydro-1H
   inden-1-vloxv)phenvlsulfonamido)ethoxy)ethoxy)ethyl)-4-methylheptanediamide
                                                            N/
    MeO           OMe    1.    HO             OH  2.           O
            NO2                                                                      H      NO2
                                  o0  NO 2 '  0 H ~               K)
                            0         11a                C1                             0 rH2 "
                                                               C1       H1b            YN
            3.-j                              HN
                                             H~O~        H
                          N                                                       N'N.$
             CI              H        O       0        0               H1-       C   1
 5                                                                 Example 11
   Scheme 11. 1. NaOH/MeOH, 50 0C; 2. HATU, DMF, intermediate El; 3. Raney Ni, H 2 ,
   MeOH, 50 0 C
                   Intermediate 11a: 4-methyl-4-nitroheptanedioic acid: A solution of
10 dimethyl 4-methyl-4-nitroheptanedioate (51.7 mg, 0.207 mmol) in MeOH (1 mL) with
   NaOH (0.345mL, 3M) was stirred at 500 C for 3 hours. The reaction mixture was
   neutralized with 2M HCl and the solvent removed. The crude material was then suspended
   in DMF and used directly without further purification.
   Intermediate 11a: Ni,N7-bis(2-(2-(2-(4-((1S,2S)-4,6-dichloro-2-(dimethylamino)-2,3
15 dihydro-1H-inden-1-yloxy)phenylsulfonamido)ethoxy)ethoxy)ethyl)-4-methyl-4
   nitroheptanediamide: To a suspension of 4-methyl-4-nitroheptanedioic acid (0.207 mmol)
   in DMF (2 mL) was added N-(2-(2-(2-aminoethoxy)ethoxy)ethyl)-4-((1S,2S)-4,6-dichloro
   2-(dimethylamino)-2,3-dihydro-1H-inden-1-yloxy)benzenesulfonamide            (220 mg, 0.414
   mmol), DIEA (78.0 pL, 0.45 mmol) and HATU (171 mg, 0.45 mmol). After 16 hours the
20 solvent was removed and crude residue was diluted with EtOAc (75 mL), washed with
   saturated NaHCO 3 (10 mL), water (2x10 mL) and dried over Na2 SO 4 . The crude material
   was purified by flash chromatography (12g SiO 2 , 0-5% MeOH in DCM with 0.5% TEA
   over 15 minutes). The excess TEA was removed by diluting the resulting material in DCM
   (40 mL) and washing with IN HCl (10 mL) and saturated aqueous NaHCO 3 (10 mL) to
25 give the free base of the title compound (153 mg). MS 1246.2 (M+H)j.

    WO 2014/029983                                                             PCT/GB2013/052192
                                                     127
                    Example 11: 4-amino-Ni,N7-bis(2-(2-(2-(4-((1S,2S)-4,6-dichloro-2
   (dimethylamino)-2,3 -dihydro- 1H-inden- 1-yloxy)phenylsulfonamido)ethoxy)ethoxy)ethyl)
   4-methylheptanediamide: Raney Nickel (-400 mg, washed with water (2x4 mL) and
   MeOH (4 mL)) was added to a solution of Ni,N7-bis(2-(2-(2-(4-((1S,2S)-4,6-dichloro-2
 5 (dimethylamino)-2,3-dihydro-1H-inden-1-yloxy)phenylsulfonamido)ethoxy)ethoxy)ethyl)
   4-methyl-4-nitroheptanediamide (153 mg) in MeOH (2 mL). The resulting suspension was
   stirred vigorously under an atmosphere of H 2 and heated to 50 'C. After 7 hours the
   reaction was filtered and the filter washed with MeOH (-10 mL) and DMF (-2 mL). The
   mixture was concentrated under vacuum and purified by reverse phase HPLC
                                                                                         1
10 (ACN/water/0.1% TFA) to give a TFA salt of the title compound (106.8 mg).              HNA-R
   (400 M11z, CDC 3 ) ( 8.17 (s,      1H), 7.91 (d, J= 8.7 Hz, 2H), 756 (s, I H), 7.36 (s, 1-1), 7,22
     718 (m, 1H), 7.03 (s, 1H), 6.72 (d, J= 7.4 Hz, IH), 4. 00 (q, J= 8.6 Hz, 1H), 3.67 - 3.45
   (I, 11-) 3.45 - 3.34 (m, 411), 3.19 - 3,09 (m, 2 H), 2.94 (s, 7H ), 2.55 - 2.3 8 (m, 3H-), 2 28
   (s, 21H), 2.08 - 1.81 (m, 4H), 1.30      (s, 2H). MS 1216.2 (M+H)y.
15
                                              EXAMPLE 12
    1-(4-((1 S,2S)-4,6-dichloro-2-(dimethylamino)-2,3-dihydro-iH-inden-1
   vloxv)phenvlsulfonamido)-13-(3-(2-(2-(2-(4-((1 S,2S)-4,6-dichloro-2-(dimethylamino)-2,3
   dihydro-1H-inden-1-vloxv)phenvlsulfonamido)ethoxy)ethoxy)ethylamino)-3-oxopropyl)
20  13-methyl-10,15-dioxo-3,6-dioxa-9,14-diazaoctadecan-18-oic acid
                                                                                     'N
                                          H           H
                    N
    CI      OC                 '                         '^           NO'    Cb      CI
            CI       C                  '0                         O         C        C
                            N/                 ~0            OH                            N
                                                         0                             0,
                        -PH                           HNO H                    9,
                Cjd              -NONO--,N                    N O--OII    -~N-'
                                                            Example 12
   Scheme 12. 1. Succinic anhydride, DCM
25                  Example 12: 1-(4-((iS,2S)-4,6-dichloro-2-(dimethylamino)-2,3-dihydro
    IH-inden-1-yloxy)phenylsulfonamido)-13-(3-(2-(2-(2-(4-((1S,2S)-4,6-dichloro-2-

    WO 2014/029983                                                                    PCT/GB2013/052192
                                                          128
   (dimethylamino)-2,3 -dihydro- 1H-inden- 1
   yloxy)phenylsulfonamido)ethoxy)ethoxy)ethylamino)-3-oxopropyl)- 13-methyl-10,15
   dioxo-3,6-dioxa-9,14-diazaoctadecan-18-oic acid: Succinic anhydride (3.3 mg, 0.033
   mmol) was added to a solution of 4-amino-N1,N7-bis(2-(2-(2-(4-((1S,2S)-4,6-dichloro-2
 5 (dimethylamino)-2,3-dihydro-1H-inden-1-yloxy)phenylsulfonamido)ethoxy)ethoxy)
   ethyl)-4-methylheptanediamide (27 mg, 0.022 mmol) in DCM (0.1 mL). After 4 hours the
   reaction mixture was concentrated under vacuum and purified by reverse phase HPLC
   (ACN/water/0.1% TFA) to give a TFA salt of the title compound (8.5 mg).                   1HNMR        (400
   MUz, DMSO-d 6 ) 6 10.50 - 10.23 (m, 1H), 7.80 (d, J                 8.9 Hz, 2H), 7.77 - 7.72 (m, 1H),
10 7.68 (d, J       1.5 Hz, 1H), 7.63 (t, J       6.0 Hz, 1H), 7.35 (d, J      8.9 Hz, 2H), 7.25 (s, 1H),
   7.12 (d, J       1.5 Hz, 1H), 6.40 (s, 1H), 4.43 - 4.27 (m, 1H), 3.61 - 3.29 (m, 22H), 3.23
   3.16 (m, 1H), 3.12 (dd, J          11.5, 5.6 Hz, 3H), 2.92 - 2.75 (m, 9H), 2.35 (t, J= 7.1 Hz, 1H),
   2.25 (t, J     6.7 Hz, 1H), 2.01 - 1.94 (m, 2H), 1.94 - 1.82 (m, 1H), 1.68 - 1.58 (m, 1H), 1.05
   (s, 2H). MS 1316.3 (M+H)j.
15
                                                 EXAMPLE 13
    1-{2-[2-(2-{[(3-{[(1 S,2S)-2-(piperidin- 1-yl)-2,3 -dihydro- 1H-inden- 1
   vlloxv Iphenvl)carbamovllamino Iethoxy)ethoxylethyl 1-3 -{4-[({2-[2-(2-{[(3                -{ [(1 S,2S)-2
   (piperidin- 1-vl)-2,3 -dihydro- 1H-inden- 1
20 vll oxy Iphenyl)carbamoyll amino I ethoxy)ethoxylethyl I carbamoyl)aminolbutyl Iurea
         O                                       H                 O          H   H                  O
     >O    N-,O,-O-,NH2           i-        O 1 N "--O,-'^'"NIkN-,,,N YN '-go                      NIUOj
                                              H                  H H 13a        O                  H
                               H     H           0
            H2NNO,---N                   N '^'N N'0,-^O''NH           2
                                 0      2HCIH      H
                                        13b
                                 H            3.             N            H        4.      N
                                                                                                O        NH2
                                                                 0-
              OH      +  HO      N0<
                                                                    13c                              13d
             N           H H                      O          H  H                 O
      5.          0      N N      O'''-N'           ExaNpOl1 N  N,--oO'-'^'N
                                                  H Example 130                  H0

    WO 2014/029983                                                            PCT/GB2013/052192
                                                   129
   Scheme 13. 1. a) CDI, ACN; b) 1,4-diaminobutane; 2. HCl, Dioxane 3. DIAD, PPh 3, THF;
   4. HCl/EtOH; 5. a) DSC, ACN, b) diamine, TEA.
                   Intermediate 13a: tert-butyl 10,17-dioxo-3,6,21,24-tetraoxa-9,11,16,18
 5 tetraazahexacosane-1,26-diyldicarbamate. tert-Butyl (2-(2-(2
   aminoethoxy)ethoxy)ethyl)carbamate: (2.5 g, 10.1 mmol) was dissolved in ACN (8 mL).
   The solution was added to a mixture of carbonyldiimidazole (CDI) (1.65 g, 10.2 mmol),
   and ACN (15 mL). The resulting mixture was stirred for 1h and analyzed by HPLC for
   conversion to the intermediate tert-butyl (2-(2-(2-(1H-imidazole-1
10 carboxamido)ethoxy)ethoxy)ethyl)carbamate. Upon completion, 1,4-diaminobutane (0.44
   g, 5.0 mmol) was added as a solution in ACN (5.5 mL). The mixture was warmed to 40
   'C, and stirred for 2 h. The solvent was removed under reduced pressure. The resulting
   residue was dissolved in EtOAc (20 mL), and washed twice with 10% NaCl in water (10
   mL) followed by 20% aqueous citric acid (10 mL), then finally washed with 25% aqueous
is NaCl. The organic solution was dried (Na2 SO4) and the solvent evaporated under reduced
   pressure to give the title compound (1.17g) as an oil. 1HNMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d 6 ) 6.78
   (t, J   5.5 Hz, 2H), 5.93 (t, J   5.8 Hz, 2H), 5.81 (t, J  5.3 Hz, 2H), 3.49 (s, 16H), 3.39
   3.35 (m, 4H), 3.15-3.11 (m, 4H), 3.08-3.04 (m, 4H), 2.96-2.94 (m, 4H), 2.74 (d, J          15.3
   Hz, 2H), 2.63 (d, J     15.3 Hz, 2H), 1.37 (s, 18 H).
20                 Intermediate 13b: 1,1'-(butane-1,4-diyl)bis(3-(2-(2-(2
   aminoethoxy)ethoxy)ethyl)urea) dihydrochloride: To a solution of tert-butyl 10, 17-dioxo
   3,6,21,24-tetraoxa-9,11,16,18-tetraazahexacosane-1,26-diyldicarbamate         (1.17 g) in IPA
   (12 mL) was added 4M HCl in dioxane (10 mL) keeping the temperature under 30 'C. The
   mixture was stirred overnight during which time the product precipitated. The product was
25 then filtered, washed with IPA, and dried in a vacuum oven 40 'C to give the title
   compound as a white solid (930 mg, mp 130 'C) that can be recrystallized from 95%
   isopropanol, 5% water to give the title compound as fine needles (mp 165-168 0 C). 1H
   NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d) 7.16 (d, J             11.3 Hz, 4H), 6.86 (d, J    8.6 Hz, 4H), 6.29 (t, J
    = 5.9 Hz, 2H), 4.15 (d, J= 6.0 Hz, 4H), 3.72 (s, 12H), 3.35 (s, 16H).
30                 Intermediate 13c: N-(3 -((1 S,2S)-2-(piperidin- 1-yl)-2,3 -dihydro- 1H-inden- 1
   yloxy)phenyl)acetamide: A solution of DIAD (318 mg, 1.58 mmol) in THF (0.5 mL) was
   added over 30 minutes to a solution of (1R,2R)-1-(piperidin-1-yl)-2,3-dihydro-1H-inden-2-

    WO 2014/029983                                                              PCT/GB2013/052192
                                                    130
   ol (286 mg, 1.32 mmol), N-(3-hydroxyphenyl)acetamide (199 mg, 1.32 mmol), and PPh 3
   (449 mg, 1.72 mmol) in THF (2.6 mL). After 1 hour additional N-(3
   hydroxyphenyl)acetamide (79 mg), PPh 3 (138 mg), and DIAD (105 mg) was added. After
   a further 2 hours the reaction mixture was concentrated under vacuum and purified by flash
 5 chromatography (12g SiO 2 , 0-100% EtOAc in DCM over 20 minutes) to give the title
   compound (450 mg).
                    Intermediate 13d: 3 -((1 S,2S)-2-(piperidin- 1-yl)-2,3 -dihydro- 1H-inden- 1
   yloxy)aniline: Aqueous HCl (3.8mL, 2N) was added to a solution of N-(3-((1S,2S)-2
   (piperidin- 1-yl)-2,3 -dihydro- 1H-inden- 1-yloxy)phenyl)acetamide (450 mg, 1.28 mmol) in
10 EtOH (3.8 mL). After 4 hours the reaction mixture was concentrated under vacuum and
   diluted with DCM (5 mL). The resulting solution was neutralized with NaOH (7.7mL,
    IN), extracted with DCM (3x5 mL), and dried over Na 2 SO 4 to give the title compound
   (332 mg).
                    Example 13: 1- {2-[2-(2- { [(3- { [(1 S,2S)-2-(piperidin- 1-yl)-2,3 -dihydro- 1H
is inden-1-yl]oxy }phenyl)carbamoyl]amino} ethoxy)ethoxy]ethyl }-3- {4-[({2-[2-(2- { [(3
   { [(1 S,2S)-2-(piperidin- 1-yl)-2,3 -dihydro- 1H-inden- 1
   yl] oxy }phenyl)carbamoyl]amino } ethoxy)ethoxy]ethyl } carbamoyl)amino]butyl }urea:             23
   ((1 S,2S)-2-(piperidin- 1-yl)-2,3 -dihydro- 1H-inden- 1-yloxy)aniline (50 mg, 0.162 mmol) in
   acetonitrile (0.3 mL) was added to a solution of N,N'-disuccinimidyl carbonate (41.4 mg,
20 0.162 mmol) in acetonitrile (0.3 mL). After 30 minutes 1,1'-(butane-1,4-diyl)bis(3-(2-(2
   (2-aminoethoxy)ethoxy)ethyl)urea) dihydrochloride (41 mg, 0.08 mmol) and TEA (16.3
   mg, 0.162 mmol) in water (0.2 mL) were added. After 20 minutes the reaction mixture
   was concentrated under vacuum and purified by reverse phase HPLC (ACN/water/0. 1%
   TFA) to give a TFA salt of the title compound (30.7 mg). IH NMR (400 MHz, CD 30D) 6
25 7.53 (t, J= 2.2 Hz, 1H), 7.39 - 7.30 (m, 2H), 7.29 - 7.20 (m, 3H), 6.82 (dd, J           8.3, 1.5 Hz,
    1H), 6.75 (dd, J    8.3, 2.4 Hz, IH), 6.14 (d, J    = 6.8 Hz, 1H), 4.23 (dd, J     15.6, 9.3 Hz,
    1-), 3.71 - 3.63 (in, 111), 3.63 - 3.58 (m, 51H), 3.55 (t, J= 5.4 [Hz, 3 ), 3.49 (t, J= 5 5 Hz,
   3H), 3.35 (t, J= 5.3 Hz, 3H), 3.25 (t, J-     5.4 Hz, 2H), 3.22 - 3.08 (m, 3H), 3.08 - 3.02 (m,
   211), 2.05 - 1L88 (m, 21-), 1.88 - 1.64 (m, 311), 1 64 - 1 48 (m, 1-), 1.45 - 1.38 (mn,2-).
30 MS 1105.5 (M+H)-.

WO 2014/029983                                                          PCT/GB2013/052192
                                           131
EXAMPLES 14-38
               The following examples were prepared using methods specified in Table 2:
Q                IH                   H          0                      H0
                        O                N                    O                     O
               6H                  0            H H                      , 'i
                                                         Example 14                     N
            C  d       ONO            N                       O                 CIi       CI
CI - 5H                                             H                     'i
                                                                                    0
                                    0                   Example 15
                      00
                                      NN
      -     'H                     H   H         0    Example 16             00
                                                                                       6
        N                                                                       c
          I  ,OH                                 0                      H0
        ciH                           H'        H                       6i
                                                                        H
                           -N ~  ~       ~   --   ~     ,O Exml --- 17_0_----_Y
                                                                      ,               --
               C   H0H
                    5                               H      Example 187
                                                                                    <3

WO 2014/029983                                                  PCT/GB2013/052192
                                     132
                                                   00
                          H       H        0                    H
              0
                H                       0H   H      Example29        l        02
                        N                                                  c     N
                   -NN
             '-'          H         H                  H           01
                                                  ~~Example 20l       0
 -NF
                  >0~~                                              0-H
                              NN    Y         NN
                            Fc  1              H0   Example 22         Io)Q
                                                                             0
                 K   9H           H        0                    H 0
                                   FH0H           H Example 23   o
                                                                               0
 N'   C                                                                   C

WO 2014/029983                                                PCT/GB2013/052192
                                 133
   -0
                                        0H                     H0
F             d   N     O'          N-"             O m       5    O
                  H          0r4      H    H       Example 25        0
                                                                 0:           cl
                 I~ 'p                                                 C
CI      -      0 1           0        H     H                   6I    ~    "
                                                   Example 26           0
          0
                                     H   HH
                                                Exml                 7 0 0l
                    -H2
             IH                          0                    H 10c
  F          d                             NH H Example
                                                 O      28             CI01    F
                    -H2
     NH
                           H   H                              H   0            F
                                               CIExample 28           00
                                                                         H2N3

WO 2014/029983                                                     PCT/GB2013/052192
                                         134
   OH
                       0'''   N                HId                    0O          CI
                                                        Example 30        O
                                    H H0                                   HlHO
                 ' -,,O--N          N                                             c  K
 OH          ClN 'N             'r'
                  H                          H HO
                                                         Example 31              N
 OH~                                     HOH
                                                                              HO
                                                      00
                         ONNN                              O
                                  HH       0                     HI
                                                   N HExample 3     H
        - a,-/  S
                                                      Example 3     2
QQ
                                                                                Q
                                           0                         0
                                I                  Example 33
0

WO 2014/029983                                                   PCT/GB2013/052192
                                        135
 No
                C;)CQ                                                      o
   KYi o,, --   O-              -- o        o
    K)H                           H           HXOON~              H      O   S
                                                    Example 35
  CII                       O                H            O             O       C"
                A"O                       O
               CI                                  Example 36          CI
                  ON          N                 N             O
            -  H              H     H2N         H
                                                                          0
                                         e          Example 37
    if                        HH2
         0                                     oHN
Chat4. StucuesofEamleN4-8 nTale2
                                                                           0
                                           27
                                        Tablel
Example           Synthetic Method          [M] Calc'd          [M+H] Observed
Example 14        Example 1                 1146.55             1147.3
Example 15        Example 1                 1282.39             1283.1
Example 16        Example 1                 1234.6              1235.2
Example 17        Example 1                 1254.36             1255.1
Example 18        Example 1                 1214.47             1215.1

WO 2014/029983                        PCT/GB2013/052192
                          136
Example 18     Example 1     1118.52 119.2
Example 20     Example 1     1066.49 1067.2
Example 21     Example 1     1134.41 1135.1
Example 22     Example 1     1102.47 1103.8
Example 23     Example 1     1182.53 1183.5
Example 24     Example 1     1250.45 1251.4
Example 25     Example 1     1170.39 1171.5
Example 26     Example 1     1230.36 1231.1
Example 27     Example 2     1222.3  1223.1
Example 28     Example 3     1176.57 1177.3
Example 29     Example 3     1280.47 1281.2
Example 30     Example 4     1286.35 1287.1
Example 31     Example 4     1150.51 1151.3
Example 32     Example 5     1120.49 1121.3
Example 33     Example 6     1136.5  1137.3
Example 34     Example 6     1224.55 1225.2
Example 35     Example 6     1224.55 1225.2
Example 36     Example 7     1158.29 1159.3
Example 37     Example 11    1159.57 1160.3
Example 38     Example 13    1104.64 1105.5

    WO 2014/029983                                                         PCT/GB2013/052192
                                                  137
   Pharmacological Data
                                         EXAMPLE 39
 5 Cell-based assay of NHE-3 activity
                   Rat or human NHE-3 -mediated Na+-dependent H+ antiport was measured
   using a modification of the pH sensitive dye method originally reported by Paradiso (Proc.
   Natl. Acad. Sci. U S A. (1984) 81(23): 7436-7440). Opossum kidney (OK) cells were
10 obtained from the ATCC and propagated per their instructions. The rat NHE-3 gene
   (GenBank M85300) or the human NHE-3 gene (GenBank NM_004174.1) was introduced
   into OK cells via electroporation, and cells were seeded into 96 well plates and grown
   overnight. Medium was aspirated from the wells, cells were washed twice with NaCl
   HEPES buffer (100 mM NaCl, 50 mM HEPES, 10 mM glucose, 5mM KCl, 2 mM CaCl 2,
is  1 mM MgCl 2 , pH 7.4), then incubated for 30 min at room temperature with NH 4Cl-HEPES
   buffer (20 mM NH 4 Cl, 80 mM NaCl, 50 mM HEPES, 5 mM KCl, 2mM CaCl 2 , 1 mM
   MgCl 2 , pH 7.4) containing 5 p.M bis(acetoxymethyl) 3,3'-(3',6'-bis(acetoxymethoxy)-5
   ((acetoxymethoxy)carbonyl)-3 -oxo-3H-spiro[i sobenzofuran- 1,9'-xanthene] -2',7'
   diyl)dipropanoate (BCECF-AM). Cells were washed twice with Ammonium free, Na+
20 free HEPES (100 mM choline, 50 mM HEPES, 10 mM glucose, 5 mM KCl, 2 mM CaCl 2,
    1 mM MgCl 2 , pH 7.4) and incubated in the same buffer for 10 minutes at room
   temperature to lower intracellular pH. NHE-3 mediated recovery of neutral intracellular
   pH was initiated by addition of Na-HEPES buffer containing 0.4 pM ethyl isopropyl
   amiloride (EIPA, a selective antagonist of NHE-I activity that does not inhibit NHE-3) and
25 0-30 pMtest compound, and monitoring the pH sensitive changes in BCECF fluorescence
   (Xex 505nm, Xem 538nm) normalized to the pH insensitive BCECF fluorescence (4ex 439nm,
   2
     em 538nm). Initial rates were plotted as the average 2 or more replicates, and pIC5o values
   were estimated using GraphPad Prism.

  WO 2014/029983                                         PCT/GB2013/052192
                                           138
  Table 3
  Data for examples in human NHE3 inhibition assay
                               Result   pIC5 o Range
                               A        NHE3 pIC5 o < 5
                               B        NHE3 pIC5 o 5-7
                               C        NHE3 pIC5 o > 7
5
                          Example #    Human NHE3 pIC5 o
                           1            C
                          2             C
                          3             C
                          4             C
                          5             C
                          6             C
                          7             C
                          8             C
                          9             C
                           10           C
                           11           C
                           12           C
                           13          B
                           14           C
                           15          A
                           16           C
                           17           C
                           18           C
                           19          A
                          20            C
                          21            C

    WO 2014/029983                                                       PCT/GB2013/052192
                                                139
                               22             C
                               23             C
                               24             C
                               25             C
                               26             C
                               27             C
                               28             B
                               29             C
                               30             C
                               31             C
                               32             C
                               33             C
                               34             C
                               35             C
                               36             C
                               37             C
                               38             C
   EXAMPLE 40
   Inhibition of intestinal sodium absorption
 5                  Urinary sodium concentration and fecal form were measured to assess the
   ability of selected example compounds to inhibit the absorption of sodium from the
   intestinal lumen. Eight-week old Sprague-Dawley rats were purchased from Charles River
   Laboratories (Hollister, CA), were housed 2 per cage, and acclimated for at least 3 days
   before study initiation. Animals were fed Harlan Teklad Global 2018 rodent chow
10 (Indianapolis, IN) and water ad libitum throughout the study and maintained in a standard
   light/dark cycle of 6AM to 6PM. On the day of the study, between 4PM and 5PM, a group
   of rats (n=6) were dosed via oral gavage with test compound or vehicle (water) at a volume
   of 10 mL/kg. After dose administration animals were placed in individual metabolic cages
   where they were also fed the same chow in meal form and watered ad libitum. At 16 h

    WO 2014/029983                                                           PCT/GB2013/052192
                                                  140
   post-dose, the urine samples were collected and fecal form was assessed by two
   independent observations. Fecal forms were scored according to a common scale
   associated with increasing fecal water to the wettest observation in the cage's collection
   funnel (1, normal pellet; 2, pellet adhering to sides of collection funnel due to moisture; 3,
 5 loss of normal pellet shape; 4, complete loss of shape with a blotting pattern; 5, liquid fecal
   streams evident). A rat's fecal form score (FFS) was determined by averaging both
   observational scores for all rats within a group (n=6). The vehicle group average was 1.
   These averages are reported in Table 4. For urine samples, the volumes were determined
   gravimetrically and centrifuged at 3,600   x g. The supernatants were diluted 100-fold in
10 deionized Milli-Q water then filtered through a 0.2 ptm GHP Pall AcroPrep filter plate (Pall
   Life Sciences, Ann Arbor, MI) prior to analysis by ion chromatography. Ten microliters of
   each filtered extract was injected onto a Dionex ICS-3000 ion chromatograph system
   (Dionex, Sunnyvale, CA). Cations were separated by an isocratic method using 25 mM
   methanesulfonic acid as the eluent on an IonPac CS12A 2 mm i.d. x 250 mm, 8 pm
is particle size cation exchange column (Dionex). Sodium was quantified using standards
   prepared from a cation standard mix containing Li+, Na+, NH4, K, Mg2, and Ca2 +
   (Dionex). The mean mass of sodium urinated for every group in the 16 h period was
   determined with the vehicle group usually urinating approximately 21 mg sodium. The
   urine Na (uNa) for rats in the test groups were expressed as a percentage of the vehicle
20 mean and the means were compared to that of the vehicle group by utilizing a one-way
   analysis of variance coupled with a Dunnett's post hoc test.

  WO 2014/029983                                                      PCT/GB2013/052192
                                              141
  Table 4
  Rat urinary sodium and fecal form 16 h post-dose of test compound at 10 mg/kg
                            uNa Result       uNa (% of vehicle)
                            A                >75%
                            B                35-75%
                            C                <35%
5
          Example #     Dose                 uNa Result        FFS
          1             10 mg/kg             C                  1
          3             10 mg/kg             B                 2
          4             10 mg/kg             A                  1
          5             10 mg/kg             C                  1
          6             10 mg/kg             B                  1
          7             10 mg/kg             B                  1
          8             3 mg/kg              B                  1
          9             3 mg/kg              B                 2
          11            10 mg/kg             B                  1
          12            3 mg/kg              B                  1
          13            10 mg/kg             A                  1
          14            10 mg/kg             B                  1
          15            10 mg/kg             B                  1
          16            10 mg/kg             C                  1
          19            10 mg/kg             B                  1
          20            10 mg/kg             B                  1
          21            10 mg/kg             A                  1
          22            10 mg/kg             A                  1
          23            10 mg/kg             A                  1
          24            10 mg/kg             A                  1

    WO 2014/029983                                                        PCT/GB2013/052192
                                                 142
            25              10 mg/kg            A                  1
            26              10 mg/kg            B                  1
            27              10 mg/kg            C                  1
            30              3 mg/kg             B                  1
            32              10 mg/kg            A                  1
            33              10 mg/kg            B                  1
            34              10 mg/kg            A                  1
            35              10 mg/kg            A                  1
            36              10 mg/kg            B                  2
            37              10 mg/kg            B                  1
            38              3 mg/kg             A                  1
   EXAMPLE 41
   Plasma PK
 5                  Sprague-Dawley rats (n=3) were dosed with test compound by oral gavage.
   Blood samples were collected at 0.5, 1, 2 and 4 h by retro-orbital bleeds and processed to
   plasma using K 2EDTA as an anticoagulant. Plasma samples were treated with acetonitrile
   containing an internal standard and precipitated proteins were removed by centrifugation.
   Supernatants were analyzed by LC-MS/MS and compound concentrations were
10 determined by interpolation from a standard calibration curve prepared in plasma. Accurate
   recovery of quality control samples was confirmed to accept each analytical run. Table 5
   illustrates data from the pharmacokinetic profiling of an example compound, for which
   pharmacokinetic parameters were determined. From studies in which one or more rats had
   samples with test compound levels below the quantitative limit, Cmx and AUC (reported as
is the mean of n=3) may be reported as "<X" to indicate an upper bound.

    WO 2014/029983                                                          PCT/GB2013/052192
                                                 143
   Table 5
   Plasma pharmacokinetics of example compounds
                                Nominal                                   AUC
                                             LLOQ           Cmax
               Example          Dose(nx
                                             (ng/mL)        (ng/mL)       (ng x
                                 (mg/kg)                                  hr/mL)
               1                 15          0.2            1.0           < 3.0
 5
   EXAMPLE 42
   Fecal Recovery
                   Three male Sprague Dawley rats were administered 1 mg/kg test compound
10 by oral gavage. Feces were collected from study animals from 0-48 or 0-72 hours after
   dosing, dried by lyophilization, and homogenized. Replicate aliquots of 40-60 mg each
   were subjected to extraction/protein precipitation with 7:1 acetonitrile:water and
   centrifuged. Supernatants were diluted 1:10 in 50:50 acetonitrile:water prior to analysis by
   LC-MS/MS. Compound concentrations, determined by interpolation from a standard
is calibration curve prepared in blank feces matrix, were converted to the percentage of dosed
   material recovered by taking into account the total collected fecal matter. The percent
   recovery for each rat was reported as the mean of the calculations from replicate samples.
   The overall percent recovery (Fecal Recovery [%]) was reported as the mean percent
   recovery from three rats. Accurate quality control sample recoveries were confirmed in
20 each run and extraction efficiency was periodically verified. Table 6 illustrates fecal
   recovery data for selected example compounds.

    WO 2014/029983                                                           PCT/GB2013/052192
                                                   144
   Table 6
   Fecal recovery of example compounds
 5
                                         Nominal                  Fecal
                                                     Collection
                         Example #       Dose                     Recovery
                                                     Time (h)
                                          (mg/kg)                 (%)
                         1                1          48           87.7
                         3                1          48           69.2
                         9                1          48           65.7
                         11               1          48           82.1
                         30               1          48           66.8
                   All of the U.S. patents, U.S. patent application publications, U.S. patent
   applications, foreign patents, foreign patent applications and non-patent publications
   referred to in this specification are incorporated herein by reference, in their entirety to the
io extent not inconsistent with the present description.
                   From the foregoing it will be appreciated that, although specific
   embodiments of the invention have been described herein for purposes of illustration,
   various modifications may be made without deviating from the spirit and scope of the
   invention. Accordingly, the invention is not limited except as by the appended claims.
15

    WO 2014/029983                                                          PCT/GB2013/052192
                                                   145
   CLAIMS
   What is claimed is:
 5                 1.      A compound having the following structure of Formula (I):
    Core(L            NHE)
   (I)
   or a stereoisomer, prodrug or pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof,
10         wherein:
                   (a)     n is an integer of 2 or more;
                   (b)     Core is a Core moiety having two or more sites thereon for
   attachment to two or more NHE-inhibiting small molecule moieties;
                   (c)     L is a bond or linker connecting the Core moiety to the two or more
15 NHE-inhibitory small molecule moieties; and
                   (d)     NHE is a NHE-inhibiting small molecule moiety having the
   following structure of Formula (XI):
                                        R3
                                                 0              (R5)4
                                 R4-N
                                                       R1
                                              R1
20                                                (XI)
           wherein:
                  B is selected from the group consisting of aryl and heterocyclyl;
                   each R5 is independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen,
   halogen, optionally substituted C1_4alkyl, optionally substituted CI 4alkoxy, optionally
25 substituted CI 4thioalkyl, optionally substituted heterocyclyl, optionally substituted

    WO 2014/029983                                                          PCT/GB2013/052192
                                                  146
   heterocyclylalkyl, optionally substituted aryl, optionally substituted heteroaryl, hydroxyl,
   oxo, cyano, nitro, -NR 7Rs, -NR 7CQO)Rs, -NR 7 C(=O)ORs,
   -NR 7C(=O)NRsR 9 , -NR 7 S0 2Rs, -NR 7S(O) 2NRsR 9 , -C(=O)OR 7, -C(=O)R       7 ,
   -C(=O)NR 7Rs, -S(O)i- 2 R 7 , and -SO 2NR 7Rs, wherein R 7, Rs, and R 9 are independently
 5 selected from the group consisting of hydrogen, C1. 4 alkyl, or a bond linking the NHE
   inhibiting small molecule moiety to L, provided at least one is a bond linking the NHE
   inhibiting small molecule moiety to L;
                   R 3 and R 4 are independently selected from the group consisting of
   hydrogen, optionally substituted Ci_4alkyl, optionally substituted cycloalkyl, optionally
io substituted cycloalkylalkyl, optionally substituted aryl, optionally substituted aralkyl,
   optionally substituted heterocyclyl and optionally substituted heteroaryl; or
                   R 3 and R 4 form together with the nitrogen to which they are bonded an
   optionally substituted 4-8 membered heterocyclyl; and
                   each Ri is independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen,
15 halogen, optionally substituted Ci-ralkyl and optionally substituted Ci-ralkoxy.
                   2.      A compound of claim 1 wherein n is 2.
                   3.      A compound of claim 1 or 2 wherein L is a polyalkylene glycol
20 linker.
                   4.      A compound of any of claims 1-3 wherein L is a polyethylene glycol
   linker.
25                 5.      A compound of any of claims 1-4 wherein the Core has the
   following structure:
                                             I-X-Y-X-j
           wherein:
                   X is selected from the group consisting of a bond, -0-, -NH-, -S-,
30 CI-4 alkylene, -NHC(=0)-, -C(=0)NH-, -NHC(=0)NH-, -SO 2NH-, and
   -NHSO 2-;

   WO 2014/029983                                                                PCT/GB2013/052192
                                                    147
                   Y is selected from the group consisting of a bond, optionally substituted
  C1.salkylene, optionally substituted aryl, optionally substituted heteroaryl, a polyethylene
  glycol linker, -(CH 2 )i- 6 0(CH 2 )1-6- and -(CH 2 )i-6NYi(CH 2 )1-6-; and
                   Yi is selected from the group consisting of hydrogen, optionally substituted
5 C 1.salkyl, optionally substituted aryl or optionally substituted heteroaryl.
                   6.      A compound of any of claims 1-5 wherein the Core is selected from
  the group consisting of:
          O
              H HNA
                                  H         2
                                                           H     H
                                                                 N                N
                                                                                   NyN 0     ,
          0                                                                       H        H
                                                                                   0
                                                                                        N
                 O
                                   0                           0                       H
                                                            HOQ                          H
                                                                     O        0N
                      00                                                  O
                                HH
                    0                                                                H
                                                                     OH        0
            HH
            0                  0                               0          O

   WO 2014/029983                                                            PCT/GB2013/052192
                                                   148
                                                                               0
                                                        N                          N
                                     o                                 INH
                                                           0     o
        H
        N                    N
                           -- T                                            0
            0                        and                             HO
                    7.       A compound of any of claims 1-6 wherein the NHE-inhibiting small
   molecule moiety has the following structure of Formula (XII):
 5
             RR3
                          R
                OR1  Ri
   (XII)
          wherein:
                    each R 3 and R 4 are independently selected from the group consisting of
io hydrogen and optionally substituted C 1 _4alkyl, or R 3 and R 4, taken together with the
   nitrogen to which they are bonded, form an optionally substituted 4-8 membered
   heterocyclyl;
                    each R 1 is independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen,
   halogen, C 1 _-alkyl, and C 1 _6 haloalkyl; and
15                 R 5 is selected from the group consisting of -S0 2 -NR7- and
   NHC(=0)NH-, wherein R 7 is hydrogen or C1_4 alkyl.
                    8.       A compound of claim 7 wherein R 3 and R 4 , taken together with the
   nitrogen to which they are bonded, form an optionally substituted 5 or 6 membered
20 heterocyclyl.

    WO 2014/029983                                                        PCT/GB2013/052192
                                                149
                   9.     A compound of claim 8 wherein the optionally substituted 5 or 6
   membered heterocyclyl is pyrrolidinyl or piperidinyl.
 5                 10.    A compound of claim 8 wherein the optionally substituted 5 or 6
   membered heterocyclyl is pyrrolidinyl or piperidinyl, each substituted with at least one
   amino or hydroxyl.
                   11.    A compound of claim 7 wherein R 3 and R 4 are independently C1 _
io 4 alkyl.
                   12.    A compound of claim 11 wherein R 3 and R4 are methyl.
                   13.    A compound of any of claims 7-12 wherein each R1 is
is independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen or halogen.
                   14.    A compound of claim 13 wherein each Ri is independently selected
   from the group consisting of hydrogen, F and Cl.
20                 15.    A pharmaceutical composition comprising a compound of any of
   claims 1-14, or a stereoisomer, pharmaceutically acceptable salt or prodrug thereof, and a
   pharmaceutically acceptable carrier, diluent or excipient.
                   16.    A pharmaceutical composition of claim 15, further comprising a
25 fluid-absorbing polymer.
                   17.    A pharmaceutical composition of claim 16 wherein the fluid
   absorbing polymer is delivered directly to the colon.
30                 18.    A pharmaceutical composition of claim 16 or 17 wherein the fluid
   absorbing polymer has a fluid absorbency of at least about 15 g of isotonic fluid per g of
   polymer under a static pressure of about 5 kPa.

    WO 2014/029983                                                         PCT/GB2013/052192
                                                 150
                   19.   A pharmaceutical composition of any of claims 16-18 wherein the
   fluid-absorbing polymer has a fluid absorbency of at least about 15 g of isotonic fluid per g
   of polymer under a static pressure of about 10 kPa.
 5
                  20.    A pharmaceutical composition of any of claims 16-19 wherein the
   fluid-absorbing polymer is characterized by a fluid absorbency of at least about 10 g/g.
                  21.    A pharmaceutical composition of any of claims 16-20 wherein the
10 fluid-absorbing polymer is characterized by a fluid absorbency of at least about 15 g/g.
                  22.    A pharmaceutical composition of any of claims 16-21 wherein the
   fluid-absorbing polymer is superabsorbent.
15                23.    A pharmaceutical composition of any of claims 16-21 wherein the
   fluid-absorbing polymer is a crosslinked, partially neutralized polyelectrolyte hydrogel.
                  24.    A pharmaceutical composition of any of claims 16-21 wherein the
   fluid-absorbing polymer is a crosslinked polyacrylate.
20
                  25.    A pharmaceutical composition of any of claims 16-21 wherein the
   fluid-absorbing polymer is a polyelectrolyte.
                  26.    A pharmaceutical composition of any of claims 16-21 wherein the
25 fluid-absorbing polymer is calcium Carbophil.
                  27.    A pharmaceutical composition of any of claims 16-21 wherein the
   fluid-absorbing polymer is prepared by a high internal phase emulsion process.
30                28.    A pharmaceutical composition of any of claims 16-21 wherein the
   fluid-absorbing polymer is a foam.

    WO 2014/029983                                                           PCT/GB2013/052192
                                                   151
                   29.     A pharmaceutical composition of any of claims 16-21 wherein the
   fluid-absorbing polymer is prepared by a aqueous free radical polymerization of
   acrylamide or a derivative thereof, a crosslinker and a free radical initiator redox system in
   water.
 5
                   30.     A pharmaceutical composition of any of claims 16-21 wherein the
   fluid-absorbing polymer is a hydrogel.
                   31.     A pharmaceutical composition of any of claims 16-21 wherein the
io fluid-absorbing polymer is an N-alkyl acrylamide.
                   32.     A pharmaceutical composition of any of claims 16-21 wherein the
   fluid-absorbing polymer is a superporous gel.
15                 33.     A pharmaceutical composition of any of claims 16-21 wherein the
   fluid-absorbing polymer is naturally occurring.
                   34.     A pharmaceutical composition of any of claims 16-21 wherein the
   fluid-absorbing polymer is selected from the group consisting of xanthan, guar, wellan,
20 hemicelluloses, alkyl-cellulose hydro-alkyl-cellulose, carboxy-alkyl-cellulose,
   carrageenan, dextran, hyaluronic acid and agarose.
                   35.     A pharmaceutical composition of any of claims 16-21 wherein the
   fluid-absorbing polymer is psyllium.
25
                   36.     A pharmaceutical composition of any of claims 16-21 wherein the
   fluid-absorbing polymer is a polysaccharide that includes xylose and arabinose.
                   37.     A pharmaceutical composition of any of claims 16-21 wherein the
30 fluid-absorbing polymer is a polysaccharide that includes xylose and arabinose, wherein
   the ratio of xylose to arabinose is at least about 3:1, by weight.

    WO 2014/029983                                                              PCT/GB2013/052192
                                                   152
                   38.     A pharmaceutical composition of any of claims 16-37, further
   comprising another pharmaceutically active agent or compound.
                   39.     A pharmaceutical composition of claim 38 wherein the composition
 5 further comprises another pharmaceutically active agent or compound selected from the
   group consisting of a diuretic, cardiac glycoside, ACE inhibitor, angiotensin-2 receptor
   antagonist, aldosterone antagonist, aldosterone synthase inhibitor, renin inhibitor, calcium
   channel blocker, beta blocker, alpha blocker, central alpha agonist, vasodilator, blood
   thinner, anti-platelet agent, lipid-lowering agent, and peroxisome proliferator-activated
10 receptor (PPAR) gamma agonist agent.
                   40.     A pharmaceutical composition of claim 39 wherein the diuretic is
   selected from the group consisting of a high ceiling loop diuretic, a benzothiadiazide
   diuretic, a potassium sparing diuretic, and a osmotic diuretic.
15
                   41.     A pharmaceutical composition of claim 38 wherein the composition
   further comprises another pharmaceutically active agent or compound selected from the
   group consisting of an analgesic peptide or agent.
20                 42.     A pharmaceutical composition of claim 41 wherein the composition
   further comprises another pharmaceutically active agent or compound selected from the
   group consisting of a laxative agent selected from a bulk-producing agent (e.g. psyllium
   husk (Metamucil)), methylcellulose (Citrucel), polycarbophil, dietary fiber, apples, stool
   softeners/surfactant (e.g., docusate, Colace, Diocto), a hydrating or osmotic agent (e.g.,
25 dibasic sodium phosphate, magnesium citrate, magnesium hydroxide (Milk of magnesia),
   magnesium sulfate (which is Epsom salt), monobasic sodium phosphate, sodium
   biphosphate), a hyperosmotic agent (e.g., glycerin suppositories, sorbitol, lactulose, and
   polyethylene glycol (PEG)).
30                 43.     A method for inhibiting NHE-mediated antiport of sodium and
   hydrogen ions, the method comprising administering to a mammal in need thereof a

    WO 2014/029983                                                          PCT/GB2013/052192
                                                 153
   pharmaceutically effective amount of a compound or pharmaceutical composition of any
   of claims 1-42.
                    44.    A method for treating a disorder associated with fluid retention or
 5 salt overload, the method comprising administering to a mammal in need thereof a
   pharmaceutically effective amount of a compound or pharmaceutical composition of any
   of claims 1-42.
                    45.    A method for treating a disorder selected from the group consisting
10 of heart failure, chronic kidney disease, end-stage renal disease, liver disease, and
   peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR) gamma agonist-induced fluid retention,
   the method comprising administering to a mammal in need thereof a pharmaceutically
   effective amount of a compound or pharmaceutical composition of any of claims 1-42.
15                  46.    The method of claim 45 wherein the heart failure is congestive heart
   failure.
                    47. A method for treating hypertension, the method comprising
   administering to a mammal in need thereof a pharmaceutically effective amount of a
20 compound or pharmaceutical composition of any of claims 1-42.
                    48.    A method of any of claims 44-47 wherein the method comprises
   administering a pharmaceutically effective amount of the compound to the mammal in
   order to increase the mammal's daily fecal output of sodium and/or fluid.
25
                    49.    A method of any of claims 44-48 wherein the method comprises
   administering a pharmaceutically effective amount of the compound to the mammal in
   order to increase the mammal's daily fecal output of sodium by at least about 30 mmol,
   and/or fluid by at least about 200 ml.
30

    WO 2014/029983                                                           PCT/GB2013/052192
                                                 154
                   50.    A method of any of claims 44-49 wherein the mammal's fecal
   output of sodium and/or fluid is increased without introducing another type of cation in a
   stoichiometric or near stoichiometric fashion via an ion exchange process.
 5                 51.    A method of any of claims 44-50, further comprising administering
   to the mammal a fluid-absorbing polymer to absorb fecal fluid resulting from the use of the
   compound that is substantially active in the gastrointestinal tract to inhibit NHE-mediated
   antiport of sodium ions and hydrogen ions therein.
10                 52.    A method of any of claims 44-51 wherein the compound or
   composition is administered to treat hypertension.
                   53.    A method of any of claims 44-52 wherein the compound or
   composition is administered to treat hypertension associated with dietary salt intake.
15
                   54.    A method of any of claims 44-51 wherein administration of the
   compound or composition allows the mammal to intake a more palatable diet.
                   55.    A method of any of claims 44-51 wherein the compound or
20 composition is administered to treat fluid overload.
                   56.    A method of claim 55 wherein the fluid overload is associated with
   congestive heart failure.
25                 57.    A method of claim 55 wherein the fluid overload is associated with
   end stage renal disease.
                   58.    A method of claim 55 wherein the fluid overload is associated with
   peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR) gamma agonist therapy.
30
                   59.    A method of any of claims 44-51 wherein the compound or
   composition is administered to treat sodium overload.

    WO 2014/029983                                                             PCT/GB2013/052192
                                                    155
                   60.     A method of any of claim 44-51 wherein the compound or
   composition is administered to reduce interdialytic weight gain in ESRD patients.
 5                 61.     A method of any of claims 44-51 wherein the compound or
   composition is administered to treat edema.
                   62.     A method of claim 61 wherein the edema is caused by
   chemotherapy, pre-menstrual fluid overload or preeclampsia.
10
                   63.     A method of any of claims 44-62 wherein the compound or
   composition is administered orally, by rectal suppository, or enema.
                   64.     A method of any one of claims 44-63, wherein the method
15 comprises administering a pharmaceutically effective amount of the compound or
   composition in combination with one or more additional pharmaceutically active
   compounds or agents.
                   65.     A method of claim 64 wherein the one or more additional
20 pharmaceutically active compounds or agents is selected from the group consisting of a
   diuretic, cardiac glycoside, ACE inhibitor, angiotensin-2 receptor antagonist, aldosterone
   antagonist, aldosterone synthase inhibitor, renin inhibitor, calcium channel blocker, beta
   blocker, alpha blocker, central alpha agonist, vasodilator, blood thinner, anti-platelet agent,
   lipid-lowering agent, and peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR) gamma
25 agonist agent.
                   66.     A method of claim 65 wherein the diuretic is selected from the
   group consisting of a high ceiling loop diuretic, a benzothiadiazide diuretic, a potassium
   sparing diuretic, and a osmotic diuretic.
30
                   67.     A method of any of claims 64-66 wherein the pharmaceutically
   effective amount of the compound or composition, and the one or more additional

    WO 2014/029983                                                           PCT/GB2013/052192
                                                 156
   pharmaceutically active compounds or agents, are administered as part of a single
   pharmaceutical preparation.
                   68.     A method of any of claims 64-66 wherein the pharmaceutically
 5 effective amount of the compound or composition, and the one or more additional
   pharmaceutically active compounds or agents, are administered as individual
   pharmaceutical preparations.
                   69.     A method of claim 68 wherein the individual pharmaceutical
10 preparation are administered sequentially.
                   70.     A method of claim 69 wherein the individual pharmaceutical
   preparation are administered simultaneously.
15                 71.     A method for treating a gastrointestinal tract disorder, the method
   comprising administering to a mammal in need thereof a pharmaceutically effective
   amount of a compound or pharmaceutical composition of any of claims 1-42.
                   72.     A method of claim 71 wherein the gastrointestinal tract disorder is a
20 gastrointestinal motility disorder.
                   73.     A method of claim 71 wherein the gastrointestinal tract disorder is
   irritable bowel syndrome.
25                 74.     A method of claim 71 wherein the gastrointestinal tract disorder is
   chronic constipation.
                   75.     A method of claim 71 wherein the gastrointestinal tract disorder is
   chronic idiopathic constipation.
30
                   76.     A method of claim 71 wherein the gastrointestinal tract disorder is
   chronic constipation occurring in cystic fibrosis patients.

    WO 2014/029983                                                         PCT/GB2013/052192
                                                157
                   77.     A method of claim 71 wherein the gastrointestinal tract disorder is
   opioid-induced constipation.
 5                 78.     A method of claim 71 wherein the gastrointestinal tract disorder is a
   functional gastrointestinal tract disorder.
                   79.     A method of claim 71 wherein the gastrointestinal tract disorder is
   selected from the group consisting of chronic intestinal pseudo-obstruction and colonic
10 pseudo-obstruction.
                   80.     A method of claim 71 wherein the gastrointestinal tract disorder is
   Crohn's disease.
15                 81.     A method of claim 71 wherein the gastrointestinal tract disorder is
   ulcerative colitis.
                   82.     A method of claim 71 wherein the gastrointestinal tract disorder is a
   disease referred to as inflammatory bowel disease.
20
   83.     A method of claim 71 wherein the gastrointestinal tract disorder is associated with
   chronic kidney disease (stage 4 or 5).
                   84.     A method of claim 71 wherein the gastrointestinal tract disorder is
25 constipation induced by calcium supplement.
                   85.     A method of claim 71 wherein the gastrointestinal tract disorder is
   constipation, and further wherein the constipation to be treated is associated with the use of
   a therapeutic agent.
30

   WO 2014/029983                                                           PCT/GB2013/052192
                                                  158
                   86.    A method of claim 71 wherein the gastrointestinal tract disorder is
   constipation, and further wherein the constipation to be treated is associated with a
   neuropathic disorder.
 5                 87.    A method of claim 71 wherein the gastrointestinal tract disorder is
   constipation, and further wherein the constipation to be treated is post-surgical constipation
   (postoperative ileus).
                   88.    A method of claim 71 wherein the gastrointestinal tract disorder is
10 constipation, and further wherein the constipation to be treated is idiopathic (functional
   constipation or slow transit constipation).
                   89.    A method of claim 71 wherein the gastrointestinal tract disorder is
   constipation, and further wherein the constipation to be treated is associated with
15 neuropathic, metabolic or an endocrine disorder (e.g., diabetes mellitus, renal failure,
   hypothyroidism, hyperthyroidism, hypocalcaemia, Multiple Sclerosis, Parkinson's disease,
   spinal cord lesions, neurofibromatosis, autonomic neuropathy, Chagas disease,
   Hirschsprung's disease or cystic fibrosis, and the like).
20                 90.    A method of claim 71 wherein the gastrointestinal tract disorder is
   constipation, and further wherein the constipation to be treated is due the use of drugs
   selected from analgesics (e.g., opioids), antihypertensives, anticonvul sants,
   antidepressants, antispasmodics and antipsychotics.
25                 91.    A method for treating irritable bowel syndrome, the method
   comprising administering to a mammal in need thereof a pharmaceutically effective
   amount of a compound or a pharmaceutical composition of any of claims 1-42.
                   92.    A method of any of claims 71-91 wherein the compound or
30 composition is administered to treat or reduce pain associated with a gastrointestinal tract
   disorder.

    WO 2014/029983                                                          PCT/GB2013/052192
                                                 159
                   93.     A method of any of claims 71-91 wherein the compound or
   composition is administered to treat or reduce visceral hypersensitivity associated with a
   gastrointestinal tract disorder.
 5                 94.     A method of any of claims 71-91 wherein the compound or
   composition is administered to treat or reduce inflammation of the gastrointestinal tract.
                   95.     A method of any of claims 71-91 wherein the compound or
   composition is administered to reduce gastrointestinal transit time.
10
                   96.     A method of any of claims 71-95 wherein the compound or
   composition is administered either orally or by rectal suppository.
                   97.     A method of any of claims 71-96 wherein the method comprises
15 administering a pharmaceutically effective amount of the compound or composition, in
   combination with one or more additional pharmaceutically active compounds or agents.
                   98.     A method of claim 97 wherein the one or more additional
   pharmaceutically active agents or compounds are an analgesic peptide or agent.
20
                   99.     A method of claim 97 wherein the one or more additional
   pharmaceutically active agents or compounds are selected from the group consisting of a
   laxative agent selected from a bulk-producing agent (e.g. psyllium husk (Metamucil)),
   methylcellulose (Citrucel), polycarbophil, dietary fiber, apples, stool softeners/surfactant
25 (e.g., docusate, Colace, Diocto), a hydrating or osmotic agent (e.g., dibasic sodium
   phosphate, magnesium citrate, magnesium hydroxide (Milk of magnesia), magnesium
   sulfate (which is Epsom salt), monobasic sodium phosphate, sodium biphosphate), and a
   hyperosmotic agent (e.g., glycerin suppositories, sorbitol, lactulose, and polyethylene
   glycol (PEG)).
30
                    100.   A method of any of claims 97-99 wherein the pharmaceutically
   effective amount of the compound or composition, and the one or more additional

   WO 2014/029983                                                      PCT/GB2013/052192
                                                160
   pharmaceutically active compounds or agents, are administered as part of a single
   pharmaceutical preparation.
                   101.  A method of any of claims 97-99 wherein the pharmaceutically
 5 effective amount of the compound or composition, and the one or more additional
   pharmaceutically active compounds or agents, are administered as individual
   pharmaceutical preparations.
                   102.  A method of claim 101 wherein the individual pharmaceutical
10 preparation are administered sequentially.
                   103.  A method of claim 101 wherein the individual pharmaceutical
   preparation are administered simultaneously.
15

