Abstract
Counter effecting of local corona discharges by inside metallization of ceramic penetrator for
high pressures, high temperatures and high electric voltages. An apparatus includes a flange
(5), an elongated tube (1), attachment sleeves (4) and an electrical conductor (2).
Figure 2.

WO 2014/175744        PCT/N02014/050054
                2/5
             (4
                    0            C04
                                 M-

   WO 2014/175744                                                          PCT/N02014/050054
                                                   1
           HIGH VOLTAGE ELECTRIC POWER FEED-THROUGH APPARATUS.
 5  Field of the invention.
    The present invention relates to a method for reducing local corona discharges in a
    penetrator for feeding electricity through a wall in a pressure vessel or a pressurized
    pipe.
10
    Background.
    Earlier subsea facilities for the production of oil and gas involved locating complex
    technology close to a permanent or fixed oil or gas field installation, the permanent or
15  fixed installation typically being a platform construction made from steel or concrete.
    At greater water depths, permanent or fixed platform installations tend to become
    unreasonably costly. Floating installations are not sensitive to water depth to the same
    degree, although, as floating installations tend to move along with sea motion, they
    require more complex riser systems in order first to get the well stream on board and
20  then again to have it exported. A complicating factor being that the unprocessed well
    stream cannot be transported directly in long pipelines. Furthermore, the pressure drop
    from the sea bed and up to the surface reduces the productivity of the well with the
    consequence that considerable quantities of oil and gas remain unextracted in the
    reservoir.
25
    The well stream is advantageously processed to separate the well stream into oil and gas
    at the bottom of the sea, on the subsea field. Thereby the oil and gas fraction are ready
    to be pumped directly to the receiver. This requires subsea operation of pumps and
    compressors, which typically include electrically driven rotating machines. Operation of
30  this type of electrically driven rotating machines require supply of considerable
    electrical power, necessitating high voltage transmission of electrical power over
    electrical installations that cannot be in direct contact with surrounding sea water. They
    need to be located in special chambers that also need to withstand substantial pressures.
    From this comes the need for a device for feeding high voltage electrical power through
35  one or more subsea pressure barriers. Such a device is often called a "penetrator".

   WO 2014/175744                                                           PCT/N02014/050054
                                                   2
    An important property of a penetrator is that it does not cause corona discharges,
    frequently referred to as "CD", from the English trade term "partial discharge".
    Penetrators for subsea applications may advantageously be made from a central copper
    conductor which is metallic connected with a ceramic hollow cylinder, as disclosed in
 5  Norwegian patent application (20111094).
    Absence of PD is most important for the parts of an electric power supply that are
    insulated by polymers such as cross polymerized polyethyls, commonly designated
    PEX. This material will be broken down by discharges, leading to loss of insulating
10  properties and short circuits. The penetrator itself, to the extent that it consist of only
    metals and ceramics is insensitive to PD, but it is advantageous that it does not exhibit
    PD because eventual PD in the penetrator will complicate detection of PD in other parts
    of the system.
15  The relative permittivity, also referred to as the dielectric constant, for ceramics is very
    large. This leads to large potential leap at those parts of the surface of the penetrator that
    are located close to the central conductor. In order to reduce PD, it is advantageous that
    such potential leaps do not lie on the surface of the ceramics. This can be achieved by
    metallizing the affected surfaces. These surfaces will generally be located on the inner
20  diameter of the central bore of the ceramics. This bore can be called the inward
    cylindrical cavity.
    Summary of the invention.
25  The present invention consist of a method for reducing partial corona discharges by
    metallizing inward surfaces in subsea high voltage penetrators for thereby to improve
    exploitation of insulating capability and rupture strength in modern high performance
    ceramics in combination with technologies for metallic bonding in such penetrators.
30  Brief description of the drawings.
    Figure 1 illustrates how the main parts in a possible embodiment are located with
    respect to each other.
    Figure 2 illustrate the most essential details in the invention.
35
    Detailed description of the invention.

   WO 2014/175744                                                          PCT/N02014/050054
                                                  3
    Figure 1 shows a device according to the invention, characterized in that a ceramic
    insulator 1 is connected to a metallic flange 5. Through the insulator 1 is passed a
    conductor 2 which is affixed in the insulator by a fixed sleeve 3 and a unfixed sleeve 6.
 5  According to the illustration of figure 1, the conductor is connected with cables 12 and
     13 with sleeves according well known art. The cables 12 and 13 may also be welded or
    soldered to the conductor 2 according well known art.
    Figure 2 shows the components in a different embodiment of a penetrator according to
10  the invention.
    A conducting metal rod 2 is passed through a cylindrical cavity 10 in an insulator. In the
    arrangement of a conducting metal rod 2 is passed through a cylindrical cavity 10 in an
    insulator, the inward cylindrical cavity 10 is coated with a metal layer.
15
    According to a further aspect, the invention provides a method for preventing or
    substantially reducing PD in penetrators for high voltage supply for underwater
    facilities, characterized in that an inward cylindrical cavity 10 in a ceramic insulation
    element along the conductor 2 is coated with a metallic conducting layer.
20
    The present invention provides a high voltage electrical power feed-through, or
    "penetrator", apparatus according to any one of the attached patent claims I to 10.
25
    The penetrator apparatus, illustrated by exemplary embodiments in the accompanying
    figures, comprises a flange 5, an elongated tube 1, first and second attachment sleeves 4,
    an elongated electrical conductor 2, and a third attachment sleeve 3.
30  In an embodiment of the invention, the third attachment sleeve 3 is axially offset from
    an adjacently located one of said first and second attachment sleeves 4.
    In the accompanying drawing, a straight broken or dotted line has been drawn through a
    central part of the illustrated penetrator embodiments in different views thereof to
35  indicate what will be referred to as a longitudinal direction or longitudinal axis of the
    high voltage electrical power feed-through or "penetrator" apparatus of the invention.

   WO 2014/175744                                                           PCT/N02014/050054
                                                    4
    In figure 1 is also indicated by broken lines optional features of a penetrator when
    suitably applied or installed in a facility for supply electric power to power consuming
    devices, and indicated by reference signs relating to these optional features only in
    figures 1 and 3 are insulated cables 12, connector means 11 for connecting the insulated
 5  cables 12 and 13 to the electrical conductor 2 of the penetrator device, and a shroud or
    cap arrangement on each side of the flange 5, covering the insulating tube 1, the
    attachment 3 and 4 sleeves on respective sides of the penetrator device, and the exposed
    ends of cables 12 and 13 and their respective connector means 11.
10  In figure 2, an embodiment of a penetrator apparatus according to the invention is
    shown in a partial cross section in a perspective view, illustrating the penetrator
    apparatus comprising a circular disc shaped flange 5, with a plurality through holes 9
    provided for bolting the flange to a wall of a pressure vessel (not shown). Flat surfaces
    on oppositely located sides 7 and 8 of the flange disc are advantageously provided with
15  respective circular groove type features located next to the arrow heads related to
    reference signs 7 and 8 for providing a suitable high pressure metal-to-metal seal,
    however, such sealing features on any of the surfaces of the flange disc are optional,
    since sealing may be provided by other suitable means, such as e.g. a conventional
    gasket or an o-ring arrangement, depending e.g. on the pressure to be sealed, on the
20  media on respective sides of the flange, etc. Accordingly, the shape of the flange, here
    shown to be circular, could be any suitable shape for adapting it to the vessel or other
    device to which it is to be attached or bolted, such as e.g. any of a square, rectangular
    hexagonal, or elliptic shape.
25  The flange 5 is typically of a first thickness, and has an opening providing a passage
    between first 8 and second 7 oppositely located sides of said flange. The elongated tube
     1 is advantageously of a solid, electrically insulating material, is of a first length greater
    than said first thickness, and is advantageously positioned in the passage of the flange,
    with first and second parts of said tube protruding from respective ones of said first and
30  second sides of said flange. The flange is provided with a suitable number of through
    holes 9 for attaching it by bolts or similar fastener to a pressure vessel or other device.
    The first and second attachment sleeves 4 for attaching the insulating tube to the flange
    5 are positioned on said tube and are advantageously sealingly attached to respective
    ones of said first and second parts of the tube, at a distance from respective first and
35  second ends of said tube. The first and second attachment sleeves 4 are advantageously
    sealingly attached to respective ones of said first and second oppositely located sides 7
    and 8 of said flange 5. Thereby, a space may formed between a central part of the tube

   WO 2014/175744                                                           PCT/N02014/050054
                                                   5
    and a wall or walls of the passage in the flange, the space being advantageously sealed
    off from the surroundings of the feed-through apparatus on at least one side of the
    flange. The elongated electrical conductor 2 is advantageously of a second length that is
    greater than said first length of the tube, and is advantageously positioned in a lumen 10
 5  of said tube with first and second parts of said conductor protruding from respective
    ones of said first and second parts of said tube. The third attachment sleeve 3 is
    positioned on said conductor and is advantageously sealingly attached to one of said
    first and second parts of said conductor, at a distance from a respective one of a first and
    second end of said conductor, and is advantageously sealingly attached to a respective
10  one of a first and second end of said tube.
    Although it has been stated that the conductor 2 in the feed-through apparatus of the
    present invention is of a length greater than the length of the tube 1, and extends beyond
    ends of the tube 1, it will be understood that the conductor 2 as a unitary element could
15  be of a shorter length than the length of the tube lor not extending beyond the tube 1 at
    one or both ends, as its length may be extended by a suitable conducting extension
    element to form a conductor assembly having a length that is greater than the length of
    the tube 1, or extending beyond one or both ends of the tube 1,
20  In an advantageous embodiment of the invention, as illustrated in figures 1 to 6, an end
    cap 6 is advantageously provided at one end of the tube. The end cap 6 is contemplated
    to serve as a means for sealing off a space between the tube and the conductor, and/or to
    serve as a means for positioning the conductor within the lumen of the tube, e.g. in
    order to maintain it centered with respect to the lumen, or to maintain a desired space or
25  gap between an outer surface of the conductor and an inward surface of the lumen of the
    tube, e.g. in order to obtain a desired electrical field configuration in the space or gap.
    Advantageously, the end cap 6 is not firmly attached to the conductor or to the tube to
    allow for relative movement of these items in axial or radial direction, such as e.g. in
    case of different thermal expansion or extension. Advantageously, the end cap 6 could
30  made from a resilient and/or flexible material to maintain a seal between and/or
    maintaining relative positions of the conductor and the tube in case of relative
    movements of these items.
    In an advantageous embodiment of the invention, a space 20 between the tube and the
35  conductor is filled with an electrically insulating fluid being resistant to high voltage
    breakdown, such as e.g. a high voltage transformer oil or other fluid or liquid having a
    corresponding high voltage insulation property.

   WO 2014/175744                                                           PCT/N02014/050054
                                                     6
    In an advantageous embodiment of the invention, at least a part of an inward surface of
    said lumen 10 is supporting a layer of an electrically conducting material. In an further
    embodiment of the invention, the layer of conduction material is extended onto one or
 5  both end surfaces 23A, 23B of the tube, illustrated in figures 6 and 7. It should be noted
    that the illustration in figure is a partial "exploded view" version of the partial assembly
    drawing of figure 4, in which the third attachment sleeve 3 and cap 6 are drawn as
    separated from the partial conductor and tube assembly. In figures 6 and 7 are also
    illustrated further features of advantageous embodiments of the invention, particularly a
10  section 22 of the lumen 10 within the tube having a larger inner diameter, for receiving
    a portion of the third attachment sleeve 3 having an outer diameter that is larger than an
    inner diameter of an adjacently located part of the lumen 10, and a first transition or step
     12 between sections of the tube having different outer diameters. Advantageously, in
    connection with the section 22 of the lumen 10, there is a defined second transition or
is  step at the point where the inner diameter of the lumen 10 changes. Advantageously, the
    first transition or step 12 of the outer diameter of the tube 1 is located proximal to an
    end surface 23A of the tube at which the section 22 of the lumen of the larger diameter
    is located. The first and second transition or steps between inner diameters of the lumen
     10 and between outer diameters of the tube 2, provide respective means for ensuring
20  proper location of the respective first or second attachments sleeves 4 and the third
    attachment sleeve, respectively, and provide also respective strength taking portions of
    the tube for, in the case of a pressure differential between the side a 8 and 7 of the
    penetrator, coupling an axial force; exerted by pressure, from the conductor and
    attachment sleeve 3 assembly to the tube 1, and from the tube 1 and first attachment
25  sleev4 4 on side 8 of the penetrator to the flange 5. The outer diameter transition or step
     12 of the tube is more clearly shown in the side view illustration of the tube 1 in figure
    7. The reference 22 in figure 7 has been included only to indicate the location of an
    opening in the end part 23A formed by the section of the lumen 10 having the larger
    inner diameter.
30
    As illustrated in the expanded detail view of figure 5, it is contemplated that in an
    embodiment, the apparatus of the invention comprises an electrically conducting means
    21, being arranged in a space 20 between said conductor and said layer of a first
    electrically conducting material carried on a surface of the lumen 10, for establishing an
35  electrically conducting path between said conductor and said layer of a first electrically
    conducting material. The electrically conducting means 20 could be provided alone, or
    in combination with an electrically conducting third attachment sleeve for establishing

   WO 2014/175744                                                          PCT/N02014/050054
                                                   7
    an electrically conducting path between the conductor and the layer of a first electrically
    conducting material.
    In an advantageous embodiment of the invention, the third attachment sleeve comprises
 5  a first electrically conducting material. In an advantageous embodiment of the
    invention, the first electrically conducting material comprised in said third attachment
    sleeve 3 is adapted to provide an electrically conducting path between said conductor
    and said layer of an electrically conducting material, thereby bringing an electrical
    potential of the layer of an electrically conducting material towards an electrical
10  potential of the conductor.
    In an advantageous embodiment of the electrical feed-through apparatus of the
    invention, a diameter of a part of the conductor being positioned within said lumen is
    smaller than a diameter of said lumen so as to provide a gap 20 between an outer
15  surface of the conductor and an inward surface of said lumen, as illustrated in the
    enlarged cross section detail of figure 5.
    In an advantageous embodiment of the electrical feed-through apparatus of the
    invention, said layer said layer of a first electrically conducting material is a layer of
20  metal or a layer of a semiconducting material, applied to the entire inward surface of the
    lumen.
    According to a further aspect of the invention, said layer said layer of a first electrically
    conducting material is applied to a longitudinal portion of the inward surface of the
25  lumen, the longitudinal portion extending axially between about the points of
    attachment to the tube 1 of the first and second attachment sleeves 4, respectively, or the
    longitudinal portion extending axially beyond the points of attachment to the tube 1 of
    the first and second attachment sleeves 4 but not entirely to ends 23A, 23B of the tube
     1.
30
    In an advantageous embodiment of the electrical feed-through apparatus of the
    invention, said electrically conducting means is constituted by said third attachment
    sleeve comprising a second electrically conducting material.
35  In an advantageous embodiment of the electrical feed-through apparatus of the
    invention, said electrically conducting means is constituted by a resilient electrical
    conductor 20 positioned in a gap between an outer surface of the conductor and an

   WO 2014/175744                                                       PCT/N02014/050054
                                                8
    inward surface of said lumen. The resilient electrical conductor could e.g. be placed or
    wrapped around the conductor to form a ring connecting the electrical conductor to the
    conducting layer on their circumferences, or be located so as to form a longitudinal
    connection between surfaces of the electrical conductor and the conducting layer.
 5
    The conducting layer is advantageously a layer of metal which has been applied to the
    surface by a method of vapor deposition, chemical deposition, electrolytic deposition,
    sputtering, or spraying.
10
15

   WO 2014/175744                                                          PCT/N02014/050054
                                                   9
    P a t e n t           c l a i m s
     1.
    An electrical feed-through apparatus for preventing or substantially reducing partial
 5  corona discharges, PD, in penetrators for high voltage supply for underwater facilities,
    the apparatus comprising
            a flange (5) of a first thickness and having an opening providing a passage
    between first (8) and second (7) oppositely located sides of said flange,
            an elongated tube (1) of a solid, electrically insulating material, and of a first
10  length greater than said first thickness, being positioned in said passage, with first and
    second parts of said tube protruding from respective ones of said first and second sides
    of said flange,
            first and second attachment sleeves (4) positioned on said tube and being
    attached to respective ones of said first and second parts of the tube, at a distance from
15  respective first and second ends of said tube, and being attached to respective ones of
    said first and second oppositely located sides of said flange,
            an elongated electrical conductor (2) of a second length greater than said first
    length, and being positioned in a lumen (10) of said tube with first and second parts of
    said conductor protruding from respective ones of said first and second parts of said
20  tube, and
            a third attachment sleeve (3) being positioned on said conductor and being
    attached to one of said first and second parts of said conductor, at a distance from a
    respective one of a first and second end of said conductor, and being attached to a
    respective one of a first and second end of said tube,
25  wherein
            at least a part of an inward surface of said lumen is supporting a layer of a first
    electrically conducting material, and the apparatus further comprising
            an electrically conducting means adapted to for establishing an electrically
    conducting path between said conductor and said layer of a first electrically conducting
30  material.
    2.
    The electrical feed-through apparatus of claim 1, wherein a diameter of a part of the
    conductor being positioned within said lumen is smaller than a diameter of said lumen
35  so as to provide a gap between an outer surface of the conductor and an inward surface
    of said lumen.

   WO 2014/175744                                                           PCT/N02014/050054
                                                    10
    3.
    The electrical feed-through apparatus of any one of the previous claims, wherein said
    layer said layer of a first electrically conducting material is a layer
 5  4.
    The electrical feed-through apparatus of any one of the previous claims, wherein
    said electrically conducting means is constituted by said third attachment sleeve
    comprising a second electrically conducting material.
10  5.
    The electrical feed-through apparatus of any one of the previous claims, wherein
    said electrically conducting means is constituted by a resilient electrical conductor (20)
    positioned in a gap between an outer surface of the conductor and an inward surface of
    said lumen.
15
    6.
    The electrical feed-through apparatus of any one of the previous claims, wherein
    said layer said layer of a first electrically conducting material is provided on a
    longitudinal portion of the inward surface of the lumen, the longitudinal portion
20  extending axially between about the points of attachment to the tube (1) of the first and
    second attachment sleeves (4), respectively.
    7.
    The electrical feed-through apparatus of any one of the previous claims, wherein
25  said layer said layer of a first electrically conducting material is provided on a
    longitudinal portion of the inward surface of the lumen, the longitudinal portion
    extending axially beyond the points of attachment to the tube (1) of the first and second
    attachment sleeves (4) but not entirely to ends (23A, 23B) of the tube (1).
30  8.
    The electrical feed-through apparatus of any one of the previous claims, comprising an
    end cap (6) having a passage for the conductor (2), and being positioned at a second end
    (23B) of the tube (1) located oppositely to a first end (23A) of the tube (1) at which the
    third attachment sleeve (3) is located.
35

   WO 2014/175744                                                          PCT/N02014/050054
                                                  11
    9.
    The electrical feed-through apparatus of claim 1, wherein
            at least one of said first and second attachment sleeves (4) is sealingly attached
    to said respective one of said first and second parts of the tube, and sealingly attached
 5  to said respective one of said first and second oppositely located sides of said flange,
    and
            said third attachment sleeve is sealingly attached to said one of said first and
    second parts of said conductor, sealingly attached to said respective one of a first and
    second end of said tube,
10
     10.
    An electrical feed-through apparatus for preventing or substantially reducing partial
    corona discharges, PD, in penetrators for high voltage supply for underwater facilities,
    the apparatus comprising
15          a flange (5) of a first thickness and having an opening providing a passage
    between first (8) and second (7) oppositely located sides of said flange,
            an elongated tube (1) of a solid, electrically insulating material, and of a first
    length greater than said first thickness, being positioned in said passage, with first and
    second parts of said tube protruding from respective ones of said first and second sides
20  of said flange,
            first and second attachment sleeves (4) positioned on said tube and being
    attached to respective ones of said first and second parts of the tube, at a distance from
    respective first and second ends of said tube, and being attached to respective ones of
    said first and second oppositely located sides of said flange,
25          an elongated electrical conductor (2) of a second length greater than said first
    length, and being positioned in a lumen (10) of said tube with first and second parts of
    said conductor protruding from respective ones of said first and second parts of said
    tube, and
            a third attachment sleeve (3) being positioned on said conductor and sealingly
30  being attached to one of said first and second parts of said conductor, at a distance from
    a respective one of a first and second end of said conductor, and being sealingly
    attached to a respective one of a first and second end of said tube, and
            an end cap (6) seal having a passage for the conductor (2), and being positioned
    in said lumen (10) at a second end (23B) of the tube (1) located oppositely to a first end
35  (23A) of the tube (1) at which the third attachment sleeve (3) is located
    wherein

WO 2014/175744                                                           PCT/N02014/050054
                                                12
         a space between an inward surface of said lumen (10 and said conductor (2) is
 filled with an electrically insulating liquid being resistant to high voltage breakdown.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
