                                       ABSTRACT
          In an air supply and exhaust adapter for a combustion device of a forced air
   supply and exhaust type, with the combustion device comprising an air supply
 5 section and an exhaust section being provided to project from a top plate portion of
   an outer casing;     comprising a base     portion that comprises a box shaped
   configuration and an open bottom portion, an air supply intake portion that is
   formed on the top surface portion of the base portion so as to cover the air supply
   section and to take in air from the surroundings of the combustion device, a
to circumferential wall portion that surrounds the periphery of the exhaust section;
   and a communication passage defined between the top surface portion and the top
   plate portion so as to communicate the space between the exhaust section and the
   circumferential wall portion with the air supply intake portion; the communication
   passage being constructed so that, due to the operation of the air blower means, the
[5 gauge pressure therein becomes negative.

              1/ 4
Fi g. 1
         13        7
                   7a
    6-
                   7
                         2
       0              O
    8
            0         0 -9

   AIR SUPPLY AND EXHAUST ADAPTER FOR COMBUSTION APPARATUS
   CROSS-REFERENCE TO PRIORITY APPLICATION
 5 [0001]        The present application claims priority to Japanese patent
   application JP2017-000878 filed 6 January 2017, the entire contents of which is
   taken to be incorporated herein by reference.
   BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
10  [0001a]      The present invention relates to an air supply and exhaust adapter
   that is attached to an air supply aperture and to an exhaust aperture of a
   combustion device.
   [0001b]       The following discussion of the background to the invention is
   intended to facilitate an understanding of the invention. However, it should be
15 appreciated that the discussion is not an acknowledgement or admission that any
   aspect of the discussion was part of the common general knowledge as at the
   priority date of the application.
   [0001c]       Where any or all of the terms "comprise", "comprises", "comprised" or
   "comprising" are used in this specification (including the claims) they are to be
20 interpreted as specifying the presence of the stated features, integers, steps or
   components, but not precluding the presence of one or more other features,
   integers, steps or components.
   [0002]        Conventionally, hot water supply devices and room heating devices
   have been widely used that perform hot water supply and/or space heating by
25 employing natural exhaust type (CF: Conventional Flue type) combustion
   devices that are installed inside a building, and that combust fuel by taking in
   air from within the building and discharge the combustion exhaust gases to the
   exterior of the building by the force of natural venting. An exhaust pipe that
   communicates with the exterior is provided to the building, and, since the exhaust
30 unit of the CF type combustion device is connected to the exhaust pipe,
   accordingly the combustion exhaust gases can be discharged to the exterior.
                                              1

   [0003]        When a combustion device of this CF type is to be replaced with a
   new one, sometimes, from the viewpoint of maintaining the external appearance
   of the building, there are cases that it is not possible to remove an exhaust pipe
   that is already in existence. In such a case, one solution is to replace the
 5 combustion device by inserting a new exhaust pipe into the interior of the exhaust
   pipe that is already in existence.
   [0004]        For example, the exhaust construction for a combustion device of
   Japanese Patent Publication 5,884,865 is connected to an exhaust unit of a forced
   exhaust type (FE: Forced Exhaust type) combustion device that combusts fuel by
10 forcibly sucking in air from the inside of the building with a blower fan, and that
   vents the resulting combustion exhaust gases to the outside. This exhaust
   construction makes it possible to discharge combustion exhaust gases to the
   outside by passing an exhaust conduit through the interior of an exhaust pipe
   that is already in existence, and also prevents the intrusion of rain water by
15 disposing an air supply and exhaust adapter in the space between the exhaust
   pipe and the exhaust conduit. Moreover, this space is connected to a connection
   port that is provided on the outer casing of the combustion device, and, by
   utilizing the negative gauge pressure within the outer casing that is generated
   during operation of the blower fan, it becomes possible to send combustion
20 exhaust gases that have leaked out into the space between the exhaust pipe and
   the exhaust conduit back into the combustion device for a second time.
   [0005]        However, when it is not possible to remove the already existing
   exhaust pipe, it is often not possible to provide a new air supply pipe. For this
   reason, it may not be possible to replace a CF type combustion device or an FE
25 type combustion device with a forced air supply and exhaust type (FF: forced flue
   or forced draft balanced flue type) combustion device that sucks in outdoor air
   from an air supply pipe with a blower fan, combusts fuel, and discharges the
   exhaust to the exterior, which in recent years has become a mainstream type.
   Accordingly, it is necessary to provide a FE type combustion device as a
30 replacement, and this constitutes a burden upon the supplier of combustion
   equipment.
                                               2

   [0006]         Even if an FF type combustion device is installed by passing a new
   exhaust conduit through an exhaust pipe that is already in existence, so that air
   inside the building is sucked in and the exhaust gases are discharged to the
   exterior of the building, there is a danger that the exhaust gases may leak from
 5 the exhaust conduit to the interior of the building. Since, with the exhaust
   construction for a combustion device described in above patent publication, the
   space between the exhaust pipe and the exhaust conduit is connected to a
   connection port on the outer casing of an FE type combustion device in order to
   prevent leakage of the combustion exhaust gases into the building, accordingly,
10 normally, this exhaust construction cannot be applied to an FF type combustion
   device that is not provided with any connection port of this type on its outer
   casing for introduction of outdoor air.
   [0007] It is therefore desirable to provide an air supply and exhaust adapter which
   makes it possible to employ an FF type combustion device in a safe manner by
15 utilizing an exhaust pipe that is already in existence, even in a site in which it is
   not possible to install an air supply pipe.
   SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
   [0008]         The present invention presents an air supply and exhaust adapter
20 for a combustion device of a forced air supply and exhaust type, with              the
   combustion device comprising an air supply section and an exhaust section being
   provided to project from a top plate portion of an outer casing; comprising a base
   portion that comprises a box shaped configuration and an open bottom portion, an
   air supply intake portion that is formed on a top surface portion of the base
25 portion so as to cover the air supply section and that moreover takes in air from a
   surroundings of the combustion device, a circumferential wall portion that
   surrounds a periphery of the exhaust section, and a communication passage
   defined between the top surface portion and the top plate portion so as to
   communicate a space between the exhaust section and the circumferential wall
30 portion with the air supply intake portion;       the communication passage being
   constructed so that, due to an operation of the air blower means, a gauge pressure
   therein becomes negative .
                                               3

    [0009]        According to the structure described above, an FF type combustion
   device to which this air supply and exhaust adapter is installed can be installed
   and operated in a similar manner to an FE type combustion device. Moreover, it
   is possible to prevent leakage of the combustion exhaust gases to the interior of
 5 the building in which the combustion device is installed, since it is possible to
   send any combustion exhaust gases that have leaked out from the exhaust
   conduit back to the air supply intake portion and to prevent the leaked exhaust
   gases from leaking to the exterior of the building.
   [0010]         In a preferable first aspect of the present invention, the combustion
10 device comprises a combustion section and a heat exchange section and an air
   blower means for supplying air for combustion to the combustion section which
   are provided within the outer casing of the combustion device, and the air supply
   section supplies air to the air blower means, and the exhaust section discharges
   combustion exhaust gases after heat exchange,
15 [0011]         In a preferable second aspect of the present invention, a filter is
   provided to the air supply intake portion.
   [0012]         According to the second aspect, along with eliminating foreign
   matter within the air that is introduced into the combustion section, it is also
   possible to generate a negative gauge pressure in the air supply intake portion.
20 [0013]         Thus, according to the present invention, it is possible to provide an
   air supply and exhaust adapter with which an FF type combustion device can be
   utilized in a safe manner by using an exhaust pipe that is already in existence,
   even in a location in which it is not possible to install an air supply pipe.
25 BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
   [0014]         Fig. 1 is an elevation view of a combustion device that is equipped
   with an air supply and exhaust adapter according to an embodiment of the
   present invention;
   Fig. 2 is a perspective view of the air supply and exhaust adapter;
30 Fig. 3 is a perspective view of the air supply and exhaust adapter as seen from a
   viewing angle that is different from the viewing angle of Fig. 2;
                                               4

   Fig. 4 is a sectional view of an intake section and an exhaust section of the
   combustion device to which the air supply and exhaust adapter is installed; and
   Fig. 5 is a schematic figure showing a building that is equipped with an exhaust
   pipe, with a combustion device being installed inside that building.
 5
   DETAILED DESCRIPTION
   [0015]         In the following, an embodiment of the present invention will be
   described on the basis of attached drawings. In the figures, the arrow U refers to
   the upward direction, the arrow F refers to the forward direction, and the arrow L
10 refers to the leftward direction.
   [0016]         First, an FF type combustion device 1 will be explained.
          As shown in Fig. 1, the combustion device 1 comprises a box shaped outer
   casing 2, and, in this outer casing 2, a combustion section 3, a heat exchange
   section 4, an air blower means 5, an air supply section 6, an exhaust section 7,
15 and so on are installed. The air supply section 6 and the exhaust section 7 are
   disposed so that portions thereof project upward from the top plate portion 2a of
   the outer casing 2. The air blower means 5 supplies air taken into the outer
   casing 2 from the air supply section 6 to the combustion section 3 as air for
   combustion. The combustion section 3 combusts fuel supplied from a fuel supply
20 conduit 10 together with the air for combustion, and thereby generates
   combustion exhaust gases. In the heat exchange section 4, these combustion gases
   exchange heat with fluid that flows in from an intake pipe 8. After heat exchange,
   the combustion gases are ejected from an exhaust section 7 as exhaust gases. And
   working fluid that has exchanged heat in the heat exchange section 4 with these
25 combustion exhaust gases flows out through an outlet pipe 9.
   [0017]         Although this feature is omitted from the figure, normally, the air
   supply section 6 and the exhaust section 7 of the combustion device 1 are
   respectively connected to an air supply pipe and to an exhaust conduit, both of
   which communicate with the outdoors. Accordingly, normally the combustion
30 device 1 takes in outdoor air with the air blower means 5 and combusts fuel, and
   exhausts combustion exhaust gases to the outdoors.
   [0018]         Next, an air supply and exhaust adapter 11 will be explained.
                                              5

           As shown in Figs. 2 through 4, the air supply and exhaust adapter 11
   comprises a base portion 12 that is formed in the shape of a box with its bottom
   surface portion open, an air supply intake portion 13 that is provided on a top
   surface portion 12a of the base portion 12, and a cylindrical circumferential wall
 5 portion 14. A flange portion 12b is formed along the external periphery of the
   bottom surface portion of the base portion 12, and a seal member 15 is disposed
   on the lower surface of the flange portion 12b, so that it can be secured to the top
   plate portion 2a of the outer casing 2 in an air-tight manner.
   [0019]         The top surface portion 12a is provided with an air supply opening
10 portion 12c and an exhaust opening portion 12d, through which the air supply
   section 6 and the exhaust section 7 are respectively inserted, and air supply
   section fixing portions 12e, 12f and exhaust section fixing portions 12g, 12h are
   respectively provided to these opening portions and can be fixed by screws or the
   like to the air supply section 6 and the exhaust section 7 that are respectively
15 inserted therethrough as described above. The air supply opening portion 12c is
   fitted over the air supply section 6 that is inserted therethrough. And a cutaway
   portion 12i is formed on the periphery of the air supply opening portion 12c on its
   side toward the exhaust opening portion 12d, and is cut away so that a clearance
   is established between that part of the periphery and the air supply section 6 that
20 is inserted through the opening portion 12c.
   [0020]         The air supply intake portion 13 is formed in a box shape whose
   bottom portion is open, and is installed to the top surface portion 12a so as to
   cover the air supply section 6 that projects from the air supply opening portion
   12c. A filter 13a formed as a mesh is provided at the front surface portion of the
25 air supply intake portion 13. Foreign matter included in the air that is being
   sucked through this filter 13a into the air supply intake portion 13 is removed by
   the filter 13a.
   [0021]         The exhaust opening portion 12d is formed to have a diameter
   greater than the external diameter of the exhaust section 7. Exhaust section
30 fixing portions 12g, 12h are formed to project radially inward from the edge of the
   exhaust opening portion 12d. Due to this, a gap is defined between the exhaust
   opening portion 12d and the exhaust section 7 that is inserted through it. The
                                              6

   circumferential wall portion 14 is formed as a cylinder and follows the periphery
   of the exhaust opening portion 12d. The exhaust section 7 can be inserted through
   the interior of the circumferential wall portion 14, and a duct 16 described later
   can be connected to the circumferential wall portion 14.
 5 [0022]        Next, the installation of the combustion device 1 that employs this
   air supply and exhaust adapter 11 will be explained.
          As shown in Fig. 5, a cylindrical exhaust pipe 20 is provided to a building B
   and communicates from the interior of the building B to its exterior. A duct 16 is
   connected to the end portion within the building B of the exhaust pipe 20, and an
10 exhaust conduit 17 is inserted through the interiors of the exhaust pipe 20 and
   the duct 16. And, at the end portions of the exhaust pipe 20 and the exhaust
   conduit 17 exterior to the building B, a protective cap 21 for preventing intrusion
   of rain water or the like is installed between the exhaust pipe 20 and the exhaust
   conduit 17. The combustion device 1 is installed in this building B.
15 [0023]        As shown in Figs. 1 and 4, the base portion 12 is installed to the top
   plate portion 2a of the combustion device 1, and, along with the air supply section
   6 being passed through the air supply opening portion 12c and being fixed by
   screws to the air supply section fixing portions 12e, 12f (not shown in the figure),
   also the exhaust section 7 is passed through the exhaust opening portion 12d and
20 the circumferential wall portion 14 and is fixed by screws e to the exhaust section
   fixing portions 12g, 12h (also not shown in the figure) . Subsequently, by
   attaching the air supply intake portion 13 which covers the air supply section 6 to
   the base portion 12, the fitting of the air supply and exhaust adapter 11 to the
   combustion device 1 is completed. A filter member 6a is installed to the lower end
25 portion of the air supply section 6.
   [0024]        The exhaust section 7 is connected to the exhaust conduit 17 that
   passes through the interior of the exhaust pipe 20, and communicates with the
   exterior of the building B. Since the exhaust conduit 17 is to be passed through
   the exhaust pipe 20 which is already in existence, it is desirable for it to be a
30 conduit member that is flexible, and for example to be made from a synthetic
   resin such as polypropylene or the like. In order to make the task of connecting
   the exhaust section 7 and the exhaust conduit 17 together simple and easy, an
                                               7

   extension member 7a is installed in advance to the exhaust section 7 so as to
   elongate the portion of connection with the exhaust conduit 17 to a position
   higher than the circumferential wall portion 14, and the exhaust section 7 is
   connected to the exhaust conduit 17 via the extension member 7a.
 5 [0025]        The duct 16 that is connected to the exhaust pipe 20 is connected to
   the circumferential wall portion 14. The space between the exhaust pipe 20 and
   the exhaust conduit 17 communicates, via the space between the duct 16 and the
   exhaust conduit 17 and via the space between the circumferential wall portion 14
   and the exhaust section 7, with a communication passage 18 that is defined
10 within the base portion 12 between its top surface portion 12a and the top plate
   portion 2a. Via the cutaway portion 12i, the communication passage 18
   communicates with the air supply intake portion 13. The duct 16 is a flexible duct
   that, for example, may be made by forming a sheet member in which a synthetic
   resin sheet and an aluminum sheet are laminated together into the form of a
15 cylinder, together with reinforcing wire. Due to this construction, it is possible to
   bend the duct 16 and to form it to follow along the exhaust conduit 17 which is
   passed through it, while still maintaining the outer diameter of the duct 16.
   [0026]        Next, the operation and the beneficial effects of the air supply and
   exhaust adapter 11 of the present invention will be explained.
20 The air supply and exhaust adapter 11 is installed to the top plate portion 2a of
   the outer casing 2 of the combustion device 1. The circumferential wall portion 14
   of the air supply and exhaust adapter 11 that surrounds the exhaust section 7 of
   the combustion device 1 is connected via the duct 16 to the exhaust pipe 20 which
   is already in existence. And the exhaust section 7 of the combustion device 1 is
25 communicated with the exterior of the building B via the exhaust conduit 17 that
   is inserted through the interior of the exhaust pipe 20.
   [0027]        The space between the exhaust pipe 20 and the exhaust conduit 17 is
   blocked at their end portions exterior to the building B by the protective cap 21 .
   This space is communicated to the air supply intake portion 13 by the
30 communication passage 18 within the base portion 12 of the air supply and
   exhaust adapter 11, via the space between the duct 16 and the exhaust conduit 17
   and the space between the circumferential wall portion 14 and the exhaust
                                              8

   section 7. The communication passage 18 and the air supply intake portion 13 are
   communicated with one another through the cutaway portion 12i.
   [0028]        When the air blower means 5 is operated, air within the building B
   can be taken into the air supply intake portion 13 via the filter 13a, so that the air
 5 within the building B can be employed as the air supply for the combustion device
   1. At this time, due to the ventilation resistance of the filter 13a, the pressure at
   the air supply intake portion 13 becomes negative with respect to the atmospheric
   pressure inside the building, and, via the communication passage 18, the gauge
   pressure in the space between the duct 16 and the exhaust conduit 17 also
10 becomes negative. Even if combustion exhaust gases leak from the exhaust
   conduit 17 into this space, it is possible to prevent leakage of these gases to the
   interior of the building B, since these leaked exhaust gases are taken into the
   combustion device 1 for a second time via the communication passage 18 and are
   then discharged to the exterior of the building B through the exhaust section 7
15 and the exhaust conduit 17. Accordingly, even if it is not possible to provide an air
   supply pipe that communicates with the exterior of the building B, with this air
   supply and exhaust adapter 11, it is possible to install the combustion device 1 in
   the interior of the building B by utilizing the exhaust pipe 20 which is already in
   existence, and it is possible to utilize this combustion device 1 in a safe manner.
20 [0029]        The combustion device 1 explained above is capable of serving as a
   hot water supply device and/or a room heating device, and can be built so that
   heat is supplied by the heat exchange section 4 to hot water and/or to a room
   heating thermal medium. Apart from the above, for a person skilled in the art, it
   would be possible, without deviating from the gist of the present invention, to
25 implement the present invention in various forms by making additions of various
   types to the embodiment described above, and the present invention is to be
   considered as encompassing modifications of this kind.
30
                                                9

             THE CLAIMS DEFINING THE INVENTION ARE AS FOLLOWS
   1.     An air supply and exhaust adapter for a combustion device of a forced air
   supply and exhaust type, with the combustion device comprising an air supply
 5 section and an exhaust section being provided to project from a top plate portion of
   an outer casing; comprising
          a base portion that comprises a box shaped configuration and an open bottom
   portion,
           an air supply intake portion that is formed on a top surface portion of the
 o base portion so as to cover the air supply section and that moreover takes in air
   from a surroundings of the combustion device,
           a circumferential wall portion that surrounds a periphery of the exhaust
   section; and
           a communication passage defined between the top surface portion and the
 5 top plate portion so as to communicate a space between the exhaust section and the
   circumferential wall portion with the air supply intake portion;
           the communication passage being constructed so that, due to an operation of
   the air blower means, a gauge pressure therein becomes negative .
   2.       The air supply and exhaust adapter for a combustion device according to
 o claim; wherein the combustion device comprises a combustion section and a heat
   exchange section and an air blower means for supplying air for combustion to the
   combustion section which are provided within the outer casing of the combustion
   device, and the air supply section supplies air to the air blower means, and the
   exhaust section discharges combustion exhaust gases after heat exchange.
25 3.      The air supply and exhaust adapter for a combustion device according to
   claim 1, wherein a filter is provided to the air supply intake portion.
                                               10

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
