           AEROSOL GENERATOR INCLUDING MULTI-COMPONENT WICK
                                      ABSTRACT
      An aerosol generator includes a conduit 1, 2, 3, 4 to transport liquids 5,6 to a wire
mesh heating element 7 connected to a power supply.

                2/3
:. .. .. . .. .

                                                    1
                 AEROSOL GENERATOR INCLUDING MULTI-COMPONENT WICK
   SUMMARY
            Provided is an aerosol generator including a composite conduit to transport multiple
   liquids to a heating element such that the liquids arrive at the heating element in desirable
 5 concentrations. The heating element is operable to volatilize the liquids to form volatilized
   fluid, which mixes with ambient air to form an aerosol with desirable concentrations of the
   multiple liquids.
            Also provided is a method of generating an aerosol comprising transporting first and
   second liquids through first and second wicks from at least one liquid supply to a heating
10 element at rates such that the liquids are present at the heating element in desirable
   concentrations and volatilizing the liquids at the heating element to form volatilized fluid,
   which mixes with ambient air to form an aerosol with desirable concentrations of the liquids.
   BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
15          FIGs. 1a and lb are schematics of an embodiment of an arrangement containing
   plural layers of wicking materials for transporting a multi phase solution. Specifically, FIG.
   la is a side view of the arrangement and FIG. lb is a cross-sectional view of the
   arrangement.
            FIG. 2 is a schematic of an embodiment of an aerosol generator for generating an
?0 aerosol from two immiscible liquids that comprise two phases.
            FIG. 3 shows a schematic of still another embodiment of an aerosol generator having
   a composite conduit with multiple passages.
            The invention provides an aerosol generator comprising a heating element being a
25 wire mesh connected to a power supply and comprising a wick, wherein the heating element
   is embedded in a downstream end of the wick. The device may be used for various
   purposes such as generating flavored aerosols, scented aerosols, or the like. The device
   volatilizes liquid material, which optionally condenses in ambient air to form an aerosol.
30 DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS
            Aerosols are useful in a wide variety of applications.       For example, it is often
   desirable to treat respiratory ailments with, or deliver drugs by means of, aerosol sprays of
   finely divided particles of liquid and/or solid, e.g., powder, medicaments, etc., which are
   inhaled into a patient's lungs. For aerosols intended for human inhalation, a mass median
35 particle diameter of particles of the aerosol less than 2 pm (microns), preferably between
   0.2 pm and 2 pm, and more preferably between 0.5 pm and 1 pm, is preferred.
   3560468v1

                                                     2
            Aerosols and the precursor vapor may also have applications in creating nano
   particles and other powders.       The volatilization of metal containing liquids brings the
   possibility of producing micro ball bearings, foam metal and metal plating in a precise and
   cost effective manner. The uses of aerosols and the precursor vapor also have applications
 5 in the area of lubrication, where disbursement of the lubricant may be facilitated with the
   introduction of a concentration of particles of lubricant.
            In a preferred embodiment, the device includes a composite conduit having plural
   passages which transport liquids to form an aerosol. The passages can be capillary tubes,
   wicks, wicks of various wicking material or a combination thereof.         More specifically, the
10 composite conduit can be used to transport liquids from at least one liquid supply to a
   heating element at rates such that the liquids are present at the heating element in desirable
   concentrations. The heating element volatilizes the liquids to form volatilized fluid, which
   mixes with ambient air to form an aerosol with desirable concentrations of the liquids.
           As used herein, "desirable concentrations" refer to concentrations that will produce
15 an aerosol with preferred characteristics, which is dependent upon the composition of the
   liquids that are volatized to form the aerosol.      Accordingly, the ratio and amounts of the
   liquids transported to the heating element determines the composition of the aerosol formed.
            In a preferred embodiment, the ratio and amounts of the liquids transported to the
   heating element may be controlled through selection of the passages (capillary tubes, wicks,
?0 wick material) and liquids.   Preferably, two or more liquids are transported and the liquids
   preferably are immiscible in each other.       If stored together in a single liquid supply, the
   immiscible liquids may form multiple phases. The wicks operate by capillary action and may
   be combined with one or more capillary tubes.          In an example, two or more wicks and a
   capillary tube would be adapted to transport a plurality of liquids. Preferably, wicks contain
25 numerous pores, which act as capillaries and cause the liquid to be drawn into them. Wicks
   may be selected based on their wettability for an immiscible liquid or phase. The capillary
   tube preferably has an internal diameter of 0.1 mm to 10 mm, preferably 0.5 mm to 1 mm,
   more preferable about 0.1 mm to 0.5 mm, and even more preferably about 0.15 mm,
   corresponding to internal cross sectional areas of 8.10-5mm 2 to 80 mm 2, 0.002 mm 2 to
30 0.8 mm 2 , 0.008 mm 2 to 0.2 mm 2 , and about 0.02 mm 2 , respectively. The dimensions of the
   capillaries and/or wicks are further factors that affect the amounts of liquids transported to
   the heating element.
            Various geometries can be used for transporting the liquids at desired flow rates to
   the heating element. For example, multiple wicking materials, such as, for example, one or
35 more synthetic fibers and cotton, may be combined to form a woven wick to transport one or
   more liquids. In an embodiment, wicking materials may be arranged in a concentric pattern
   3560468v1

                                                     3
   around a central capillary tube, such as two or more tubes of wicking materials arranged in a
   concentric pattern around a central capillary tube. The wicking materials may be separated
   by wire mesh, which may also act as a wicking material for liquid transport.
            FIGs. 1a and 1b are schematics of an arrangement containing three layers of wicking
 5 materials for transporting a three phase solution. Specifically, FIG. 1a is a side view of a
   coaxial arrangement and FIG. 1b is a cross-sectional view of the arrangement. In particular,
   a capillary tube 1 is concentrically surrounded by three layers 2, 3, 4 of wicking materials. It
   is furthermore possible for a four phase solution to be transported, with the capillary tube 1
   transporting one phase and the three layers 2, 3, 4 of wicking materials transporting three
10 other phases. If desired, the capillary tube and/or the fourth wick can be omitted.
            The immiscible liquid may comprise one or more hydrophobic liquids (e.g., one or
   more essential oils) and one or more hydrophilic liquids (e.g., propylene glycol, glycerol
   and/or other aerosol former). In a reservoir containing a multiphase liquid, the phases may
   separate into discrete layers with lower density phases forming over higher density phases.
15 An arrangement for transporting immiscible liquids may comprise passages having different
   lengths adapted to be in contact with different layers of the multiphase liquid. In the case of
   a two phase immiscible liquid comprising a lighter flavor-rich phase and a heavier aerosol
   former phase, first and second wicks or capillary tubes for transporting the immiscible liquids
   may comprise a shorter wick or shorter capillary tube adapted to be in contact with the
?o lighter flavor-rich liquid and a longer wick or longer capillary tube adapted to be in contact
   with the heavier aerosol former.      Further, if the first and second wicks/capillary tubes for
   transporting the immiscible liquids are arranged in a concentric pattern, the shorter
   wick/capillary tube adapted to be in contact with the lighter flavor-rich liquid may surround
   the longer wick/capillary tube adapted to be in contact with the heavier aerosol former.
25          Thus, an aerosol generator can comprise an arrangement for transporting immiscible
   liquids from at least one liquid supply to a heating element at rates such that the liquids are
   present at the heating element in desirable concentrations. The heating element volatilizes
   the immiscible liquids to form volatilized fluid, which mixes with ambient air to form an
   aerosol with desirable concentrations of the immiscible liquids.
30          The heating element comprises a wire mesh heater embedded in a downstream end
   of the wicks. The heating element may be a stainless steel wire mesh or a stainless steel
   serpentine strip. The heating element is connected to a power supply, which can be a
   portable power supply such as a direct current battery.         However, the use of alternating
   current may also be effective. When the aerosol generator comprises one or more capillary
35 tubes, the heating element is operable to volatilize the liquid(s) transported via the capillary
   3560468v1

                                                      4
   tube(s) at the downstream end of the capillary tube(s), similar to the volatilization of the
   liquids transported via the wicks at the downstream end of the wicks.
            The immiscible liquids preferably comprise multiple phases, which are transported
   from one liquid supply. However, the liquids can be supplied from different liquid supplies if
 5 desired. The immiscible liquids may comprise at least one hydrophobic liquid and at least
   one hydrophilic liquid such as a flavor system and aerosol former. The flavor system may
   comprise one or more essential oils. The aerosol former may comprise propylene glycol,
   glycerol, or mixtures thereof.
            FIG. 2 is a schematic of an aerosol generator for generating an aerosol from two
10 immiscible liquids that comprise two phases. A capillary tube 1 is concentrically surrounded
   by two layers 2, 3 of wicking materials, which transport liquids 5, 6, respectively, to the
   heating element 7.       After the heating element 7 volatilizes the immiscible liquids to form
   volatilized fluid, the volatilized fluid may be transferred to a mouthpiece 8, from which formed
   aerosol may be inhaled. A control circuit 9 regulates the supply of power, preferably direct
15 current, to the heating element 7.        If desired, an additional phase may to be transported
   through the capillary tube 1.
            FIG. 3 is a schematic of another embodiment of an aerosol generator 100 for
   generating an aerosol from three immiscible liquids that comprise three phases. A first wick
   12 transports a first phase which may be a hydrophilic liquid, of a liquid 111 to the heating
20 element 120 from a reservoir 116. In this embodiment, liquid 111 can be an emulsion of
   immiscible liquids (e.g., a hydrophilic liquid, a hydrophobic liquid and a neutral liquid or a
   combination of any two thereof).         Second 14 and third wicks and 16 transport additional
   phases which may be neutral and hydrophobic liquids, respectively, of liquid 111 to the
   heating element 120. As shown in FIG. 3, the first 12, second 14 and third 16 wicks may
25 transport the liquids through a cap 118 of the reservoir 116 and through a passage 132 or
   the like, to the heating element 120. After the heating element 120 volatilizes the immiscible
   liquids to form volatilized fluid, the volatilized fluid may be transferred to a mouthpiece 122,
   as described previously. A control circuit 130 regulates the supply of power to the heating
   element 120, also as described previously.
30          In a preferred embodiment, first 12, second 14 and third 16 wicks may be interwoven
   (e.g., braided) or separate. Interwoven wicks can be of various materials to transport the
   various phases. For example, synthetic wick materials to transport the hydrophilic phase
   can include plastic or rubber molecules with OH groups having an affinity for the polar phase
   liquids. Non-polar plastic material without OH group constituents have an affinity for the
35 non-polar phase liquid and natural materials such as cotton have an affinity for the neutral
   phase liquid. As such, first 12, second 14 and third 16 wicks can transport separate phases
   3560468v1

                                                    5
   from liquid 111 to the heating element 120 such that the phases are present at the heating
   element in desirable concentrations.
            Also provided is a method of generating an aerosol comprising transporting
   immiscible liquids from at least one liquid supply to a heating element at rates such that the
 5 liquids are present at the heating element in desirable concentrations and volatilizing the
   immiscible liquids at the heating element to form volatilized fluid, which mixes with ambient
   air to form an aerosol with desirable concentrations of the immiscible liquids.
            While various embodiments have been described, it is to be understood that
   variations and modifications may be resorted to as will be apparent to those skilled in the art.
10 Such variations and modifications are to be considered within the purview and scope of the
   claims appended hereto.
            In this specification, the terms "comprise", "comprises", "comprising" or similar terms
   are intended to mean a non-exclusive inclusion, such that a system, method or apparatus
   that comprises a list of elements does not include those elements solely, but may well
15 include other elements not listed.
            The reference to any prior art in this specification is not, and should not be taken as,
   an acknowledgement or any form of suggestion that the prior art forms part of the common
   general knowledge.
            This application is a divisional application from Australian Application <removed-apn>
?0 which is a divisional of Australian Application 2010305662.               The full disclosure of
   <removed-apn> and AU 2010305662 are incorporated herein by reference.
   3560468v1

                                               6
CLAIMS
1.      An aerosol generator comprising a heating element being a wire mesh connected to
a power supply and comprising a wick, wherein the heating element is embedded in a
downstream end of the wick.
2.      An aerosol generator according to claim 1 in which the heating element is a stainless
steel wire mesh.
3.      An aerosol generator according to claim 1 or 2 comprising an aerosol former
comprising polypropylene glycol, glycerol, or a mixture thereof.
4.      An aerosol generator according to any of claims 1 to 3 wherein the heating element is
connected to a direct current battery.
5.      An aerosol generator according to any of claims 1 to 3 wherein the heating element is
connected to a source of alternating current.
6.      An aerosol generator according to any of claims 1 to 5 comprising a composite
conduit having plural passages.
7.      An aerosol generator according to claim 6 wherein the plural passages are capillary
tubes, wicks, wicks of various wicking materials or a combination thereof.
8.      Use of an aerosol generator according to any of claims 1 to 7 for generating flavored
aerosol or scented aerosol.

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           1/3

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           2/3

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           3/3

