                                         ABSTRACT
The invention relates to a Bio Pillow engineered and manufactured using a hydrocarbon only
absorbing textile substrate encasing the live blend of microbes working together with high
performance microbe stimulant block to digest any contactable hydrocarbon.

                                            1
BIO PILLOW
SUMMARY
[0001] The Bio Pillow came about, as the original Bilge Pillow is a great product,
but has a very damaging effect on the environment, as the hydrocarbons that are
soaked up into them have to be disposed of somewhere that cause a pollutant.
The Bio Pillow is an environmentally sustainable Bilge Pillow that actually digests
and eats the oil and hydrocarbons it soaks up and converts the oil and
contaminants to harmless elements. The Bio Pillow is an environmentally
sustainable hydrocarbon and oil collecting, and absorbing pillow, mainly for bilge
tanks in the marine industry, but can be used in multiple areas. The Bio Pillow's
self-contained operating design is tailored to support and aid healthy function of
mobile or fixed separator and waste pit systems.
[0002] The Bio Pillow has been engineered and manufactured using hydrocarbon
only absorbing textile substrate, encasing the live blend of microbes working
together with a high performance microbe stimulant block, to digest any
contactable hydrocarbon. The self-contained Bio Pillow floats on the contaminated
liquid surface attracting and digesting all harmful hydrocarbons, thus reducing
costly contaminant discharges and reducing BOD and COD (Biological and
Chemical oxygen demands) within the affected water body.
[0003] The Bio Pillow is different to any others as it contains an oil/hydrocarbon
digesting blend of microbes to totally reduce contaminants, and prolong usage of
absorbent textile substrate. Each Bio Pillow is capable of absorbing 10 times its
own weight in hydrocarbon mass and has fast wicking action for rapid
bioremediation. Generally being rectangle, 50cm x 42cm, with 2 pieces of textile
substrate overlocked around the edges with a small strip of Velcro on one side to
insert the live microbe culture, and microbe stimulant block.

                                           2
CLAIMS
1.      Bio Pillow is a product engineered from material that will only absorb
hydrocarbons. It encases a hydrocarbon digesting microbe crystal, plus a microbe
stimulant block, to digest the captured hydrocarbon contaminant, and reduce it to
inert properties into the environment.
2.      The Bio Pillow is a green solution and promotes environmental
responsibility in every application, be land or sea. The substantial reduction in
operational costs being the key benefit of the Eviro Safe Solution Bio Pillow, by
removing contaminants from water bodies which result in minimizing
environmental footprint.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
