                                     (57) Abstract
A list of purchasable items which can be searched using criteria including price,
location, condition, postage price and temporal availability.

Editorial Note
  <removed-apn>
   There is only 1
      page of
    Description.

Description: MyList Patent inclusions
Reverse search of items contained on the world wide web based on custom criteria specified by a
consumer/entity and production of market demand data report for paying subscribers/entities.
End product/Service:
Consumer/entity service provided via Internet facilities to allow for a;
An entity or consumer to find an item on the internet and/specify an item that they are interested in (to
purchase or to possibly purchase) and for this user to set acceptable criteria for the item, including but
not limited to: a price (min-max), location, postage (included or not), how long they will wait for it (any
temporal thresholds), condition (used or new), and/or interest in similar items. To be notified of the
availability of that item when it meets, or is near to, their specified thresholds. This may also include the
notification of coupons from retail suppliers.
The format of the method would be via several methods:
     1) Website
     2) Add on for browser
     3) Application on mobile or desktop in various operating systems, such as iOS and Android.
Minimal consumer sign up would be required with details. Installation of cookies is required.
And;
Business data service (subscriber, pay by request) "proactive retail reports" provided of market demand
in respective retail sectors, for items and/or for current needs with aggregate data around pricing that
consumers are specifying and the location of the request or locality to state or suburb level.
Back-end / Algorthim Technology:
The back-end code and web crawler will provide to the Consumer/entity a notification of any match of
their criteria within thresholds specified by MyList algorithms.

Editorial Note
  <removed-apn>
   There is only 1
   page of Claims.

Hebba Gandolfo 09/01/2018
Claims:
MyList Bargain Boss
    1. The concept of creating a custom list for any item that exists and is accessible across the whole
        world wide web and allowing a consumer/entity to specify at least 8 criteria to this search for;
             a. Price threshold from 0-unlimited in any currencies
             b. Location any GIS or earth location (postcode, etc)
             c. Condition (new, used)
             d. Postage (further dollar amount additional to the price)
             e. Availability of item (min-max of temporal accepted criteria i.e. if item is available in 1-2
                  months)
             f. Search and specification of item using an Internet add-on button, website or mobile
                  application (iOS and/ Android)
             g. Other as required
    2. Method of "reverse search" code that regularly temporally scans and produces electronic push
        notification of matches/near matches on any specified items existing on the world wide web
        that are based on custom "consumer/entity" specification of criteria relating to an item.
    3. The concept of a temporal timed search or "sweep" being automatically undertaken on the
        above and provision of "push notifications" to the consumer or entity that defined these
        criteria.
    4. The output Data that is created from or as a resulting output of the consumer or entity
        specification of the item and associated criteria (specified in 1 a-f) that informs any paying
        business or entity on market trends and details of price, location, condition, timing, postage and
        other as specified of these trends.

