DEVICE AND METHOD FOR SEPARATING CARBON DIOXIDE FROM A
GAS STREAM, IN PARTICULAR FROM A FLUE GAS STREAM,
COMPRISING A COOLING WATER SYSTEM
ABSTRACT
A removal apparatus (1) for carbon dioxide from a gas stream, in particular from a flue gas
stream, which comprises an absorber (3) for separating carbon dioxide from the gas stream by
means of a scrubbing medium, a desorber (5) which is connected hydrodynamically to the
absorber (3) for liberating the absorbed carbon dioxide from the scrubbing medium, a gas cooler
(7) which is located hydrodynamically upstream of the absorber (3) for cooling the gas stream,
and also a treatment unit (9) which is located downstream of the gas cooler (7) and is equipped
and configured for purifying water from the gas cooler (7).

                                                     1
DEVICE AND METHOD FOR SEPARATING CARBON DIOXIDE FROM
A GAS STREAM, IN PARTICULAR FROM A FLUE GAS STREAM,
COMPRISING A COOLING WATER SYSTEM
CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATION
[0001] This is a divisional application of Australian Patent Application No. 2015243729, the
content of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.
DESCRIPTION
[0002] The invention relates to a removal apparatus for carbon dioxide from a gas stream, in
particular from a flue gas stream. Furthermore, the invention relates to a process for removing
carbon dioxide from a gas stream, in particular from a flue gas stream.
[0003] In view of climatic changes, it is a global objective to reduce the emission of pollutants
into the atmosphere. This applies particularly to the emission of carbon dioxide (C0 2 ) which
accumulates in the atmosphere, hinders radiation of heat from the earth and thus leads, as
greenhouse effect, to an increase in the surface temperature of the earth.
[0004] Particularly in the case of fossil fuel-fired power stations for generating electric energy
or heat, a carbon dioxide-containing gas or flue gas is formed by combustion of a fossil fuel. To
avoid or reduce carbon dioxide emissions into the atmosphere, the carbon dioxide has to be
separated from the flue gas. Accordingly, suitable measures for separating the carbon dioxide
formed after combustion from the flue gas (post-combustion capture) have been discussed,
particularly in the case of existing fossil fuel-fired power stations.
[0005] For industrial implementation, the carbon dioxide present in the flue gas is for this
purpose scrubbed out of the respective flue gas stream in a removal apparatus by means of an
absorption-desorption process using a suitable scrubbing medium or absorption medium. In such
a process, cooling of the apparatus components used in the removal apparatus or of the
corresponding fluid streams is necessary. Thus, for example, it is necessary to cool the gas
stream before entry into the absorber of the removal apparatus, to cool the scrubbing medium
used for absorption of carbon dioxide and likewise to cool the carbon dioxide-rich gas outlet
stream at the top of the desorber.

                                                  2
[0006] Liquid-cooled cooling units and in particular water-cooled cooling units are frequently
used for this purpose. However, water cooling is problematical at, in particular, sites where no
water or only small amounts of water is/are available. The use of water-cooled cooling units is
not economical here since bringing water to the desired sites is associated with great
complication and, resulting therefrom, with correspondingly high costs.
[0007] A first object of the invention is to provide a very inexpensive possibility which is very
simple to implement in process and apparatus terms for cooling the apparatus components used
in a removal apparatus for carbon dioxide.
[0008] A second object of the invention is to provide a process for removing carbon dioxide, in
which the required cooling of the fluid streams is very inexpensive and efficient.
[0009] The first object of the invention is achieved according to the invention by a removal
apparatus for carbon dioxide from a gas stream, in particular from a flue gas stream, which
comprises an absorber for separating carbon dioxide from the gas stream by means of a
scrubbing medium, a desorber which is connected hydrodynamically to the absorber for
liberating the absorbed carbon dioxide from the scrubbing medium, a gas cooler which is
located hydrodynamically upstream of the absorber for cooling the gas stream, and also a
treatment unit which is located downstream of the gas cooler and is equipped and configured for
purifying water from the gas cooler.
[0010] In a first step, the invention proceeds from the fact that at sites without access to water,
recourse is usually made to air-cooled cooling units instead of the customary water-cooled
cooling units. However, in such air coolers, large cooling areas and high-performance blowers
are necessary because of the high gas-side heat transfer resistance, so that air coolers have a
correspondingly large space requirement and cause high noise emissions and also high capital
and operating costs. However, the above-described disadvantages are accepted because of the
lack of alternatives.
[0011] In a second step, the invention takes account of the fact that water, inter alia, is present
as combustion product in the flue gas of fossil fuel-fired power stations, because of the
hydrogen-containing compounds present in the fuel. Since the flue gas has to be cooled before
entering into a removal apparatus or the corresponding absorber, water present in the flue gas
condenses in a gas cooler located upstream of the absorber. In order to keep the amount of

                                                   3
coolant used for cooling the flue gas constant despite the condensate formed, a corresponding
substream has to be taken from the gas cooler during operation. This substream is usually
discarded unutilized as wastewater.
[0012] Taking into account what has been said above, the invention surprisingly recognizes, in a
third step, that the substream taken from the gas cooler can be utilized in a targeted manner as
cooling water instead of being discarded. This can be achieved by means of a treatment unit
located downstream of the gas cooler, by means of which excess water from the gas cooler can
be purified in a targeted manner.
[0013] A substream of water taken from the gas cooler can be fed to the treatment unit, purified
in this and subsequently utilized for cooling apparatus components and/or liquid streams in the
framework of a removal process for carbon dioxide. As an alternative, the water which has been
purified in the treatment unit can be stored with a view to later use. In other words, the offtake
and subsequent purification of previously discarded wastewater enables cooling water to be
generated on site and this to be utilized in a targeted manner.
[0014] In particular, the purified water can be used for corrosion-free spray cooling of air
coolers which are already in use. Here, the purified water vaporizes virtually without leaving a
residue. Withdrawal of the enthalpy of vaporization leads to the air stream being cooled and the
heat transfer being improved. As a result, an air cooler can firstly be made smaller and secondly
lower temperatures can be achieved on the process side.
[0015] Overall, the targeted recovery, purification and possible storage of the offgas component
water and its subsequent utilization contributes to more efficient cooling of the removal process
for carbon dioxide from gas streams. For this reason, not only a saving in capital and operating
costs but at the same time also a reduction in the required construction area and noise emissions
can be realized for the air coolers used. In addition, targeted generation of cooling water on site
allows the use of water-cooled cooling units even at sites without direct access to water.
[0016] The treatment unit located downstream of the gas cooler can, for example, be
hydrodynamically connected to the latter on the condensate side, so that the water to be purified
can be conveyed directly from the cooler to the treatment unit. As an alternative, the use of a
treatment unit which is not directly connected and to which the water to be purified firstly has to
be transported and appropriately purified there is also possible.

                                                  4
[0017] As gas cooler, preference is given to using a conventional flue gas cooler. Purification of
the water taken from the gas cooler and the possibility of a subsequent, either indirect or direct,
further use likewise makes it possible to use water-cooled cooling units which were hitherto
impossible or possible to only a limited extent in the case of lack of water at the sites of the
respective removal apparatus.
[0018] In an advantageous embodiment of the invention, the treatment unit is hydrodynamically
connected via a feed line to the condensate side of the gas cooler. The feed line can be
connected directly to the gas cooler and makes it possible for at least a substream of the water
obtained in the gas cooler to be fed to the treatment unit. The offtake of the water obtained from
the gas cooler is advantageously carried out continuously in order to keep the amount of water
required for cooling the gas stream within the gas cooler constant during operation. The water
obtained as condensate from the flue gas mixes with the water used for cooling the gas stream in
a typical flue gas cooler. The amount of water taken off here is, in particular, dependent on the
amount of water condensed out of the gas stream or the flue gas by cooling. In other words, the
amount of water taken off is essentially proportional to the amount of water condensed out of
the flue gas.
[0019] In a preferred variant, the gas cooler is installed in a coolant circuit which is
hydrodynamically connected via the feed line to the treatment unit. The coolant circuit advanta
geously comprises a warm water line, a cold water line and a cooling unit arranged between the
two lines. The feed line is preferably connected to the warm water line of the coolant circuit.
The cooling water which has been heated in the gas cooler is discharged from the gas cooler via
the warm water line, in particular together with the condensate.
[0020] A substream of the water flowing out of the gas cooler is fed via the feed line to the
treatment unit and appropriately purified there. The remaining water, the main stream, is fed to
the cooling unit, cooled there and conveyed via the cold water line back to the gas cooler for
renewed cooling of an inflowing gas stream.
[0021] In order to make the desired purification of the wastewater fed to the treatment unit
possible, the treatment unit preferably comprises a reverse osmosis plant. Here, the wastewater
is pushed through a synthetic semipermeable membrane which allows the water but not the
impurities present therein to pass through. The purified water collects on the one side of the

                                                    5
membrane and can then be conveyed to a use and/or storage. The impurities which have been
separated off on the other side of the membrane can be discarded as waste stream.
[0022] The water which has been purified in the treatment unit, in particular by means of the
reverse osmosis plant, can subsequently be conveyed to a temporary storage and be utilized
when required. For this purpose, the treatment unit comprises a stock tank in an advantageous
embodiment. The stock tank can, for example, be hydrodynamically connected to the reverse
osmosis plant. As an alternative, it is possible to use a separate stock tank to which the purified
water is transported from the treatment unit.
[0023] Storage or stocking of the purified water is particularly advantageous when the cooling
units used in a removal apparatus are configured as air coolers. Here, the purified water can be
stored particularly when exterior temperatures are low and as a function of the time of year
and/or day and the removal apparatus can be operated using pure air cooling. At higher exterior
temperatures when pure air cooling is no longer sufficient, the stored water can be used for a
spray cooling process of the air coolers. The water stored in the stock tank can fundamentally be
used for cooling for all cooling units used in the removal apparatus.
[0024] As an alternative to or in addition to temporary storage of the purified water within a
stock tank, the direct use of the water after it has been purified in the treatment unit is also
possible.
[0025] In an advantageous embodiment, the treatment unit is configured for discharge of
purified water to the gas cooler. Here, a discharge line connected to the treatment unit is
advantageously connected to the gas cooler. The water which has been purified in the treatment
unit can thus be fed as coolant directly to the gas cooler and there be utilized for cooling the flue
gas and the further condensation of water associated therewith.
[0026] In a further advantageous embodiment, the treatment unit is configured for discharge of
purified water to the coolant circuit of the gas cooler. For this purpose, the treatment unit
advantageously comprises a discharge line connected to the coolant circuit. The purified water
can, as an alternative, also be fed to a cooling unit installed in the coolant circuit and utilized
there in the heat exchanger for cooling the cooling water which has been taken from the gas
cooler and has been heated by cooling of the flue gas.

                                                  6
[0027] A direct contact cooler is advantageously used as gas cooler. In a direct contact cooler,
the mixture to be cooled, in the present case a gas stream or a flue gas stream, is conveyed in
direct heat exchange through a coolant such as cold water an cooled thereby. A direct contact
cooler usually has internals in the form of mass transfer elements such as sieve trays, random
packing elements or ordered packings. In order to separate off the carbon dioxide present in the
flue gas, the flue gas which has been cooled in the gas cooler is fed to the absorber of the
removal apparatus. As a result of contact with scrubbing medium present in the absorber, the
carbon dioxide present in the flue gas is absorbed. The scrubbing medium loaded with carbon
dioxide then flows into the desorber where the carbon dioxide is liberated from the scrubbing
medium by thermal desorption. For this purpose, the absorber is advantageously
hydrodynamically connected via a discharge line to a feed line of the desorber. The scrubbing
medium which has been regenerated in the desorber is subsequently fed back into the absorber
for renewed absorption of carbon dioxide from the flue gas, for which purpose a discharge line
of the desorber is connected to a feed line of the absorber.
[0028] Since the scrubbing medium conveyed from the desorber to the absorber has to be
cooled to the low temperature required for absorption of the carbon dioxide before entry into the
absorber, it is also advantageous for a cooling unit hydrodynamically connected to the treatment
unit for cooling the scrubbing medium fed to the absorber to be installed in the feed line of the
absorber. For this purpose, the treatment unit advantageously comprises a discharge line which
is hydrodynamically connected to the cooling unit. The cooling unit serves to cool the
regenerated scrubbing medium leaving the desorber before entry into the desorber. The
hydrodynamic connection of a discharge line of the treatment unit to the cooling unit enables the
water which has been purified in the treatment unit to be used for this purpose.
[0029] The carbon dioxide-rich gas outlet stream taken from the desorber also has to be cooled
before further use or possible storage. In a further advantageous embodiment of the invention,
the desorber comprises a discharge line for a gas outlet stream in which a cooling unit
hydrodynamically connected to the treatment unit is installed. Here, it is advantageous for the
treatment unit to comprise a discharge line which is connected to the cooling unit. The gas outlet
stream at the top of the desorber comprises mostly the carbon dioxide which has been liberated
from the scrubbing medium. Here too, the water which has been purified in the treatment unit
can be used for cooling as a result of the hydrodynamic connection of a discharge line of the
treatment unit to the discharge line.

                                                   7
[0030] Overall, the purified excess water can be utilized for cooling all cooling units used
within the removal apparatus. The cooling units, in particular those in the feed line of the
absorber, in the discharge line of the desorber and in the coolant circuit of the gas cooler, can
either be air-cooled or water-cooled. Regardless of the type of cooling unit, the purified water
can either be conveyed from the treatment unit to the cooling unit or be stored beforehand in the
stock tank until the point in time of the desired use.
[0031] Optional cooling of individual process steps or individual apparatus components is
equally possible in this case, as is joint cooling of a plurality of or all above-described processes
and/or apparatus components.
[0032] Furthermore, it is advantageous for a pressure vessel for feeding scrubbing medium
which has been freed of carbon dioxide in the desorber to be connected to the desorber via a
discharge line. The pressure vessel is preferably configured for lean solvent flash. Here, the
pressure is reduced within the pressure vessel so that the inflowing scrubbing medium is
depressurized and part of it vaporizes to form a gas phase and a liquid phase.
[0033] The pressure vessel is preferably hydrodynamically connected to the desorber via a
discharge line configured as vapor line. The gaseous scrubbing medium arising in the pressure
vessel is fed as a first substream to the desorber via the discharge line. As a result of the
subsequent condensation of the vaporous scrubbing medium within the desorber, heat required
for desorption of the carbon dioxide from the scrubbing medium can be recovered.
[0034] A further discharge line of the pressure vessel is also advantageously connected to a feed
line of the absorber. In this way, the liquid scrubbing medium can be recirculated as a second
substream from the pressure vessel to the absorber. As a result of the gas phase being separated
off beforehand as first substream, the scrubbing medium is virtually completely freed of
absorbed carbon dioxide after passage through the pressure vessel.
[0035] In a further preferred embodiment, a branch line for taking off a first substream of the
loaded scrubbing medium is connected to the discharge line of the absorber and is
hydrodynamically connected to a feed line of the desorber. In this way, the scrubbing medium
taken from the absorber can be divided into at least two subtreams. This process is known as
split feed process.

                                                   8
[0036] A reboiler is advantageously connected to the desorber. The reboiler acts as a bottom
vaporizer and supplies the necessary regeneration heat for separation of absorbed CO 2 from the
scrubbing medium. The loaded scrubbing medium is in this case regenerated by means of vapor
produced in the reboiler. To generate the vapor within the reboiler, this is usually heated by
means of imported steam, for example from an associated steam power station.
[0037] An amino acid salt solution is preferably used as absorption medium. An aqueous amino
acid salt solution is advantageous here. Amino acid salts are suitable particularly because of
their barely perceptible vapor pressure which prevents discharge into the atmosphere. One
preferred amino acid salt is a salt of a metal, in particular of an alkali metal. It is also possible to
use mixtures of various amino acid salts as active component of the absorption medium.
[0038] The second object of the invention is achieved according to the invention by a process
for removing carbon dioxide from a gas stream, in particular from a flue gas stream, wherein a
gas stream is fed to a gas cooler, wherein the gas stream is cooled within the gas cooler with
condensation of water, wherein water is taken from the gas cooler, wherein at least a substream
of the water taken from the gas cooler is fed to a treatment unit in which the water is purified for
a further use, and wherein the cooled gas stream is fed to an absorber of a removal apparatus in
which carbon dioxide present in the gas stream is separated from the gas stream by means of a
scrubbing medium.
[0039] Such a process allows wastewater from a gas cooler used for cooling gas streams, which
has hitherto been discarded unutilized, to be purified and subsequently used in a targeted manner
for efficient cooling of fluid streams and/or apparatus components used in the removal process
for carbon dioxide.
[0040] The gas cooler used is preferably operated using water as coolant. Due to the water
which has additionally been condensed out of the flue gas stream, an excess of water arises. The
excess water is separated off from the water required for cooling and fed to a treatment unit. In
this treatment unit, the water is purified, which allows its use as cooling water in the removal
process.
[0041] Here, the purified water, which can be stored before use if required, is preferably utilized
for spray cooling of cooling units used as air coolers. It is likewise basically possible to utilize
the purified water in water-cooled cooling units.

                                                   9
[0042] Further advantageous variants of the process can be derived from the dependent claims
directed to the process.
[0043] The advantages described for the removal apparatus and its advantageous further
developments can be applied analogously to the process and its further developments.
[0044] A working example of the invention is described in more detail below with the aid of a
drawing.
[0045] Fig. 1 shows a removal apparatus 1 for carbon dioxide from a flue gas stream. The
removal apparatus 1 comprises an absorber 3 and a desorber 5 which is hydrodynamically
connected to the absorber 3. A gas cooler 7 configured as flue gas cooler, to which a treatment
unit 9 for water is assigned, is located hydrodynamically upstream of the absorber 3.
[0046] In order to purify flue gas, which is obtained, for example, as combustion offgas in the
combustion of fossil fuels in power stations, and in particular to separate the carbon dioxide
present in the flue gas from the flue gas, a flue gas stream is firstly fed via a flue gas line 11 to
the removal apparatus 1. The flue gas flows via the flue gas line 11 into the flue gas cooler 7
which is configured as a direct contact cooler and is operated using water as coolant. The flue
gas is cooled in the flue gas cooler 7 before it is fed to the absorber 3 of the removal apparatus 1.
[0047] The flue gas cooler 7 itself is installed in a coolant circuit 13 which comprises a warm
water line 15, a cold water line 17 and a cooling unit 19 which is configured as air cooler and is
installed between the two lines 15, 17. The water which has been heated during cooling of the
flue gas is discharged from the flue gas cooler 7 via the warm water line 15, cooled in the
cooling unit 19 and fed via the cold water line 17 back to the flue gas cooler 7 for renewed
cooling of the flue gas stream.
[0048] Since not only carbon dioxide but also water is present as combustion product in the flue
gas, this water condenses out during cooling of the flue gas in the flue gas cooler 7 and mixes
with the cooling water stream. In order to keep the amount of water required for cooling of the
flue gas constant within the coolant circuit 13, excess water is therefore in the present case
continuously taken off in the flue gas cooler 7 from the water stream 21 leaving the gas cooler 7
via the warm water line 15, for which purpose a substream 23 is taken off.

                                                  10
[0049] Instead of discarding the excess part of the water as has hitherto been usual, the
substream 23 of the water from the flue gas cooler 7 is fed via a feed line 25 to the treatment
unit 9. In the treatment unit 9, the water which has been taken off is purified by means of reverse
osmosis in a corresponding reverse osmosis plant 27. The purified water is then stored in a stock
tank 29, which is part of the treatment unit 9.
[0050] The water stored in the stock tank 29 can then be used as required for cooling apparatus
components and/or fluid streams used in the removal apparatus 1. In the present case, the water
from the stock tank 29 is used, in particular, for cooling the air cooler 19 in the coolant circuit
13 in the form of spray cooling, which is indicated by the broken line 31. In other words, the
stock tank 29 and the treatment unit 9 are connected to the air cooler 19 in order to introduce
water for the purpose of cooling. As an alternative, the water can also be transported in another
way from the stock tank 29 to the air cooler 19. The treatment unit 9 can also be configured for
discharging the purified water to the coolant circuit 13 and/or to the gas cooler 7. This is
depicted in Fig. 1 by a corresponding discharge line 30.
[0051] In order to ensure the desired separation of carbon dioxide from the flue gas, the flue gas
which has been cooled in the flue gas cooler 7 flows via a feed line 33 into the absorber 3 of the
removal apparatus 1. Here, it is brought into contact with a scrubbing medium, namely a
potassium-containing amino acid salt, in which the carbon dioxide present in the flue gas is
absorbed. The scrubbing medium loaded with carbon dioxide is conveyed from the absorber 3 to
the desorber 5. For this purpose, the loaded scrubbing medium is taken off from the absorber 3
via the discharge line 35.
[0052] A first substream 37 is fed via a branch line 39 connected to the discharge line 35 of the
absorber 3 into a first desorber stage 41 of the desorber 5 located downstream of the absorber 3,
for which purpose the branch line 39 is hydrodynamically connected to a feed line 43 of the
desorber 5. The first substream 37 is fed into the first desorber stage 41 without preheating at the
top 45 of the desorber 5.
[0053] A second substream 47 is fed to a second desorber stage 49 of the desorber 5 via a
hydrodynamic connection of the discharge line 35 to a further feed line 51 of the desorber 5.
Here, the second substream 47 firstly passes through the heat exchanger 53 and is preheated by
the regenerated scrubbing medium recirculated from the desorber 5.

                                                   11
[0054] In the desorber 5, the carbon dioxide absorbed in the scrubbing medium is liberated and
taken off via a discharge line 55 at the top 45 of the desorber 5. A further cooling unit 57
configured as an air cooler which serves to cool the gas outlet stream is installed in the discharge
line 55. This air cooler 57 is likewise cooled by means of water which has been purified in the
treatment unit 9. The amount of water required for this purpose is taken from the stock tank 29
and utilized for spray cooling the air cooler 55. Here too, this utilization is indicated by a broken
line 59. The broken line 59 can, in particular, be a connecting conduit for water or a transport
connection for water. The cooled gas outlet stream is finally conveyed, for example, to an
appropriate utilization facility 60, for example for storage and/or possible further utilization of
the carbon dioxide.
[0055] The scrubbing medium which has been freed of carbon dioxide collects at the bottom 61
of the desorber 5 and is fed to a pressure vessel 63 configured as lean solvent flash process. For
this purpose, the desorber 5 is connected via a discharge line 65 to the pressure vessel 63. In the
pressure vessel 63, the scrubbing medium is depressurized to form a gas phase and a liquid
phase. The gas is fed via a discharge line 67 of the pressure vessel 63 to the desorber 5. Heat
required for desorption of the carbon dioxide from the scrubbing medium can be recovered by
subsequent condensation of the vaporous scrubbing medium in the desorber 5.
[0056] In addition, a reboiler 69 is connected to the desorber 5 and, as bottom vaporizer,
likewise supplies part of the regeneration heat for liberation of the carbon dioxide absorbed in
the scrubbing medium.
[0057] The liquid phase of the scrubbing medium is recirculated from the pressure vessel 63 to
the absorber 3, for which purpose a discharge line 71 of the pressure vessel 63 is connected to a
feed line 73 of the absorber 3. During this recirculation, the regenerated scrubbing medium
likewise passes through the heat exchanger 53 and is cooled here by transfer of heat to the
loaded scrubbing medium from the absorber 3.
[0058] To ensure that the scrubbing medium has the low temperatures required for the
absorption of carbon dioxide from the flue gas before entering into the absorber 3, a further
cooling unit 75, by means of which the scrubbing medium is cooled further before entry into the
absorber 5, is installed in the feed line 73 to the absorber 3. This cooling unit 75, too, is

                                                   12
configured as an air cooler and is cooled by spray cooling using water taken from the stock tank
29, which is indicated by the broken line 77.
[0059] The broken line 77 can, in particular, be a connecting conduit for water or a transport
connection.
[0060] In addition, there is a reclaiming apparatus 79 which, for further treatment of the
scrubbing medium, in particular by removal of nitrogen oxides (NOx) and sulfur oxides (SOx),
takes off part of the scrubbing medium from the feed line 73 and treats it appropriately. The
scrubbing medium is then fed, after purification and treatment, to the absorber 3 and can there
again be used for absorption of carbon dioxide from a flue gas.
[0061] The cooling of the cooling units 19, 57, 75 by means of water from the stock tank 29 is
essentially optional. It is thus possible to cool one, more than one or, as described here, all
cooling units 19, 57, 75 by means of the water stored in the stock tank 29. Furthermore, it is
likewise possible to use water-cooled cooling units instead of the air coolers 19, 57, 75. In the
case of water-cooled cooling units, it is possible to use, for example, heat exchangers which use
the water which has been purified in the treatment unit 9 as coolant in an appropriate coolant
circuit. The cooling units can be connected directly via a water line to the treatment unit 9. The
treated water can, as an alternative, also be transported as freight to the cooling units.

                                                  13
CLAIMS
1.     A removal apparatus for carbon dioxide from a gas stream, in particular from a flue gas
stream, which comprises an absorber for separating carbon dioxide from the gas stream by
means of a scrubbing medium, a desorber which is connected hydrodynamically to the absorber
for liberating the absorbed carbon dioxide from the scrubbing medium, a gas cooler which is
located hydrodynamically upstream of the absorber for cooling the gas stream, and also a
treatment unit which is located downstream of the gas cooler and is equipped and configured for
purifying water from the gas cooler.
2.     The removal apparatus as claimed in claim 1, wherein the treatment unit is connected
hydrodynamically via a feed line to the gas cooler.
3.     The removal apparatus as claimed in claim 2, wherein the gas cooler is installed in a
coolant circuit which is connected hydrodynamically via the feed line to the treatment unit.
4.     The removal apparatus as claimed in any of the preceding claims, wherein the treatment
unit comprises a reverse osmosis plant.
5.     The removal apparatus as claimed in any of the preceding claims, wherein the treatment
unit comprises a stock tank.
6.     The removal apparatus as claimed in any of the preceding claims, wherein the treatment
unit is configured for feeding purified water to the gas cooler.
7.     The removal apparatus as claimed in any of claims 3 to 6, wherein the treatment unit is
configured for feeding purified water to the coolant circuit of the gas cooler.
8.     The removal apparatus as claimed in any of the preceding claims, wherein a direct contact
cooler is used as gas cooler.
9.     The removal apparatus as claimed in any of the preceding claims, wherein the absorber is
connected hydro-dynamically via a discharge line to a feed line of the desorber.

                                                   14
10.    The removal apparatus as claimed in any of the preceding claims, wherein a discharge line
from the desorber is connected hydrodynamically to a feed line of the absorber.
11.    The removal apparatus as claimed claim 10, wherein a cooling unit for cooling the
scrubbing medium fed to the absorber and connected hydrodynamically to the treatment unit is
installed in the feed line of the absorber.
12.    The removal apparatus as claimed in any of the preceding claims, wherein the desorber
comprises a discharge line for a gas outlet stream in which a cooling unit connected
hydrodynamically to the treatment unit is installed.
13.    A process for removing carbon dioxide from a gas stream, in particular from a flue gas
stream,
       - wherein a gas stream is fed to a gas cooler,
       - wherein the gas stream is cooled within the gas cooler with condensation of water,
wherein water is taken from the gas cooler, wherein at least a substream of the water from the
gas cooler is fed to a treatment unit in which the water is purified for a further use, and
       - wherein the cooled gas stream is fed to an absorber of a removal apparatus in which
carbon dioxide present in the gas stream is separated from the gas stream by means of a
scrubbing medium.
14.    The removal apparatus as claimed in claim 13, wherein the substream is taken from a
coolant circuit of the gas cooler.
15.    The process as claimed in claim 13 or 14, wherein the purification of the water in the
treatment unit is effected by means of reverse osmosis.
16.    The process as claimed in any of claims 13 to 15, wherein the water which has been
purified in the treatment unit is fed to a stock tank.
17.    The process as claimed in any of claims 13 to 16, wherein the water which has been
purified in the treatment unit is fed to the gas cooler.
18.    The process as claimed in any of claims 13 to 17, wherein the water which has been
purified in the treatment unit is fed to the coolant circuit.

                                                   15
19.    The process as claimed in any of claims 13 to 18, wherein a direct contact cooler is used as
gas cooler.
20.    The process as claimed in any of claims 13 to 19, wherein the scrubbing medium loaded
with carbon dioxide from the absorber is fed to a desorber of the removal apparatus in which the
absorbed carbon dioxide is liberated from the scrubbing medium.
21.    The process as claimed in any of claims 13 to 20, wherein the water which has been
purified in the treatment unit is utilized for cooling the scrubbing medium fed to the absorber.
22.    The process as claimed in claim 20 or 21, wherein the water which has been purified in the
treatment unit is utilized for cooling the carbon dioxide liberated in the desorber.
                                     Siemens Aktiengesellschaft
                      Patent Attorneys for the Applicant/Nominated Person
                                     SPRUSON & FERGUSON

                                   <U+2701>
<removed-date>
              PCT/EP2015/056239   1/1
              2013P25994WOUS
<removed-apn>

