Abstract of Disclosure
    The present invention provides a news event extraction method and system. The
news event extraction method comprises: acquiring a news sentence set containing a
query word from a news corpus according to the query word; for news sentences
containing accurate time, extracting time in the news sentences; classifying news
sentences with the same time into the same timestamp container; for each timestamp
container, statistically collecting occurrence frequency of each word in the news
sentences in the timestamp container, and establishing a corresponding characteristic
vector; aiming at news sentences containing no accurate time, establishing a phrase
vector with the same dimensions as the characteristic vector of the timestamp
container aiming at different timestamp containers, and calculating a similarity
between the phrase vector and the characteristic vector of the timestamp container;
and if a maximum value of the calculated similarities is greater than a set threshold,
adding the news sentence containing no accurate time into a timestamp container
corresponding to the highest similarity. The present invention can correctly classify
sentences containing no time element.

                                               1/4
Acquire a news sentence set containing a query word from a news corpus according to     Sl
    the query word; and divide the news sentence set into news sentences containing
               accurate time and news sentences containing no accurate time
  Extract time in the news sentences containing accurate time; establish a plurality of
  timestamp containers aiming at different time, and classify news sentences with the    2
    same time into the same timestamp container; and for each timestamp container,
  statistically collect occurrence frequency of each word in the news sentences in the
         timestamp container, and establish a corresponding characteristic vector
For the news sentences containing no accurate time, establish a phrase vector with the
 same dimensions as the characteristic vector of the timestamp container according to   S3
   word segmentation of the news sentence containing no accurate time respectively
aiming at different timestamp containers, and calculatea similarity between the phrase
   vector and the characteristic vector of the timestamp container; and if a maximum
     value of the calculated similarities is greater than a set threshold, add the news
sentence containing no accurate time into a timestamp container corresponding to the
                                     highest similarity
                                             FIG. 1

                                           1
Title
         NEWS EVENT EXTRACTION METHOD AND SYSTEM
Background of the Present Invention
Field of Invention
     The present invention relates to a data processing technology, in particular to a
news event extraction method and system.
Description of Related Arts
     News reports have the features of truth, freshness, importance, and extremely
strong timeliness and can provide a great amount of information to people in short
length. Due to the open characteristic of the Internet, news on the Internet has the
features of heterogeneity, redundancy, dynamic change and the like, information
which describes the same news is usually scattered on different websites, and patterns
of presentation are different. In order to rapidly and accurately find information
needed by users from disorder data floods, the news event extraction technology is
one of the most important tools. In the existing unsupervised learning news event
extraction methods, usually a mode of abandoning news sentences containing no time
is adopted and the importance of events is determined according to the frequency of
the extracted news events. Since a mode of defaulting latest news is adopted in quite a
part of news sentences and no specific time is contained, these news events cannot be
extracted by adopting the existing news extraction technologies, thereby deviation of
extraction of major events is easily caused and the accuracy of event importance
ranking is decreased.
     In view of this, how to include news containing no time during news event
extraction to reduce extraction deviation becomes a problem which needs to be
urgently solved by one skilled in the art.
Summary of the Present Invention

                                            2
    In view of the above-mentioned disadvantages of the prior art, the purpose of the
present invention is to provide a news event extraction method and system, which are
used for solving the problem that the accuracy of event importance ranking is not high
since news containing no time are not included during news event extraction in the
prior art.
    In order to realize the above-mentioned purpose and other related purposes, the
present invention provides a news event extraction method. The news event extraction
method comprises: acquiring a news sentence set containing a query word from a
news corpus according to the query word; dividing the news sentence set into news
sentences containing accurate time and news sentences containing no accurate time;
aiming at the news sentence containing accurate time, extracting time in the news
sentences; establishing a plurality of timestamp containers aiming at different time,
and classifying news sentences with the same time into the same timestamp container;
aiming at each timestamp container, statistically collecting occurrence frequency of
each word in the news sentences in the timestamp container, and establishing a
corresponding characteristic vector; for the news sentences containing no accurate
time, establishing a phrase vector with the same dimensions as the characteristic
vector of the timestamp container according to word segmentation of the news
sentence containing no accurate time respectively aiming at different timestamp
containers,   and calculating    a similarity between the phrase vector and the
characteristic vector of the timestamp container; and if a maximum value of the
calculated similarities is greater than a set threshold, adding the news sentence
containing no accurate time into a timestamp container corresponding to the highest
similarity.
    Alternatively, the similarity comprises cosine similarity.
    Alternatively, the news event extraction method further comprises: for each
timestamp container, statistically collecting a number of sentences containing the
query word in the timestamp container.

                                             3
     Alternatively, the news event extraction method further comprises: processing
different query words according to the news event extraction method, statistically
collecting a number of sentences containing different query words in each timestamp
container and obtaining a ranking result of the query words.
     Alternatively, the news event extraction method further comprises: modifying the
threshold.
     Alternatively, a mode of acquiring data in the news corpus comprises: dividing
contents of a collected news document into news sentences and storing the news
sentences into the news corpus.
                                                 is   ={S       FC(q)AS =t}
     Alternatively, the timestamp container iss                 E       A            , where ti
is a time variable; C(q) denotes a set of sentences matched with a query word q in a
news corpus C; and s.t denotes a time label of a sentence s.
     Alternatively, acharacteristic phrase is           {     (     E  )A     E        , where
wj denotes each word in sentences related to q; and the characteristic vector is
W = (F .F        .. F , ...F)
                           W, W2twhere F,7 denotes document word frequency of each
                                                         N
                                               F    =%     %)
                                                       k
word wy, the document word frequency is               11         , Nj represents occurrence
times of an ith word in a document and k denotes a number of words contained in the
document.
     Alternatively, the phrase vector is     i {          a.        the similarity comprises
cosine         similarity         and        the          cosine          similarity         is
                                Za, xF
  SimiIarity(S&W)=
                             ( a ) +(YF          )
                            i-t        i-  i
     Alternatively, the query word is determined according to news events.

                                            4
     The present invention further provides a news event extraction system. The news
event extraction system comprises: a news sentence acquisition module used for
acquiring a news sentence set containing a query word from a news corpus according
to the query word; and dividing the news sentence set into news sentences containing
accurate time and news sentences containing no accurate time; a time-containing
news processing module used for, aiming at the news sentence containing accurate
time, extracting time in the news sentences; establishing a plurality of timestamp
containers aiming at different time, and classifying news sentences with the same time
into the same timestamp container; and aiming at each timestamp container,
statistically collecting occurrence frequency of each word in the news sentences in the
timestamp container, and establishing a corresponding characteristic vector; and a
no-time-containing news processing module used for establishing a phrase vector with
the same dimensions as the characteristic vector of the timestamp container according
to word segmentation of the news sentence containing no accurate time respectively
aiming at different timestamp containers, and calculating a similarity between the
phrase vector and the characteristic vector of the timestamp container; and if a
maximum value of the calculated similarities is greater than a set threshold, adding
the news sentence        containing no accurate    time into a timestamp      container
corresponding to the highest similarity.
     Alternatively, the news sentence acquisition module is further used for dividing
contents of a collected news document into news sentences and storing the news
sentences into the news corpus.
     Alternatively, the similarity comprises cosine similarity.
     Alternatively, the news event extraction system further comprises a news event
statistics module used for statistically collecting a number of sentences containing
different query words in each timestamp container and obtaining a ranking result of
the query words.
     As described above, the news event extraction method and system provided by

                                              5
the present invention have the following beneficial effects: (1) the sentences
containing no time element can be correctly classified such that the accuracy of news
event importance ranking is higher; (2) the number of extracted sentences is increased
such that the difference ofthe importance of different news events is more obvious;
and (3) the unrelated sentences are removed by using the timestamp containers such
that the interference of other news to the ranking of important news is decreased.
Brief Description of the Drawings
     FIG. 1 illustrates a flowchart of one embodiment accordingto news event
extraction method of the present invention.
     FIG. 2 illustrates an extraction flowchart of one embodiment according to news
event extraction method of the present invention.
     FIG. 3 illustrates a flowchart of classifying sentences containing no accurate time
according to one embodiment of news event extraction methodin the present
invention.
     FIG. 4 illustrates a modular schematic diagram of one embodiment according to
news event extraction system of the present invention.
     Description of component mark numbers:
      I            News event extraction system
     11            News sentence acquisition module
      12           Time-containing news processing module
     13            No-time-containing news processing module
     S1-S3         Steps
Detailed Description of the Preferred Embodiments
     The implementation modes of the present invention will be described below
through specific embodiments. One skilled in the art can easily understand other

                                              6
advantages and effects of the present invention according to contents disclosed by the
description. The present invention may also be implemented or applied through other
different specific implementation modes. Various modifications or changes may also
 be made to all details in the description based on different points of view and
applications without departing from the spirit of the present invention.
     It needs to be stated that the drawings provided in the following embodiments are
just used for schematically describing the basic concept of the present invention, thus
only illustrate components only related to the present invention and are not drawn
according    to the numbers,       shapes   and sizes  of components     during actual
implementation, the configuration, number and scale of each component during actual
implementation     thereof may be       freely changed,    and the component     layout
configuration thereof may be more complex.
     The present invention provides a news event extraction method. In one
embodiment, as illustrated in FIG. 1, the news event extraction method comprises the
following steps:
     In step SI, a news sentence set containing a query word is acquired from a news
corpus according to the query word; and the news sentence set is divided into news
 sentences containing accurate time and news sentences containing no accurate time. A
mode of acquiring data in the news corpus comprises the following operations:
dividing contents of a collected news document into news sentences, and storing the
news sentences into the news corpus. The query word may be determined according
to news events. A symbol "q" may be used for representing a query word, a symbol
"C" may be used for representing a corpus and a symbol "s" may be used for
representing a sentence. In one embodiment, the query word may be determined
according toevents which are highly concerned and are the most reported and
mentioned from all aspects.
     In step S2, for the news sentence containing accurate time, time in the news
 sentences is extracted; a plurality of timestamp containers are established aiming at

                                             7
different time, and news sentences with the same time are classified into the same
timestamp container; and for each timestamp container, occurrence frequency of each
word in the news sentences in the timestamp container statistically collected, and a
corresponding characteristic vector is established. In one embodiment, the timestamp
container is   t        S E C(q) A t =      }, where  ti is a time variable; C(q) denotes a
set of sentences matched with a query word q in a news corpus C; and s.t denotes a
time label of a sentence s. Acharacteristic phrase is        o        (    E s) A (E
where w denotes each word in sentences related to q; and the characteristic vector is
WW = (F *F F ...W2F   ...F)   , where Fv1 denotes document word frequency of each
                                                        N
                                              F   =         i
                                                  M~  k
word wj, the document word frequency is
                                                     Z
                                                     j=1
                                                          N~
                                                                 , Nj represents occurrence
times of an ith word in a document and k denotes a number of words contained in the
document.
     In step S3, aiming at the news sentences containing no accurate time, a phrase
vector with the same dimensions as the characteristic vector of the timestamp
container is established according to word segmentation of the news sentence
containing no accurate time respectively aiming at different timestamp containers, and
a similarity between the phrase vector and the characteristic vector of the timestamp
container is calculated; and if a maximum value of the calculated similarities is
greater than a set threshold, the news sentence containing no accurate time is added
into a timestamp container corresponding to the highest similarity. The similarity
comprises cosine similarity. The news event extraction method further comprises the
following operations: modifying the threshold. The user may modify the threshold
according to the actual situation during use. In one embodiment, the phrase vector is
 s = {a1 ;a2 .a.-aU}      the similarity comprises cosine similarity, and the cosine

                                               8
                                                   Zai xF,
                  Similarity(i. W) =                     k
                                         (X   a)     +(    F     )
similarity is                                                       . A maximum value of
the          similarities,       i.e.,      the         maximum            similarity,        is
MaxSmilarity,          =   {Max(Similarity(      W)),s,     (V 4 4     .If If tem}
                                                          E
                                                                              the maximum
value of the calculated similarities is greater than a preset threshold, the news
sentence containing         no accurate   time is added      into a timestamp         container
corresponding to the highest similarity, the sentence which is added into the
timestamp container is called as an effective sentence and the effective sentence is
      {s,, | Smilarity(g      W)      6} where suj denotes that time of a sentence s is ti and
8 is a threshold adjusted according to the actual situation. Each timestamp container
may have corresponding effective sentences, and all effective sentences of a
timestamp container corresponding to time t are called as an effective sentence set S.
     In one embodiment, the news event extraction method further comprises the
following operation: aiming at each timestamp container, statistically a number of
sentences containing the query word in the timestamp container. In one embodiment,
the news event extraction method further comprises the following operations:
processing different query words according to the above news event extraction
method, statistically collecting a number of sentences containing different query
words in each timestamp container and obtaining a ranking result of the query words.
     In one embodiment, an integral framework included in the news event extraction
method is as illustrated in FIG. 2, and a process of classifying sentences containing no
accurate time is as illustrated in FIG. 3. A processing process thereof comprises the
following operations: storing collected news corpora in a database according to titles,
time and contents. Then, contents of each document are divided into sentences
according to sentence end symbols of Chinese such as ". ", "! " and "? ", and are also
stored according to titles, time and contents (sentences). Sentences in a corpus may be
divided into the following three classes: 1) sentences containing accurate data: AD

                                               9
(Absolute Date) denotes an expression of time which is complete and accurate to
"day". e.g. 2010.10.1 and May 12. 2008, and the time may be directly processed into
the form of YYYY-MM-DD; 2) sentences containing date related to release time:
DCT-RD (date of creation-relative date) denotes that the sentences themselves do not
contain accurate date, may he obtained through semantic analysis according to
document release time and may be processed into the form of YYYY-MM-DD; and 3)
sentences containing no accurate date: UD (underspecified Date) denotes that accurate
date cannot be obtained, and cannot be processed into the form of YYYY-MM-DD.
     Then, sentence-level corpora are acquired through query words, time in sentences
is extracted according to steps by adopting the following algorithm and the sentences
are classified according to time: (1) a timestamp container Vr, containing no accurate
date is established; (2) matching is performed to         s e S(q c) by using regex
(regular expression of time) to obtain Sj (Sit denotes accurate date containing in a
sentence S); if Sid does not e xist. S is matched with R-Words (e.g., "one year ago" and
"one week later") to obtain Date Distance (Date Distance denotes a distance in date
from DCT): if Date Distance does not exist. Sis put into V.; and if Date Distance
exists, Date Distance and DCT are calculated to obtain     So  (e.g., if a reported date is
May 12. 2013, one year ago is May 12, 2012); and (3) if Vt (Vi denotes a timestamp
container corresponding to date t) has already existed. S, is put into V,; and if V does
not exist Vj, is created and Sj, is put into Vu.
     Then, a similarity between each sentence and each characteristic phrase is
calculated. There are two purposes to calculate the similarity between each sentence
and each characteristic phrase, wherein one is to classify partial sentences containing
no accurate time into correct timestamp containers, and the other is to remove
sentences which are not correlated to the characteristic in each timestamp container.
Specific algorithun steps are as follows: (1) word segmentation is performed to all
sentences s E- V,. occurrence frequency FVj of each word W is statistically collected
and a characteristic vector W         (   i' F          a   is established; (2) a vector

                                            10
 S ={a    a2..-a, } with k dimensions (which are the same as the dimensions of
the characteristic vector of the timestamp container) is established for each sentence si
                                                                            a, x F,
                                          Similarity(s.W) =                a
                                                                (     a )2+(ZF          )2
 E V;    (3)   the   cosine   similarity                           -1
between each sentence sE V and the characteristic vector W is calculated; (4) the
sentence s, having the highest similarity to the characteristic vector is found out and
the similarity is denoted as Maxmnlaity -Max(Similary*s.lf)); and (5) a
threshold   a  is set; for s, & V, if                                               , si is
removed from V; and for si E 1, if &milW          (    W) >rM aSiriMafty*a,si is
put into V. In practice, according to experiences, when Max Similarity is closer to 1,
since the events may be the same event even though the difference between the
sentence and the characteristic phrase is relatively great, the threshold may be set to
be lower. When MaxSimilarity is far away from 1, the threshold needs to be set to be
higher to realize more accurate removal. The setting of the threshold of the similarity
is obtained through repetitive tests and artificial observation and may be modified
according to the actual needs.
     Finally, the number of sentences is statistically collected. Ranking is performed
according to the number of sentences corresponding to the query words, such that the
events corresponding to the query words are ranked according to importance and a
time axis is presented. For example, documents with texts containing                "M   E
 Lg"(Obama) in a database are searched to obtain 6418 records. Sentence segmentation
is performed to these records to obtain totally 20468 different sentences containing
"A Ei " (Obama). Further, time in the sentences is extracted to obtain 3209
sentences containing accurate time. The time of the 3209 sentences is compared to
finally  obtain    158   different  timestamps,  and these     sentences     are put into
corresponding timestamp containers. For a keyword "tAW"           (earthquake), the same

                                            11
operations are performed to obtain the following results as shown in the following
table. Accordingly, it can be seen that, after sentences containing time elements are
correctly classified, averagely about 14.6% of sentences can be correctly ranked.
            Keyword                      El    (Obama)            tP     (earthquake)
         Total number of                     158                           197
           events
       Number of events                       22                           30
 having changes in ranking
           Proportion                       13.9%                        15.2%
     The present invention further provides a news event extraction system. The news
event extraction system may adopt the above-mentioned news event extraction
method. In one embodiment, as illustrated in FIG. 4, the news event extraction system
1 comprises a news sentence acquisition module 11,           a time-containing news
processing module 12 and a no-time-containing news processing module 13, wherein:
     The news sentence acquisition module 11 is used for acquiring a news sentence
set containing a query word from a news corpus according to the query word; and
dividing the news sentence set into news sentences containing accurate time and news
sentences containing no accurate time. A mode of acquiring data in the news corpus
comprises the following operations: dividing contents of a collected news document
into news sentences and storing the news sentences into the news corpus. The query
word may be determined according to news events. In one embodiment, the news
sentence acquisition module 11 is further used for dividing contents of a collected
news document into news sentences and storing the news sentences into the news
corpus.
     The time-containing news processing module 12 is connected with the news
sentence acquisition module 11 and is used for extracting time from the news

                                          12
sentences containing accurate time; establishing a plurality of timestamp containers
aiming at different time, and classifying news sentences with the same time into the
same timestamp container; and statistically collecting occurrence frequency of each
word in the news sentences in each timestamp container, and establishing a
corresponding characteristic vector. In one embodiment, the timestamp container is
k   ={sseC(q)As.t-I,}            where t is a time variable; C(q) denotes a set of
sentences matched with a query word q in a news corpus C; and s.t denotes a time
label of a sentence s. Acharacteristic phrase is                (A
where w denotes each word in sentences related to q; and the characteristic vector is
WI =(FW1,        ..F5'" F..F
            I F W"         t ,where F,7 denotes document word frequency of each
                                                    N
                                            F   =      *
word wy, the document word frequency is
                                                  Z
                                                  j=1
                                                      N~
                                                           , Nj represents occurrence
times of an ith word in a document, and k denotes a number of words contained in the
document.
     The no-time-containing news processing module 13 is connected with the
time-containing news processing module 12 and the news sentence acquisition
module 11, and is used for establishing a phrase vector with the same dimensions as
the characteristic vector of the timestamp container according to word segmentation
of the news sentence containing no accurate time respectively aiming at different
timestamp containers, and calculating a similarity between the phrase vector and the
characteristic vector of the timestamp container; and if a maximum value of the
calculated similarities is greater than a set threshold, adding the news sentence
containing no accurate time into a timestamp container corresponding to the highest
similarity. The similarity comprises cosine similarity. The news event extraction
method further comprises the following operation: modifying the threshold. The user
may modify the threshold according to the actual situation during use. In one
embodiment, the phrase vector is        = {a 1ayaiak},       the similarity comprises

                                              13
cosine         similarity           and       the       cosine        similarity        is
                                  1
                                  Y, a, x
  Similarity(j.W)=              ~  -J
                                   2   +
                           (Z
                            i-1
                                a  ) 2 +(ZF
                                          i-1
                                                 )2
     In one embodiment the news event extraction system I further comprises a news
event statistics module used for statistically collecting a number of sentences
containing different query words in each imestanp container and obtaining a ranking
result of the query words. The news event statistics module is further used for
statistically collecting a number of sentences containing the query word in each
timestamp container.
     To sum up, the news event extraction method and system provided by the present
invention can correctly classify sentences containing no time element and put
sentences which do not contain time but themselves express news events into correct
timestarmp containers, thereby the number of extracted news events is increased and
the accuracy of event importance ranking is improved. Therefore, the present
invention effectively overcomes various disadvantages in the prior art and thus has a
great industrial uti [ization value.
     The above-mentioned embodiments are just used for exemplarily describing the
principle and effects of the present invention instead of limiting the present invention.
One skilled in the art may make modifications or changes to the above-mentioned
embodiments without departing from the spirit and the scope of the present invention.
Therefore, all equivalent modifications or changes made by those who have common
knowledge in the art without departing from the spirit and technical concept disclosed
by the present invention shall be still covered by the claims of the present invention.

                                            14
What is claimed is:
     1. A news event extraction method, characterized in that the method comprises:
     acquiring a news sentence set containing a query word from a news corpus
according to the query word; and dividing the news sentence set into news sentences
containing accurate time and news sentences containing no accurate time;
     for the news sentence containing accurate time, extracting time in the news
sentences; establishing a plurality of timestamp containers for different time, and
classifying news sentences with the same time into the same timestamp container; and
for each timestamp container, statistically collecting occurrence frequency of each
word in the news sentences in the timestamp container, and establishing a
corresponding characteristic vector; and
     for the news sentences containing no accurate time, establishing a phrase vector
with the same dimensions as the characteristic vector of the timestamp container
according to word segmentation of the news sentence containing no accurate time
respectively aiming at different timestamp containers, and calculating a similarity
between the phrase vector and the characteristic vector of the timestamp container;
and if a maximum value of the calculated similarities is greater than a set threshold,
adding the news sentence containing no accurate time into a timestamp container
corresponding to the highest similarity.
     2. The news event extraction method according to claim 1, characterized in that
the similarity comprises cosine similarity.
     3. The news event extraction method according to claim 1, characterized in that
the method further comprises: processing different query words according to the news
event extraction method, statistically collecting a number of sentences corresponding
to different query words in each timestamp container and obtaining a ranking result of
the query words.
     4. The news event extraction method according to claim 1, characterized in that

                                             15
the method further comprises: modifying the threshold.
     5. The news event extraction method according to claim 1, characterized in that
                               V ={sI     eC(q)a     s.=}
the timestamp container is       &A                            , where ti is a time variable;
C(q) denotes a set of sentences matched with a query word q in a news corpus C; and
s.t denotes a time label of a sentence s.
     6. The news event extraction method according to claim 5, characterized in that
the characteristic phrase isW=        {W        E 3) A  (S   E      I, where y denotes each
word     in    sentences    related    to  q;    and     the     characteristic    vector   is
          *,    2    't        ,  where F,7 denotes document word frequency of each
                                                         N
                                              F    =         U
                                                      Z N~
word wj, the document word frequency is                =1        ,  Nj represents occurrence
times of an ith word in a document and k denotes a number of words contained in the
document.
     7. The news event extraction method according to claim 6, characterized in that
the phrase vector is        {ala..aak}         the similarity comprises cosine similarity
                                                                     a, x F
                                 Similarity(i,.W)=         k       !
                                                       (      a )2 +(         F  )2
and the cosine similarity is                             i                i-i
     8. A news event extraction system, characterized in that the system comprises:
     a news sentence acquisition module used for acquiring a news sentence set
containing a query word from a news corpus according to the query word; and
dividing the news sentence set into news sentences containing accurate time and news
sentences containing no accurate time;
     a time-containing news processing module used for extracting time in the news
sentences from news sentence containing accurate time; establishing a plurality of

                                           16
timestamp containers aiming at different time, and classifying news sentences with
the same time into the same timestamp container; and aiming at each timestamp
container, statistically collecting occurrence frequency of each word in the news
sentences in the timestamp container, and establishing a corresponding characteristic
vector; and
     a no-time-containing news processing module used for establishing a phrase
vector with the same dimensions as the characteristic vector of the timestamp
container according to word segmentation of the news sentence containing no
accurate time respectively aiming at different timestamp containers, and calculating a
similarity between the phrase vector and the characteristic vector of the timestamp
container; and if a maximum value of the calculated similarities is greater than a set
threshold, adding the news sentence containing no accurate time into a timestamp
container corresponding to the highest similarity.
     9. The news event extraction system according to claim 8, characterized in that
the news sentence acquisition module is further used for dividing contents of a
collected news document into news sentences and storing the news sentences into the
news corpus.
     10. The news event extraction system according to claim 8, characterized in that
the news event extraction system further comprises a news event statistics module
used for statistically collecting a number of sentences containing different query
words in each timestamp container and obtaining a ranking result of the query words.

         <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
FIG. 1                              1/4

                              2/4
<removed-date>
                                News
                                corpus
                              Divide into
                              sentences
<removed-apn>
                     Query    Sentence-
              User
                     word    level corpus
                             Extract time
                               Cluster          User
                              sentences
                             according to
                                 time
                                              Time axis
                              Statistically    Present
                             collect events     result
                               FIG. 2

         <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                    3/4
FIG. 3

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           4/4
 FIG. 4

