                             ABSTRACT
   A data communication method, comprising: communicating
   first user data from a first computing device to a data
 5 storage; associating the first user data with an
   identifier of a portable user device; transmitting the
   identifier from the portable user device to a second
   computing device; and making a request in respect of the
   first user data at the second computing device based on
10 the identifier.
                                               10318342_1(GHMatters)P81423.AU.37/06/2018

                                                        1/9
             100
                                Communicating first user data from a
                                   first computing device to a data
                                                storage               110
                                 Associating first user data with an
                                 identifier of a portable user device
                                                                      120
                                  Transmitting the identifier of the
                                  portable user device to a second
                                           computing device
                                                                      130
                                 Making a request in respect of first
                                 user data at the second computing
                                     device based on the identifier   140
                                             Figure 1
7867651_1(GHMattes) P81423.AU.2

                     A DATA COMMUNICATION METHOD
   Related Application
 5           This application is a divisional application of
   Australian application no. 2009270344, which in turn is a
   divisional application of Australian application no.
   <removed-apn>. The disclosures of both Australian application
   no. 2009270344 and Australian application no. <removed-apn> are
10 incorporated herein by reference.
   Field
             The invention relates to a data communication method
   and a data communication system.
15
   Background
             Traditionally, documents and files are carried by
   people using carry bags such as briefcases and school bags.
   In many cases, it is required or desirable to have such
20 documents at hand so that one may present one or more of such
   documents to others. For example, a student carries homework
   assignments in her school bag because she is required to hand
   in a particular assignment to one of her teachers. In a
   similar manner, a shopper presents his "rewards" card when
25 making a purchase at a particular departmental store because
   he desires to accrue reward points.
             Today, electronic devices are available for people
   to carry such documents. These include notebook computers,
   USB thumb-drives etc. These modern tools are unfortunately
30 not ideal because they are often cumbersome and time
   consuming to use. For instance, to locate a particular
   document in a USB drive, a person has to manually select the
   appropriate folder containing the relevant document.
             There is a need for an alternative data
35 communication method.
   Summary of the Invention
             In a first aspect, the invention provides a data
   communication method, comprising:
40           detecting, by a first Bluetooth Medium Access

   Control  (MAC) address detector of a first computing device, a
   Bluetooth MAC address of a portable user device transmitted
   from the portable user device;
             communicating, from the first computing device via a
 5 first communications network to a data storage storing user
   data in association with respective Bluetooth MAC addresses,
   first user data and the Bluetooth MAC address detected by the
   first Bluetooth MAC address detector;
             storing the communicated first user data in
10 association with the communicated Bluetooth MAC address in
   the data storage;
             detecting, by a second Bluetooth MAC address
   detector of a second computing device in data communication
   with the data storage via a second communications network,
15 the Bluetooth MAC address of the portable user device, the
   Bluetooth MAC address detected by the second Bluetooth MAC
   address detector being transmitted from the portable user
   device to the second computing device using Bluetooth; and
             at the second computing device, retrieving from the
20 data storage via the second communications network the first
   user data stored in association with the communicated
   Bluetooth MAC address in the data storage, by identifying
   from the user data stored in association with the respective
   Bluetooth MAC addresses in the data storage the first user
25 data stored in association with the communicated Bluetooth
   MAC address in the data storage based on the Bluetooth MAC
   address detected by the second Bluetooth MAC address
   detector.
             In an embodiment, the first communications network
30 is the internet and the first user data is uploaded from the
   first computing device to the data storage.
             In an embodiment, the second communications network
   is a local area network and the first user data is copied
   from the data storage to the second computing device.
35           In an embodiment, the second communications network
   is the internet and the first user data is downloaded from
   the data storage to the second computing device.
             In an embodiment, the method further comprises
   checking the data storage to verify that the first user data
40 was communicated from the first computing device to the data

   storage within a time period.
             In an embodiment, the method further comprises:
             associating the Bluetooth MAC address with a first
   image of a user; and
 5           authenticating the Bluetooth MAC address transmitted
   from the portable user device based on the first image.
             In an embodiment, the method further comprises:
             modifying the first user data communicated from the
   data storage; and
10           communicating the first user data that has been
   modified from the second computing device to the data
   storage.
             In an embodiment, the method further comprises
   transmitting information to the portable user device.
15           In an embodiment, the information transmitted to the
   portable user device comprises at least one of a group
   consisting of advertisements, promotional coupons and
   personal reminders.
             In an embodiment, the first user data comprises at
20 least one of a group consisting of: a user's school homework;
   a user's school e-files; a user's loyalty account details; a
   user's membership details; a user's pre-paid account details;
   and a user's gift-card details.
             In an embodiment, the portable user device is a
25 Bluetooth device and the Bluetooth MAC address is a Bluetooth
   ID.
             In an embodiment, the portable user device is a
   mobile phone.
             In an embodiment, the method further comprises
30 configuring the portable user device to enable transmission.
             In an embodiment, the portable user device is
   adapted to be configured by a user of the portable user
   device.
             In an embodiment, the Bluetooth MAC address is
35 transmitted from the portable user device to the second
   computing device according to a Wireless Personal Area
   Network (WPAN) standard.
             In an embodiment, the Bluetooth MAC address of the
   portable user device is detected by the second Bluetooth MAC
40 address detector at a prescribed time.

             In a second aspect, the invention provides a data
   communication method, comprising:
             receiving, from a first computing device via a first
   communications network, first user data and a Bluetooth
 5 Medium Access Control  (MAC) address of a portable user device
   detected by a first Bluetooth MAC address detector of the
   first computing device, the Bluetooth MAC address detected by
   the first Bluetooth MAC address detector being transmitted
   from the portable user device;
10           storing the received first user data in association
   with the received Bluetooth MAC address in a data storage
   storing user data in association with respective Bluetooth
   MAC addresses;
             detecting, by a second Bluetooth MAC address
15 detector of a second computing device in data communication
   with the data storage via a second communications network,
   the Bluetooth MAC address of the portable user device, the
   Bluetooth MAC address detected by the second Bluetooth MAC
   address detector being transmitted from the portable user
20 device to the second computing device using Bluetooth; and
             at the second computing device, retrieving from the
   data storage via the second communications network the first
   user data stored in association with the received Bluetooth
   MAC address in the data storage, by identifying from the user
25 data stored in association with the respective Bluetooth MAC
   addresses in the data storage the first user data stored in
   association with the communicated Bluetooth MAC address in
   the data storage based on the Bluetooth MAC address detected
   by the second Bluetooth MAC address detector.
30           In an embodiment the method further comprises
   storing the location of the first user data so it can be
   retrieved.
             In an embodiment, the first communications network
   is the internet and the first user data is uploaded from the
35 first computing device to the data storage.
             In an embodiment, the second communications network
   is a local area network and the first user data is copied to
   the second computing device.
             In an embodiment, the second communications network
40 is the internet and the first user data is downloaded at the

   second computing device.
             In an embodiment, the method further comprises
   checking to verify that the communication in respect of first
   data was received from the first computing device within a
 5 time period.
             In an embodiment, the method further comprises:
             associating the Bluetooth MAC address with a first
   image of a user; and
             authenticating the Bluetooth MAC address received at
10 the second computing device based on the first image.
             In an embodiment, the method further comprises:
             modifying the first user data communicated to the
   second computing device; and
             communicating the first user data that has been
15 modified from the second computing device to a data storage.
             In an embodiment, the method further comprises
   transmitting information to the portable user device.
             In an embodiment, the information transmitted to the
   portable user device comprises at least one of a group
20 consisting of advertisements, promotional coupons and
   personal reminders.
             In an embodiment, the first user data comprises at
   least one of a group consisting of: a user's school homework;
   a user's school e-files; a user's loyalty account details; a
25 user's membership details; a user's pre-paid account details;
   and a user's gift-card details.
             In an embodiment, the portable user device is a
   Bluetooth device and the Bluetooth MAC address is a Bluetooth
   ID.
30           In an embodiment, the portable user device is a
   mobile phone.
             In an embodiment, the Bluetooth MAC address is
   received at the second computing device according to a
   Wireless Personal Area Network (WPAN) standard.
35           In an embodiment, the Bluetooth MAC address of the
   portable user device is detected by the second Bluetooth MAC
   address detector at a prescribed time.
             In a third aspect, the invention provides a data
   communication system, comprising:
40           a data controller for:

             receiving, from a first computing device via a first
   communications network, first user data and a Bluetooth
   Medium Access Control  (MAC) address of a portable user device
   detected by a first Bluetooth MAC address detector of the
 5 first computing device, the Bluetooth MAC address detected by
   the first Bluetooth MAC address detector being transmitted
   from the portable user device;  and
             storing the received first user data in association
   with the received Bluetooth MAC address in a data storage
10 storing user data in association with respective Bluetooth
   MAC addresses; and
             a second computing device in data communication with
   the data storage via a second communications network, the
   second computing device comprising:
15           (i)  a second Bluetooth MAC address detector for
   detecting the Bluetooth MAC address of the portable user
   device, the Bluetooth MAC address detected by the second
   Bluetooth MAC address detector being transmitted from the
   portable user device to the second computing device using
20 Bluetooth; and
             (ii) a data requester for retrieving from the data
   storage via the second communications the first user data
   stored in association with the received Bluetooth MAC address
   in the data storage, by identifying from the user data stored
25 in association with the respective Bluetooth MAC addresses in
   the data storage the first user data stored in association
   with the communicated Bluetooth MAC address in the data
   storage based on the Bluetooth MAC address detected by the
   second Bluetooth MAC address detector.
30           In an embodiment, the data controller stores the
   location of the first user data so it can be retrieved.
             In an embodiment, the data requester makes a request
   in response to receipt of the Bluetooth MAC address.
             In an embodiment, the first communications network
35 is the internet and the first user data is uploaded from the
   first computing device to a data storage.
             In an embodiment, the second communications network
   is a local area network and the first user data is copied to
   the second computing device.
40           In an embodiment, the second communications network

   is the internet and the first user data is downloaded at the
   second computing device.
             In an embodiment, the data controller is further
   arranged to check and verify that the communication in
 5 respect of first data was received from the first computing
   device within a time period.
             In an embodiment, the data controller is further
   arranged to associate the Bluetooth MAC address with a first
   image of a user, and the second computing device further
10 comprises a Bluetooth MAC address authenticator for
   authenticating the Bluetooth MAC address received at the
   second computing device based on the first image.
             In an embodiment, the second computing device
   further comprises a second data controller for modifying the
15 first user data communicated to the second computing device,
   and communicating the first user data that has been modified
   from the second computing device to a data storage.
             In an embodiment, the data controller is further
   arranged to transmit information to the portable user device.
20           In an embodiment, the information transmitted to the
   portable user device comprises at least one of a group
   consisting of advertisements, promotional coupons and
   personal reminders.
             In an embodiment, the first user data comprises at
25 least one of a group consisting of: a user's school homework;
   a user's school e-files; a user's loyalty account details; a
   user's membership details; a user's pre-paid account details;
   and a user's gift-card details.
             In an embodiment, the portable user device is a
30 Bluetooth device and the Bluetooth MAC address is a Bluetooth
   ID.
             In an embodiment, the portable user device is a
   mobile phone.
             In an embodiment, the Bluetooth MAC address is
35 received at the second computing device according to a
   Wireless Personal Area Network (WPAN) standard.
             In an embodiment, the second Bluetooth MAC address
   detector detects the Bluetooth MAC address of the portable
   user device at a prescribed time.

              In a fourth aspect, the invention provides computer
   program code which when executed implements any one of the
   above method.
              In a fifth aspect, the invention provides a computer
 5 readable storage medium comprising the above computer code.
   Brief Description of the Drawings:
              The present invention is described further by way of
   example with reference to the accompanying drawings, in
10 which:
              Figure 1 is a flow chart of an embodiment of the
   data communication method;
              Figure 2 is a flow chart of an embodiment of the
   data communication method from the second computing device's
15 perspective;
              Figure 3 is a schematic diagram of an embodiment of
   the data communication system;
              Figure 4 is a schematic diagram illustrating
   additional components of the teacher's computer;
20            Figure 5 is a schematic diagram of another
   embodiment of the data communication system;
              Figure 6 is a flow chart illustrating the user
   registration process;
              Figure 7 is a schematic diagram illustrating the
25 information stored in  respect of a member;
              Figure 8 is a schematic diagram illustrating the
   components of the POS Terminal of Figure 5; and
              Figure 9 is a flow chart illustrating process of
   communicating loyalty program information using a member's
30 Bluetooth Medium Access Control   (MAC) Address.
   Detailed Description
              Figure 1 broadly summarizes the method of an
   embodiment of the data communication method 100 in a flow
35 chart. As a first step, first user data is communicated from
   a first computing device to a data storage 110. Typically,
   the first computing device is a computer having a Bluetooth
   module  (such as a Bluetooth USB adaptor or a built-in
   Bluetooth network card).  Depending on the application of the
40 data communication method, first user data may be the first

   user's school homework, the first user's school e-files, the
   first user's loyalty account details, the first user's
   membership details, the first user's pre-paid account
   details, the first user's gift-card details etc. Typically,
 5 the communication of first user data from the first computing
   device to the data storage is via a first communications
   network such as the internet and the first user data is
   uploaded from the first computing device to a data storage.
             The first user data is then associated with an
10 identifier of a portable user device 120. This allows
   identification of the first user data by the identifier of a
   portable user device. Typically, the portable user device is
   a mobile phone and the identifier is a Bluetooth ID. In some
   cases, it might be desirable to authenticate the identifier.
15 For example, if the first user data is to be accessed by
   someone who does not know the first user. One way of enabling
   authentication is to associate a first image of a user with
   the identifier. In this way, a second user can authenticate
   the presence of the first user not only by the identifier of
20 the portable user device but also by matching the first image
   with an actual person.
             To access the first user data, the identifier from
   the portable user device is transmitted to a second computing
   device 130. Typically, this transmission is effected
25 according to a Bluetooth standard (sometimes referred to as
   IEEE Standard 802.15x).  For portable user devices such as
   mobile phones, transmission is effected by having a user
   configure the phone to enable Bluetooth transmission. Persons
   skilled in the art however will appreciate that transmission
30 may be effected using any another Wireless Personal Area
   Network (WPAN) standard. It is envisaged that the identifier
   may be a Bluetooth ID  (such as a Bluetooth MAC Address),  an
   IP Address or a portable user device serial number.
             Once the identifier has been transmitted to the
35 second computing device, a request in respect of the first
   user data can be made at the second computing device based on
   the identifier 140. In most cases, the request is for
   communication of the first data from the data storage to the
   second computing device. This however need not be the case;
40 it is envisaged that the request need not be for

   communication of the first user data but simply a request for
   a status of the first user data. In addition, the first user
   data may be modified at the second computing device and
   subsequently be communicated back from the second computing
 5 device to the data storage to update the first user data.
             Furthermore, if a user is making a request for
   communication of the first data, the request can be made for
   communication of the first user data to another computing
   device that is not the second computing device.
10           Also, the user making the request may not be the
   first user, it is envisaged that a second user might be
   making the request in respect of the first user data at the
   second computing device. For example, a second user may make
   a request to check the data storage to verify that the first
15 user data was communicated from the first computing device to
   the data storage within a time period previously prescribed.
   Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that any
   communication or user data may be also collected by third
   party organizations.
20           Typically, the communication to the second computing
   device or to another computing device is via a second
   communications network. In an embodiment, this second
   communications network is a local area network and the first
   user data is copied from the data storage. In another
25 embodiment, this second communications network is a Virtual
   Private Network (VPN) allowing communication over both a
   local area network and the internet and the first user data
   is downloaded via this VPN from the data storage. Persons
   skilled in the art will appreciate that the first and second
30 communications network can be the same network. For example,
   communication can be both via the internet.
             Finally, after making a request in respect of the
   first user data at the second computing device, information
   may also be transmitted to the portable user device.
35 Typically, this information may include advertisements,
   promotional coupons and personal reminders. It is envisaged
   that the information may also be tailored for particular
   users depending on the content of the first user data or
   where an identifier is received. In addition, it is also
40 envisaged that the second computing device may be connected

   to display devices remote from the second computing device;
   for example, a LCD display may be positioned remotely from a
   second computing device at an aisle in a supermarket so as to
   conveniently display goods that the user is likely to desire
 5 when the user walks down the aisle.
              Figure 2 is a flow chart illustrating the step
   performed by the second computing device according to an
   embodiment.
              First, a communication in respect of first user data
10 is received from a first computing device 210. Then data
   based on the first user data in association with an
   identifier of a portable user device is stored 220. At a
   second computing device, the identifier is received 230.
   Based on the identifier, a request in respect of the first
15 user data is then made at the second computing 240.
              Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that
   embodiments of the data communication method can be
   implemented or provided as a system in a variety of ways
   including as software, hardware, firmware, or as a
20 combination of these. In addition, individual components
   arranged to implement a step of the system (such as
   particular modules) do not need to all be provided in the
   same manner. It should also be noted that the system may be
   distributed, including by being located in a plurality of
25 countries.
              Typically, it is envisaged that software program
   code is executed on a plurality of computing devices to
   implement the data communication method, each computing
   device comprising hardware such as a processor, a hard disk,
30 a portable user device interface, a network interface etc.
   For example, key components of the data communication method
   can be provided by installing software program products on
   two computing devices:   (i) a processor in the first computing
   device executes a software program installed on a hard disk,
35 receives transmission via a portable user device interface
   from the portable user device, and uploads user data to the
   data storage connected via a network interface; and (ii) a
   processor in the second computing device executes a software
   program installed in the second computing system's hard disk,
40 receives transmission via the second computing system's

   portable user device interface from the portable user device,
   and downloads user data at the second computing system via
   the second computing system's network interface.
 5 First Exemplary Embodiment: A Bluetooth Virtual Briefcase for
   Students
             Figures 3 and 4 are schematic diagrams of an
   embodiment of data communication system. Referring first to
   Figure 3, the data communication system 10 comprises a second
10 computing device 60 and a data controller 30. In this
   embodiment, the second computing device is a teacher's
   computer in a classroom and the data controller is
   implemented on a school server. The teacher's computer 60
   comprises an identifier receiver 62 and a data requester 64.
15           The school server 30 is arranged to receive a
   communication in respect of first user data from a first
   computing device 20, and storing data based on the first user
   data in association with an identifier of a portable user
   device 50. In this embodiment, the first user is typically a
20 student, the first user data is the student's homework
   assignments and the first computing device is the student's
   computer at home. The portable user device is the student's
   mobile phone 50 and the identifier is a Bluetooth ID of the
   mobile phone.
25           Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that a
   student's homework assignment(s) may be associated with a
   Bluetooth ID of the student's mobile phone in a variety of
   ways. For example, a student may associate a Bluetooth ID
   with a school account during a once-off registration process
30 for the school account; this is done simply by placing a
   Bluetooth enabled mobile phone within the vicinity of where
   registration takes place. This will then allow the student to
   login to the school account at the student's home computer
   and attach any homework assignment which the student wish to
35 associate with the Bluetooth ID.
             The identifier receiver 62 is arranged to receive
   the identifier of the portable user device. That is, the
   identifier receiver 62 is arranged to receive the Bluetooth
   ID from the student's mobile phone 50. The data requester 64

   is arranged to make a request in respect of the student's
   homework assignments based on the received Bluetooth ID.
             In this embodiment, the teacher's computer 60 is
   arranged to make request for the student's homework
 5 assignments via a Virtual Private Network  (VPN) 42. The
   teacher's computer 60 is further arranged to check and verify
   that the communication in respect of the student's homework
   assignments was received from the student's computer 20 was
   within a time period.
10           Also, the data requester 64 is further arranged to
   make a request for communication of the student's homework
   from the data storage 40 to the teacher's computer 60.
             In use, the school server 30 first receives a
   communication in respect of a student's homework assignments
15 from the student's computer at home 20. Typically, this is a
   communication of the student's homework assignments from the
   student's computer at home 20 to the school database 40. In
   this embodiment, the school database is part of the data
   communication system in this embodiment. However, it is
20 envisaged that in an alternative embodiment, the school
   database is not part of the data communication system and is
   located remotely or the school server is adapted to receive
   data from any nominated data storage - for example, a web
   server maintained by a third party. In this embodiment,
25 communication in respect of student's homework assignments is
   received from the student's computer at home 20 via the
   internet 22.
             After communication in respect of student's homework
   assignments is received, the school server 30 stores data
30 based on the student's homework assignments in association
   with the Bluetooth ID of the student's mobile phone 50. This
   allows the school server 30 to access the student's homework
   assignments by using the Bluetooth ID associated with the
   student's homework assignments. In this embodiment, the data
35 stored by the school server 30 is the location of the
   student's homework assignments so it can be retrieved.
             To access the student's homework assignments, an
   identifier receiver 62 at the teacher's computer 60 receives
   the Bluetooth ID associated with the student's homework
40 assignments. It is envisaged that the identifier receiver 62

   typically detects for Bluetooth ID periodically or is
   arranged to automatically detect for Bluetooth IDs at a
   prescribed time - for example, five minutes after the start
   of a class. Then the data requester 64 makes a request in
 5 respect of the student's homework assignments based on the
   received Bluetooth ID. It is envisaged that in certain
   situations, the data requester 64 makes a request in respect
   of student's homework assignments automatically once the
   Bluetooth ID is received.
10           Figure 4 illustrates schematically some additional
   components which may be used together with the embodiment of
   Figure 3. For example, the school server 30 may be further
   arranged to associate a Bluetooth ID with a photograph of a
   student, and the teacher's computer 60 may further comprise
15 an identifier authenticator 66 arranged to enable
   authentication of the Bluetooth ID received at the teacher's
   computer 60 based on the photograph. In this embodiment, the
   identifier authenticator 66 pops up a photograph of a student
   when a Bluetooth ID is received at the teacher's computer 60.
20 This allows a teacher to easily authenticate a student's
   presence in class by matching the photograph in the teacher's
   computer with a student in class even if the teacher does not
   know the student (for example, if the teacher is a substitute
   teacher).
25           Furthermore, the teacher's computer 60 may further
   comprise a controller 68 arranged to modify the student's
   homework assignments that has been communicated to the
   teacher's computer 60 or to add more user data (such as
   requests for new homework assignments etc). This controller
30 68 is also arranged to communicate the student's homework
   assignments that has been modified from the teacher's
   computer 60 back to the school database 40. This allows a
   teacher to update the student's homework assignments with
   comments, mark-ups and/or grades, and it also allows a
35 student to get access to these updated homework assignments
   at home.
             Finally it is also envisaged that backup systems
   (including means for using a key card having a barcode number
   etc) may also be provided in case the student's mobile phone

   50 is not operable   (for instance, if the mobile phone 50 runs
   out of battery or is malfunctioning).
   Second Exemplary Embodiment: A Bluetooth Virtual Wallet for
 5 Shoppers
              Figures 5 to 9 illustrate another embodiment of the
   data communication system. Referring first to Figure 5, there
   is illustrated in this embodiment a first computing device in
   the form of a registration kiosk 23. Typically, the
10 registration kiosk is a computing system available in an open
   area of a shopping mall having various retail stores. The
   registration kiosk 23 is arranged to connect via the internet
   22 to a data communication system provider's user site 33.
   The registration kiosk 23 is arranged to receive a Bluetooth
15 MAC Address from a user's mobile phone 53.
              In addition to registration kiosk 23, the system
   comprises a computer 73 and a second computing device in the
   form of a Point of Sale   (POS) Terminal 63 at a retail store.
   The computer 73 serves as a gateway for obtaining data
20 required by the POS Terminal 63 via the internet 22. The POS
   Terminal 63 is arranged to perform POS transactions and is
   arranged to detect Bluetooth MAC Addresses from Bluetooth
   devices within the retail store.
              The system also comprises at the data communication
25 system provider a central database 43 and a computing system
   hosting a user website 33 and a partner website 34. The user
   website 33 is arranged to allow user's to register as a
   member of the data communication system 13 and also to allow
   a user to upload any user data to the central database. The
30 partner website 34 is arranged to sign up third party
   organizations like the retail store for accessing user data
   stored in the central database 43. The computing system is
   arranged to communicate data gathered via the user website 33
   and the partner website 34 to the central database 43.
35            Figure 6 is a flow chart summarizing how a user may
   register as a member of the data communication system 13 by
   accessing the user website 33 using the registration kiosk
   23. First, the user creates a User ID and PIN 305. Persons
   skilled in the art will appreciate that Biometrics or key
40 cards  (having for example barcodes etc) can be used instead

   of a PIN. Next the user input details including his or her
   mobile phone number 310. A photograph of the user is then
   uploaded from the registration kiosk via the internet to the
   central database 320. It is envisaged that the registration
 5 kiosk may comprise means for creating a photograph of a user.
             A Bluetooth MAC Address Detector is then initiated
   to detect the Bluetooth MAC Address of a user 330. Typically,
   this is by way of a web applet. A detected Bluetooth MAC
   Address is then associated with the user 340. To verify that
10 the correct Bluetooth MAC Address has been detected, a Short
   Messaging Service (SMS) message is sent to the mobile phone
   350. After it has been verified that the correct Bluetooth
   MAC Address has been detected, a user then uploads any
   loyalty program information 360. This loyalty program
15 information together with other information obtained during
   registration is then communicated via the internet 22 to a
   central database 43.
             Figure 7 is a schematic diagram illustrating a
   "Bluetooth Virtual Wallet" comprising the information
20 relating to a registered member that is stored in the central
   database 43. A member's information comprises a user ID 91, a
   Bluetooth MAC Address 92, a photograph of a user 93, a user
   PIN 94, user details including mobile phone number 95, and
   loyalty program information 96. It is envisaged that other
25 information relating to the member may also be stored in the
   central database 43 such as favourite brands, wanted
   products, interests etc. This other information may be
   inputted by the member or be otherwise derived from a
   member's use of the data communication system.
30           Turning now to Figure 8, there is illustrated in
   greater detail the POS Terminal 63 of Figure 5. First, the
   POS Terminal comprises a Bluetooth Interface 65 arranged to
   detect Bluetooth MAC Addresses, and a Network Interface 67
   arranged to communicate with the internet.
35           In addition, the POS Terminal 63 also comprises
   several software modules including a Bluetooth MAC Address
   detector 80 arranged to detect the MAC Addresses of Bluetooth
   devices within the retail store, a Range Adjuster 82 arranged
   to adjust the range of detection for example, to just detect
40 for Bluetooth MAC Addresses close to the POS Terminal, a

   Central Database Connector 84 arranged to communicate with
   the central database 43 via the computer 73, a User
   Identifier 86 arranged to identify registered users based on
   their respective mobile MAC address, and a Data Transaction
 5 Integrator 88 arranged to integrate with a POS transaction
   system to facilitate any exchange of information or data
   between the POS Terminal and any POS transaction system.
              Figure 9 is a flow chart illustrating the process of
   communicating loyalty program information using a member's
10 Bluetooth MAC Address.
              The process starts  when a member commences a
   transaction at a POS Terminal registered for use with the
   data communication system 900. First an operator of the POS
   Terminal detects for Bluetooth MAC Addresses in the vicinity
15 905. Next the POS Terminal queries the central database based
   on at least one of the detected Bluetooth MAC Addresses 910.
   If none of the detected Bluetooth MAC Addresses is associated
   with any of the Bluetooth MAC Addresses of members of the
   system, an offer is made at the POS Terminal to the customer
20 to signup to use the data communication system. If more than
   one of the detected MAC Addresses is associated with members
   of the system, a photograph associated with each Bluetooth
   MAC Address is presented to the operator 930. The operator
   then determines the appropriate member information by
25 matching the customer with a photo of the member stored in
   the central database 940. To complete the transaction, the
   customer then enters a PIN to verify that he is indeed a
   member of the system 950. User data such as loyalty program
   information is then downloaded to the POS Terminal 960.
30
   Examples of further applications
             Besides the embodiments described earlier, one or
   more of the embodiments of the invention can also be applied
   to various aspects of the Hospitality industry, the Security
35 industry, the Transportation industry etc. In addition, it is
   envisaged that embodiments can also be used for providing
   Government service   (including Social Security and Medical
   care).
40 Advantages

             An advantage of one or more of the embodiments of
   the invention is that is it reduces time and effort required
   by a user at a computing device to make a request for first
   user data in a data storage. This is advantageous in
 5 situations where it is not desirable or needed for users to
   spend large amount of time identifying themselves  (such as to
   swipe a card, or to input a user login) or to select data.
             Another advantage is that information tailored to a
   user can be transmitted to the user depending on the location
10 of the user.
             Another advantage is that a second user can
   authenticate a first user's presence using an image of the
   first user even if the second user does not know the first
   user.
15
   Variations
             It will be understood to persons skilled in the art
   that many modifications may be made to the above embodiments,
   in particular features of various embodiments and examples
20 may be combined to form further embodiments.
   Further aspects of the data communication method will be
   apparent from the above description of the embodiments of
   data communication system. Persons skilled in the art will
25 also appreciate that the data communication system could be
   embodied in program code. The program code could be supplied
   in a number of ways, for example in one or more software
   program products each including computer readable storage
   medium, such as a disc or a memory; or as a data signal (for
30 example, by transmitting it from a server).  For example, the
   data communication system can be provided by two software
   program products:  (i) a first software program product
   comprising programming code adapted to be executed on a first
   computing device so that a software program for communicating
35 user data from the first computing device to a data storage
   is installed on the first computing device; and (ii) a second
   software program product comprising programming code adapted
   to be executed on a second computing device so that a
   software program for making a request in respect of the user

    data based on an identifier from a portable user device is
    installed on the second computing device.
              In the claims which follow and in the preceding
    description of the invention, except where the context
  5 requires otherwise due to express language or necessary
    implication, the word "comprise" or variations such as
    "comprises" or "comprising" is used in an inclusive sense,
    i.e. to specify the presence of the stated features but not
    to preclude the presence or addition of further features in
10  various embodiments of the invention.
              It is to be understood that, the reference to any
    prior art publications herein does not constitute an
    admission that the publication forms a part of the common
    general knowledge in the art.
15

   CLAIMS:
   1.        A data communication method, comprising:
             detecting, by a first Bluetooth Medium Access
 5 Control (MAC) address detector of a first computing device, a
   Bluetooth MAC address of a portable user device transmitted
   from the portable user device;
             communicating, from the first computing device via a
   first communications network to a data storage storing user
10 data in association with respective Bluetooth MAC addresses,
   first user data and the Bluetooth MAC address detected by the
   first Bluetooth MAC address detector;
             storing the communicated first user data in
   association with the communicated Bluetooth MAC address in
15 the data storage;
             detecting, by a second Bluetooth MAC address
   detector of a second computing device in data communication
   with the data storage via a second communications network,
   the Bluetooth MAC address of the portable user device, the
20 Bluetooth MAC address detected by the second Bluetooth MAC
   address detector being transmitted from the portable user
   device to the second computing device using Bluetooth; and
             at the second computing device, retrieving from the
   data storage via the second communications network the first
25 user data stored in association with the communicated
   Bluetooth MAC address in the data storage, by identifying
   from the user data stored in association with the respective
   Bluetooth MAC addresses in the data storage the first user
   data stored in association with the communicated Bluetooth
30 MAC address in the data storage based on the Bluetooth MAC
   address detected by the second Bluetooth MAC address
   detector.
   2.        A method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the first
35 communications network is the internet and the first user
   data is uploaded from the first computing device to the data
   storage.
   3.        A method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the second
40 communications network is a local area network and the first

   user data is copied from the data storage to the second
   computing device.
   4.        A method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the second
 5 communications network is the internet and the first user
   data is downloaded from the data storage to the second
   computing device.
   5.        A method as claimed in claim 1, further comprising
10 checking the data storage to verify that the first user data
   was communicated from the first computing device to the data
   storage within a time period.
   6.        A method as claimed in claim 1, further comprising:
15           associating the Bluetooth MAC address with a first
   image of a user; and
             authenticating the Bluetooth MAC address transmitted
   from the portable user device based on the first image.
20 7.        A method as claimed in claim 1, further comprising:
             modifying the first user data communicated from the
   data storage; and
             communicating the first user data that has been
   modified from the second computing device to the data
25 storage.
   8.        A method as claimed in claim 1, further comprising
   transmitting information to the portable user device.
30 9.        A method as claimed in claim 8, wherein the
   information transmitted to the portable user device comprises
   at least one of a group consisting of advertisements,
   promotional coupons and personal reminders.
35 10.       A method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the first
   user data comprises at least one of a group consisting of: a
   user's school homework; a user's school e-files; a user's
   loyalty account details; a user's membership details; a
   user's pre-paid account details; and a user's gift-card
40 details.

   11.       A method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the portable
   user device is a Bluetooth device and the Bluetooth MAC
   address is a Bluetooth ID.
 5
   12.       A method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the portable
   user device is a mobile phone.
   13.       A method as claimed in claim 1, further comprising
10 configuring the portable user device to enable transmission.
   14.       A method as claimed in claim 13, wherein the
   portable user device is adapted to be configured by a user of
   the portable user device.
15
   15.       A method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the
   Bluetooth MAC address is transmitted from the portable user
   device to the second computing device according to a Wireless
   Personal Area Network (WPAN) standard.
20
   16.       A data communication method, comprising:
             receiving, from a first computing device via a first
   communications network, first user data and a Bluetooth
   Medium Access Control  (MAC) address of a portable user device
25 detected by a first Bluetooth MAC address detector of the
   first computing device, the Bluetooth MAC address detected by
   the first Bluetooth MAC address detector being transmitted
   from the portable user device;
             storing the received first user data in association
30 with the received Bluetooth MAC address in a data storage
   storing user data in association with respective Bluetooth
   MAC addresses;
             detecting, by a second Bluetooth MAC address
   detector of a second computing device in data communication
35 with the data storage via a second communications network,
   the Bluetooth MAC address of the portable user device, the
   Bluetooth MAC address detected by the second Bluetooth MAC
   address detector being transmitted from the portable user
   device to the second computing device using Bluetooth; and
40           at the second computing device, retrieving from the

   data storage via the second communications network the first
   user data stored in association with the received Bluetooth
   MAC address in the data storage, by identifying from the user
   data stored in association with the respective Bluetooth MAC
 5 addresses in the data storage the first user data stored in
   association with the communicated Bluetooth MAC address in
   the data storage based on the Bluetooth MAC address detected
   by the second Bluetooth MAC address detector.
10 17.       A method as claimed in claim 16, further comprising
   storing the location of the first user data so it can be
   retrieved.
   18.       A method as claimed in claim 16, wherein the first
15 communications network is the internet and the first user
   data is uploaded from the first computing device to the data
   storage.
   19.       A method as claimed in claim 16, wherein the second
20 communications network is a local area network and the first
   user data is copied to the second computing device.
   20.       A method as claimed in claim 16, wherein the second
   communications network is the internet and the first user
25 data is downloaded at the second computing device.
   21.       A method as claimed in claim 16, further comprising
   checking to verify that the communication in respect of first
   data was received from the first computing device within a
30 time period.
   22.       A method as claimed in claim 16, further comprising:
             associating the Bluetooth MAC address with a first
   image of a user; and
35           authenticating the Bluetooth MAC address received at
   the second computing device based on the first image.
   23.       A method as claimed in claim 16, further comprising:
             modifying the first user data communicated to the
40 second computing device; and

             communicating the first user data that has been
   modified from the second computing device to a data storage.
   24.       A method as claimed in claim 16, further comprising
 5 transmitting information to the portable user device.
   25.       A method as claimed in claim 24, wherein the
   information transmitted to the portable user device comprises
   at least one of a group consisting of advertisements,
10 promotional coupons and personal reminders.
   26.       A method as claimed in claim 16, wherein the first
   user data comprises at least one of a group consisting of: a
   user's school homework; a user's school e-files; a user's
15 loyalty account details; a user's membership details; a
   user's pre-paid account details; and a user's gift-card
   details.
   27.       A method as claimed in claim 16, wherein the
20 portable user device is a Bluetooth device and the Bluetooth
   MAC address is a Bluetooth ID.
   28.       A method as claimed in claim 16, wherein the
   portable user device is a mobile phone.
25
   29.       A method as claimed in claim 16, wherein the
   Bluetooth MAC address is received at the second computing
   device according to a Wireless Personal Area Network (WPAN)
   standard.
30
   30.       A data communication system, comprising:
             a data controller for:
             receiving, from a first computing device via a first
   communications network, first user data and a Bluetooth
35 Medium Access Control  (MAC) address of a portable user device
   detected by a first Bluetooth MAC address detector of the
   first computing device, the Bluetooth MAC address detected by
   the first Bluetooth MAC address detector being transmitted
   from the portable user device;  and
40           storing the received first user data in association

   with the received Bluetooth MAC address in a data storage
   storing user data in association with respective Bluetooth
   MAC addresses; and
             a second computing device in data communication with
 5 the data storage via a second communications network, the
   second computing device comprising:
              (i)  a second Bluetooth MAC address detector for
   detecting the Bluetooth MAC address of the portable user
   device, the Bluetooth MAC address detected by the second
10 Bluetooth MAC address detector being transmitted from the
   portable user device to the second computing device using
   Bluetooth; and
              (ii) a data requester for retrieving from the data
   storage via the second communications the first user data
15 stored in association with the received Bluetooth MAC address
   in the data storage, by identifying from the user data stored
   in association with the respective Bluetooth MAC addresses in
   the data storage the first user data stored in association
   with the communicated Bluetooth MAC address in the data
20 storage based on the Bluetooth MAC address detected by the
   second Bluetooth MAC address detector.
   31.       A system as claimed in claim 30, wherein the data
   controller stores the location of the first user data so it
25 can be retrieved.
   32.       A system as claimed in claim 30, wherein the data
   requester makes a request in response to receipt of the
   Bluetooth MAC address.
30
   33.       A system as claimed in claim 30, wherein the first
   communications network is the internet and the first user
   data is uploaded from the first computing device to a data
   storage.
35
   34.       A system as claimed in claim 30, wherein the second
   communications network is a local area network and the first
   user data is copied to the second computing device.
40 35.       A system as claimed in claim 30, wherein the second

   communications network is the internet and the first user
   data is downloaded at the second computing device.
   36.       A system as claimed in claim 30, wherein the data
 5 controller is further arranged to check and verify that the
   communication in respect of first data was received from the
   first computing device within a time period.
   37.       A system as claimed in claim 30, wherein the data
10 controller is further arranged to associate the Bluetooth MAC
   address with a first image of a user, and the second
   computing device further comprises a Bluetooth MAC address
   authenticator for authenticating the Bluetooth MAC address
   received at the second computing device based on the first
15 image.
   38.       A system as claimed in claim 30, wherein the second
   computing device further comprises a second data controller
   for modifying the first user data communicated to the second
20 computing device, and communicating the first user data that
   has been modified from the second computing device to a data
   storage.
   39.       A system as claimed in claim 30, wherein the data
25 controller is further arranged to transmit information to the
   portable user device.
   40.       A system as claimed in claim 37, wherein the
   information transmitted to the portable user device comprises
30 at least one of a group consisting of advertisements,
   promotional coupons and personal reminders.
   41.       A system as claimed in claim 30, wherein the first
   user data comprises at least one of a group consisting of: a
35 user's school homework; a user's school e-files; a user's
   loyalty account details; a user's membership details; a
   user's pre-paid account details; and a user's gift-card
   details.
40 42.       A system as claimed in claim 30, wherein the

    portable user device is a Bluetooth device and the Bluetooth
    MAC address is a Bluetooth ID.
    43.       A system as claimed in claim 30, wherein the
  5 portable user device is a mobile phone.
    44.       A system as claimed in claim 30, wherein the
    Bluetooth MAC address is received at the second computing
    device according to a Wireless Personal Area Network (WPAN)
10  standard.
    45.       A non-transitory computer readable storage medium
    comprising computer code which when executed implements the
    method of claim 1.
15
    46.       A method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the
    Bluetooth MAC address of the portable user device is detected
    by the second Bluetooth MAC address detector at a prescribed
    time.
20
    47.       A method as claimed in claim 16, wherein the
    Bluetooth MAC address of the portable user device is detected
    by the second Bluetooth MAC address detector at a prescribed
    time.
25
    48.       A system as claimed in claim 30, wherein the second
    Bluetooth MAC address detector detects the Bluetooth MAC
    address of the portable user device at a prescribed time.

<removed-date>
              ,,
                   + ((                                                    (
                                (#                   &
<removed-apn>
                                                                               ,
                                                                  ! "
                                         #           $%             &
                                                                               ,
                    '        (               "                         "
                    #       $%                   &
                                 (#                       &
                                                                               ,
                        )            *                        #
                                         "                        (#
                            &    $                    "                        ,

<removed-date>
              ,,
                   .       &           ((                             #
                                                    (               (#
                                                    &
                                                                          ,
<removed-apn>             -                   $                "
                                                    ! "
                                   #           $%               &
                                                                          ,
                       .       &       "
                                       (#                   &
                                                                          ,
                           )               *                    #
                                               "                    (#
                               &       $                "                 ,

                           <removed-apn> <removed-date>
                           -      0
                            (#
                      ,      " (
%- &
                       ,
       '   " 0     (#
     ,         %
            1
           .     &
 %
$        /    . *               ,
                         ,

             <removed-apn>     <removed-date>
                  '
                  " 0
+        1
     "
                  (#
%%
                  %
                        ,

         <removed-apn> <removed-date>
         &
   )
          -
            -
  %-
(#
       +   %
       / $
 ' ( %

<removed-date>   ,,
                         +                      1/           14
                                                                     ,
<removed-apn>
                   1 #                      %        %        ( $%
                                  #"            ($
                                                                         ,
                             #%            #"
                                                                         ,
                     1            3%        "        +
                                       /
                                                                         ,
                                   3%           "        +
                                    ! "
                                                                         ,
                    5    6        3%        "   +
                                            - -
                                                                         ,
                    #%            % 6 %6#            (        (
                                                                         ,

<removed-date>
                  3%        "5       % 7 %%
<removed-apn>
                                 1/
              8
                                              8,
                       3%        "        +
              8
              8                  "
              8                      14
                        /   %   %
              8        ( $%   ($
                       9 6 %6#            (
              8              (

<removed-date>
                       2- ' (                   %
<removed-apn>
                   3%               "           +
              ,
                   .                    :
                  +         %/              $
                        +
                                1
                  /         '
                        1
                  3%            "1
                  4 ! )1

<removed-date>   8,,
                                  + ((             2-
                                                                       8,,
<removed-apn>
                              /          3%        "       +
                                                                          8,
                              ;   6   +       %/       $
                                                                          8 ,
                                                                      8
                                     6 ( ($
                                      ! " "
                                  3%     "    +
                                            <
                    2             #
                                                       ( ($      #"
                                                                                         8 ,
                        8 ,                    - %              ( ($
                                                               #"
                                                                                         8 ,
                                                   "              ( ($           &
                                                                14
                                                                                         8 ,
                                              / ! %             % 6 %6#              (
                                                                (
                                                                           8 ,

