                                             ABSTRACT
A device for stimulating nerves adjacent the vagina includes a nerve stimulating element coupled to a
body. The    nerve stimulating element     is positioned and designed to stimulate the vesical,
Frankenhauser' s and/or inferior hnogastric plexuses. The device may reside in the vaginal fomices.

39/4974     2N
165               80N
  FIG. 49
        80N
               6
                 164
  FIG. 50

                                                  1
                DEVICES AND METHODS FOR STIMULATING NERVES
                   CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
                The present application is a continuation-in-part of U.S. Application Serial No.
 13/844,472, filed March 15, 2013, which is a continuation-in-pan of U.S Application Sefial No.
 13/492,855, filed June 9, 2012, both by Alexandra Haessler, which are all hereby incorporated
by reference.
                                          BACKGROUND
                Millions of women suffer from increased urinary urgency, frequency,
incontinence, incomplete bladder emptying and irritative bladder conditions. There are two main
types of incontinence, urge incontinence and stress incontinence, which have different
physiological causes and different treatment options. Many women suffer from mixed
incontinence, having both conditions.
                Stress incontinence is largely the result of weakened ligaments, pelvic floor tissue
and vaginal support, ultimately allowing the urethra to drop open in the setting of increased
intraabdominal pressure. The process leading to stress incontinence is primarily mechanical and
is associated with supportive tissue under the distal anterior vaginal wall. Strengthening the
pelvic floor and supporting the urethra and/or bladder neck are safe and effective treatments for
stress incontinence.
                 Urinary urgency, frequency, urge incontinence, incomplete bladder emptying,
and nocturia represent a more complex process that is greatly neurologically mediated. Urinary
urgency is marked by a strong and often uncomfortable urge to void that is difficult to suppress.
Urge incontinence is defined by involuntary leakage of urine in the setting of urgency. The
conditions noted above and other irritative bladder conditions may result from abnormal
sensitivity of autonomic bladder nerves that prematurely communicate "fullness" to the central
nervous system. These conditions may also result from erroneous nerve function in the central
nervous system that allows the bladder to empty at inappropriate times. The underlying cause of
these problems may be multifactorial. Ultimately, it is the autonomic nervous system that
communicates bladder sensation, discomfort, or "fullness" and coordinates bladder filling and
emptying.

                                                   2
                Incomplete bladder emptying or urinary retention may result from inappropriate
autonomic nerve signaling to the urethra and / or bladder. Some medical treatments are aimed at
altering autonomic signal to the urethra, such that urethral tone is lessened. Others work by
increasing bladder muscle tone by activating autonomic receptors in the bladder to cause a
bladder contraction.
                Many treatments of irritative bladder conditions are aimed at modifying nerve
signaling between the bladder and the central nervous system. The goal is to affect both the
afferent signals to the central nervous system that signal initation, urgency, pressure or a sense
of fullness and/or the efferent nerve signal that can trigger a rise in bladder pressure, cause
discomfort, or leakage. Autonomic nerves transmit these signals. Treatment for urinary urgency,
frequency, nocturia and urge incontinence is multifaceted, attempting to affect nerve signaling
with behavioral, dietary, medical and physical therapies.
                Urinary urge incontinence medications attempt to inhibit bladder contractions by
disrupting signals between the autonomic nerves and the urinary tract. These drugs are not
adequately effective for the majority of patients and also have significant systemic side effects
that limit usage. Discontinuation rates at 6 months are well over 50% due to the high cost, lack
of adequate effectiveness, and side effects. There are also contraindications to use, most of
which are conditions affecting the elderly population that desires treatment for lower urinary
tract symptoms.
                An aggressive pelvic floor physical therapy regimen incorporating education,
lifestyle, and dietary changes along with pelvic floor exercise training can be a reasonably
effective treatment for urgency, frequency and urge incontinence in some patients. It is not clear
how well exercise alone works to control urge related symptoms, as a large portion of the benefit
gained from physical therapy is the result of education, cognitive-behavioral techniques, diet and
lifestyle change. Patients are not often compliant beyond the short term, as the regimen can be
costly, time consuming and difficult to comply with over time.
                The goal of most pelvic floor exercises is to strengthen the muscles of the pelvic
floor and increase nerve "tone." These exercises activate the somatic nerves in order to cause
pelvic floor muscle contraction. This is primarily a treatment for stress incontinence. A pelvic
floor muscle contraction can secondarily affect autonomic nerves to the bladder via a spinal cord
reflex arc. These exercises may dampen the signal to urinate or prevent leakage. They do not
necessarily prevent the more common overactive bladder symptoms that occur before one has
time to perform a contraction, such as a spontaneous sense of urgency or waking at night to void.

                                                    3
It has been shown that urinary urgency alone, without leakage, is more bothersome to patients
than urinary leakage alone. Effective treatment needs to prevent the spinal cord from perceiving
inappropriate sensations in the first place.
                Neuromodulation of autonomic nerves has become a useful treatment method for
lower urinary tract symptoms, such as urgency, frequency, incontinence, incomplete bladder
emptying, irritative symptoms, incomplete bladder emptying, fecal incontinence and related
conditions. One technique involves an implanted stimulation lead over the S3 nerve root. It can
be a successful treatment for patients who have failed other treatments.
                Although use of the surgical implant over the S3 nerve root has been successful,
the treatment has drawbacks. The main disadvantage is that the device requires surgical
implantation of small electrical leads through a foramen in the sacrum and a stimulator device
within the soft tissue above the gluteus maximus. Implantation typically requires two surgical
procedures, exposure to radiation, and often requires additional surgery to revise or remove the
components. It has also been reported that over 25% of patients will require surgical revision of
either the implanted battery or lead to manage complications. Additionally, the current surgical
implant often needs to be removed for some types of MRI. The device is also extremely
expensive. In general, patients prefer less effective alternative therapies, as they often do not
think bladder symptoms warrant surgery or they are not comfortable with the idea of a surgical
implant.
                Another drawback of the conventional surgical implant is that the stimulation
occurs at the level of the nerve root, so somatic fibers traveling in the S3 nerve root are also
stimulated before they branch off into somatic nerves. These nerves can cause the patients to feel
vulvar, vaginal, anal and lower extremity muscle contractions or tingling. Still another limitation
of the implantable stimulator is that the same one, or occasionally two, nerve roots are available
and subject to all of the stimulation. As a result, the nerve becomes less responsive due to
habituation rendering the lead less effective or ineffective. This phenomenon has been well
established. Due to these many drawbacks, including risk of surgery, complications associated
with the implant, cost, reduced effectiveness over time, and somatic symptoms associated with
the implanted S3 sacral nerve modulator, this treatment has not been widely adopted despite its
effectiveness.
                The existing non-surgical electrical stimulation therapies include devices that are
positioned in the vagina thereby avoiding some drawbacks of the surgical implant. However,

                                                   4
these devices are often less effective and have their own drawbacks. Many conventional devices
positioned in the vagina direct electrical impulses in the lower or distal vagina and/or adjacent to
the pelvic floor. Electrical signals are sent through the vagina to paravaginal tissue, targeting
nerves adjacent the pelvic floor muscles or the muscles themselves. The goal suggested by these
conventional methods is generally to stimulate nerves adjacent the pelvic floor and to increase
pelvic floor tension. Many of these therapies attempt to treat stress incontinence and/or simulate
pelvic floor exercises. Yet bladder filling, emptying and sensation are mediated by autonomic
nerves,. not somatic nerves. The inventor believes that these devices and therapies are often not
as effective at treating urinary urgency. incontinence, nocturia, incomplete bladder emptying or
other lower urinary tract symptoms as an implanted sacral nerve modulator because they do not
sufficiently isolate stimulation to autonomic nerves.
                 A major limitation of these vaginal stimulation devices for treating most irritative
urinary tract symptoms is that they indiscriminately send electrical impulses to both somatic and
some distal autonomic nerve fibers adjacent to the lower and mid-vagina. They also often target
somatic nerves, such as the pudendal nerve and its distal branches. The somatic nerves do not
directly control bladder filling, emptying, or sensation. Activation of somatic nerves can cause
increased pelvic floor tension, discomfort, and pain associated with pudendal nerve activation.
Such conditions may actually contribute to urinary urgency, frequency and voiding dysfunction.
Somatic nerves are quite sensitive, so the electrical impulses can be perceived even at low
intensity, thereby limiting the full range of treatment protocols or precluding therapy altogether.
                 Thus, the inventor believes that the problem with present neuromodulation
treatment methods is that they either require surgical implantation or, for vaginally inserted
devices, the stimulation does not adequately target important autonomic nerve structures yet
influences muscles and somatic nerves in the lower vagina providing less effective therapy for
autonomically mediated urinary tract symptoms and contributing to undesirable side effects.
Thus, optimal therapy would stimulate the autonomic nerves that mediate signal between the
urinary tract and the central nervous system while avoiding activation of the pelvic floor and
associated somatic nerves. Optimally, neuromodulation would be delivered directly to the
autonomic nerves at the "gateway" between the urinary tract and the spinal cord while avoiding
pelvic floor muscle and nerve activation.

                                                  5
                                            SUMMARY
                The present invention provides devices and methods for targeting autonomic
nerves while minimizing transmission of stimulus to pelvic floor muscles and non-target nerves,
specifically, somatic nerves adjacent to the lower or mid-vagina. The present invention is
positioned to stimulate autonomic plexuses and autonomic nerves at the "gateway" between the
lower urinary tract and the spinal cord while avoiding pelvic floor muscle and nerve activation.
In specific embodiments and methods, the present invention targets the inferior hypogastric
plexus (or pelvic plexus), left and right Frankenhauser's plexus (or Lee's plexus) and the vesical
plexus. These plexuses may, of course, be called by other names such as Lee's plexus as another
name for Frankenhauser's plexus without departing from the invention. Furthermore, the
Frankenhauser's plexus refers to both left and right Frankenhauser's plexuses collectively.
Unless otherwise specified, use of Frankenhauser's plexus or plexuses shall mean both plexuses.
                In one aspect of the present invention, a device for stimulating nerves is
positioned in the upper half of the vagina, and in specific embodiments in the vaginal fornices,
so that the stimulus intended for the target nerves does not adversely influence non-target
somatic nerves, such as the pudendal nerve or its branches, adjacent to the distal or lower half of
the vagina. Reducing side effects and possible urinary tract symptoms due to stimulating somatic
nerves are thereby avoided in accordance with the present invention.
                The present invention treats urologic, gynecologic, colorectal and pain conditions
in women with neuromodulation of nerves via electrical stimulation (and other modalities)
delivered by a unique, self-retained, indwelling vaginal device that resides in the fomices of the
vagina (or uppermost portion of the vagina in women without a cervix) and targets specific
autonomic plexuses which communicate with associated nerves traveling to and from
genitourinary and pelvic structures. The neuromodulation of the present invention stimulates the
nerve plexuses to change a signal transmitted by the nerve plexuses to the associated autonomic
nerves.

                                                   6
                 Referring to Fig. 1. autonomic nerve signals traveling to and from the bladder,
urethra, rectum, vagina, uterus. peritoneum and other pelvic structures travel through the inferior
hypogastric plexus IP, carrying the signal between pelvic structures and the spinal cord. The
inferior hypogastric plexus IHP is the gateway between the visceral (bladder, gynecologic,
rectum) organs and the central nervous system. The IHP is a coalescence of both sympathetic
and parasympathetic autonomic fibers. The sympathetic fibers run between the thoracic nerve
roots (TIO-L2) and into the superior hypogastric plexus, then travel towards the IHP via the left
and right hypogastric nerves LHN, RHN along the uterosacral ligaments USL. In some cases a
portion of the sympathetic fibers may enter the IHP along the undersurface of the cardinal
ligaments. These fibers facilitate bladder storage. The parasympathetic nerves travel from the
sacral spinal nerve roots (S2-4) in the sacral or pelvic splanchnic nerves, or nervi erigentes
towards the pelvic organs., often in association with the pelvic nerve. They facilitate bladder
emptying. Sympathetic and parasympathetic fibers coalesce in the IHP over the posterior and
lateral surfaces of the upper cervix, just above the vaginal insertion.
                 Importantly, the vagina terminates at the level of the pericervical ring around the
uppermost portion of the cervix, just below the uterosacral ligament USL insertions. The
recesses of the most proximal, or uppermost, aspect of the vagina that surround the cervix are
called the vaginal fornices VF. The pelvic floor PF surrounds the lower portion of the vagina
near the vaginal opening, making the "floor" of the pelvic cavity. The inferior hypogastric plexus
IHP is a web-like plexus adjacent to the posterior and lateral cervix at the level of the
uterocervical junction and the uterosacral ligament USL insertions, just proximal to the posterior
vaginal fomix. Inferior hypogastlic plexus IHP fibers also cover the distal uterosacral ligaments
and possibly reside in the lower or under-portion of the cardinal ligament just anterior to the
USL. For reference, the IHP is generally referred to as a singular structure in the literature, but
anatomic studies suggest significant concentrations of these ganglia may be distributed
bilaterally, as described above. For purposes of this description and application the IHP, when
used herein, will refer to the IHP and any lateral extensions around the cervix or most proximal
aspect of the vagina.
                 Autonomic nerve fibers travel from the IHP around the cervix to the vesical
plexus, which communicates with autonomic fibers to innervate the bladder. Some autonomic

                                                   7
fibers travel from the IHP to the posterior-lateral aspect of the cervix to right and left
Frankenhauser's plexuses FP (also known as Lee's or the uterovaginal plexuses).
Frankenhauser's or Lee's plexuses send some nerves upward to innervate the uterus and some
nerves inferiorly to innervate the vagina, cervix, urethra, and clitoris. Both of these plexuses may
be important in controlling urinary tract function. Autonomic fibers travel between the 1IP and
the middle rectal plexus to innervate the distal rectum.
                Surgical removal of the cervix can result in injury to the hypogastric nerves, IHP,
Frankenhauser's plexuses and / or the vesical plexuses. These structures often heal and function
well post-operatively. However, they can sustain permanent injury and exhibit chronically
altered function resulting in chronic urinary tract conditions and other forms of pelvic organ
dysfunction.
                As mentioned above, autonomic nerves and somatic nerves have different
functions. Autonomic nerves control visceral, internal organ function and some types of pain.
The bladder and urethra are innervated by autonomic nerves. Somatic nerves mediate voluntary
muscle activity, body movement, and somatic sensation. The pudendal nerve PN and its distal
branches mediate voluntary pelvic floor function and some distal vaginal, urethral., anal and
genital sensation. The nerve types also have different distributions. For example, autonomic
nerves traveling to and from the pelvic organs enter via a proximal and central approach., just
above the top of the posterior vagina in the center of the pelvic cavity. The somatic nerves travel
to the pelvic floor from an inferior and lateral approach. A problem with prior art devices placed
in the vagina is that they stimulate, usually intentionally, somatic nerves adjacent the pelvic floor
such as the pudendal nerve and its branches.
                Autonomic nerves are responsible for signaling visceral organ or peritoneal pain,
such as that caused by endometriosis, dysmenorrhea, interstitial cystitis, irritable bowel
syndrome, adhesions and other conditions. Autonomic nerves also influence how visceral organs
respond to somatic pain and can be a source of referred pain in a somatic distribution.
Autonomic sensation may be transmitted by autonomic (or visceral) sensory fibers, not
necessarily sympathetic or parasympathetic fibers.
                In an embodiment, the present invention is an indwelling, removable,
programmable, stimulation device that is positioned in the fornices of the vagina, thereby
optimally targeting autonomic plexuses of the pelvic organs and the distal aspect of the

                                                     8
hypogastfic nerves. This device will deliver electrical stimulation (and support other therapies,
such as application of a magnetic field, medication, or ultrasound) to the plexuses and associated
nerves at the autonomic gateway between the pelvic organs and the central nervous system,
mainly at the left and right hypogastric nerves, inferior hypogastric plexus, left and right
Frankenhauser's plexuses, the vesical plexus and possibly the middle rectal plexuses. Stimulation
of these plexuses and distal hypogastric nerves changes a signal sent by these plexuses and
nerves to their associated efferent and afferent nerve fibers.
                At this location the neuromodulation signal will have more effect than if it were
distributed distal to the plexuses, such as with current devices that stimulate and reside lower in
the vagina. With more distally stimulating devices some aberrant nerve signal arising above the
stimulation site can travel, for example, between the urinary tract and the plexuses or
hypogastric nerve above the stimulation site. The same limitations can hinder the effects of the
current devices in treating gynecologic, colorectal and pain conditions as well. The device of the
present invention, on the other hand, is positioned in the vaginal fornices or upper-most portion
of the vagina thereby optimizing stimulation to the autonomic nerves and plexuses that control
the sensation and function of the pelvic organs, including the bladder.
                In a preferred embodiment, a ring-like device with an electrode, or a plurality of
electrodes, will reside in the fornices, adjacent to the plexuses that surround the cervix. The
device will also be able to target the junction between the left and right hypogastric nerves (that
travel to and from the IHP along the uterosacral ligaments) and the IHP. An advantage of the
present invention is that positioning the device in the fornices allows access to the collection of
plexuses (vesical, inferior hypogastric plexus, and Frankenhauser's plexus) and the hypogastric
nerves simultaneously with a single device.
                The device may also have bilateral pairs of electrodes: right and left anterior,
right and left anterior-lateral, right and left posterior-lateral, and right and left posterior leads.
Any individual electrode or grouping of electrodes may be programmed to work with or
independently of any other electrode or grouping of electrodes as described in further detail
below. Bilaterality allows great flexibility of use. Each patient has an individual distribution of
autonomic nerves and plexuses and some may have a dominant side. Alternating between right
and left sides may also be important for any given patient to reduce habituation. Stimulation
regimens may be customized for each patient.

                                                   9
                The position of the device is essential to its unique ability to stimulate the target
autonomic plexuses in the pelvis. For example, the posterior electrodes are adjacent to the IHP,
the posterior-lateral electrodes are adjacent to left and right Frankenhauser' s plexuses, the
anterior electrodes are adjacent to the vesical plexus and the anterior-lateral electrodes are
adjacent to the fibers approaching and leaving the vesical plexus. The anterior-lateral electrodes
and posterior-lateral electrodes may ultimately reside adjacent to the vesical plexus or 1HP
respectively, depending on normal variant distribution of nerves and plexuses in an individual
patient. As noted above, some IHP or hypogastric nerve fibers may travel along the undersurface
of the cardinal ligament, just anterior to the USL. The posterior or posterior-lateral sets of
electrodes may stimulate the autonomic fibers in the IHP or nerve fibers leaving or approaching
the IHP that affect autonomic communication with the middle rectal plexus and / or autonomic
rectal nerves. They may also affect signaling of the left and right hypogastric nerves as they
approach and leave the IHP along the distal end of the uterosacral ligaments USL.
                There will be multiple embodiments that optimize the direction of signal to the
target structures and/or contact with the tissue. For example, in an embodiment the ring will have
a flared and /or curved rim to increase electrode contact with the vaginal wall and adjacent
nerves. Another embodiment may have protruding tabs extending from the ring to maintain
position and/or more effectively direct current to the target nerves or plexuses. The device may
also have a marker or positioning feature in order to maintain proper orientation relative to a
midline. There may also be a feature available to optimize the transmission of electrical signal
across the vaginal wall.
                By directing signals to the peri-cervical plexuses and nerves, stimulation is
directed to autonomic nerves while minimizing, and possibly eliminating, stimulation of somatic
nerves and pelvic floor muscles. This is an essential distinction of the present invention from
current devices. Because the device will reside in the fomices, or uppermost portion of the
vaginal apex in some women, it will be well proximal to the somatic sensory nerve distribution.
This will allow the patient to wear the device without awareness., making continuous treatment
regimens possible. Such continuous regimens may be difficult with conventional devices
residing lower in the vagina. Convenience of use, privacy, and comfOlt may increase
compliance and, therefore, treatment success using the devices and methods of the present
invention.

                                                   10
                 The device being described is able to work unilaterally, bilaterally, anteriorly,
posteriorly and / or laterally as a single device that is easily placed and removed. With the device
of the present invention the stimulation sites may also be changed or rotated. For example, a
stimulation regimen may alternate between the rightward then leftward aspect of the
IHP or vesical plexus, right and left Frankenhauser's plexus, or the junction or intersection
between the right and left hypogastric nerves and the HIP. The feature allows increased
flexibility with treatment regimens, giving certain plexuses or nerves rest while stimulating
others.
                 The device of the present invention will also be able to target vastly more
autonomic signals traveling to and from the pelvis. This may make it more effective at treating
global pathologic problems, such as chronic pelvic pain. For example, a patient with severe
pelvic pain may require continuous circumferential stimulation while a patient with overactive
bladder may only need to target therapy to a single plexus.
                As such, the device of the present invention permits the patient to receive
individualized therapy. After initial placement, each patient's symptoms, response to treatment
and any side effects may be monitored. A regimen will be customized based on her response to
therapy. The device is programmable and the patient will be able to have adjustments to her
regimen as desired. The plurality and laterality of electrodes allows a wide variety of stimulation
opportunities.
                For example, an overactive bladder patient may do well with the electrodes
adjacent to the IHP stimulating 30 minutes daily. A patient with side effects to signaling of the
IHP, say constipation, may prefer use of the anterior leads near the vesical plexus. If a patient
has a blunted response after a long course of use, a good option could be to stimulate only the
right anterior leads for a week and then rest the associated nerves while stimulating the leftward
nerves of the vesical plexus during the following week. An interstitial cystitis/painful bladder
syndrome patient may benefit from stimulating the vesical plexus and one or both of
Frankenhausert s plexuses simultaneously to treat both bladder pain and urgency.
                A patient with a spinal cord injury may do better with signaling the IHP
continuously to control high levels of aberrant signal. This could afford treatment of fecal and
urinary incontinence. Another patient may benefit from activating Frankenhauser' s to treat
nonobstructive urinary retention.

                                                   11
                A woman suffering from dysmenorrhea (pain with menstruation) may only need
the posterior-lateral leads active in order to stimulate Frankenhauser's plexuses and avoid
dampening signal to and from the rectum or bladder. She could use the device five days a month.
One patient with chronic pelvic pain may require continuous circumferential stimulation.
Another may only require therapy targeted to the plexuses on one side allowing the rectal and
bladder signals to function normally on the contralateral side. One therapeutic goal will be to
find the least amount of signal required to treat each patient.
                 Specific aspects of the present invention are now described. The device has a
nerve stimulating element positioned on an exterior surface of a body for contact with the
exposed or internal surface of the vagina. The nerve stimulating element may stimulate nerves in
any suitable manner including provision of one or more emitting elements, which emit electrical
energy, ultrasound energy, a drug, a magnetic field or other suitable stimulus. In a specific
embodiment, the nerve stimulating element may be one or more electrodes, which deliver
electrical energy to stimulate adjacent plexuses, nerves and associated autonomic nerve fibers.
                As mentioned above, many conventional devices contribute to side effects from
stimulating somatic nerves adjacent to the distal or lower half of the vagina. These devices also
often describe intentionally stimulating pelvic muscles and somatic nerves. The present
invention avoids drawbacks associated with these devices by providing a device which has all of
the nerve stimulating elements positioned in the proximal half of the vagina and may have the
entire device positioned in the proximal half of the vagina. To this end, the present invention
provides nerve stimulating elements that are positioned close to the target plexuses. These nerves
travel close to the proximal end of the vagina and have branches, which are typically no more
than 2 cm from the exposed surface of the vagina and, as such, the preferred embodiments are
described with the nerve stimulating element being no more than 3 cm from the target nerve
plexus or nerve. Stated another way, the nerve stimulating element may be positioned no more
than 3 cm from the uterosacral ligaments which are positioned adjacent the target plexuses.
Stated still another way, the nerve stimulating element is positioned to stimulate the vesical
plexus, left and right Frankenhausert s plexus, left and right hypogastric nerves, and/or inferior
hypogastfic plexus without intervening nerves, and in particular without intervening somatic
nerves. Stated still another way, the nerve stimulating element may be positioned to contact the
exposed surface of the vagina closer to the left or right hypogastric nerve, vesical plexus,

                                                 12
Frankenhauser's plexuses, or the inferior hypogastric plexus, than to the pelvic floor. Stated yet
another way, the nerve stimulating element (and in some embodiments all nerve stimulating
elements) is positioned within 3 cm from a proximal end of the vagina, proximal to a distal end
of the cervix, or proximal to the midpoint between the proximal and distal ends of the vagina.
Finally, the entire device may be positioned proximal to a midpoint between the proximal and
distal ends of the vagina or within 5 cm from the proximal end of the vagina.
                The device may also include a plurality of nerve stimulating elements to stimulate
the left and right sides of the target nerve plexuses and/or nerves either simultaneously or
independently. Providing independent nerve stimulating elements on the left and right sides of the
target plexuses and nerves permits tailoring the therapy for the user and condition being treated.
Furthermore, the laterality of treatment regions may be changed periodically to reduce habituation
thereby permitting stimulation of the same plexus from different approaches.
                 The body of the device may form a closed loop having a central opening with the
cervix positioned in the central opening. Although the body extends completely around the
cervix, the body may extend only partially around the cervix. To this end, the body may extend
around at least 120 degrees, or even 270 degrees, around the cervix relative to the cervical axis.
For example, the body may be C-shaped or U-shaped. In another aspect of the present invention,
the nerve stimulating elements (such as the electrodes) are spaced apart at least 120 degrees, or
even 180 degrees, relative to the cervical axis (or the central axis when the cervix is absent) so
that the target nerve plexuses may be stimulated independently (or simultaneously) as described
herein with a single device on opposite sides of the cervix. Of course, the nerve stimulating
element(s) may be positioned only along a posterior or anterior half of the vaginal canal for
targeted use as described herein rather than spaced around the periphery of the device.
                 The present invention may be useful in stimulating and altering autonomic nerve
function for treatment of urinary urgency, frequency, incontinence, incomplete bladder
emptying, pain and other pelvic visceral organ dysfunction, such as fecal incontinence. The
devices and methods are designed to deliver therapy, an example being electrical stimulation, to
specific plexuses that mediate autonomic communication between the visceral pelvic organs and
the central nervous system. The device will also alter the signal from visceral pain nerves.
                The indications for use include those referred to below. In addition, alteration of
autonomic nerve signal may be used to treat cardiovascular conditions, such as hypertension,

                                                  13
bradycardia, tachycardia and other dysrhythmias. Beneficial effects of this treatment may include
altering autonomic tone, thereby treating chronic stress related conditions, such as gastritis,
inflammatory conditions (such as asthma, inflammatory bowel diseases, atherosclerosis and
arthritis), headaches, diabetes and anxiety.
                 The present invention is often described as including a battery-operated nerve
stimulating device with a handheld programmable and wireless controller. An embodiment may
also include a version wherein the device and controller are connected via a cable without
departing from the scope of the invention. The controller may record information regarding
previous stimulation regimens, impedance, patient responses to therapy and other information.
This information stored by the controller can be transferred to a computer or other device to
review and analyze. The controller may also recommend stimulation regimens, based on patient
response to past treatments or standard regimens known to be therapeutic.
                 The devices and methods distribute therapy to autonomic plexus targets in the
central pelvis while avoiding somatic nerves, general paravaginal nerves and the pelvic floor
muscles. Unlike other vaginal neuromodulation devices, the electrodes are positioned in the most
cephalad aspect of the device to optimize distribution of therapy above the vault of the vagina.
Multiple embodiments are designed to assure adequate coverage of the plexuses. For example,
versions include a torus-like, a truncated pyramidal frustum and truncated cone.
Variations will include devices with and without a central opening, as the later may be beneficial
for women without a cervix.
                 The devices of the present invention may be shaped to cause the apical vagina to
widen and elevate, thereby blinging the vaginal wall closer to the target plexuses. The shape of
the device also induces tenting of the vagina around the surface of the device. This layering of
the vagina over the nerve stimulating elements optimizes contact between these elements and the
vaginal wall. These embodiments cause a modest increase in vaginal wall tension and decreased
resistance within the vaginal wall, thereby providing a more predictable interface between the
electrodes and the target structures.
                 The nerve stimulating elements generally conform to the contour of the device to
maintain consistent proximity and contact with the vaginal wall. This feature aims to assure
treatment of the entire plexus and plexus associated nerves that travel peripheral to the cervix
and/or apex of the vagina. This also facilitates stimulation of pain nerves, both visceral and

                                                   14
autonomic. traveling to and from adjacent visceral organs, within the preperitoneal tissue or
associated with the peritoneum.
                 The invention provides surface features designed to optimize stimulation of the
targets. In a preferred embodiment, the device surface may have an undulating exterior surface
with peaks, or raised areas, between valleys or recesses. The raised areas protrude into the
vaginal wall to create a seal between recesses. Each recess will contain at least one nerve
stimulating element and may also include a conductive material.
                 An embodiment will provide variations of a form-fitting, externally applied and
absorbable ring-like insert. The insert includes a plurality of electrically conductive areas
coupled to a substrate with the plurality of electrically conductive areas being separated by
nonconductive areas. The substrate may form a closed loop with the electrically conductive areas
positioned at spaced apart locations on the closed loop. The substrate may dissolve within the
body to leave the conductive areas positioned within recesses in the body of the device. The
conductive areas may include a gel, such as a hydrogel, or a porous material having a flowable
conductive material contained in the pores (such as a hydrogel or saline). The porous material
may be a resilient foam element or any other suitable biocompatible porous element. The
substrate may also include an elastic band that secures the insert to the device.
                 Once the insert is applied to the device the conductive areas will reside within the
recesses and the exposed substrate will cover the external surface of the device ultimately
providing a smooth outer contour.
                 The device may also include a reservoir (or reservoirs) of a conductive, flowable
material (such as a hydrogel or saline). The reservoir is coupled to the body of the device and is
further fluidly coupled to one or more recesses. The conductive, flowable material may be
automatically drawn into the recess. For example, the recess may include a porous element that
draws the flowable material automatically out of the reservoir and into the recess. Alternatively,
mechanical, chemical, thermal, electrical or hydrogen driven means may be used to force the
flowable material out of the reservoir.
                 The physical characteristics of the devices described herein may also help
maintain proper orientation. As mentioned previously, the device may include recesses, which
form peaks and valleys that help the device maintain the same position and limit rotation. The
truncated pyramid and truncated cone shapes may help to drape the vagina in a similar fashion

                                                  15
over the device. The torus shaped embodiment is designed to prevent dislocation, by virtue of
the smooth outer circumference. The design will facilitate the vagina to conform to the shape
and envelope the device so that when pressure is exerted on the upper vagina the vagina and
device move as a unit. The device may also be able to alert the user when the battery is weak.
The device may communicate with the handheld controller and a flashing light and/or audible
alarm will notify the user. The device may also mechanically pulse and /or send stimulation so
that the patient is alerted.
                In addition to other treatments describe herein, the present invention may be used
to treat any one or more of the following conditions: urinary urgency, frequency, nocturia, urge
incontinence, stress incontinence of urine, loss of urine without sensory awareness, overflow
incontinence, bladder pain, urethral pain, urethral syndrome, urethral stricture, urinary hesitancy,
protracted urinary stream, pelvic floor dyssynergia, interstitial cystitis, dysuria, overactive bladder,
incomplete bladder emptying, urinary retention, hesitancy, dysmenorrhea, pelvic pain, pelvic
venous congestion syndrome. endometriosis, irritable bowel syndrome, constipation, fecal
urgency, fecal incontinence, rectal pain, pain with defecation, anal pain. Of course, numerous
aspects of the present invention may be practiced for a different condition without departing from
the scope of the invention.
                The details of one or more embodiments of the invention are set forth in the
accompanying drawings and the description below. Other features, objects, and advantages of
the invention will be apparent from the description and drawings, and from the claims.
                                DESCRIPTION OF DRAWINGS
                Figure I is a parasagital view into the female pelvis from the left.
                Figure 2 is an enlarged view of the upper vagina and uterus.
                Figure 3 is a posterior view of the gynecologic organs.
                Figure 4 is an enlarged view of the upper vagina and uterus with the device of the
present invention positioned in the vaginal fornices.
                Figure 5 is a posterior view of the gynecologic organs with the device positioned
in the vaginal fomices.
                Figure 6 shows the device, a charger and a controller.
                Figure 7 shows removal of the device from the charger.
                Figure 8 is a top view of the device showing the electrodes.

                                                 16
                Figure 9 shows the orientation of the electrodes.
                Figure 10 shows a battery, control system and hub, which interconnects the
control system with the electrodes.
                Figure 11 is an exploded view of the hub, battery and control system.
                Figure 12 shows the hub connected to the battery and control system.
                Figure 13 shows a layer applied over the body to seal the battery and control
system within the body.
                Figure 14A is a cross-sectional view of the body.
                Figure 14B is another cross-sectional view of the body with an alternative
electrode.
                Figure 15A is a perspective view of one end of the body.
                Figure 15B is a perspective view of the same end of the body as Figure 15A with
the alternative electrode of Figure 14B.
                Figure 16 is a perspective view of the end of the body with the battery positioned
in the body.
                Figure 17 is a perspective view of the end of the body with the control system
positioned in the body.
                Figure 18 shows an end of the hub that abuts against the battery.
                Figure 19 shows another end of the hub that is coupled to the control system.
Figure 20 shows a top view of another device in accordance with the present invention.
                Figure 21 shows still another device in accordance with the present invention.
                Figure 22 shows another device for stimulating nerves.
                Figure 23 shows another device for stimulating nerves for use with the device of
Fig. 22.
                Figure 24shows another device for stimulating nerves.
                Figure 25 shows another device for stimulating nerves with the nerve stimulating
element mounted to a movable element on the body of the device.
                Figure 26 shows the movable elements of Fig. 25 moved together.
                Figure 27 shows a first cover and a second cover for covering parts of the devices
described herein.
                Figure 28 shows another device for stimulating nerves.

                                                  17
               Figure 29 shows a cross section of the device of Figure 28.
               Figure 30 shows an enlarged view of a recess of the device of Figure 28.
Figure 31 shows the recess filed with a porous material which holds an electrically
conductive substance.
               Figure 32 shows another device for stimulating nerves.
               Figure 33 shows still another device for stimulating nerves.
               Figure 34 shows the device of Figure 33 with the recess filled with an electrically
conductive, pliable material.
               Figure 35 shows the nerve stimulating element covered by an electrically
conductive material.
               Figure 36 shows another device for stimulating nerves having an insert with
conductive and non-conductive regions.
               Figure 37 is a plan view of another device.
               Figure 38 is a bottom view of the insert used with the device of Figure 37.
               Figure 39 is a top view of the insert of Figure 37.
               Figure 40 is a partial cross-sectional simplified view showing the nerve
stimulating element positioned in the recess.
               Figure 41 is a partial cross-sectional simplified view showing the nerve
stimulating element positioned in the recess with the conductive material positioned over the
nerve stimulating element.
               Figure 42 shows a dissolvable portion forming part of the body of the device of
Figure 37.
               Figure 43 is a plan view of the device with the dissolvable portion removed.
               Figure 44 shows a device having a toms-shaped exterior surface with a wall
positioned near the central opening.
               Figure 45 shows a device having a toms-shaped exterior surface with the nerve
stimulating element positioned in a recess.
               Figure 46 is a simplified cross-sectional view showing the nerve stimulating
element of Figure 44 contained in a recess.
               Figure 47 is a simplified cross-sectional view showing the nerve stimulating
element of Figure 45 contained in a recess.

                                                   18
                 Figure 48 is an alternative cross-sectional view for Figure 47.
                 Figure 49 shows still another device for stimulating nerves having a torus shaped
exterior surface with recesses forming a scalloped appearance.
                 Figure 50 shows a simplified cross-sectional view showing the nerve stimulating
element of Figure 44 contained in a recess.
                 Figure 51 shows an insert that may coupled to any of the devices described
herein.
                                    DETAILED DESCRIPTION
                 For the purpose of defining the invention, various terms are now defined for use
herein with reference to Figs 1-3. Firstly, the vagina V is a fibroelastic, muscular structure that
forms a canal (hereinafter "vaginal canal" VC) having a distensible, flexible lining. The surface
of this flexible lining has an internal or exposed surface ES. The vagina, and vaginal canal, as
defined herein has a proximal end terminating at the proximal aspect of the cervix and a distal
end at the introitus where it joins the vulva. If the cervix C has been removed or is congenitally
absent, the proximal end of the vagina (and vaginal canal) is simply defined by the uppermost
portion of the vagina, also known as the vaginal cuff.
                 As used herein, the shape of the vaginal canal VC defines a central axis CA. A
cervical axis CVA extends through and is aligned with the cervical canal CC. The cervical axis
CVA is also an axis of symmetry, as closely as can be approximated with the anatomy, for the
cervix extending through the cervical opening or cervical canal. A midpoint between the
proximal and distal ends of the vagina (or the vaginal canal) is determined herein using the
midpoint of the central axis. The central axis CA may, of course, have a relatively complex
shape so long as the central axis CA generally defines and follows the orientation and shape of
the vaginal canal VC. The proximal end of the vagina (and vaginal canal) is defined by the
uppermost portion of the vagina. For example., a proximal portion of the vagina or vaginal canal
extending 3 cm from the proximal end of the vagina includes the vagina extending 3 cm from the
uppermost (proximal) end.

                                                  19
                 The vaginal fornices VF, as used herein, refers to a space or recess between the
cervix and the adjacent vaginal wall. Specifically, the space is positioned between the exposed
surface ES of the vaginal canal VC and an exposed surface of the cervix C and further bounded
by a plane P extending perpendicular to the cervical axis CVA and passing through distal end of
the cervix C. The vaginal fornices VF may be thought of as a somewhat torus-shaped space but,
of course, varies from patient to patient.
                Referring now to Figs. 4-8, a device 2 in accordance with the present invention is
shown. The device 2 includes a body 4 having a plurality of nerve stimulating elements 6
positioned on an exterior surface 8 of the body 4 for contact with the exposed or internal surface
ES of the vaginal wall 12. The nerve stimulating elements 6 may stimulate nerves in a number of
different ways without departing from numerous aspects of the invention. For example, the nerve
stimulating element 6 may include one or more emitting elements 14 which emit electrical
energy, ultrasound energy, a drug, a magnetic field or other suitable stimulus to the target nerves.
                In a specific embodiment, the nerve stimulating elements 6 may be one or more
electrodes 16 that deliver electrical energy to stimulate adjacent nerves as described below. As
used herein, it is understood that use of "electrode" or "emitting element" herein shall be
interchangeable with the term nerve stimulating element, and vice versa, as applicable. Thus,
aspects of the invention described or claimed specifically in relation to the electrodes 16 or nerve
stimulating element 6 are equally applicable to the other and such substitution is expressly
incorporated here. Furthermore, the application of electrical stimulus is sufficient to change the
signals transmitted by the target nerves and plexuses described below. In this manner,
neuromodulation of the target nerves is achieved.
                 The electrodes 16 are coupled to a control system 18 which in turn is coupled to a
power source 19 such as a battery 20. The device 2 may include a battery charger 22 or may be
charged transcutaneously as is known in the art. Of course, an advantage of the present invention
is that the device 2 may easily be removed, charged and repositioned which cannot be
accomplished with conventional surgically placed devices. The device 2 may also include an
external controller 24 which may operate the device remotely when the device 2 is in place. The
battery charger 22 may also be a controller for programming the device 2 in accordance with
methods described herein. A few prior art devices which describe suitable control systems,
controllers and battery charging systems are described in US Patent Nos. 7729772, 7813809 and

                                                  20
8165692 which are hereby incorporated by reference. The controller 24 (and charger 22) may
control the duration, frequency, intensity and stimulation protocol as described herein and in the
patents incorporated above.
                 The body 4 of the device 2 forms a closed loop having a central opening 26 with
the cervix C positioned in the central opening 26. The body 4 may be substantially circular or
may have substantially straight sides 28 as shown in Fig. 21. Of course, the body 4 may take any
other shape such as oval, elliptical, square, or even hexagonal. Although the body 4 extends
completely around the cervix, the body 4 may extend only partially around the cervix. To this
end, the body 4 may extend around at least 180 degrees, or at least 270 degrees, around the
cervix relative to a cervical axis 30 (which is the same as the central axis CA of the device) and
may be, for example, C-shaped, V-shaped or U-shaped. As used herein, the central opening 26
does not need to be completely surrounded by the body 4 so long as the body 4 extends partially
around the cervix and opening 26 as described herein. Thus, a substantially C-shaped or U
shaped body still will include a central opening 26 with each central opening 26 defining a
central axis of the body 4 CAB. The nerve stimulating elements 6 (such as the electrodes 16) are
also spaced apart at least 120 degrees, or even 180 degrees, relative to the cervical axis CVA (or
the central axis of the body CAB described further below when the cervix is absent) so that the
various nerve plexuses may be stimulated as described herein. Of course, the nerve stimulating
element(s) 6 may be positioned only along a posterior or anterior half of the vaginal canal for
targeted use as described herein without departing from numerous aspects of invention.
                The device 2 of the present invention may be positioned partially or entirely
within the vaginal fomices VF. The nerve stimulating element 6 (and in some embodiments all
of the nerve stimulating elements 6) contacts the exposed surface of the vagina 10 proximal to
the distal end 46 of the cervix.
                 The body 4 has an elongate cavity 48 (see Figs. 14A and 14B) in which the
control system 18 and the battery 20 are positioned as shown in Fig. 8. The battery 20 and
control system 18 are directly coupled together. The electrodes 16 are coupled to the control
system 18 with a wire 52 (or other suitable conductive element) electrically coupled to each of
the electrodes 16. The wires 52 extend through a sidewall 54 of the body 4 and are directed
toward a hub 56 which electrically couples each of the wires 52 to the control system 18. The
hub 56 is positioned between a first connector 58 and a second connector 60. Half of the wires

                                                   21
52 are directed to each of the first and second connectors 58, 60 (eight wires 52 for each of the
connectors 58, 60 in the preferred embodiment of Fig. 8). The wires 52 terminate at wire
contacts 62 which are used to electrically couple the wires 52 to the hub 56 and, in turn, to the
control system 18 as now described. Referring to Fig. 14A and 15A, the electrode 16 may wrap
around from a radially outer surface 53 to a radially inner side 55. An alternative electrode 57 is
shown in Fig. 14 B and 15B in which the electrode 57 does not wrap around to a radially inner
side 59 thereby potentially minimizing stimulus transmitted through the cervix. All features,
devices, embodiments and methods described herein may use either the electrode 16 or electrode
57.
                Referring to Figs. 10-19, the hub 56 has a protrusion 64 on each end that fits
within the cavity 48 in the body 4. The protrusion 64 on the battery 20 side abuts directly against
the battery 20 (see Figs. 16 and 18) and the other protrusion 64 abuts against the control system
 18 (see Figs. 17 and 19). The protrusion 64 includes hub contacts 66 on a radially outer wall that
are aligned and electrically coupled to the wire contacts 62 at each of the first and second
connectors 58, 60. Wires (not shown) leading from the hub contacts 66 are directed through the
hub 56 to the control system 18. Each of the wires terminates at an electrical connector 70 (Fig.
 19) that engages electrical connectors 72 on the control system 18 (Fig. 17). The electrical
connectors 72 may be formed on a first extension 74 of the hub 56 that forms a snap fit
connection with a recess 76 in the control system 18. A second extension 77 on the other side of
the hub 56 may form a snap fit connection with the battery 20 (Fig. 18). Of course, the device 2
may prevent access to the battery 20 and control system 18 rather than providing the snap fit
connection. For example, the entire device 2 may be encased in a polymer 49 to remove spaces
and voids and to seal all connections to the hub 56 while leaving the electrodes 16 exposed as
shown in Fig. 13.
                Referring now to Fig. 9, the electrodes 16 may be paired together to stimulate a
specific nerve plexus, and even a specific side of the plexus, as now described. The device 2
includes a marker 81 to orient the device 2 along a midline 83 which generally corresponds with
a midline 83 of the user. Adjacent the marker 80 is a left posterior electrode pair LPEI, LPE2
and a right posterior electrode pair RPEI, RPE2. The left and right posterior electrode pairs are
positioned to lie adjacent to the left and right sides of the inferior hypogastric plexus. A left
posterior lateral electrode pair LPLEI, LPLE2 and a right posterior lateral electrode pair RPLEI,

                                                   22
RPLE2 are positioned to lie adjacent the left and right Frankenhauser's plexuses, respectively.
Finally, the vesical plexus may be targeted on the left side with a left anterior lateral electrode
pair LALEI, LALE2 and a left anterior electrode pair LAEI, LAE2 while the right side of the
vesical plexus may be stimulated with a right anterior lateral electrode pair RALEL RALE2 and
a right anterior electrode pair RAEI, RAE2. Thus, the present invention may be useful in
stimulating the same plexus from the right side and the left side simultaneously, independently
and/or at different times. Of course, the user may only actuate the left or right side rather than
alternating sides for stimulation if the therapy is tolerated better or more successful on one side
or the other. The control system 18 may change the laterality periodically such as every few
days.
                Although the above description presents distinct electrode 16 pairings, it is
understood that any of the electrodes 16 may be grouped together by the control system 18 for
generating nerve stimulus. For example, the two electrodes 16 on opposite sides of the marker 80
may be used to stimulate the inferior hypogastric plexus along the midline 82 rather than
preferentially on the left or right sides. In another example, the left hypogastric nerve (and the
junction of this nerve and the IHP) may be stimulated using the LPE2 and the LPLEI electrodes
while the fight hypogastric nerve (and the junction of this and the IHP) may be stimulated using
the RPE2 and the RPLEI electrodes. Although the independent stimulation of different regions
of the same plexus has been described with respect to left and right sides of the midline of a
particular target plexus, the stimulation may take place at any two different regions of the same
plexus rather than simply left and light sides as described in further detail below.
                Although only one electrode 16 is used on each side of the circuit described
above, two or more electrodes 16 may be used to create either side of the electrical circuit rather
than using only one for each side as described above. In another aspect of the present invention,
the device 2 may include at least twelve electrodes 16 and in the preferred embodiment sixteen
electrodes 16. The nerve stimulating element 6 may be formed by any two electrodes 16 (or
groups of electrodes 16) and, thus, the device 2 could easily have at least twenty nerve
stimulating elements formed by sixteen electrodes 16 by grouping electrodes together, and
"skipping" over one or two electrodes 16 (or more) to form the electrode pair rather than using
adjacent electrodes 16 to form the pair. An advantage of forming at least twenty different nerve
stimulating elements 6 the device 2 may provide greater flexibility of treatment, reduce

                                                   23
habituation and targeting different sides of the same plexus at different times as described herein.
Skipping electrodes 16 to form a particular nerve stimulating element 6 will increase a spacing
between the electrodes 16 (compared to adjacent pairs of electrodes 16) thereby providing the
ability to potentially alter the depth of penetration of the stimulus. The control system 18 is
configured to independently actuate each of the nerve stimulating elements 6. In this manner, the
device 2 of the present invention may operate in at least twenty different modes with each mode
being represented by a distinct nerve stimulating element 6 formed by a unique group of
electrodes 16 in any manner described herein. Thus, the present invention not only is able to
target numerous plexuses with a single device but each of these plexuses may be stimulated in a
variety of independent modes. For example, the IHP may be stimulated with the four posterior
electrodes 16 (LPEI, LPE2, RPEI, RPE2) in at least four modes (or stated another way by
forming at least four different nerve stimulating elements) to stimulate the IHP. In fact, the four
posterior electrodes 16 may form at least eight different modes (or stated another way by
forming at least eight different nerve stimulating elements 6) to stimulate the IP by simply
grouping electrodes 16 in the manner described herein (adjacent pairs, skipping one, skipping
two, grouping two or more electrodes on one side of the circuit or on both sides of the circuit). In
this manner, different regions or portions of the same plexus may be stimulated. Of course, the
regions stimulated will have overlapping portions but use of different electrode 16
configurations described herein will create different stimulus patterns and regions. Although the
device 2 of the present invention may form numerous independent nerve stimulating elements 6,
simultaneous actuation may produce fewer nerve stimulating elements 6 (such as eight when
using sixteen electrodes 16), nevertheless, the device 2 still may form far more nerve stimulating
elements 6 for independent actuation as described herein. The nerve stimulating elements 6 are
also preferably formed by more than mere modification of power, frequency or another
parameter for the same nerve stimulating element 6. As such, the nerve stimulating element 6
may each have a unique position in that the electrodes 6 are grouped, paired or otherwise
organized in a unique manner for each of the nerve stimulating elements 6 formed. As such, each
nerve stimulating element 6 formed has a unique position even if a grouping or pair share one or
more electrodes 6 so long as the groups or pairings are not identical. Each unique position
provides a different focus unlike a single nerve stimulating element that can only change power,

                                                   24
frequency or some other characteristic while leaving the stimulation pattern substantially the
same.
                 Although numerous nerve stimulating elements 6 may be formed with the
electrodes 16 forming numerous different nerve stimulating elements, in some aspects of the
invention the device 2 may have at least four, or at least eight, nerve stimulating elements 6 as
described above. Each of the nerve stimulating elements 6 may be actuated independently (or
simultaneously, of course) to stimulate different regions of tissue (although these regions may
overlap). ). In another aspect of the invention, the nerve stimulating elements 6 are advantageously
distributed around the body 4 to independently stimulate the various target plexuses. To this end,
the device 2 may include at least three nerve stimulating elements 6 which are angularly spaced at
least 70 degrees from adjacent nerve stimulating elements relative to the cervical axis CVA or
central axis of the body 4 CAB. If more regions are targeted, the device 2 may include at least four
nerve stimulating elements which are angularly spaced at least 50 degrees from adjacent nerve
stimulating elements relative to the cervical axis CVA or central axis of the body 4.
                 Although the nerve stimulating element 6 has been described with respect to
pairs of electrodes 16, the nerve stimulating element 6 may be formed by a single element or
even a single electrode 16 without departing from the scope of the invention. For example, a
single piezoelectric element may be used to deliver ultrasound energy or the device 2 may
include a single electrode 16 with the other electrode carried by another element (even an
implantable element) without departing from the scope of the invention.
                 As mentioned above, many conventional devices introduced into the vagina suffer
from the drawback that they often stimulate somatic nerves since these devices are typically
positioned in the distal (lower) half of the vagina. These devices also often intend to stimulate
pelvic muscles, which may lead to further disadvantages described herein. The present invention
avoids these drawbacks by positioning the device 2 in the proximal half of the vagina and, in
some embodiments, may have all of the nerve stimulating elements 6 (or electrodes 16) in the
proximal half of the vagina. To this end, the present invention provides nerve stimulating
elements 6 that are positioned close to the target plexuses; the vesical plexus, left and light
Frankenhausert s plexuses, the inferior hypogastric plexus and the intersection of junction
between the inferior hypogastric plexus and the left and right hypogastric nerves. These nerve
plexuses travel close to the proximal end of the vagina as shown in Figs. 1-3 and typically have

                                                  25
branches within 1-2 cm from the exposed surface ES of the vagina and, as such, the preferred
embodiments are described with the nerve stimulating element 6 being no more than 3 cm from
the target nerve plexus. Stated another way, the nerve stimulating element 6 may be positioned
no more than 3 cm from the uterosacral ligaments which are adjacent the target nerve plexuses.
Stated still another way, the nerve stimulating element 6 is positioned to stimulate the vesical
plexus, Frankenhauser's plexus, or inferior hypogastric plexus without intervening nerves, and in
particular without intervening somatic nerves. Stated yet another way, the nerve stimulating
element 6 may be positioned to contact the exposed surface 10 of the vagina closer to the vesical
plexus, left or right Frankenhauser's plexus, left and right hypogastric nerves or the inferior
hypogastric plexus, than to the pelvic floor. Stated still another way, the nerve stimulating
element 6 (and in some embodiments all of the nerve stimulating elements 6) is positioned to
contact the exposed surface ES of the vaginal canal within 3 cm from a proximal end of the
vagina or proximal to a distal end of the cervix C. The entire device 2 may be positioned
proximal to a midpoint between the proximal and distal ends of the vagina. Stated another way,
the entire device 2 may be positioned within 5 cm from the proximal end of the vagina. Stated
still another way, the nerve stimulating elements 6 are all positioned proximal to a midpoint
between the proximal and distal end of the vaginal canal.
                 The electrodes 16 are also oriented and organized so that they will form nerve
stimulating elements 6 that will generally direct stimulus proximally. To this end, the electrodes
 16, and the nerve stimulating elements 6, are organized so that a proximal surface 13 are at the
same longitudinal position relative to the central axis of the body CAB and the cervical axis CA.
Although the electrodes 16 and nerve stimulating elements are preferably oriented in this
manner, they may be longitudinally separated without departing from numerous aspects of the
present invention. For example, the electrodes 6 (and in one aspect all of the electrodes 16 or
nerve stimulating elements 6) may be longitudinally spaced so that the proximal sulface 13 of
the electrodes 6 (and the nerve stimulating element 6 formed by the electrodes 16) relative to the
central axis of the body CAB or the cervical axis CVA by no more than one cm.
                 Referring now to Fig. 20, another device 2A is shown including a body 4A
having one or more tabs 34 extending radially outward relative to a central opening 26A. The
tabs 34 may help secure the device 2A in place and maintain the intended orientation of the

                                                  26
device 2A once positioned. The electrodes 16 may be positioned on the tabs 34 so that the
electrodes 16 are on the radially outer surface of the body 4A.
                Referring to Fig. 21, still another device 2B is shown which has an extension 36
extending radially outward from the body 4. The extension 36 has a first curved tip 38 and a
second curved tip 40 which help anchor the device 2 in position and help maintain the intended
orientation. The body 2B may also be flared outwardly which also may help retention. The body
2 is flared outwardly to become larger as the body 2 extends distally in the vagina. It is
understood that all of the devices 2, 2A. 2B described herein shall incorporate all methods of
using the other devices 2, 2A, 2B and such use is expressly incorporated for each device
described herein. Furthermore, all devices 2. 2A, 2B shall share the same inventive features
described herein and such features are also expressly incorporated for all devices described
herein. For example, the position and use of the electrodes 16 of device 2 shall be applicable to
use of device 2A and device 2B.
                The device may also be used to stimulate the vesical plexus together with either
the Frankenhauser's plexus or with the inferior hypogastric plexus (or both). The vesical plexus
may be stimulated independently or simultaneously with one or both of the other two plexuses.
In another aspect, an anterior side may be stimulated simultaneously or independently with a
posterior side.
                As can be appreciated, the present invention provides the ability to target more
than one plexus and, alternatively, the same plexus from a different position. For example, a
plurality of nerve stimulating elements 6 are positioned to stimulate the same plexus for each of
the plexuses described herein. Switching to different stimulating elements 6 may reduce
habituation and/or provide other therapeutic benefits. Furthermore, the user may simply select,
based on efficacy determined by the user, which of the areas is most beneficial for the particular
treatment. Of course, a computer-controlled algorithm may also be used to target particular areas
due to set parameters or from feedback data. The control system 18 may control the device 2 to
stimulate a target plexus with a first nerve stimulating element 6 for a first period of time, then
stimulate the target plexus with a second nerve stimulating element 6 for a second period of time
and independent of the first nerve stimulating element 6. In this manner, habituation may be
addressed without changing the target plexus but changing the position of stimulation by
changing the nerve stimulating element. Of course, the target plexus(es) may also be changed

                                                   27
from any one (or more) of the target plexuses described herein to another target plexus(es) to
address habituation or as otherwise desired.
                In one aspect, a plurality of devices 2C, 2D, 2E, such as at least three, having
different patterns of stimulating elements 6 may be provided as shown in Figs. 22-24. Of course,
any other suitable division of plexuses among the plurality of devices 2C, 2D, 2E may be
provided. The user may switch between the devices 2C, 2D, 2E (or others with different patterns
of elements) as desired. All aspects and methods of using the devices 2, 2A, 2B are incorporated
here for use with the plurality of devices 2C, 2D, 2E as applicable.
                Referring to Figs. 25 and 26, the ability to select areas for stimulation may also be
provided using device 2F having first and second movable elements 50,61. The first and second
movable elements 50, 61 are coupled to a support body 4F which may extend in an arc of at least
270 degrees for positioning around the cervix. Each of the movable elements 50, 61 includes
elements 6F for stimulating nerves and all aspects described herein of the devices 2, 2A, 2B, and
2C-2E are incorporated here. The first and second movable elements 50, 61 permit the user to
move the elements 6F to desired positions for stimulating target plexuses. Fig. 25 shows the
movable elements 50, 61 positioned to stimulate nerves when positioned on opposing sides of the
cervix (any opposing regions). Fig. 26 shows the movable elements 50, 61 moved together to form
a section, which permits stimulating half of the regions discussed herein and such uses are
expressly incorporated here.
                Referring to Fig. 27, a first cover 73 and a second cover 75 are provided to
prevent or reduce stimulating some areas for use with any of the devices 2, 2A-2F described
herein. The first and second covers 73, 75 are movable along the body to cover elements 6 as
desired. The first and second covers may 73, 75 may also be spaced apart to form a window 79
for stimulating tissue within the window 79.
                In still another aspect of the present invention, the device 2 is now referred to
again with reference to Figs. 1-22. The device 2 itself may be used to orient the device 2 within
the patient using the nerve stimulating elements 6 themselves. For example, when one of the
nerve stimulating elements 6 emits energy, another of the nerve stimulating elements 6 may
measure energy received from the emitting element 6. The control system 18 monitors the
energy received at the other nerve stimulating element 6 and records data regarding the energy
received. The control system 18 may then recognize the orientation of the device 2 relative to the

                                                  28
cervix by recognizing a pattern in the energy received. In another aspect., the control system 18
may simply measure impedance between two or more nerve stimulating elements. The resulting
impedance data may also be subsequently used to orient the device 2 with the control system 18
recognizing a pattern of data to orient the device 2. Stated another way, the control system 18
may be used to orient the device with at least one of the nerve stimulating elements emitting
energy and at least one other of the nerve stimulating elements measuring the energy emitted.
The control system 18 may save a pattern of a parameter and compare the pattern to current data
to orient the device about the cervix. For example, RF energy or ultrasound energy may be
emitted by one or more elements 6 and received at others with the control system 18 monitoring
and storing the data. In another aspect, impedance between nerve stimulating elements 6 may be
used with the control system 18 monitoring and storing the impedance and matching a pattern of
saved impedance data to orient the device 2, 2A. The device 2 may then change the pattern of
stimulation using the nerve stimulating elements 6 in accordance with the orientation determined
by the control system 18. Of course, an angular shift of the device 2 around the cervix may
orient different elements 6 adjacent different targets but, of course, such a shift and change of
nerve stimulating elements 6 is clearly contemplated with the present invention and, as such, the
particular elements 6 used to stimulate the target area (plexus) may change.
                Referring to Figs. 28-5 1, various additional devices are shown. As with all other
embodiments in this application, all methods of use and physical characteristics mentioned
herein for one embodiment are equally applicable to all other embodiments. Thus, for the
embodiments of Figs. 28-51, all methods of stimulating any of the target nerves or plexuses, or
for any other therapeutic use mentioned herein, are incorporated here. For example, all devices
described herein may include a first nerve stimulating element stimulating nerves adjacent the
vagina, a second nerve stimulating element positioned to stimulate nerves on an opposing side of
the cervix from the first nerve stimulating element when viewed along a cervical axis
(independently or simultaneously and without moving the device). Similarly, all other applicable
methods may be used specifically with every other embodiment. Furthermore, all physical
characteristics, such as size, orientation, number and position of nerve stimulating elements, are
also all incorporated here and for all embodiments described herein. Finally, although not
specifically shown for each embodiment, each device includes the power supply, such as the

                                                  29
battery, and the control system described herein and the characteristics of each are applicable to
all embodiments.
                Referring now to Figs. 28-31, another device 2G for stimulating nerves is shown
wherein the same or similar reference numbers refer to the same or similar structure. As
mentioned above, all features of corresponding structures and methods shall be incorporated
here. For example, the nerve stimulating element 6G., although shaped uniquely compared to the
other nerve stimulating elements, nevertheless may incorporate any of the features of the nerve
stimulating elements described above such as the nerve stimulating element 6G may be an
electrode 16G. The nerve stimulating elements 6G are positioned on an exterior surface 8G of a
body 4G. The body 4G may form a closed ring 88 having a central opening 90 in which the
cervix is positioned. The term "closed ring" or "closed loop" as used herein shall mean any
closed shape regardless of shape and, as such, all of the closed shapes described herein shall
constitute closed rings or closed loops.
                 The exterior surface 8G of the body 4G forms a truncated pyramid having four
sides 92 and rounded edges. At least one nerve stimulating element (or at least two) is positioned
on each side 92. Alternatively, at least three of the four sides 92 may each have at least two
nerve stimulating elements 6G.
                 The body 4G includes a recess 80 in which the nerve stimulating element 6G is
positioned. The body 4G may include at least four recesses 80 and at least four nerve stimulating
elements 6G each positioned in one of the recesses 80. The body 4G may also include a
nonconductive wall 82 extending between the recesses 80. The wall 82 may be electrically
insulated (non-conductive) to isolate the nerve stimulating elements 6G from one another. The
wall 82 may also help to contain a conductive material within the recess 80 as explained further
below. The body 4G may also have another wall 84 that extends around the opening 90. The
wall 84 may also be a non-conductive material to help isolate the nerve stimulating elements 6G
from one another (particularly when electrodes 16 are used) and to contain a conductive
material. The wall 84 is positioned between the nerve stimulating elements 6G and a radially
inner edge 93 (smaller end) of a central opening 95 in the body 4G. Another wall 91 is
positioned at a radially outer edge 107 (larger end of the opening) of the central opening 90.
                 The body 4G may also include a reservoir 94 which contains a flowable substance
96 such as saline or a hydrogel. The reservoir 94 has a lumen 89 fluidly coupled to the recess 80

                                                 30
and a permeable and/or porous structure 98 (depending on application) such as an open cell foam
exposed and positioned in the recess 80. The structure 98 has pores 100 that hold the flowable
substance 96 which may be electrically conductive (such as saline or a hydrogel). The flowable
substance 96 may continue to weep from the structure 98, depending on the physical
characteristics of the structure 98, lumen 89 and flowable substance 96, to position the flowable
substance 96 in the recess 80 adjacent the nerve stimulating element 6G. The structure 98 may
automatically draw the flowable substance 96 from the reservoir 94 thereby automatically
replenishing the flowable substance 96 as necessary. Of course, the flowable substance 96 may
also be forced from the reservoir 94 without departing from the scope of the invention. The
flowable substance may be a conductive substance to enhance electrical contact between the
nerve stimulating element 6G and tissue. A fill hole 97 may be used to fill the reservoir 94 as
necessary. The reservoirs 94 may each deliver to a single recess 80 but may, of course, deliver to
multiple recesses 80 without departing from the scope of the invention. Referring to Fig. 31, the
flowable substance is shown filling the recess 80. The recess 80 may also be filled with a
permeable material 99 which holds the flowable substance 96 in pores 101 therein as describe in
connection with other embodiments described herein.
                Referring to Fig. 32, another device 2H for stimulating nerves is shown wherein
the same or similar reference numbers refer to the same or similar structure. The device 2H
includes a permeable and porous structure 98H surrounding the nerve stimulating element 6H. In
this manner, the flowable substance 96 is delivered directly to the area around the nerve
stimulating element 6H. The flowable substance 96 weeps from the permeable structure 98 and
is contained within the recess 80 with the walls bounding the recess 80 helping to contain the
substance 96. The walls also provide a non-conductive barrier to reduce the likelihood of a short
circuit between adjacent elements 6 (particularly when using electrodes).
                Referring to Figs. 33-35, another device 2J for stimulating nerves is shown wherein
the same or similar reference numbers refer to the same or similar structure. The device 2J has
nerve stimulating elements 6J on an exterior surface 8J of a body 4J. The body 4J may have the
shape of a truncated four-sided pyramid and may include the features associated with this shape
described above.
                The body 4J includes a wall 82J extending between recesses 80J. The wall 82J
may be electrically insulated (non-conductive) to isolate the nerve stimulating elements 6J from

                                                   31
one another. The wall 82J may also help to contain a conductive material 105 within the recess
80J as explained further below. The body 4J may also have another wall 84J that extends around
a smaller end 101 of central opening 90J. The wall 84J may also be a non-conductive material to
help isolate the nerve stimulating elements 6J from one another (particularly when electrodes 16
are used) and to contain a conductive material. A lip 103 forms another wall 107 that extends
around the larger end (radially outer side) of the central opening 90J thereby surrounding each
recess 80J with walls 82J, 84J and wall 107. A conductive material 105 is positioned in the
recess. The material 105 may be a soft, pliable, electrically conductive structure such as any of
those described herein including a porous material or substance (using saline or a gel such as a
hydrogel). In this manner, the conductive material 105 may conform somewhat to the shape of
the tissue to enhance contact with tissue and electrical conduction.
                Referring to Fig. 35, the nerve stimulating element 6J may be covered by a pliable,
electrically conductive material 109. The conductive material 109 may also be pliable so that the
conductive material 109 also conforms somewhat to the shape of the tissue. The conductive
material 109 may be a permeable open cell foam element I II with a conductive fluid, such as
saline, contained in the pores of the element 1 11.
                 Referring to Fig. 36, still another nerve stimulating device 2K is shown wherein
the same or similar reference numbers refer to the same or similar structure. Nerve stimulating
elements 6K are positioned on a body 4K having an exterior surface 8K having a shape similar
to a truncated four-sided pyramid and all characteristics of this shape described herein are
incorporated here. The device 2K includes an insert 120 which may be a separate device that is
attached to the body 4K by the user. Alternatively, the insert 120 may be integrated into the
device 2K without departing from the scope of the invention.
                The insert 120 has conductive elements 122 positioned over the nerve stimulating
element 6K which may be pliable to conform to tissue and thereby enhance electrical
conduction. The plurality of conductive elements 122 are coupled to and separated by
nonconductive elements 124 which may also be pliable. The electrically conductive element 122
may be a gel, such as a hydrogel, or a porous material 126 having a flowable material, such as
saline, contained in the pores of the porous material 126. To this end, the term electrically
conductive shall include porous materials that are not electrically conductive but can conduct
electricity when the pores are filled with an electrically conductive material. The non-conductive

                                                    32
element 124 may also be a thin layer of material such as a closed cell structure made of a
nonconductive material. Alternatively, the non-conductive element 125 may simply be a pliable
layer 127 of non-conductive material such as silicone. The pliable nature of the layer 127 may
help to conform to tissue to create a barrier to electrical conduction between adjacent nerve
stimulating elements 6k. The insert may include a body 129 that may simply be an elastic band
 131 at a radially outer (larger end) of a central opening 133. The band 131 may be coupled to
one or both of the non-conductive elements 125 and/or conductive elements 122.
                 Referring to Figs. 37-43, another device 21 is shown for use with an insert 130
wherein the same or similar reference numbers refer to the same or similar structure. The device
21 is substantially the same as the device 2K and all aspects of device 2K are incorporated here.
The insert 130 has conductive elements 132 mounted to a body 133, which may form a closed
loop 145, at spaced apart locations. The conductive elements 132 may be any of those described
herein including the pliable structures described above. The body 132 includes non-conductive
elements 135, such as a thin layer, positioned between the conductive elements so that the
conductive elements 132 are coupled to and separated by non-conductive elements 135. The body
 132 may include a dissolvable portion 142 that dissolves within the body under normal conditions
(vagina in this application). Referring to Figs. 41 and 43. the dissolvable portion 142 may include
the non-conductive elements 135 thereby leaving only the electrically conductive elements 132
                 Referring to Figs. 44-51, a device 2L, a device 2M and a device 2N are shown
having bodies 4L, 4M, 4N with an exterior surface 8L, 8M, 8N that each form a torus. As used
herein "torus" shall apply to shapes that are torus-like or generally torus-shaped. The devices 2L,
2M and 2N also form a closed ling 150 like other embodiments described above. The nerve
stimulating elements 6 are positioned in recesses 80L, 80M, 80N as shown in the cross-sectional
view of Figs. 46, 47, 48 and 50. The body 2L of the device 2L has a central opening 154. The
body 4L has a non-conductive wall 156 which may be a closed loop 158 adjacent the opening
 154 and positioned between the nerve stimulating element 6 and a radially inner side 170 of the
torus. The recesses 80L, 80M, 80N and nerve stimulating elements 6 are positioned
predominantly on a radially outer side 164 of the torus. The device 2N includes recesses 80N
which form a scalloped shaped wall 165 extending around the central opening 174 and
positioned between the nerve stimulating element 6N and the radially inner side 170 of the torus.

                                                  33
As shown in the various cross-sectional views, the exterior surface 8L. 8M, 8N at the radially
inner side 170 of the torus may be somewhat flattened.
                Referring to Fig. 51, another insert 190 is shown which may be applied to any of
the devices 2L, 2M, and 2N. The insert 190 may be integrated with the devices 2L, 2M, 2N or
may be a separate, disposable device that is applied by the user. The insert 190 has conductive
elements 192 separated by non-conductive elements 194 similar to the other inserts described
above and all discussion above is equally applicable and incorporated here concerning the
conductive element 192 and non-conductive element 194. The non-conductive element 192 may,
for example, be a layer 193 of non-conductive material such as silicone. The insert 190 may
include a body 204 which may simply be an elastic band 199 extending around one end to secure
the insert 190 onto the devices 2L, 2M, 2N. The body 190 may form a closed loop 195 (as
broadly described herein) with the elastic band 199 circumscribing the closed loop 195 around
the central opening 209. The non-conductive element 194 may also form a raised wall 209
relative to the conductive element 192. The raised wall 209 may also be a thin layer of silicone.
The insert 190 may include openings 197 through which the nerve stimulating element 6 is
exposed. The openings 197 are positioned to expose the nerve stimulating elements 6 with at
least one nerve stimulating element 6 in each opening 197. The term "insert" as used herein is
used to describe a disposable device used with a reusable part although the insert may, in fact,
not be "inserted" into any part of the device and, as shown, may in fact simply surround the other
reusable device. Of course, at times the insert is introduced into another object (such as a recess)
yet such interaction is not required. The term "system" as used herein may refer to an integrated,
single piece device and does not imply or require multiple parts (other than those integrated into
a system). Of course, the system may still be provided in separate parts, such as separate
controller, control system or battery external to the vagina, without departing from the invention
as well since a system may still include separate components coupled together wireless or with
wires.
                The present invention may be used to treat a number of different conditions such
as urge, frequency, nocturia, urge incontinence, stress incontinence, loss of urine without sensory
awareness, bladder pain, urethral pain, urethral syndrome, urinary hesitancy, pelvic floor
dyssynergia, interstitial cystitis, dysuria, overactive bladder, urinary retention, hesitancy,
protracted urinary stream, dysmenorrhea, pelvic pain, pelvic venous congestion syndrome,

                                               34
endometriosis, irritable bowel syndrome, constipation, fecal urgency, fecal incontinence, rectal
pain, pain with defecation, and anal pain. Of course, other uses of the present invention may
become apparent without departing from the scope of the invention.
               The present invention has been described in connection with preferred
embodiments but it is understood that numerous modifications could be made to the preferred
embodiments without departing from the scope of the invention. For example, the body could be
V-shaped or the nerve stimulating element could be a coil through which a current is passed to
induce and emit a magnetic field without departing from numerous aspects of the present
invention.

                                                 35
CLAIMS
 1.      A system which in use stimulates nerves adjacent a vaginal canal, the system
         comprising:
     a) body sized and shaped for positioning in the vaginal fornices, the vaginal fornices
being a space between the cervix and the vagina bounded by a plane extending through a
distal end of the cervix and perpendicular to a cervical axis; and in use wherein the body
extends at least 270 degrees around the cervix;
     a first nerve stimulating element coupled to the body and located on the exterior surface
of the body which in use contacts an exposed surface of a vaginal canal;
     a power source coupled to the body; and
     a control system coupled to the power source and the nerve stimulating element.
2.       The system of claim 1, wherein:
     a)   in use the nerve stimulating element stimulates a first target nerve plexus selected
from the group of nerve plexuses consisting of the vesical plexus, the inferior hypogastric
plexus and the Frankenhauser's plexuses when the body is positioned in the vagina; or
     b) further comprising a second nerve stimulating element coupled to the body, in use
the second nerve stimulating element stimulates a second target plexus selected from the
group of nerve plexuses consisting of the vesical plexus, the inferior hypogastric plexus and
the Frankenhauser's plexuses, the second target plexus being different from the first target
nerve plexus and optionally wherein the control system is configured to actuate the first
nerve stimulating element at a different time from the second nerve stimulating element; or
     c)   the first nerve stimulating element is coupled to the body so that in use the first nerve
stimulating element is positioned no more than 3 cm from the first target plexus; or
     e) further comprising a second nerve stimulating element, wherein the second nerve
stimulating element is coupled to the body so that in use the first stimulating element
stimulates a first portion of the target plexus; and the second nerve stimulating element
stimulates a second portion of the target plexus which is different from the first portion; or
     f) further comprising a second nerve stimulating element, wherein the first nerve
stimulating element is positioned on a first side of the body and the second nerve stimulating
element is positioned on a second side of the body; or

                                                36
     g) further comprising a second nerve stimulating element, wherein the control system is
configured to actuate the first nerve stimulating element at a different time from the actuation
of the second nerve stimulating element; or
     h) the first nerve stimulating element is located on the body so that in use no intervening
somatic nerves are positioned between the first nerve stimulating element and a first target
plexus when the body is positioned in the vagina; or
     i) wherein in use the first nerve stimulating element is positioned closer to a first target
nerve plexus than to the pelvic floor when the body is positioned in the vagina; or
     j)  further comprising at least four nerve stimulating elements coupled to the body, the at
least four nerve stimulating elements being configured to in use stimulate the same target
plexus, wherein each of the at least four nerve stimulating elements stimulates a different
region of the same target plexus and wherein the control system is configured to
independently actuate each of the at least four stimulating elements, and optionally wherein
the at least four nerve stimulating elements each having a unique position relative to one
another; or
     k) further comprising at least four nerve stimulating elements wherein in use at least one
nerve stimulating element stimulates each of the vesical plexus, the inferior hypogastric
plexus and the left and right Frankenhauser's plexuses; or
     1) the first nerve stimulating element includes a plurality of electrodes, the plurality of
electrodes being configured so as in use to contact an exposed surface of the vaginal canal for
electrically stimulating nerves adjacent the vaginal canal; or
     m) the first nerve stimulating element is located on the body so that in use the nerve
stimulating element is no more than 3 cm from the inferior hypogastric plexus when the body
is positioned in the vagina; or
     n) the first nerve stimulating element is positioned on the body so that in use the nerve
stimulating element is no more than 3 cm from the uterosacral ligaments when the body is
positioned in the vagina; or
     o) the first nerve stimulating element is positioned on the body so that in use the first
nerve stimulating element is no more than 3 cm from an intersection of the left hypogastric
nerve and the inferior hypogastric plexus when the body is positioned in the vagina; or

                                                 37
     p) the first nerve stimulating element is positioned on the body so that in use the first
nerve stimulating element is no more than 3 cm from the vesical plexus when the body is
positioned in the vagina; or
     q) the first nerve stimulating element is positioned on the body so that in use the first
nerve stimulating element is no more than 3 cm from the Frankenhauser's plexus when the
body is positioned in the vagina; or
     r) the first nerve stimulating element is positioned on the body so that in use the first
nerve stimulating element is no more than 3 cm from an intersection of the right hypogastric
nerve and the inferior hypogastric plexus when the body is positioned in the vagina; or
     s) further comprising at least two nerve stimulating elements, wherein in use at least one
nerve stimulating element is positioned within 3 cm of the inferior hypogastric plexus and at
least one nerve stimulating element is positioned within 3 cm from the vesical plexus when
the body is positioned in the vagina; or
     t) further comprising at least two nerve stimulating elements coupled to the body,
wherein in use at least one nerve stimulating element is positioned within 3 cm of the inferior
hypogastric plexus and at least one nerve stimulating element is positioned within 3 cm from
the Frankenhauser's plexuses when the body is positioned in the vagina; or
     u) further comprising      at least three nerve stimulating elements, wherein in use at least
one nerve stimulating element is positioned within 3 cm of the inferior hypogastric plexus, at
least one nerve stimulating element is positioned within 3 cm from the vesical plexus, and at
least one nerve stimulating element is positioned no more than 3 cm from the
Frankenhauser's plexus when the body is positioned in the vagina, and optionally wherein the
control system is configured to actuate the at least three nerve stimulating elements each at
different times; or
     v) further comprising at least two nerve stimulating elements, wherein at least one nerve
stimulating element is positioned on a first side of the body and at least one nerve stimulating
element is positioned on a second side of the body, and optionally either:
               i) wherein the at least one nerve stimulating element on the first side and the at
     least one nerve stimulating element on the second side in use both stimulate the same
     nerve plexus; or

                                                38
               ii) wherein the control system is configured to actuate the at least one nerve
     stimulating element on the first side independently of the at least one nerve stimulating
     element on the second side of the body; or
               iii)     wherein the at least two nerve stimulating elements in use are both
       positioned within 3 cm of the Frankenhauser's plexus and wherein at least one nerve
       stimulating element is positioned on the first side of the midline and at least one nerve
       stimulating element is positioned on the second side of the midline when the body is
       positioned in the vagina; or
               iv)      wherein the at least two nerve stimulating elements are both
       positioned within 3 cm of the inferior hypogastric plexus and wherein at least one
       nerve stimulating element is positioned on the first side of the midline and at least one
       nerve stimulating element is positioned on the second side of the midline when the
       body is positioned in the vagina; or
     w) the first nerve stimulating element in use is positioned adjacent an exposed surface of
the vaginal canal to stimulate the vesical plexus without stimulating intervening nerves
positioned between the vesical plexus and the first nerve stimulating element when the body
is positioned in the vagina; or
     x) the first nerve stimulating element in use is positioned adjacent the exposed surface of
the vaginal canal to stimulate the vesical plexus without stimulating intervening somatic
nerves positioned between the vesical plexus and the first nerve stimulating element; or
     y) the first nerve stimulating element in use is positioned to contact the exposed surface
of the vagina closer to the vesical plexus than to the pelvic floor when the body is positioned
in the vagina; or
     z) the first nerve stimulating element in use is positioned adjacent the exposed surface of
the vaginal canal to stimulate the inferior hypogastric plexus without stimulating intervening
somatic nerves positioned between the inferior hypogastric plexus and the first nerve
stimulating element; or aa) the first nerve stimulating element in use is positioned to contact
the exposed surface
of the vagina closer to the inferior hypogastric plexus than to the pelvic floor; or ab)
     further comprising at least four nerve stimulating elements, wherein each of the
nerve stimulating elements are configured to be actuated independently in use to stimulate at
least four different regions.

                                                 39
3.      The system of claim 1, further comprising:
     a) at least twelve electrodes wherein at least eight nerve stimulating elements may be
formed by the at least twelve electrodes, and optionally wherein the control system is
configured to independently actuate each of the at least eight nerve stimulating elements; or
     b) a controller separate from the body, wherein the controller is configured to
communicate with the control system, and optionally wherein the controller controls the one
or more of the duration of stimulation and the intensity of stimulation; or
     c)  a plurality of nerve stimulating elements, wherein in use the nerve stimulating
elements are positioned in the vaginal fornices; or
     d) the body is sized and shaped to in use be positioned entirely within the vaginal
fornices; or
     e)  the body has a central opening in use the cervix is positioned in the central opening,
the body extending round at least 180 degrees of the cervix relative to a cervical axis when
the body is positioned in the vagina; or
     f)  the body has a central opening and a plurality of tabs extending radially outward
relative to the central opening, and optionally either:
          i) wherein at least one nerve stimulating element is positioned on each of the tabs; or
          ii) wherein the body has at least four tabs extending radially outward relative to the
     central opening; or
     g) the body has a central opening in use the cervix is positioned in the central opening,
the body extending round at least 360 degrees of the cervix relative to a cervical axis when
the body is positioned in the vagina; or
     h) the body has a central opening in use the cervix is positioned in the central opening
the body has an anchor having a first curved tip and a second curved tip, the first and second
curved tips being directed outward relative to a central opening to anchor the device in the
vagina; or
     i)  a plurality of nerve stimulating elements, the plurality of nerve stimulating elements
being spaced apart at least 120 degrees relative to the axis of the body,, and optionally
wherein either:
          i)     the plurality of nerve stimulating elements are positioned along a posterior
     half of the bodyl; or

                                                  40
             ii) the plurality of nerve stimulating elements are positioned along an nterior
           half of the body; or
             ii)  the plurality of nerve stimulating elements are in use positioned within 3 cm
           from a proximal end of the vagina; or
           iv)    the plurality of nerve stimulating elements are spaced apart at least 120
      degrees relative to the axis of the body; or
     j)   the first nerve stimulating element in use is in contact with the surface of the vaginal
canal proximal to the distal end of the cervix; or
      k) further comprising a plurality of nerve stimulating elements coupled to the body,
wherein in use all of the nerve stimulating elements are positioned proximal to the distal end
of the cervix; or
      1) further comprising a plurality of nerve stimulating elements, wherein in use all of the
nerve stimulating elements are positioned proximal to a midpoint of the vaginal canal; or
      m) the body is sized and configured to in use be positioned entirely proximal to a
midpoint so that nothing extends into a distal half of the vaginal canal; or
      n) the body has an outer wall, the outer wall increasing in size in a distal direction
relative to the vaginal canal, the outer wall being in contact with an interior surface of the
vagina; or
      o) further comprising a second nerve stimulating element, wherein the first and second
nerve stimulating elements having a proximal surface, wherein the proximal surface of the
first and second nerve stimulating elements are longitudinally spaced relative to a cervical
axis by no more than 1 cm; or
     p') further comprising at least eight nerve stimulating elements, wherein each nerve
stimulating element has a proximal surface, wherein the proximal surface of all eight nerve
stimulating elements are longitudinally spaced relative to a central axis of the body by no
more than 1 cm; or
      q) further comprising at least three nerve stimulating elements, wherein the elements are
    angularly spaced at least 70 degrees from adjacent nerve stimulating elements relative to a
    axis of the body; or
      r)  further comprising at least four nerve stimulating elements, wherein the elements are
angularly spaced at least 50 degrees from adjacent nerve stimulating elements relative to the
axis of the body; or

                                                 41
     s) further comprising at least twenty nerve stimulating elements and the control system
configured to independently actuate each of the at least twenty nerve stimulating elements; or
     t)   the control system is configured to actuate the first nerve stimulating element for use
in the treatment of urge, frequency, nocturia, urge incontinence, stress incontinence, loss of
urine without sensory awareness, bladder pain, urethral pain, urethral syndrome, urinary
hesitancy, pelvic floor dyssynergia, interstitial cystitis, dysuria, overactive bladder, urinary
retention, hesitancy, protracted urinary stream, dysmenorrhea, pelvic pain, pelvic venous
congestion syndrome, endometriosis, irritable bowel syndrome, constipation, fecal urgency,
fecal incontinence, rectal pain, pain with defecation, and anal pain; or
     u) a plurality of nerve stimulating elements are coupled to the body and positioned to
stimulate the vesical plexus and the Frankenhauser's plexus, and optionally wherein: at
least one of the plurality of nerve stimulating elements is positioned to stimulate the vesical
plexus and at least one of the plurality of nerve stimulating elements is positioned to
stimulate the Frankenhauser's plexus.
4.       The system of claim 1, wherein:
         a plurality of nerve stimulating elements are coupled to the body, and at least one of
the plurality of nerve stimulating elements is positioned to in use stimulate the vesical plexus
and at least one of the plurality of nerve stimulating elements is positioned to in use stimulate
the inferior hypogastric plexus.
5.       The system of claim 4, wherein:
     a) the plurality of nerve stimulating elements are configured and located on the body to
in use stimulate the vesical plexus and the inferior hypogastric plexus simultaneously; or
     b) the plurality of nerve stimulating elements are configured and located on the body to
in use stimulate the vesical plexus and the inferior hypogastric plexus independently; or
     c)   the plurality of nerve stimulating elements are located and configured on the body to
in use stimulate the anterior and posterior sides simultaneously; or
     d) the plurality of nerve stimulating elements are located and configured on the body to
in use stimulate the anterior and posterior sides independently.
6.       The system of claim 1, wherein:

                                                42
     a) a plurality of nerve stimulating elements are coupled to the body, at least one of the
nerve stimulating elements positioned to stimulate an anterior side and at least one of the
plurality of nerve stimulating elements positioned to stimulate a posterior side; or
     b) a second body having a second nerve stimulating element and forming a nerve
stimulating element pattern, the second body being separate from the body the body having a
pattern of nerve stimulating elements wherein the pattern of nerve stimulating elements on
the body and the second body are different from one another, and optionally further
comprising a third body having at least one nerve stimulating element forming a pattern of
nerve stimulating elements different from the body and the second body; or
     c)   a first movable element having the first nerve stimulating element mounted thereto,
the first movable element being movable on the body, and optionally further comprising a
second movable element having a second nerve stimulating element, the second movable
element being movably mounted to the body, the body having a curved shape that extends in
an arc of at least 270 degrees; or
     d) a first cover coupled to the body and movable along the body, the body having a
plurality of nerve stimulating elements coupled thereto the cover being movable to cover at
least one of the nerve stimulating elements, and optionally further comprising a second cover
movable along the body to cover at least one of the nerve stimulating elements, the first and
second covers being movable relative to one another to form a window there between; or
     e)   the control system includes means for orienting the device about the cervix using the
nerve stimulating elements, and optionally either:
            i)   wherein the orienting means includes at least one of the nerve stimulating
     elements emitting energy and at least one other of the nerve stimulating elements
     measuring the energy emitted; or
           ii)    wherein the orienting means is coupled to the control system, the control
     system recognizing a pattern in a parameter using the nerve stimulating elements, the
     pattern being used to orient the device about the cervix; and further optionally
     wherein the orienting means recognizes a pattern of impedance; or
           iii)   wherein the orienting means is carried out with the device having a
     control system, the control system saving a pattern in a parameter, the control system
     comparing the pattern in the parameter to current data to orient the device about the
     cervix; or

                                                   43
     f)    a second nerve stimulating element coupled to the body and the control system is
configured to stimulate a target plexus with the first nerve stimulating element for a first
period of time and stimulate the target plexus with the second nerve stimulating element for a
second period of time independent of stimulation using the first nerve stimulating element; or
     g) a second nerve stimulating element coupled to the body the first nerve stimulating
element stimulating nerves adjacent the vagina, and the second nerve stimulating element is
positioned to stimulate nerves on an opposing side of the cervix from the first nerve
stimulating element when viewed along a cervical axis; and optionally wherein either:
              i)   the first nerve stimulating element stimulating nerves at the first location
     at a time independent of the second nerve stimulating element stimulating the nerves
     on the opposing side without moving the device; or
              ii) the body defining a longitudinal axis, the body extending at least 270
     degrees when viewed along a cervical axis, the first nerve stimulating element being
     positioned opposite the second nerve stimulating element relative to the cervical
     axis; or
     h)      a second nerve stimulating element coupled to the body the first nerve stimulating
element is positioned to stimulate nerves adjacent the vagina, and the second nerve
stimulating element is positioned to stimulate nerves on an opposing side of the cervix from
the first nerve stimulating element when viewed along a cervical axis and when the body is
positioned in the vagina and optionally either:
         i) the first nerve stimulating element stimulates the nerves adjacent the vagina
     simultaneously with the second nerve stimulating element; or
        ii) the first nerve stimulating element stimulates the nerves adjacent the vagina
     independent of the second nerve stimulating element; or
        iii) the body defines a central axis, the body extending around the central axis at
     least 270 degrees when viewed along the central axis the first nerve stimulating element
     is positioned opposite the second nerve stimulating element relative to the central axis.
7.        The system of claim 1, wherein the body includes a recess the first nerve stimulating
          element being positioned in the recess in the body.

                                                 44
8.      The system of claim 7, wherein:
     a) the body includes at least four recesses and at least four nerve stimulating elements
each positioned in one of the recesses; or
     b) further comprising a plurality of nerve stimulating elements and the body having a
non-conductive wall extending outwardly relative to the recess, the non-conductive wall
positioned between adjacent nerve stimulating elements, and optionally wherein the
nonconductive wall is pliable; or
     c)  the body includes a reservoir, the reservoir being fluidly coupled to the recess, and
optionally wherein the body includes a permeable structure positioned in the recess and
wherein the fluid is automatically drawn into the recess from the reservoir by the permeable
structure; or
     d) the body includes a conductive element in the recess, and optionally wherein the
conductive element in the recess is a porous material having a conductive flowable material
contained in pores, and further optionally wherein either:
          a)     the flowable material is saline; or
          B)     the flowable material is a hydrogel.
9.      The system of claim 1, wherein:
     a) the body forms a closed ring, the closed ring forming an opening, the body also
having non-conductive wall adjacent the opening and positioned between the first nerve
stimulating element and a radially inner side of closed ring; or
     b) the exterior surface of the body forms a torus and optionally:
        i)       further comprising a plurality of nerve stimulating elements the torus
     includes a plurality of recesses each containing at least one of the nerve stimulating
     elements, and further optionally wherein the plurality of recesses are predominantly
     positioned on a radially outer side of the torus; or
        ii)      further comprising a plurality of nerve stimulating elements predominantly
     positioned on a radially outer side of the torus; or
     c)  the exterior surface of the body forms a truncated four-sided pyramid having
         rounded edges and optionally either:
          i)     further comprising at least two nerve stimulating elements on each of at least
           three of the four sides; or

                                                       45
           ii)      further comprising       at least one nerve stimulating element on each of the
     four sides of the truncated four-sided pyramid; or
           iii)     further comprising       at least two nerve stimulating elements on each of the
     four sides of the truncated four-sided pyramid; or
     d) a pliable, electrically conducting element positioned over the nerve stimulating
element.
10.      The system of claim 1, further comprising: a plurality of nerve stimulating elements;
         and a plurality of non-conductive elements, at least one non-conductive element
         positioned between adjacent nerve stimulating elements, and optionally either:
     a) further comprising a plurality of electrically conductive elements with at least one
electrically conductive element positioned over each nerve stimulating element, and further
optionally wherein:
           i) the electrically conductive element is pliable; or
           ii) the plurality of electrically conductive elements include a gel; or
           iii) the plurality of electrically conductive elements include a hydrogel; or
           iv)      the plurality of electrically conductive elements includes a porous
      substance having a flowable material contained in pores of the porous material, and
      further optionally wherein:
               a) the flowable material is an electrically conductive material; or
               fi) the flowable material is saline; or
           v) the plurality of electrically conductive elements includes a porous material; or
     b) the plurality of non-conductive elements are each a raised wall relative to the
          plurality
of nerve stimulating elements and optionally wherein the raised wall is made of silicone.
11.      The system of claim 1, further comprising:
      a) at least two nerve stimulating elements, wherein at least one nerve stimulating
element is positioned on a left side of a midline and within 3 cm of a j unction between the
left hypogastric nerve and the inferior hypogastric plexus and at least one nerve stimulating
element is positioned on a right side of the midline within 3 cm of a junction between the
right hypogastric nerve and the inferior hypogastric plexus; or

                                               46
     b) at least two nerve stimulating elements within 3 cm of the vesical plexus, wherein at
least one nerve stimulating element is positioned on a left side of a midline and at least one
nerve stimulating element is positioned on a right side of the midline; or
     c) the first nerve stimulating element is positioned adjacent the exposed surface of the
vaginal canal to stimulate the inferior hypogastric plexus without stimulating intervening
nerves positioned between the inferior hypogastric plexus and the first nerve stimulating
element; or
     d) the nerve stimulating element being positioned to stimulate an autonomic plexus
without stimulating intervening somatic nerves; or
     e) the entire device is positioned no more than 5 cm from a proximal end of the vaginal
canal; or
     f)  the entire device is positioned proximal to a midpoint between the proximal and
         distal ends of the vaginal canal.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
