   Abstract
   There is disclosed a method of gaming.  The method
   comprises selecting a plurality of symbols for display on a
 5 display at a plurality of display positions, modifying the
   displayed symbols by applying a symbol characteristic to
   at least one of the symbols displayed within a designated
   area on the display, the designated area encompassing a
   subset of the plurality of display positions, and
10 determining whether or not to make an award based on the
   plurality of symbols as modified.
   Figure 7
                                            10350117_1 (GHMatters) P83004.AU.4 8/06/18

                                     6/7
                         Select a position on a
  New game            display of a player interface
     700                 for a designated area
         &                         710
 Display symbols at display            Select symbols for display
   positions on the display              positions on the display                   +
              730                                     720
            Is the
    modification condition          No
      met based on the
     displayed symbols?
                      740                             Make an
                 Yes                            award based on                                  No
                                            the displayed symbols
                                             without modification?
    Modify the displayed                                750
   symbols by applying a
 symbol characteristic to the                                Yes
symbols displayed within the
       designated area                    Make award based on the
             7gg                          displayed symbols without
                                                   modification
           Make an
       award based on               No               End game
   the displayed symbols                        1795
         as modified?
                                                         70
                 Yes                      Make award based on the
                                          displayed symbols
                                                   as modified
                                Figure 7
                                                         7876381_1 (GHMatters) P83004.AU.3 17/06/16

    Title
        A METHOD OF GAMING, A GAMING SYSTEM, AND A GAME CONTROLLER
  5 Related Application
    This application is a divisional application of Australian
    application no. <removed-apn>, which in turn is a divisional
    application of Australian application no. 2014202411, which in
10  turn is a divisional application of Australian application no.
    2011203186.    The disclosure of each of Australian application
    no. <removed-apn>, Australian application no. 2014202411 and
    Australian application no. 2011203186 is incorporated herein
    by reference.
15
    Field
    The present invention relates to a method of gaming, a gaming
    system, and a game controller.
20
    Background
    Spinning-reel type games are available in many gaming venues.
    At these venues, the game is usually provided by stand alone
25  gaming machines, each having a plurality of reels. To initiate
    play of a game, a player places a wager and causes all the
    reels to spin. When the spinning reels stop, they reveal a
    symbol at each of a plurality of display positions. Depending
    on whether the displayed symbol forms a winning symbol
30  combination, an award may be provided to the player.
    While such gaming systems provide players with enjoyment, a
    need exists for alternative gaming systems in order to
    maintain or increase player enjoyment.
35
    Summary of the invention
    In a first aspect, the invention provides an electronic method
    of gaming comprising:
40        selecting a plurality of symbols for display on a display

                                - 2
   at a plurality of display positions;
        modifying the displayed symbols by applying a symbol
   characteristic to at least one of the symbols displayed within
   a designated area on the display, the designated area
 5 encompassing a subset of the plurality of display positions;
   and
        determining whether to make an award based on the
   plurality of symbols as modified.
10 In an embodiment, the method further comprises determining
   whether a modification condition is met and modifying the
   displayed symbols upon the modification condition being met.
   In an embodiment, the modification condition is that a
15 designated symbol is selected for display at one of the
   display positions of the designated area.
   In an embodiment, the designated symbol is a WILD symbol.
20 In an embodiment, the symbol characteristic is at least one
   function.
   In an embodiment, the at least one function comprises a
   substitute function.
25
   In an embodiment, the at least one function comprises a
   multiplier function.
   In an embodiment, the symbol characteristic is the appearance
30 of a WILD symbol.
   In an embodiment, the symbol characteristic is applied to all
   of the symbols selected for display in the designated area.
35 In an embodiment, the designated area comprises a cluster of
   adjacent display positions.
   In an embodiment, the method further comprises selecting a
   position for the designated area.
40

                                - 3
   In an embodiment, the method further comprises determining
   whether to make an award based on the plurality of selected
   symbols prior to modifying the displayed symbols.
 5 In a second aspect, the invention provides a gaming system
   comprising:
        a display;
        a symbol selector arranged to select a plurality of
   symbols for display on the display at a plurality of display
10 positions;
        a symbol modifier arranged to modify the displayed symbols
   by applying a symbol characteristic to at least one of the
   symbols displayed within a designated area on the display, the
   designated area encompassing a subset of the plurality of
15 display positions; and
        an award determiner arranged to determine whether to make
   an award based on the plurality of symbols as modified.
   In an embodiment, the symbol modifier comprises a modification
20 condition determiner arranged to determine whether a
   modification condition is met and the symbol modifier is
   arranged to modify the displayed symbols upon the modification
   condition being met.
25 In an embodiment, the modification condition is that a
   designated symbol is selected for display at one of the
   display positions of the designated area.
   In an embodiment, the designated symbol is a WILD symbol.
30
   In an embodiment, the symbol characteristic is at least one
   function.
   In an embodiment, the at least one function comprises a
35 substitute function.
   In an embodiment, the at least one function comprises a
   multiplier function.
40 In an embodiment, the symbol characteristic is the appearance

                                 -4
   of a WILD symbol.
   In an embodiment, the symbol modifier is arranged to modify
   the displayed symbols by applying the symbol characteristic to
 5 all the symbols selected for display in the designated area.
   In an embodiment, the designated area comprises a cluster of
   adjacent display positions.
10 In an embodiment, the method further comprises a designated
   area selector arranged to select a position for the designated
   area.
   In an embodiment, the award determiner is arranged to
15 determine whether to make an award based on the plurality of
   selected symbols prior to modifying the displayed symbols.
   In a third aspect, the invention provides a game controller
   for a gaming system, the game controller arranged to:
20       select a plurality of symbols for display on a display at
   a plurality of display positions;
        modify the displayed symbols by applying a symbol
   characteristic to at least one of the symbols displayed within
   a designated area on the display, the designated area
25 encompassing a subset of the plurality of display positions;
   and
         determine whether to make an award based on the plurality
   of symbols as modified.
30 In an embodiment, the game controller is arranged to determine
   whether a modification condition is met and modifying the
   displayed symbols upon the modification condition being met.
   In an embodiment, the modification condition is that a
35 designated symbol is selected for display at one of the
   display positions of the designated area.
   In an embodiment, the designated symbol is a WILD symbol.
40 In an embodiment, the symbol characteristic is at least one

                                 -5
   function.
   In an embodiment, the at least one function comprises a
   substitute function.
 5
   In an embodiment, the at least one function comprises a
   multiplier function.
   In an embodiment, the symbol characteristic is the appearance
10 of a WILD symbol.
   In an embodiment, the symbol characteristic is applied to all
   of the symbols selected for display in the designated area.
15 In an embodiment, the designated area comprises a cluster of
   adjacent display positions.
   In an embodiment, the game controller is arranged to select a
   position for the designated area.
20
   In an embodiment, the game controller is arranged to determine
   whether to make an award based on the plurality of selected
   symbols prior to modifying the displayed symbols.
25 In a fourth aspect, the invention provides a gaming machine
   comprising:
        a display; and
        a game controller comprising:
              a symbol selector arranged to select a plurality of
30 symbols for display on the display at a plurality of display
   positions;
              a symbol modifier arranged to modify the displayed
   symbols by applying a symbol characteristic to at least one of
   the symbols displayed within a designated area on the display,
35 the designated area encompassing a subset of the plurality of
   display positions; and
              an award determiner arranged to determine whether to
   make an award based on the plurality of symbols as modified.
40 In a fifth aspect, the invention provides computer program

                                 - 6
   code which when executed implements the above method.
   In a sixth aspect, the invention provides a tangible computer
   readable medium comprising the above program code.
 5
   In a seventh aspect, the invention provides a data signal
   comprising the above program code.
   In an eighth aspect, the invention extends to transmitting the
10 above program code.
   Brief Description of Drawings
   An exemplary embodiment of the invention will now be described
15 with reference to the accompanying drawings in which:
   Figure 1 is a block diagram of the core components of a gaming
   system;
20 Figure 2 is a perspective view of a stand alone gaming
   machine;
   Figure 3 is a block diagram of the functional components of a
   gaming machine;
25
   Figure 4 is a schematic diagram of the functional components
   of a memory;
   Figure 5 is a schematic diagram of a network gaming system;
30
   Figure 6 is a further block diagram of a gaming system;
   Figure 7 is a flow chart of an embodiment; and
35 Figures 8A, 8B and 8C are diagrammatic representations of an
   example of a game.
   Detailed Description
40 Referring to the drawings, there is shown a gaming system

                                - 7
   arranged to implement a game wherein a plurality of symbols
   are selected and displayed at a plurality of display positions
   on a display. An area on the display encompassing a subset of
   the plurality of display positions is designated. During game
 5 play, the displayed symbols may be modified by applying a
   symbol characteristic to at least one of the symbols displayed
   within the designated area.
   General construction of gaming system
10
   The gaming system can take a number of different forms. In a
   first form, a stand alone gaming machine is provided wherein
   all or most components required for implementing the game are
   present in a player operable gaming machine.
15
   In a second form, a distributed architecture is provided
   wherein some of the components required for implementing the
   game are present in a player operable gaming machine and some
   of the components required for implementing the game are
20 located remotely relative to the gaming machine.  For example,
   a "thick client" architecture may be used wherein part of the
   game is executed on a player operable gaming machine and part
   of the game is executed remotely, such as by a gaming server;
   or a "thin client" architecture may be used wherein most of
25 the game is executed remotely such as by a gaming server and a
   player operable gaming machine is used only to display audible
   and/or visible gaming information to the player and receive
   gaming inputs from the player.
30 However, it will be understood that other arrangements are
   envisaged.  For example, an architecture may be provided
   wherein a gaming machine is networked to a gaming server and
   the respective functions of the gaming machine and the gaming
   server are selectively modifiable.  For example, the gaming
35 system may operate in stand alone gaming machine mode, "thick
   client" mode or "thin client" mode depending on the game being
   played, operating conditions, and so on. Other variations will
   be apparent to persons skilled in the art.
40 Irrespective of the form, the gaming system has several core

   components. At the broadest level, the core components are a
   player interface 50 and a game controller 60 as illustrated in
   Figure 1. The player interface is arranged to enable manual
   interaction between a player and the gaming system and for
 5 this purpose includes the input/output components required for
   the player to enter instructions to play the game and observe
   the game outcomes.
   Components of the player interface may vary from embodiment to
10 embodiment but will typically include a credit mechanism 52 to
   enable a player to input credits and receive payouts, one or
   more displays 54, a game play mechanism 56 including one or
   more input devices that enable a player to input game play
   instructions  (e.g. to place a wager),  and one or more speakers
15 58.
   The game controller 60 is in data communication with the
   player interface and typically includes a processor 62 that
   processes the game play instructions in accordance with game
20 play rules and outputs game play outcomes to the display.
   Typically, the game play rules are stored as program code in a
   memory 64 but can also be hardwired. Herein the term
   "processor" is used to refer generically to any device that
   can process game play instructions in accordance with game
25 play rules and may include: a microprocessor, microcontroller,
   programmable logic device or other computational device, a
   general purpose computer (e.g. a PC) or a server.    That is a
   processor may be provided by any suitable logic circuitry for
   receiving inputs, processing them in accordance with
30 instructions stored in memory    and generating outputs (for
   example on the display).  Such processors are sometimes also
   referred to as central processing units (CPUs). Most
   processors are general purpose units, however, it is also know
   to provide a specific purpose processor using an application
35 specific integrated circuit   (ASIC) or a field programmable
   gate array  (FPGA).
   A gaming system in the form of a stand alone gaming machine 10
   is illustrated in Figure 2. The gaming machine 10 includes a
40 console 12 having a display 14 on which are displayed

                                   - 9
   representations of a game 16 that can be played by a player.
   A mid-trim 20 of the gaming machine 10 houses a bank of
   buttons 22 for enabling a player to interact with the gaming
   machine, in particular during game play.     The mid-trim 20 also
 5 houses a credit input mechanism 24 which in this example
   includes a coin input chute 24A and a bill collector 24B.
   Other credit input mechanisms may also be employed, for
   example, a card reader for reading a smart card, debit card or
   credit card.     Other gaming machines may configure for ticket
10 in such that they have a ticket reader for reading tickets
   having a value and crediting the player based on the face
   value of the ticker.     A player marketing module (not shown)
   having a reading device may also be provided for the purpose
   of reading a player tracking device, for example as part of a
15 loyalty program.     The player tracking device may be in the
   form of a card, flash drive or any other portable storage
   medium capable of being read by the reading device. In some
   embodiments, the player marketing module may provide an
   additional credit mechanism, either by transferring credits to
20 the gaming machine from credits stored on the player tracking
   device or by transferring credits from a player account in
   data communication with the player marketing module.
   A top box 26 may carry artwork 28, including for example pay
25 tables and details of bonus awards and other information or
   images relating to the game.     Further artwork and/or
   information may be provided on a front panel 29 of the console
   12.     A coin tray 30 is mounted beneath the front panel 29 for
   dispensing cash payouts from the gaming machine 10.
30
   The display 14 shown in Figure 2 is in the form of a video
   display unit, particularly a cathode ray tube screen device.
   Alternatively, the display 14 may be a liquid crystal display,
   plasma screen, any other suitable video display unit, or the
35 visible portion of an electromechanical device.     The top box
   26 may also include a display, for example a video display
   unit, which may be of the same type as the display 14, or of a
   different    type.
40 Figure 3 shows a block diagram of operative components of a

                                 - 10
   typical gaming machine which may be the same as or different
   to the gaming machine of Figure 2.
   The gaming machine 100 includes a game controller 101 having a
 5 processor 102 mounted on a circuit board.   Instructions and
   data to control operation of the processor 102 are stored in a
   memory 103, which is in data communication with the processor
   102.  Typically, the gaming machine 100 will include both
   volatile and non-volatile memory and more than one of each
10 type of memory, with such memories being collectively
   represented by the memory 103.
   The gaming machine has hardware meters 104 for purposes
   including ensuring regulatory compliance and monitoring player
15 credit, an input/output  (I/0) interface 105 for communicating
   with peripheral devices of the gaming machine 100.    The
   input/output interface 105 and/or the peripheral devices may
   be intelligent devices with their own memory for storing
   associated instructions and data for use with the input/output
20 interface or the peripheral devices.   A random number
   generator module 113 generates random numbers for use by the
   processor 102.  Persons skilled in the art will appreciate
   that the reference to random numbers includes pseudo-random
   numbers.
25
   In the example shown in Figure 3, a player interface 120
   includes peripheral devices that communicate with the game
   controller 101 including one or more displays 106, a touch
   screen and/or buttons 107  (which provide a game play
30 mechanism), a card and/or ticket reader 108, a printer 109, a
   bill acceptor and/or coin input mechanism 110 and a coin
   output mechanism 111.   Additional hardware may be included as
   part of the gaming machine 100, or hardware may be omitted as
   required for the specific implementation. For example, while
35 buttons or touch screens are typically used in gaming machines
   to allow a player to place a wager and initiate a play of a
   game any input device that enables the player to input game
   play instructions may be used. For example, in some gaming
   machines a mechanical handle is used to initiate a play of the
40 game.

                                 -  11
   In addition, the gaming machine 100 may include a
   communications interface, for example a network card 112.      The
   network card may, for example, send status information,
 5 accounting information or other information to a bonus
   controller, central controller, server or database and receive
   data or commands from the bonus controller, central
   controller, server or database.     In embodiments employing a
   player marketing module, communications over a network may be
10 via player marketing module -   i.e. the player marketing module
   may be in data communication with one or more of the above
   devices and communicate with it on behalf of the gaming
   machine.
15 Figure 4 shows a block diagram of the main components of an
   exemplary memory 103.   The memory 103 includes RAM 103A, EPROM
   103B and a mass storage device 103C.     The RAM 103A typically
   temporarily holds program files for execution by the processor
   102 and related data.   The EPROM 103B may be a boot ROM device
20 and/or may contain some system or game related code.     The mass
   storage device 103C is typically used to store game programs,
   the integrity of which may be verified and/or authenticated by
   the processor 102 using protected code from the EPROM 103B or
   elsewhere.
25
   It is also possible for the operative components of the gaming
   machine 100 to be distributed, for example input/output
   devices 106,107,108,109,110,111 to be provided remotely from
   the game controller 101.
30
   Figure 5 shows a gaming system 200 in accordance with an
   alternative embodiment.   The gaming system 200 includes a
   network 201, which for example may be an Ethernet network.
   Gaming machines 202, shown arranged in three banks 203 of two
35 gaming machines 202 in Figure 5, are connected to the network
   201.  The gaming machines 202 provide a player operable
   interface and may be the same as the gaming machines 10,100
   shown in Figures 2 and 3, or may have simplified functionality
   depending on the requirements for implementing game play.
40 While banks 203 of two gaming machines are illustrated in

                                - 12
   Figure 5, banks of one, three or more gaming machines are also
   envisaged.
   One or more displays 204 may also be connected to the network
 5 201.  For example, the displays 204 may be associated with one
   or more banks 203 of gaming machines.  The displays 204 may be
   used to display representations associated with game play on
   the gaming machines 202, and/or used to display other
   representations, for example promotional or informational
10 material.
   In a thick client embodiment, game server 205 implements part
   of the game played by a player using a gaming machine 202 and
   the gaming machine 202 implements part of the game. With this
15 embodiment, as both the game server and the gaming device
   implement part of the game, they collectively provide a game
   controller. A database management server 206 may manage
   storage of game programs and associated data for downloading
   or access by the gaming devices 202 in a database 206A.
20 Typically, if the gaming system enables players to participate
   in a Jackpot game, a Jackpot server 207 will be provided to
   perform accounting functions for the Jackpot game.   A loyalty
   program server 212 may also be provided.
25 In a thin client embodiment, game server 205 implements most
   or all of the game played by a player using a gaming machine
   202 and the gaming machine 202 essentially provides only the
   player interface.  With this embodiment, the game server 205
   provides the game controller. The gaming machine will receive
30 player instructions, pass these to the game server which will
   process them and return game play outcomes to the gaming
   machine for display.  In a thin client embodiment, the gaming
   machines could be computer terminals, e.g. PCs running
   software that provides a player interface operable using
35 standard computer input and output components. Other
   client/server configurations are possible, and further details
   of a client/server architecture can be found in WO 2006/052213
   and PCT/SE2006/000559, the disclosures of which are
   incorporated herein by reference.
40

                                     - 13
   Servers are also typically provided to assist in the
   administration of the gaming network 200, including for
   example a gaming floor management server 208, and a licensing
   server 209 to monitor the use of licenses relating to
 5 particular games.     An administrator terminal 210 is provided
   to allow an administrator to run the network 201 and the
   devices connected to the network.
   The gaming system 200 may communicate with other gaming
10 systems, other local networks, for example a corporate
   network, and/or a wide area network such as the Internet, for
   example through a firewall 211.
   Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that in accordance
15 with known techniques, functionality at the server side of the
   network may be distributed over a plurality of different
   computers.     For example, elements may be run as a single
   "engine" on one server or a separate server may be provided.
   For example, the game server 205 could run a random generator
20 engine.  Alternatively, a separate random number generator
   server could be provided.       Further, persons skilled in the art
   will appreciate that a plurality of game servers could be
   provided to run different games or a single game server may
   run a plurality of different games as required by the
25 terminals.
   Further detail    of gaming system
   Figure 6 shows the functional components of an embodiment of
30 the gaming system having a game controller 60 comprising a
   processor 62 arranged to implement a number of modules based
   on game code 646 and data stored in memory 64. Persons skilled
   in the art will appreciate that the modules are typically
   implemented using a processor based on code and data stored in
35 memory but that one or more of the modules could alternatively
   be implemented in some other way, for example by a dedicated
   circuit.
   In the embodiment, the game is a spinning-reel type game
40 comprising a number of columns of display positions. Persons

                                - 14
   skilled in the art will appreciate that a spinning-reel type
   game may vary in terms of the number of columns or the number
   of display positions per column. For example, the game may be
   a 4 X 6 spinning-reel type game having four columns, each
 5 column being made up of six vertically adjacent display
   positions; a 5 X 3 spinning-reel type game having five
   columns, each column being made up of three vertically
   adjacent display positions etc.
10 The modules implemented by the processor 62 include a symbol
   selector 623, a symbol modifier 624 and an award determiner
   628.
   The symbol selector 623 is arranged to select a symbol for
15 display on the display 54 at each of the plurality of display
   positions. In the embodiment, memory 64 includes symbol data
   642 which specifies a sequence of symbols for each reel and
   during a game, the symbol selector 623 selects all of the
   symbols for a column of display positions by selecting a
20 stopping position in the sequence. In the embodiment, the
   stopping position is determined based on a pseudo-random
   number generated by a Random Number Generator (RNG) 622. It is
   envisaged that symbols may be selected in some other way. For
   example, each symbol may be selected individually based on a
25 pseudo-random number generated by a RNG.
   In the embodiment, the symbol modifier 624 is arranged to
   modify the displayed symbols by applying a symbol
   characteristic to all of the symbols displayed within a
30 designated area encompassing a subset of the plurality of
   display positions on the display 54 upon a modification
   condition being met. Depending on the embodiment, the symbol
   modifier 624 may not modify all the symbols selected for
   display in the designated area and may modify only one or some
35 of the symbols. For example, in an embodiment, the symbol
   modifier 624 may modify only certain types of symbols selected
   for display in the designated area. It is envisaged that the
   designated area can encompass any cluster of adjacent display
   positions on the display. For example, on a 4 X 6 spinning
40 reel type game having twenty four display positions, a

                                 - 15
   designated area can be the cluster formed from the four center
   display positions.
   In the embodiment, the symbol characteristic is a substitute
 5 function, and as part of applying this function, the
   appearance of the symbol is changed to a WILD symbol.
   Accordingly, upon the application of the symbol
   characteristic, all the symbols of the designated area become
   WILD substitute symbols in the embodiment. It is envisaged
10 that the symbol characteristic can be any one or more
   characteristics associated with one or more symbols. For
   example, the symbol characteristic can be just a function
   (such as just a substitute function or just a multiplier
   function),  two or more functions, just the appearance of a
15 symbol  (e.g. such that the symbol changes appearance) etc.
   In the embodiment, the symbol modifier 624 comprises a
   modification condition determiner 625 and a designated area
   selector 626. The modification condition determiner 625 is
20 arranged to determine whether a modification condition is met
   and the symbol modifier 624 is arranged to modify the
   displayed symbols upon the modification condition being met.
   It is envisaged that in other embodiments, the gaming system
   may not comprise a modification condition determiner 625   (for
25 example, in an embodiment where the symbol modifier 624 is
   configured always to modify the display symbols).  In the
   embodiment, the modification condition is that a WILD symbol
   is selected for display at at least one of the display
   positions of the designated area. Persons skilled in the art
30 will appreciate that a modification condition may be any
   selection criteria, for example, the modification condition
   can alternatively or additionally be whether a player has made
   an ante bet.
35 The designated area selector 626 is arranged to select a
   designated area encompassing a subset of the plurality of the
   display positions on the display 54 based on designated area
   data. Depending on the implementation, the selection can be
   random  (for example, the designated area selector 626 may
40 randomly select a set of display positions from the designated

                                 - 16
   area data 644 based on pseudo-random numbers from the RNG 622)
   or predetermined (for example, based on a predetermined
   sequence stored in the designated area data 644).  Persons
   skilled in the art will appreciate that the designated area
 5 may be selected in a variety of ways, for example, it may be
   based on the amount the player has placed on the current bet.
   In the embodiment, the display positions of the designated
   area can vary from game to game. Persons skilled in the art
   will however appreciate that the display positions of the
10 designated area can be fixed (for example, in an embodiment
   where the symbol modifier does not include a designated area
   selector),  vary from game to game, and can be based on whether
   certain criteria are satisfied (for example, they can depend
   on the amount the player wagers in a game).  Persons skilled in
15 the art will also appreciate that there may be more than one
   designated area and that each of these designated area may
   apply a different symbol characteristic to one or more of the
   symbols displayed within the area.
20 The award determiner 628 is arranged to determine whether to
   make an award based on the plurality of symbols as modified
   and on the symbols prior to symbol modification. It is
   envisaged that in another embodiment, the award determiner 628
   may only determine whether to make an award based on the
25 plurality of symbols as modified. In the embodiment, the award
   determiner 628 makes an award if the symbols include a winning
   combination. Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that
   winning combinations can be provided in many ways, for
   example, by award data 648 which stores possible winning
30 combination as a pay table. It is envisaged that depending on
   the number and type of each winning combination included in
   the displayed symbols, the award determiner 628 can make one
   or more than one award. Examples of awards that may be stored
   in award data 648 include monetary prizes, credits, feature
35 games etc. Types of feature games include:  those where a
   series of free game events are awarded such as free games or
   re-spins  (where some reels are held while others are re-spun);
   games where the symbols on the reel are changed; and "second
   screen" games where game play is totally different to the base
40 game, for example where the player makes selections in a "pick

                                - 17
   a box type" game.
   The modules implemented by the processor 62 also include a
   display controller 629 arranged to communicate with the player
 5 interface 50 to control the display 54 of the player interface
   50 to display to the game to the player. During a game, the
   display controller 629 may control the display 54 to display
   the symbols selected for each of the display positions by the
   symbol selector 623, to highlight to a player the placement of
10 the designated area, to display the symbol or symbols within
   the designated area being modified by the symbol modifier 624
   (for example, display positions may be displayed as flipping
   from one symbol to another symbol) etc.
15 Depending on the embodiment, the spinning-reel type game can
   be a line-based game or a reel-based game. In a line-based
   game, a player's win entitlement is based on how many win
   lines the player plays in each game (for example, a minimum of
   one win line up to the maximum number of win lines allowed by
20 the game) and how much they wager per line. Such win lines are
   typically formed by a combination of symbol display positions,
   one from each reel, the symbol display positions being located
   relative to one another such that they form a line. Persons
   skilled in the art will appreciate that in some line-based
25 games, the player's win entitlement may not be strictly
   limited to the lines they have selected, for example,
   "scatter" pays can be awarded independently of a player's
   selection of pay lines and can be an inherent part of a win
   entitlement. In such games, a winning combination must fall on
30 a win line selected by the player (or otherwise be part of the
   win entitlement) for the player to be awarded the
   corresponding award.
   In a reel-based game, a player obtains a win entitlement by
35 selecting a number of reels to play and an amount to wager per
   reel. Such games are marketed under the trade name "Reel
   Power" by Aristocrat Leisure Industries Pty Ltd. The selection
   of the reel means that each displayed symbol of the reel can
   be substituted for a symbol at one or more designated display
40 positions. In other words, all symbols displayed at symbol

                                - 18
   display positions corresponding to a selected reel can be used
   to form symbol combinations with symbols displayed at
   designated, symbol display positions of the other reels. For
   example, if there are five reels and three symbol display
 5 positions for each reel such that the symbol display positions
   comprise three rows of five symbol display positions, the
   symbols displayed in the centre row are used for non-selected
   reels. As a result, the total number of ways to win is
   determined by multiplying the number of active display
10 positions of each reel, the active display positions being all
   display positions of each selected reel and the designated
   display position of the non-selected reels. Thus, for a 5 X 3
   spinning-reel type game having five reels and fifteen display
   positions, there can be 243 ways to win, such that a player
15 wins an award if a winning combination is covered by any one
   of these ways to win.
   Figure 7 is a flowchart illustrating an embodiment of the
   method of gaming. At step 700, a new spinning-reel type game
20 wherein a plurality of symbols is selected and displayed on
   the display 54 is initiated by a player using the game play
   mechanism 56. At step 710, the position and size of the
   designated area is selected by the designated area selector
   626 based on the designated area data 644. The display
25 controller 629 then controls the display 54 to highlight the
   designated area. At step 720, a plurality of symbols is
   selected by the symbol selector 623 for display at a plurality
   of display positions. The display controller 629 then controls
   the display 54 to display the selected symbols 730 on the
30 display 54.
   At step 740, the modification condition determiner 625
   determines whether a modification condition is met based on
   the displayed symbols. In the embodiment, the modification
35 condition is that a WILD symbol is selected for display at one
   or more of the display positions of the designated area.
   If the modification condition is not met, the gaming system
   determines whether to make an award based on the symbols
40 selected by the symbol selector 623 for display on the display

                                  - 19
   54  (that is, based on unmodified symbols) 750.  In the
   embodiment, this determination depends on whether the symbols
   include a winning combination. An award is made based on the
   displayed symbols without modification (that is, the
 5 unmodified symbols) if the symbols include a winning
   combination 770. Otherwise, the game ends 795.
   If the modification condition is met, the symbol modifier 624
   modifies the displayed symbols by applying a symbol
10 characteristic to the symbols displayed within the designated
   area 760. In the embodiment, the symbol characteristic is a
   substitute function and the appearance of a WILD symbol. In
   the embodiment, the symbol characteristic is applied to all
   the symbols displayed within the designated area. Accordingly,
15 if the modification condition is met, the symbol modifier 624
   modifies the displayed symbols by modifying all the symbols
   displayed within the designated area 760 on the display 54 to
   become WILD substitute symbols.
20 After the symbols are modified, the award determiner
   determines whether to make an award based on the symbols
   displayed at the plurality of display positions as modified on
   the display 54. An award is made based on the displayed
   symbols as modified if the symbols include a winning
25 combination 770. Otherwise, the game ends 795.
   Further aspects of the method will be apparent from the above
   description of the system. It will be appreciated that at
   least part of the method will be implemented digitally by a
30 processor. Persons skilled in the art will also appreciate
   that the method could be embodied in program code. The program
   code could be supplied in a number of ways, for example on a
   tangible computer readable storage medium, such as a disc or a
   memory   (for example, that could replace part of memory 103) or
35 as a data signal (for example, by transmitting it from a
   server).   Persons skilled in the art, will appreciate that
   program code provides a series of instructions executable by
   the processor.
40 Example

                                - 20
   Figures 8A to 8C illustrate an example of how in a spinning
   reel type game implemented by the gaming system, a symbol
   characteristic is applied to the symbols displayed in the
 5 display positions of the designated area of the display 54. In
   the example, the spinning-reel type game is a 4 X 6 spinning
   reel type game.
   Figure 8A illustrates the twenty four display positions of the
10 game displayed on the display 54. As illustrated, the game
   includes a designated area encompassing a cluster of four
   display positions positioned in the centre of the twenty four
   display positions of the game. In the example, the designated
   area is selected by the designated area selector 626 from a
15 plurality of designated area positions and sizes stored in the
   designated area data 644.
   Figure 8B illustrates the display 54 after a plurality of
   symbols are selected by the symbol selector 623 and displayed
20 on the display 54 at the twenty four display positions. In the
   example, the symbols are selected from the symbol data 642
   based on pseudo-random numbers generated by the RNG 622.
   In the gaming system, the symbol modifier 624 is arranged to
25 modify the displayed symbols upon a modification condition
   being met, and the modification condition is that a WILD
   symbol is selected at at least one of the display positions of
   the designated area. As illustrated in Figure 8B, one of the
   symbols selected for display in the designated area is a WILD
30 symbol.
   Thus, in the example, the modification condition determiner
   625 determines that a WILD symbol is selected at least one of
   the display positions of the designated area and that the
35 modification condition is met. Accordingly, the symbol
   modifier 624 modifies the display symbols in the example so
   that all the symbols of the designated area become WILD
   substitute symbols.
40 Figure 8C illustrates the symbols displayed at the plurality

                                - 21
   of display positions as modified. As illustrated, all the
   symbols of the designated area are now WILD substitute
   symbols. The award determiner 628 determines whether to make
   an award based on the symbol displayed at the display
 5 positions as modified. In the example, the displayed symbols
   include a winning combination of four Aces displayed in the
   third column of display positions and accordingly, an award is
   made to the player.
10 It will be understood to persons skilled in the art of the
   invention that many modifications may be made without
   departing from the spirit and scope of the invention, in
   particular it will be apparent that certain features of
   embodiments of the invention can be employed to form further
15 embodiments.
   It is to be understood that, if any prior art is referred to
   herein, such reference does not constitute an admission that
   the prior art forms a part of the common general knowledge in
20 the art in any country.
   In the claims which follow and in the preceding description of
   the invention, except where the context requires otherwise due
   to express language or necessary implication, the word
25 "comprise" or variations such as "comprises" or "comprising"
   is used in an inclusive sense, i.e. to specify the presence of
   the stated features but not to preclude the presence or
   addition of further features in various embodiments of the
   invention.
30

                                 - 22
   CLAIMS:
   1.   An electronic method of gaming comprising:
         selecting a plurality of symbols for display on a display
 5 at a plurality of display positions;
        modifying the displayed symbols by applying a symbol
   characteristic to at least one of the symbols displayed within
   a designated area on the display, the designated area
   encompassing a subset of the plurality of display positions;
10 and
         determining whether to make an award based on the
   plurality of symbols as modified.
   2.    An electronic method as claimed in claim 1, further
15 comprising determining whether a modification condition is met
   and modifying the displayed symbols upon the modification
   condition being met.
   3.   An electronic method as claimed in claim 2, wherein the
20 modification condition is that a designated symbol is selected
   for display at one of the display positions of the designated
   area.
   4.   An electronic method as claimed in claim 3, wherein the
25 designated symbol is a WILD symbol.
   5.   An electronic method as claimed in any one of claims 1 to
   4, wherein the symbol characteristic is at least one function.
30 6.    An electronic method as claimed in claim 5, wherein the at
   least one function comprises a substitute function.
   7.    An electronic method as claimed in claim 5 or claim 6,
   wherein the at least one function comprises a multiplier
35 function.
   8.    An electronic method as claimed in any one of claims 1 to
   4, wherein the symbol characteristic is the appearance of a
   WILD symbol.
40

                                 - 23
   9.   An electronic method as claimed in any one of claims 1 to
   8, wherein the symbol characteristic is applied to all of the
   symbols selected for display in the designated area.
 5 10.  An electronic method as claimed in any one of claims 1 to
   9, wherein the designated area comprises a cluster of adjacent
   display positions.
   11.  An electronic method as claimed in any one of claims 1 to
10 10, further comprising selecting a position for the designated
   area.
   12.  An electronic method as claimed in any one of claims 1 to
   11, further comprising determining whether to make an award
15 based on the plurality of selected symbols prior to modifying
   the displayed symbols.
   13.  A gaming system comprising:
         a display;
20       a symbol selector arranged to select a plurality of
   symbols for display on the display at a plurality of display
   positions;
         a symbol modifier arranged to modify the displayed symbols
   by applying a symbol characteristic to at least one of the
25 symbols displayed within a designated area on the display, the
   designated area encompassing a subset of the plurality of
   display positions; and
         an award determiner arranged to determine whether to make
   an award based on the plurality of symbols as modified.
30
   14.  A gaming system as claimed in claim 13, wherein the symbol
   modifier comprises a modification condition determiner
   arranged to determine whether a modification condition is met
   and the symbol modifier is arranged to modify the displayed
35 symbols upon the modification condition being met.
   15.  A gaming system as claimed in claim 14, wherein the
   modification condition is that a designated symbol is selected
   for display at one of the display positions of the designated
40 area.

                                - 24
   16.  A gaming system as claimed in claim 15, wherein the
   designated symbol is a WILD symbol.
 5 17.  A gaming system as claimed in any one of claims 13 to 16,
   wherein the symbol characteristic is at least one function.
   18.  A gaming system as claimed in claim 17, wherein the at
   least one function comprises a substitute function.
10
   19.  A gaming system as claimed in claim 17 or claim 18,
   wherein the at least one function comprises a multiplier
   function.
15 20.  A gaming system as claimed in any one of claims 13 to 16,
   wherein the symbol characteristic is the appearance of a WILD
   symbol.
   21.  A gaming system as claimed in any one of claims 13 to 20,
20 wherein the symbol modifier is arranged to modify the
   displayed symbols by applying the symbol characteristic to all
   the symbols selected for display in the designated area.
   22.  A gaming system as claimed in any one of claims 13 to 21,
25 wherein the designated area comprises a cluster of adjacent
   display positions.
   23.  A gaming system as claimed in any one of claims 13 to 22,
   further comprising a designated area selector arranged to
30 select a position for the designated area.
   24.  A gaming system as claimed in any one of claims 13 to 23,
   wherein the award determiner is arranged to determine whether
   to make an award based on the plurality of selected symbols
35 prior to modifying the displayed symbols.
   25.  A game controller for a gaming system, the game controller
   arranged to:
        select a plurality of symbols for display on a display at
40 a plurality of display positions;

                                 - 25
        modify the displayed symbols by applying a symbol
   characteristic to at least one of the symbols displayed within
   a designated area on the display, the designated area
   encompassing a subset of the plurality of display positions;
 5 and
         determine whether to make an award based on the plurality
   of symbols as modified.
   26.  A game controller as claimed in claim 25, wherein the game
10 controller is arranged to determine whether a modification
   condition is met and modifying the displayed symbols upon the
   modification condition being met.
   27.  A game controller as claimed in claim 26, wherein the
15 modification condition is that a designated symbol is selected
   for display at one of the display positions of the designated
   area.
   28.  A game controller as claimed in claim 27, wherein the
20 designated symbol is a WILD symbol.
   29.  A game controller as claimed in any one of claims 25 to
   28, wherein the symbol characteristic is at least one
   function.
25
   30.  A game controller as claimed in claim 29, wherein the at
   least one function comprises a substitute function.
   31.  A game controller as claimed in claim 29 or claim 30,
30 wherein the at least one function comprises a multiplier
   function.
   32.  A game controller as claimed in any one of claims 25 to
   28, wherein the symbol characteristic is the appearance of a
35 WILD symbol.
   33.  A game controller as claimed in any one of claims 25 to
   32, wherein the symbol characteristic is applied to all of the
   symbols selected for display in the designated area.
40

                                 - 26
   34.  A game controller as claimed in any one of claims 25 to
   33, wherein the designated area comprises a cluster of
   adjacent display positions.
 5 35.  A game controller as claimed in any one of claims 25 to
   34, wherein the game controller is arranged to select a
   position for the designated area.
   36.  A game controller as claimed in any one of claims 25 to
10 35, wherein the game controller is arranged to determine
   whether to make an award based on the plurality of selected
   symbols prior to modifying the displayed symbols.
   37.  A gaming machine comprising:
15      a display; and
        a game controller comprising:
              a symbol selector arranged to select a plurality of
   symbols for display on the display at a plurality of display
   positions;
20            a symbol modifier arranged to modify the displayed
   symbols by applying a symbol characteristic to at least one of
   the symbols displayed within a designated area on the display,
   the designated area encompassing a subset of the plurality of
   display positions; and
25            an award determiner arranged to determine whether to
   make an award based on the plurality of symbols as modified.
   38.  Computer program code which when executed implements the
   method of any one of claims 1 to 12.
30
   39.  A tangible computer readable medium comprising the
   computer program code of claim 38.
   40.  Transmitting the computer program code of claim 38.
35
   41.  A data signal comprising the computer program code of
   claim 38.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
        <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
$
        !
    !
        "#

<removed-date>                 *     &- &..
               *& +                           #
<removed-apn>
                             &)    &          # %& '        (
                ,
                           &1)2 3) -         ( /)'
              / 0. +
                           -( & !1 &-          (
                           &/- /-01 4/..
               /-                          &/- ,1 01
                             )) 0 &
                       $
                                                      & 5
                                   ,
                                                  ( 6/)
                                   !

<removed-date>   $
<removed-apn>
                  4
                      7/ % ..
                        & .&) .
                         & %/(
                      - %& '

                                                   <removed-apn> <removed-date>
          * )&- &..
            &)     &                                           *& +
                                     #                        3+*4&.
  . +                                                          (
 - 8 )
   / 0. +      / 0. +              % (           3+*4&.         /5-  (
            )&- &..                  */-           . )&           (
                  $
      *                                                           *
   0. +                                                        )&(
* )2 -/ *  3+*4&. *&(/8/
                &(/8/) /&- )&-(/ /&-     /5- (
                    (    */-                . )&                % (
                                                               (

<removed-date>
                                   3 . ) 0& / /&- &-
              # %5 *            (/ 0. + &8 0. + /- 8 )
                                   8& ( /5- (
<removed-apn>
               / 0. + +*4&.   (/ 0. +          3 . ) +*4&. 8& (/ 0. +
               0& / /&- &- 2 (/ 0. +            0& / /&- &- 2 (/ 0. +
                          2
                *&(/8/) /&- )&-(/ /&-
                                          #&
                  * 4      ( &- 2
                 (/ 0. + ( +*4&. 9
                                                           ' -
                                                       % (4     ( &-
                           :                                               #&
                                                   2 (/ 0. + ( +*4&.
                                                   %/ 2&1 *&(/8/) /&-9
                  &(/8+ 2 (/ 0. + (
                 +*4&. 4+ 00.+/-5
               +*4&. )2 ) / /) & 2                           :
              +*4&. (/ 0. + ( %/ 2/- 2
                  ( /5- (                          ' % (4        ( &- 2
                                                (/ 0. + ( +*4&. %/ 2&1
                                                       *&(/8/) /&-
                        ' -
                  % (4       ( &-         #&             -( 5 *
                2 (/ 0. + ( +*4&.
                                                            $
                      *&(/8/ (9
                           :                       ' % (4         ( &- 2
                                                    (/ 0. + ( +*4&.
                                                           *&(/8/ (
                                                            $

<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
              <            ;    $   <
              <       $         =   <
                  ;   ">        $
              ;   $         <       ;
              <            ;    $   <
              <       ">   ">   =   <
                  ;   ">   ">   $
              ;   $         <       ;

