                                           ABSTRACT
The present disclosure provides methods for detecting and identifying plant events that contain
precision targeted genomic loci, and plants and plant cells comprising such targeted genomic loci.
The method can be deployed as a high throughput process utilized for screening the intactness or
disruption of a targeted genomic loci and optionally for detecting a donor DNA polynucleotide
insertion at the targeted genomic loci. The methods are readily applicable for the identification of
plant events produced via a targeting method which results from the use of a site specific
nuclease.

       DNA DETECTION METHODS FOR SITE SPECIFIC NUCLEASE ACTIVITY
                     CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
         [0001]   This application is a divisional of AU 2013359146 and claims priority to U.S.
Provisional Patent Application No. 61/736856, filed December 13, 2012.             The contents of the
entirety of each of the foregoing are hereby incorporated in their entireties herein by this reference.
        REFERENCE TO SEQUENCE LISTING SUBMITTED ELECTRONICALLY
         [0002] The official copy of the sequence listing is submitted electronically via EFS-Web
as an ASCII formatted sequence listing with a file named "DNA DETECTION METHOD",
created on Nov. 26, 2012, and having a size of 3,640 bytes and is filed concurrently with the
specification. The sequence listing contained in this ASCII formatted document is part of the
specification and is herein incorporated by reference in its entirety.
                                   FIELD OF THE INVENTION
         [0003]   The present disclosure relates in part to a method for screening genomic loci of
plant events. More particularly, the present disclosure relates in part to a high throughput method
for detecting and identifying plant events that contain a disruption within a targeted genomic loci.
In addition, the present disclosure relates in part to a high throughput method for detecting and
identifying plant events that contain an exogenous donor DNA polynucleotide inserted within a
targeted genomic loci. The method is readily applicable for screening plant events produced via a
targeting method which results from the use of a site specific nuclease.
                                                   1

1002026714
                              BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
         [0004]   Targeted genome modification of plants has been a long-standing and elusive goal
of both applied and basic research. Methods and compositions to target and cleave genomic DNA
by site specific nucleases (Zinc Finger Nucleases (ZFNs), Meganucleases, CRISPRS and TALENS)
are being developed to reach this goal. The site specific cleavage of genomic loci by ZFNs can be
used, for example, to induce targeted mutagenesis, induce targeted deletions of cellular DNA
sequences, and facilitate targeted recombination of an exogenous donor DNA polynucleotide within
a predetermined genomic locus. See, for example, U.S. Patent Publication No. 20030232410;
20050208489; 20050026157; 20050064474; and 20060188987, and International Patent Publication
No. WO 2007/014275, the disclosures of which are incorporated by reference in their entireties for
all purposes. U.S. Patent Publication No. 20080182332 describes use of non-canonical zinc finger
nucleases (ZFNs) for targeted modification of plant genomes and U.S. Patent Publication No.
20090205083 describes ZFN-mediated targeted modification of a plant EPSPs genomic locus. In
addition, Moehle et al. (2007) Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 104(9): 3055-3060 describe using
designed ZFNs for targeted gene addition at a specified genomic locus.          Current methods of
targeting typically involve co-transformation of plant tissue with a donor DNA polynucleotide
containing at least one transgene and a site specific nuclease (e.g., ZFN) which is designed to bind
and cleave a specific genomic locus. The donor DNA polynucleotide is stably inserted within the
cleaved genomic locus resulting in targeted gene addition at a specified genomic locus.
         [0005]   Unfortunately,    reported  and    observed   frequencies  of targeted    genomic
modification    indicate that targeting a genomic loci within plants is relatively inefficient.  The
reported inefficiency necessitates the screening of a large number of plant events to identify a
specific event containing the targeted genomic loci. Most current reported plant event analyses rely
on a single analytical method for confirming targeting, which may lead to inaccurate estimation of
targeting frequencies and low confidence outcomes.
                                                   2

1002026714
         [0006]    Therefore, there is a need in the art for screening methods, optionally applicable as
high throughput methods, for the rapid identification of plant events containing a targeted genomic
loci.   In addition, as targeted gene insertion occurs in conjunction with random gene insertion,
desirable screening methods would specifically identify targeting of genomic loci within a
background of random insertions.
                             BRIEF SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
         [0007]    In an embodiment, the disclosure relates to a method for identifying the presence
of a donor DNA polynucleotide inserted within a targeted genomic locus comprising amplifying in
a first amplification reaction a genomic DNA sample comprising the targeted genomic locus using a
first plurality of oligonucleotides that bind under hybridization conditions proximal to the targeted
genomic locus to thereby generate a first amplicon comprising the targeted genomic locus, and
detecting the presence or absence of the first amplicon, wherein the absence of the first amplicon
indicates the presence of the donor DNA polynucleotide within the targeted genomic locus.
         [0008]    In a further embodiment, the method comprises amplifying in a second
amplification reaction the genomic DNA sample using a second plurality of oligonucleotides that
bind under hybridization conditions proximal to the targeted genomic locus and within the donor
DNA polynucleotide to generate a second amplicon comprising at least a portion of the targeted
genomic locus and at least a portion of the donor DNA polynucleotide, and detecting the presence
or absence of the second amplicon, wherein the presence of an amplified product indicates the
presence of the donor DNA polynucleotide within the targeted genomic locus.
         [0009] In yet another embodiment, the method comprises identification of a disruption
of a genomic locus from a plurality of plant cells comprising amplifying in a first amplification
reaction a genomic DNA sample comprising the disrupted genomic locus using a plurality of
oligonucleotides that bind under hybridization conditions proximal to the disrupted genomic
locus to generate a first amplicon comprising the disrupted genomic locus, quantitating the
                                                     3

1002026714
results of the first amplification reaction, amplifying in a second amplification reaction a
genomic DNA sample comprising the disrupted genomic locus using the plurality of
oligonucleotides that bind under hybridization conditions proximal to the disrupted genomic
locus, to thereby generate a second amplicon comprising the disrupted genomic locus,
quantitating the results of the second amplification reaction, and comparing the quantity of the
first and second amplification reactions, wherein the quantity of the first amplification reaction
comprises a lower quantity of amplified product as compared to the second amplification
reaction thereby indicating the disruption of a genomic locus in the first amplicon samples.
        [0010]     In another embodiment, the disclosure describes a method for identifying a
disruption of a genomic locus comprising amplifying in a first amplification reaction a genomic
DNA sample comprising the disrupted genomic locus using a plurality of oligonucleotides that bind
under hybridization conditions proximal to the disrupted genomic locus to generate a first amplicon
comprising the disrupted genomic locus,         and detecting the presence or absence of the first
amplicon, wherein the absence of the amplicon indicates the disruption of a genomic locus.
        [0011]     Further embodiments of the method include quantitating the results of the first
amplification reaction, quantitating the results of the second amplification reaction, comparing the
results of the first and second amplification reactions, and determining the presence or absence of
the donor DNA polynucleotide within the targeted genomic locus, wherein the donor DNA
polynucleotide is confirmed as inserted within the targeted genomic locus if the first amplicon is
absent and the second amplicon is present.
        [0012]     As an embodiment, the first or second amplification reactions are run in a single
tube or well in a multiplex format.
        [0013]     In another aspect, an embodiment of the disclosure includes quantitating the
results of the first and second amplification reactions comprising producing a signature profile for
one or both of the first and second amplification reactions.       In an exemplary aspect of the
                                                   4

 1002026714
embodiment, the signature profile may be selected from the group consisting of a melting
temperature curve signature profile and a fluorescence signature profile.
         [0014]   Additional   embodiments       include  a signature   profile produced    from an
intercalating DNA dye or a fluorescent dye. Wherein, the intercalating dye comprises a cyanine dye
such as a SYTO13@ dye. As an embodiment, the SYTO13@ dye is used in an amplification
reaction at a concentration of less than 10 pM, less than 4 pM, or less than 2.7 pM. In additional
embodiments the fluorescent dye is selected from the group consisting of a HEX fluorescent dye, a
FAM fluorescent dye, a JOE fluorescent dye, a TET fluorescent dye, a Cy 3 fluorescent dye, a Cy
3.5 fluorescent dye, a Cy 5 fluorescent dye, a Cy 5.5 fluorescent dye, a Cy 7 fluorescent dye, and a
ROX fluorescent dye. In an embodiment the first or second plurality of oligonucleotides, or both,
comprise a fluorescent dye.
         [0015]   In embodiments, the present disclosure relates to methods and compositions for
identifying the presence of a donor insertion within a targeted genomic locus, and selecting a
transgenic event comprising a donor insertion within a targeted genomic locus. An additional
embodiment includes the plant, comprising the transgenic event.
         [0016]   Further embodiments may comprise a dicot plant, wherein the dicot plant is
selected from the group consisting of a soybean plant, a canola plant and a cotton plant. In addition,
further embodiments may comprise a monocot plant, wherein the monocot plant is selected from the
group consisting of a corn plant, a rice plant, and wheat plant.
         [0017]   Additional embodiments include a genomic locus that is cleaved by a site specific
nuclease. Exemplary site specific nucleases may comprises a Zinc Finger Nuclease, a
Meganuclease, CRISPR, or a TALEN nuclease or any other site specific nuclease.
         [0018]   In another aspect, embodiments of the disclosure include an amplification
reaction, wherein amplify is completed using a polymerase chain reaction.
         [0019]   Further embodiments of the disclosure include an amplicon comprising a 5'
junction and a 3' junction of the donor DNA polynucleotide and the targeted genomic locus. In
                                                     5

 1002026714
addition, embodiments of the disclosure include an amplicon comprising a 5' junction or a 3'
junction of the donor DNA polynucleotide and the targeted genomic locus.
         [0020] Embodiments also include a donor DNA polynucleotide comprising at least one
gene expression cassette.
         [0021]   In addition to the exemplary aspects and embodiments described above, further
aspects and embodiments will become apparent by study of the following descriptions.
                           BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE FIGURES
         [0022] Figure 1 illustrates an analytical process for identifying plant events comprising a
targeted genomic locus.
         [0023] Figure 2 depicts the results of a ZFN quantitative PCR (qPCR) disruption assay at a
targeted locus: screening results of a subset of events. The arrow indicates a transgenic event with a
disrupted locus as evidenced by drop in detectable qPCR signal.
         [0024] Figure 3 depicts the screening which is completed with the In-Out PCR
amplification process. Figure 3A depicts a targeted genomic locus ("Locus") with no transgene
insertion. In-Out PCR will result in no amplified product. Figure 3B depicts the Locus with targeted
transgene insertion. In-Out PCR will result in a 2 kb amplicon from the 5' end of the locus and a
 1.5 kb amplicon from the 3' end.
         [0025] Figure 4 depicts an In-Out PCR analysis. Figure 4A depicts a fluorescence signal
signature profile generated from amplification reactions using SYTO 13@ dye (Invitrogen, Carlsbad,
CA), which can be used to identify positive transgene insertion events. Figure 4B depicts melting
temperature signature profiles generated from amplification reactions of samples as compared to a
positive control, which can be used to confirm the positive fluorescence signals.
         [0026] Figure 5 shows targeted events that were identified using the disruption assay and
the In-Out PCR reaction of the presently disclosed subject matter.
                                                   6

1002026714
         [0027] Figure 6 depicts a ZFN disruption assay. Samples shown in the top bracket do not
contain a disrupted genomic locus and samples shown in the bottom bracket do contain a disrupted
genomic locus.
         [0028] Figure 7 depicts another ZFN disruption assay. Samples shown in the top bracket do
not contain a disrupted genomic locus and samples shown in the bottom bracket do contain a
disrupted genomic locus.
         [0029] Figure 8 depicts an eZFN disruption assay at the ELP locus region. Figure 8 (a)
provides an illustration of the genomic fragment containing the ELP which was produced by the
integration of a T-strand from pDAB105818.         This schematic identifies the relative location of
primers and probes (MAS621, MAS622 and probe UPL67) used for the disruption assay. Figure 8
(b) provides the screening results of 354 pat positive events. A disrupted ELP locus is indicated by
drop in detectable qPCR signal. Accordingly samples shown in the top bracket do not contain a
disrupted ELP genomic locus and samples shown in the bottom bracket do contain a disrupted ELP
genomic locus.
         [0030] Figure 9 depicts an In-Out PCR analysis. Figure 9A depicts a melting temperature
signal profile generated from amplification reactions of the 5' donor/ELP locus junction using
SYTO13@ dye (Invitrogen, Carlsbad, CA), which can be used to identify positive transgene
insertion events. Figure 9B depicts a melting temperature signal profile generated from
amplification reactions of the 3' donor/ELP locus junction using SYTO13@ dye (Invitrogen,
Carlsbad, CA), which can be used to identify positive transgene insertion events.
         [0031] Figure 10 provides an illustration of ZF binding sequences with corresponding zinc
fingers and hydrolysis probes for use in the ELP locus disruption assay: the eZFN8 line represents
the probe for detection of activities from eZFN8 with spacer GTGAGA in between binding site
sequences SBS15590 and SBS18473; and the eZFN1 line represents the probe for detection of
activities from eZFN1 with spacer GTGGAT in between the second set of binding site sequences,
                                                   7

1002026714
SBS15590 and SBS8196. The top sequence is provided as SEQ ID NO:39 and the complementary
sequence shown in the bottom of the figure is provided as SEQ ID NO:40.
        [0032] Figure 11 illustrates an overlay plot of normalized aad-1 (in circles) and ELP copy
number (in addition signs). Figure 11 (a)        shows the disruption assay results of 1125 samples
crossed with eZFN1 excisors: 425 with ELP copy number less than 0.05 (cut), 95 between 0.05 to
0.4 (chimeric).    Figure 11 (b) shows the disruption assay results of 697 samples crossed with
eZFN8 excisors: 488 with ELP copy number less than 0.05, 1 between 0.05 to 0.4.
        [0033] Figure 12 provides a sequence alignment for ELP genomic locus samples cut with
eZFN1 (pDAB105825) and eZFN8 (pDAB105828).                    Polynucleotide spacers between ZFN
recognition sites are indicated in red boxes. Bases shown as dashes (-) are deletions representing a
minimum of one missing base of the sequence.
                                     DETAILED DESCRIPTION
        [0034] Novel methods have now been invented for rapid screening, identification and
characterization of site specific nuclease targeted plant events. The methods can be used to analyze
the intactness of the genomic target locus via a first amplification reaction to determine if the
genomic target locus has been disrupted.        Events which are identified to contain a disrupted
genomic locus can be subsequently screened via a second amplification reaction to confirm the
presence of an exogenous donor DNA polynucleotide within the targeted genomic locus. As
such, large numbers of plant events can be analyzed and screened to identify and select specific
events which have a donor DNA polynucleotide inserted within a targeted genomic locus. The
presently disclosed subject matter further includes plants and plant cells comprising nuclease
targeted plant events selected utilizing the novel screening methods.
        [0035] Demonstrated herein are novel methods for screening plant events for the disruption
of a genomic locus, which is a result of genomic DNA cleavage by a site specific nuclease. The
disrupted genomic locus may comprise the presence of a donor DNA polynucleotide, or the
disrupted genomic locus may comprise insertions and/or deletions (also described as InDels). The
                                                    8

1002026714
methods utilize two initial amplification reactions as a screening assay. The first amplification
reaction is a disruption assay, wherein the presence of a donor DNA polynucleotide inserted within
a targeted genomic locus is identified by an amplification reaction in which the absence of an
amplicon indicates that a donor DNA polynucleotide is present within the targeted genomic locus.
The second amplification reaction is an "In-Out" PCR amplification reaction for screening the 3'
and/or the 5' junction sequences of a donor DNA polynucleotide targeted genomic locus. The
presence of an amplified product which contains the 3' and/or 5' junction sequence indicates that
the donor DNA polynucleotide is present within the targeted genomic locus.
         [0036]    By deploying two distinct amplification reaction screening assays, the disruption
amplification reaction and the In-Out amplification reaction, the probability of identifying a positive
target event from the large number of non-targeted events is greatly increased. The disruption
amplification reaction was designed to allow for rapid analysis of a large number of samples in a
high throughput manner. Furthermore, this assay can identify and characterize events for both donor
DNA polynucleotide insertion or ZFN cleavage within a targeted genomic locus.              The In-Out
amplification reaction provides an alternative analytical approach. This assay is used to identify the
presence of the 3' and 5' junctions to confirm the presence of a donor DNA polynucleotide inserted
within a targeted genomic locus. The In-Out amplification reaction can be used to confirm that the
targeted events identified in the disruption assay actually contain a complete, full-length targeted
insertion within a genomic locus. When the disruption amplification reaction is run in conjunction
with the In-Out amplification reaction, the compiled data can be analyzed to determine the limiting
factors for targeting of a donor DNA polynucleotide within a genomic locus (e.g., ZFN cleavage or
donor insertion as a limiting factor for producing events containing a donor DNA polynucleotide
within a targeted genomic locus).         Utilizing two different screening assays with varying
methodology increases the likelihood of finding a targeted event which contains a donor DNA
polynucleotide within a targeted genomic locus. Moreover, the disclosed methods can be deployed
as high throughput assays allowing for the rapid and efficient identification of a subset of samples
                                                   9

1002026714
that can then be further analyzed by other molecular confirmation methods. The disclosed screening
assays describe high quality, high throughput processes for identifying and obtaining targeted
transgene insertion events. Furthermore, the methodology is readily applicable for the analysis of
any plant species.
         [0037] Unless defined otherwise, all technical and scientific terms used herein have the
same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which this disclosure
relates. In case of conflict, the present application including the definitions will control. Unless
otherwise required by context, singular terms shall include pluralities and plural terms shall include
the singular. All publications, patents and other references mentioned herein are incorporated by
reference in their entireties for all purposes as if each individual publication or patent application
were specifically and individually indicated to be incorporated by reference, unless only specific
sections of patents or patent publications are indicated to be incorporated by reference.
         [0038] In order to further clarify this disclosure, the following terms, abbreviations and
definitions are provided.
         [0039] As    used   herein,    the   terms   ""comprises","   ""comprising","     ""includes","
""including"," ""has"," ""having"," ""contains"," or " "containing"," or any other variation thereof,
are intended to be non-exclusive or open-ended. For example, a composition, a mixture, a process,
a method, an article, or an apparatus that comprises a list of elements is not necessarily limited to
only those elements but may include other elements not expressly listed or inherent to such
composition, mixture, process, method, article, or apparatus. Further, unless expressly stated to the
contrary, ""or"" refers to an inclusive or and not to an exclusive or. For example, a condition A or
B is satisfied by any one of the following: A is true (or present) and B is false (or not present), A is
false (or not present) and B is true (or present), and both A and B are true (or present).
         [0040] Also, the indefinite articles ""a"" and ""an"" preceding an element or component of
an embodiment of the disclosure are intended to be nonrestrictive regarding the number of
instances, i.e., occurrences of the element or component. Therefore ""a"" or ""an"" should be read
                                                     10

1002026714
to include one or at least one, and the singular word form of the element or component also includes
the plural unless the number is obviously meant to be singular.
         [0041] The term ""invention"" or ""present invention" as used herein is a non-limiting term
and is not intended to refer to any single embodiment of the particular invention but encompasses
all possible embodiments as disclosed in the application.
         [0042] The term "plant" as used herein includes, but is not limited to, any descendant, cell,
tissue, or part of a plant.
         [0043] Described herein are methods of identifying the presence of a donor DNA
polynucleotide inserted within a targeted genomic loci. DNA polynucleotides for insertion can also
be referred to, and are intended to include, as "exogenous"                polynucleotides,  "donor"
polynucleotides or "molecules" or "transgenes."
         [0044] In certain embodiments, the donor DNA polynucleotide includes sequences (e.g.,
coding sequences, also referred to as transgenes) greater than 1 kb in length, for example between 2
and 200 kb, between 2 and 10 kb (or any value therebetween). The donor DNA polynucleotide can
also include at least one site specific nuclease target site, for example at least one ZFN,
Meganuclease, CRISPR, or TALEN target site may be included in the donor DNA polynucleotide.
The donor DNA polynucleotide can include at least 1 target site, for example for a pair of ZFNs,
CRISPRs, or TALENs to recognize and bind and cleave. Typically, the nuclease target sites are
outside the transgene sequences, for example, 5' or 3' to the transgene sequences, for cleavage and
removal of the intervening transgene, if desired. The nuclease cleavage site(s) may be for any
nuclease(s). In certain embodiments, the nuclease target site(s) contained in the double-stranded
donor DNA polynucleotide are for the same nuclease(s) used to cleave the endogenous genomic
target into which the donor DNA polynucleotide is inserted.
         [0045] The transgenes comprised within the donor DNA polynucleotide sequences
described herein may be isolated from plasmids, cells or other sources using standard techniques
known in the art such as PCR. Donor DNA polynucleotide sequences for use can include varying
                                                   11

1002026714
types of topology, including circular supercoiled, circular relaxed, linear and the like. Alternatively,
they may be chemically synthesized using standard oligonucleotide synthesis techniques. In
addition, donor DNA polynucleotide sequences may be methylated or lack methylation. Donor
DNA polynucleotide sequences may be in the form of bacterial or yeast artificial chromosomes
(BACs or YACs), or as plasmid vectors. Donor DNA polynucleotide sequences may be from a T
strand which is introduced into a plant cell by Agrobacterium tumefaciens.
         [0046] The double-stranded donor DNA polynucleotides described herein may include one
or more non-natural bases and/or backbones. In particular, insertion of a donor DNA polynucleotide
sequence with methylated cytosines may be carried out using the methods described herein to
achieve a state of transcriptional quiescence in a region of interest.
         [0047] The donor DNA polynucleotide may comprise any exogenous sequence of interest.
Exemplary donor DNA polynucleotide sequences include, but are not limited to any polypeptide
coding sequence (e.g., cDNAs), promoter sequences, enhancer sequences, epitope tags, marker
genes, cleavage enzyme recognition sites and various types of expression constructs. Marker genes
include, but are not limited to, sequences encoding proteins that mediate herbicide resistance (e.g.,
HPPD resistance, 2,4-D resistance, glufosinate resistance, or glyphosate resistance, in addition to
other know herbicide resistance proteins), sequences encoding colored or fluorescent or luminescent
proteins (e.g., green fluorescent protein, enhanced green fluorescent protein, red fluorescent protein,
luciferase), and proteins which mediate enhanced cell growth and/or gene amplification (e.g.,
dihydrofolate reductase). Epitope tags include, for example, one or more copies of FLAG, HIS,
MYC, TAP, HA or any detectable amino acid sequence.
         [0048] The terms "polynucleotide," "nucleic acid," and "nucleic acid molecule" are
intended to encompass a singular nucleic acid as well as plural nucleic acids, a nucleic acid
fragment, variant, or derivative thereof, or construct, e.g., messenger RNA (mRNA) or plasmid
DNA (pDNA). A polynucleotide or nucleic acid can contain the nucleotide sequence of the full
length cDNA sequence, or a fragment thereof, including the untranslated 5' and 3' sequences and
                                                    12

1002026714
the coding sequences.    Unless specified otherwise, a polynucleotide or nucleic acid can be
composed of any polyribonucleotide or polydeoxyribonucleotide, which may be unmodified
RNA or DNA or modified RNA or DNA. For example, a polynucleotide or nucleic acid can be
composed of single- and double-stranded DNA, DNA that is a mixture of single- and double
stranded regions, single- and double-stranded RNA, and RNA that is mixture of single- and
double-stranded regions, hybrid molecules comprising DNA and RNA that may be single
stranded or, more typically, double-stranded or a mixture of single- and double-stranded regions.
These terms also embrace chemically, enzymatically, or metabolically modified forms of a
polynucleotide or nucleic acid.
        [0049] A polynucleotide or nucleic acid sequence can be referred to as "isolated," in
which it has been removed from its native environment.             For example, a heterologous
polynucleotide or nucleic acid encoding a polypeptide or polypeptide fragment having
glyphosate tolerance activity contained in a vector is considered isolated for the purposes of the
present disclosure.   Further examples of an isolated polynucleotide or nucleic acid include
recombinant polynucleotide maintained in heterologous host cells or a purified (partially or
substantially) polynucleotide or nucleic acid in solution. An isolated polynucleotide or nucleic
acid according to embodiments of the present disclosure further includes such molecules
produced synthetically. An isolated polynucleotide or nucleic acid in the form of a polymer of
DNA may be comprised of one or more segments of cDNA, genomic DNA or synthetic DNA.
        [0050] The term "gene" refers to a nucleic acid sequence encodes functional product
molecules, either RNA or protein, optionally including regulatory sequences preceding (5' non
coding sequences) and following (3' non-coding sequences) the coding sequence.
        [0051] As used herein the term "coding region" refers to a DNA sequence that codes for
a specific amino acid sequence. "Suitable regulatory sequences" refer to nucleotide sequences
located upstream (5' non-coding sequences), within, or downstream (3' non-coding sequences) of
a coding sequence, and which influence the transcription, RNA processing or stability, or
                                                13

1002026714
translation of the associated coding sequence.       Regulatory sequences can include promoters,
translation leader sequences, introns, polyadenylation recognition sequences, RNA processing
site, effector binding site and stem-loop structure.
         [0052] As used herein, the term "polypeptide" is intended to encompass a singular
"polypeptide" as well as plural "polypeptides" and fragments thereof, and refers to a molecule
composed of monomers (amino acids) linearly linked by amide bonds (also known as peptide
bonds). The term "polypeptide" refers to any chain or chains of two or more amino acids, and
does not refer to a specific length of the product.         Thus, peptides, dipeptides, tripeptides,
oligopeptides, "protein," "amino acid chain," or any other term used to refer to a chain or chains
of two or more amino acids, are included within the definition of "polypeptide," and the term
"polypeptide" can be used instead of, or interchangeably with any of these terms. A polypeptide
can be derived from a natural biological source or produced by recombinant technology, but is
not necessarily translated from a designated nucleic acid sequence. It can be generated in any
manner, including by chemical synthesis.
         [0053] By an "isolated" polypeptide or a fragment, variant, or derivative thereof is
intended a polypeptide that is not in its natural milieu. No particular level of purification is
required.    Thus, reference to "isolated" signifies the involvement of the "hand of man" as
described herein. For example, an isolated polypeptide can be removed from its native or natural
environment.     Recombinant polypeptides and proteins expressed in host cells are considered
isolated for purposes of the disclosure, as are native or recombinant polypeptides which have
been separated, fractionated, or partially or substantially purified by any suitable technique.
         [0054] As used herein, "native" refers to the form of a polynucleotide, gene or
polypeptide as found in nature with its own regulatory sequences, if present.
         [0055] As used herein, "endogenous" refers to the native form of a polynucleotide, gene
or polypeptide in its natural location in the organism or in the genome of an organism.
"Endogenous polynucleotide" includes a native polynucleotide in its natural location in the
                                                  14

1002026714
genome of an organism. "Endogenous gene" includes a native gene in its natural location in the
genome of an organism. "Endogenous polypeptide" includes a native polypeptide in its natural
location in the organism.
         [0056] As used herein, "heterologous" refers to a polynucleotide, gene or polypeptide not
normally found in the host organism but that is introduced into the host organism.
"Heterologous polynucleotide" includes a native coding region, or portion thereof, that is
reintroduced into the source organism in a form that is different from the corresponding native
polynucleotide. "Heterologous gene" includes a native coding region, or portion thereof, that is
reintroduced into the source organism in a form that is different from the corresponding native
gene. For example, a heterologous gene may include a native coding region that is a portion of a
chimeric gene including non-native regulatory regions that is reintroduced into the native host.
"Heterologous polypeptide" includes a native polypeptide that is reintroduced into the source
organism in a form that is different from the corresponding native polypeptide. The subject genes
and proteins can be fused to other genes and proteins to produce chimeric or fusion proteins. The
genes and proteins useful in accordance with embodiments of the subject disclosure include not
only the specifically exemplified full-length sequences, but also portions, segments and/or
fragments (including contiguous fragments and internal and/or terminal deletions compared to
the full-length molecules) of these sequences, variants, mutants, chimerics, and fusions thereof.
         [0057] In an embodiment, the donor DNA polynucleotide comprises a polynucleotide
encoding any polypeptide of which expression in the cell is desired, including, but not limited to a
gene expression cassette comprising promoters, 3' UTR's, herbicide resistance traits, insect
resistance traits, modified oil traits, agronomic traits, and functional fragments of any of the above.
The coding sequences may be, for example, cDNAs.
         [0058] The term "promoter" refers to a DNA sequence capable of controlling the
expression of a coding sequence or functional RNA. In general, a coding sequence is located 3'
to a promoter sequence. Promoters can be derived in their entirety from a native gene, or be
                                                    15

1002026714
composed of different elements derived from different promoters found in nature, or even
comprise synthetic DNA segments. It is understood by those skilled in the art that different
promoters can direct the expression of a gene in different tissues or cell types, or at different
stages of development, or in response to different environmental or physiological conditions.
Promoters which cause a gene to be expressed in most cell types at most times are commonly
referred to as "constitutive promoters." It is further recognized that since in most cases the exact
boundaries of regulatory sequences have not been completely defined, DNA fragments of
different lengths may have identical promoter activity.
        [0059] The term "operably linked" refers to the association of nucleic acid sequences on
a single nucleic acid fragment so that the function of one is affected by the other. For example, a
promoter is operably linked with a coding sequence when it is capable of effecting the
expression of that coding sequence (e.g., that the coding sequence is under the transcriptional
control of the promoter). Coding sequences can be operably linked to regulatory sequences in
sense or antisense orientation.
        [0060] The term "expression," as used herein, refers to the transcription and stable
accumulation of sense (mRNA) or antisense RNA derived from the nucleic acid fragment of
embodiments of the disclosure.       Expression may also refer to translation of mRNA into a
polypeptide.
        [0061] The term "overexpression" as used herein, refers to expression that is higher than
endogenous expression of the same or related gene. A heterologous gene is overexpressed if its
expression is higher than that of a comparable endogenous gene.
        [0062] As used herein the term "transformation" refers to the transfer and integration of a
nucleic acid or fragment into a host organism, resulting in genetically stable inheritance. Host
organisms containing the transformed nucleic acid fragments are referred to as "transgenic" or
"recombinant" or "transformed" organisms.           Known methods of        transformation include
Agrobacterium tumefaciens- or Agrobacterium rhizogenes-mediated transformation, calcium
                                                  16

1002026714
phosphate     transformation,  polybrene     transformation,  protoplast   fusion,  electroporation,
ultrasonic methods (e.g., sonoporation), liposome transformation, microinjection, naked DNA,
plasmid vectors, viral vectors,       biolistics (microparticle bombardment),       silicon carbide
WHISKERSTM         mediated transformation, aerosol beaming, or PEG transformation as well as
other possible methods.
         [0063] The terms "plasmid" and "vector" as used herein, refer to an extra chromosomal
element often carrying genes which are not part of the central metabolism of the cell, and usually
in the form of circular double-stranded DNA molecules. Such elements may be autonomously
replicating sequences, genome integrating sequences, phage or nucleotide sequences, linear or
circular, of a single- or double-stranded DNA or RNA, derived from any source, in which a
number of nucleotide sequences have been joined or recombined into a unique construction
which is capable of introducing a promoter fragment and DNA sequence for a selected gene
product along with appropriate 3' untranslated sequence into a cell.
         [0064] As used herein the term "codon degeneracy" refers to the nature in the genetic
code permitting variation of the nucleotide sequence without affecting the amino acid sequence
of an encoded polypeptide. The skilled artisan is well aware of the "codon-bias" exhibited by a
specific host cell in usage of nucleotide codons to specify a given amino acid. Therefore, when
synthesizing a gene for improved expression in a host cell, it is desirable to design the gene such
that its frequency of codon usage approaches the frequency of preferred codon usage of the host
cell.
         [0065] The term "codon-optimized" as it refers to genes or coding regions of nucleic acid
molecules for transformation of various hosts, refers to the alteration of codons in the gene or
coding regions of the nucleic acid molecules to reflect the typical codon usage of the host
organism without altering the polypeptide encoded by the DNA.           Such optimization includes
replacing at least one, or more than one, or a significant number, of codons with one or more
codons that are more frequently used in the genes of that organism.
                                                   17

1002026714
        [0066] The term "percent identity" (or "% identity"), as known in the art, is a relationship
between two or more polypeptide sequences or two or more polynucleotide sequences, as
determined by comparing the sequences. In the art, "identity" also means the degree of sequence
relatedness between polypeptide or polynucleotide sequences, as the case may be, as determined
by the match between strings of such sequences.       "Identity" and "similarity" can be readily
calculated by known methods, including but not limited to those disclosed in: 1.) Computational
Molecular Biology (Lesk, A. M., Ed.) Oxford University: NY (1988); 2.) Biocomputing:
Informatics and Genome Projects (Smith, D. W., Ed.) Academic: NY (1993); 3.) Computer
Analysis of Sequence Data,PartI (Griffin, A. M., and Griffin, H. G., Eds.) Humania: NJ (1994);
4.) Sequence Analysis in Molecular Biology (von Heinje, G., Ed.) Academic (1987); and
5.) Sequence Analysis Primer(Gribskov, M. and Devereux, J., Eds.) Stockton: NY (1991).
        [0067] Techniques for determining nucleic acid and amino acid sequence identity are
known in the art. Typically, such techniques include determining the nucleotide sequence of the
mRNA for a gene and/or determining the amino acid sequence encoded thereby, and comparing
these sequences to a second nucleotide or amino acid sequence. Genomic sequences can also be
determined and compared in this fashion. In general, identity refers to an exact nucleotide-to
nucleotide or amino acid-to-amino acid correspondence of two polynucleotides or polypeptide
sequences, respectively.    Two or more sequences (polynucleotide or amino acid) can be
compared by determining their percent identity. The percent identity of two sequences, whether
nucleic acid or amino acid sequences, is the number of exact matches between two aligned
sequences divided by the length of the shorter sequences and multiplied by 100. See Russell, R.,
and Barton, G., "Structural Features can be Unconserved in Proteins with Similar Folds," J. Mol.
Biol. 244, 332-350 (1994), at p. 337, which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.
        [0068] In addition, methods to determine identity and similarity are codified in publicly
available computer programs.      Sequence alignments and percent identity calculations can be
performed, for example, using the AlignX program of the VECTOR NTI" suite (Invitrogen,
                                                 18

1002026714
Carlsbad, CA) or MEGALIGN T M program of the LASERGENE TM bioinformatics computing
suite (DNASTAR Inc., Madison, WI). Multiple alignment of the sequences is performed using
the "Clustal method of alignment" which encompasses several varieties of the algorithm
including the "Clustal V method of alignment" corresponding to the alignment method labeled
Clustal V (disclosed by Higgins and Sharp, CABIOS. 5:151-153 (1989); Higgins, D.G. et al.,
Comput. Apple. Biosci., 8:189-191 (1992)) and found in the MEGALIGNTM program of the
LASERGENE TM bioinformatics computing suite (DNASTAR Inc.). For multiple alignments, the
default values correspond to GAP PENALTY= 10 and GAP LENGTH PENALTY= 10. Default
parameters for pairwise alignments and calculation of percent identity of protein sequences using
the Clustal method are KTUPLE=1, GAP PENALTY=3, WINDOW=5 and DIAGONALS
SAVED=5.       For nucleic acids these parameters         are KTUPLE=2, GAP PENALTY=5,
WINDOW=4 and DIAGONALS SAVED=4. After alignment of the sequences using the Clustal
V program, it is possible to obtain a "percent identity" by viewing the "sequence distances" table
in the same program.      Additionally the "Clustal W method of alignment" is available and
corresponds to the alignment method labeled Clustal W (described by Higgins and Sharp,
CABIOS. 5:151-153 (1989); Higgins, D.G. et al., Comput. Apple. Biosci. 8:189-191(1992)) and
found in the MEGALIGN TM v6.1 program of the LASERGENE TM bioinformatics computing
suite (DNASTAR Inc.). Default parameters for multiple alignment (GAP PENALTY= 10, GAP
LENGTH PENALTY=0.2, Delay Divergen Seqs(%)=30, DNA Transition Weight=0.5, Protein
Weight Matrix=Gonnet Series, DNA Weight Matrix=IUB ). After alignment of the sequences
using the Clustal W program, it is possible to obtain a "percent identity" by viewing the
"sequence distances" table in the same program.
        [0069] The nucleic acid probes and primers of embodiments of the present disclosure can
hybridize under hybridization conditions to a target DNA sequence within an amplification
reaction. Any conventional nucleic acid hybridization or amplification method can be used to
identify the presence of donor DNA polynucleotide inserted within a targeted genomic locus.
                                                 19

1002026714
Nucleic acid molecules, oligonucleotides or fragments thereof are capable of specifically
hybridizing to other nucleic acid molecules under certain conditions.         As used herein, two
nucleic acid molecules are said to be capable of specifically hybridizing to one another if the two
molecules are capable of forming an anti-parallel, double-stranded nucleic acid structure.        A
nucleic acid molecule is said to be the "complement" of another nucleic acid molecule if the two
nucleic acid molecules exhibit complete complementarity. As used herein, molecules are said to
exhibit "complete complementarity" when every nucleotide of one of the molecules is
complementary to a nucleotide of the other. Molecules that exhibit complete complementarity
will generally hybridize to one another with sufficient stability to permit them to remain
annealed to one another under conventional "high-stringency" conditions. Conventional high
stringency conditions are described by Sambrook et al., 1989.
        [0070] Two molecules are said to exhibit "minimal complementarity" if they can
hybridize to one another with sufficient stability to permit them to remain annealed to one
another under at least conventional "low-stringency" conditions. Conventional low-stringency
conditions are described by Sambrook et al., 1989. In order for a nucleic acid molecule to serve
as a primer or probe, it need only exhibit the minimal complementarity of sequence to be able to
form a stable double-stranded structure under the particular solvent and salt concentrations
employed.
        [0071] Factors that affect the stringency of hybridization are well-known to those of skill
in the art and include, but are not limited to, temperature, pH, ionic strength, and concentration
of organic solvents such as, for example, formamide and dimethyl sulfoxide. As is known to
those of skill in the art, hybridization stringency is increased by higher temperatures, lower ionic
strength and lower solvent concentrations.
        [0072] The term "stringent condition" or "stringency conditions" is functionally defined
with regard to the hybridization of a nucleic-acid probe to a target nucleic acid (i.e., to a
                                                  20

1002026714
particular nucleic-acid sequence of interest) by the specific hybridization procedure discussed in
Sambrook et al., 1989.
        [0073] Typically, stringent conditions will be those in which the salt concentration is less
than about 1.5 M Na+ ion, typically about 0.01 to 1.0 M Na+ ion concentration (or other salts) at
pH 7.0 to 8.3 and the temperature is at least about 30'C for short probes (e.g., 10 to 50
nucleotides) and at least about 60'C for long probes (e.g., greater than 50 nucleotides). Stringent
conditions may also be achieved with the addition of destabilizing agents such as formamide.
Exemplary low stringency conditions include hybridization with a buffer solution of 30 to 35%
formamide, 1.0 M NaCl, 0.1% SDS (sodium dodecyl sulfate) at 37'C, and a wash in 1X to 2X
SSC (20X SSC=3.0 M NaCl/0.3 M trisodium citrate) at 50 to 55'C. Exemplary moderate
stringency conditions include hybridization in 40 to 45% formamide, 1.0 M NaCl, 0.1% SDS at
37'C, and a wash in 0.5X to 1X SSC at 55 to 60'C. Exemplary high stringency conditions
include hybridization in 50% formamide, 1.0 M NaCl, 0.1% SDS at 37'C, and a wash in 0.1X
SSC at 60 to 65'C.
        [0074] Specificity is typically a function of post-hybridization washes, the critical factors
being the ionic strength and temperature of the final wash solution. For DNA-DNA hybrids, the
Tm can be approximated from the equation Tm      = 81.5'C+16.6 (logM)+0.41((%GC)-0.61((%form.)
500/L, where M is the molarity of monovalent cations, %GC is the percentage of guanosine and
cytosine nucleotides in the DNA, % form. is the percentage of formamide in the hybridization
solution, and L is the length of the hybrid in base pairs (Meinkoth and Wahl, 1984). The Tm is
the temperature (under defined ionic strength and pH) at which 50% of a complementary target
sequence hybridizes to a perfectly matched probe. Tm is reduced by about 1C for each 1% of
mismatching; thus, Tm, hybridization, and/or wash conditions can be adjusted for sequences of
the desired identity to hybridize. For example, if sequences with 90% identity are sought, the Tm
can be decreased 100 C. Generally, stringent conditions are selected to be about 5'C lower than
the thermal melting point (Tm) for the specific sequence and its complement at a defined ionic
                                                  21

1002026714
strength and pH. However, severely stringent conditions can utilize a hybridization and/or wash
at 1, 2, 3, or 4'C lower than the thermal melting point (Tm); moderately stringent conditions can
utilize a hybridization and/or wash at 6, 7, 8, 9, or 100C lower than the thermal melting point
(Tm); low stringency conditions can utilize a hybridization and/or wash at 11 to 20'C lower than
the thermal melting point (Tm). Using the equation, hybridization and wash compositions, and
desired Tm, those of ordinary skill will understand that variations in the stringency of
hybridization and/or wash solutions are inherently described. If the desired degree of
mismatching results in a Tm of less than 45'C (aqueous solution) or 32'C (formamide solution),
it is preferred to increase the SSC concentration so that a higher temperature can be used. An
extensive guide to the hybridization of nucleic acids is found (1997) Ausubel et al., Short
Protocols in Molecular Biology, pages 2-40, 3rd Ed. (1997) and Sambrook et al. (1989).
         [0075] In an embodiment, the subject disclosure relates to the introduction of a donor
DNA polynucleotide which is inserted within a targeted genome locus. Standard recombinant
DNA and molecular cloning techniques for the construction of a donor DNA polynucleotide that
as an embodiment comprises a gene expression cassette as used here are well known in the art
and are described, e.g., by Sambrook et al., Molecular Cloning: A Laboratory Manual, Second
Edition, Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press, Cold Spring Harbor, NY (1989); and by Silhavy
et al., Experiments with Gene Fusions, Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press, Cold Spring
Harbor, NY (1984); and by Ausubel et al., CurrentProtocols in Molecular Biology, published by
Greene Publishing Assoc. and Wiley-Interscience (1987).
         [0076] In methods disclosed herein, a number of promoters that direct expression of a
gene in a plant can be employed. Such promoters can be selected from constitutive, chemically
regulated, inducible, tissue-specific, and seed-preferred promoters. The promoter used to direct
expression of a nucleic acid depends on the particular application.        For example, a strong
constitutive promoter suited to the host cell is typically used for expression and purification of
expressed proteins.
                                                 22

1002026714
        [0077] Non-limiting examples of preferred plant promoters include promoter sequences
derived from A. thalianaubiquitin-10 (ubi-10) (Callis, et al., 1990, J. Biol. Chem., 265:12486
12493); A. tumefaciens mannopine synthase (Amas) (Petolino et al., U.S. Patent No. 6,730,824);
and/or Cassava Vein Mosaic Virus (CsVMV) (Verdaguer et al., 1996, Plant Molecular Biology
31:1129-1139). Other constitutive promoters include, for example, the core Cauliflower Mosaic
Virus 35S promoter (Odell et al. (1985) Nature 313:810-812); Rice Actin promoter (McElroy et
al. (1990) Plant Cell 2:163-171); Maize Ubiquitin promoter (U.S. Patent Number 5,510,474;
Christensen et al. (1989) Plant Mol. Biol. 12:619-632 and Christensen et al. (1992) Plant Mol.
Biol. 18:675-689); pEMU promoter (Last et al. (1991) Theor. Appl. Genet. 81:581-588); ALS
promoter (U.S. Patent Number 5,659,026); Maize Histone promoter (Chabout6 et al. Plant
Molecular Biology, 8:179-191 (1987)); and the like.
        [0078] Other applicable plant promoters include tissue specific and inducible promoters.
An inducible promoter is one that is capable of directly or indirectly activating transcription of
one or more DNA sequences or genes in response to an inducer. In the absence of an inducer the
DNA sequences or genes will not be transcribed. Typically, the protein factor that binds
specifically to an inducible regulatory element to activate transcription is present in an inactive
form which is then directly or indirectly converted to the active form by the inducer. The inducer
can be a chemical agent such as a protein, metabolite, growth regulator, herbicide or phenolic
compound or a physiological stress imposed directly by heat, cold, salt, or toxic elements or
indirectly through the action of a pathogen or disease agent such as a virus. Typically the protein
factor that binds specifically to an inducible regulatory element to activate transcription is
present in an inactive form which is then directly or indirectly converted to the active form by
the inducer. The inducer can be a chemical agent such as a protein, metabolite, growth regulator,
herbicide or phenolic compound or a physiological stress imposed directly by heat, cold, salt, or
toxic elements or indirectly through the action of a pathogen or disease agent such as a virus. A
plant cell containing an inducible regulatory element may be exposed to an inducer by externally
                                                 23

1002026714
applying the inducer to the cell or plant such as by spraying, watering, heating or similar
methods.
        [0079] Any inducible promoter can be used in embodiments of the instant disclosure. See
Ward et al., Plant Mol. Biol. 22: 361-366 (1993). Exemplary inducible promoters include
ecdysone receptor promoters (U.S. Patent No. 6,504,082); promoters from the ACEl system
which respond to copper (Mett et al., Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. 90: 4567-4571 (1993)); In2-1 and
In2-2 gene from maize which respond to benzenesulfonamide herbicide safeners (U.S. Patent
No. 5,364,780; Hershey et al., Mol. Gen. Genetics 227: 229-237 (1991) and Gatz et al., Mol.
Gen. Genetics 243: 32-38 (1994)); Tet repressor from Tn10 (Gatz et al., Mol. Gen. Genet. 227:
229-237 (1991); or promoters from a steroid hormone gene, the transcriptional activity of which
is induced by a glucocorticosteroid hormone, Schena et al., Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 88:
10421 (1991) and McNellis et al., (1998) Plant J. 14(2):247-257; the maize GST promoter,
which is activated by hydrophobic electrophilic compounds that are used as pre-emergent
herbicides (see U.S. Patent No. 5,965,387 and International Patent Application, Publication No.
WO 93/001294); and the tobacco PR-la promoter, which is activated by salicylic acid (see Ono
S, Kusama M, Ogura R, Hiratsuka K., "Evaluation of the Use of the Tobacco PR-la Promoter to
Monitor Defense Gene Expression by the Luciferase Bioluminescence Reporter System," Biosci
Biotechnol Biochem. 2011 Sep 23;75(9):1796-800).          Other chemical-regulated promoters of
interest include tetracycline-inducible and tetracycline-repressible promoters (see, for example,
Gatz et al., (1991) Mol. Gen. Genet. 227:229-237, and U.S. Patent Numbers 5,814,618 and
5,789,156).
        [0080] Other regulatable promoters of interest include a cold responsive regulatory
element or a heat shock regulatory element, the transcription of which can be effected in
response to exposure to cold or heat, respectively (Takahashi et al., Plant Physiol. 99:383-390,
1992); the promoter of the alcohol dehydrogenase gene (Gerlach et al., PNAS USA 79:2981
2985 (1982); Walker et al., PNAS 84(19):6624-6628 (1987)), inducible by anaerobic conditions;
                                                 24

1002026714
and the light-inducible promoter derived from the pea rbcS gene or pea psaDb gene (Yamamoto
et al., (1997) Plant J. 12(2):255-265); a light-inducible regulatory element (Feinbaum et al., Mol.
Gen. Genet. 226:449, 1991; Lam and Chua, Science 248:471, 1990; Matsuoka et al. (1993) Proc.
Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 90(20):9586-9590; Orozco et al. (1993) Plant Mol. Bio. 23(6):1129-1138),
a plant hormone inducible regulatory element (Yamaguchi-Shinozaki et al., Plant Mol. Biol.
15:905, 1990; Kares et al., Plant Mol. Biol. 15:225, 1990), and the like. An inducible regulatory
element also can be the promoter of the maize In2-1 or In2-2 gene, which responds to
benzenesulfonamide herbicide safeners (Hershey et al., Mol. Gen. Gene. 227:229-237, 1991;
Gatz et al., Mol. Gen. Genet. 243:32-38, 1994), and the Tet repressor of transposon Tn10 (Gatz
et al., Mol. Gen. Genet. 227:229-237, 1991).         Stress inducible promoters include salt/water
stress-inducible promoters such as P5CS (Zang et al., (1997) Plant Sciences 129:81-89); cold
inducible promoters, such as, cor15a (Hajela et al., (1990) Plant Physiol. 93:1246-1252), corl5b
(Wilhelm et al., (1993) Plant Mol Biol 23:1073-1077), wscl (Ouellet et al., (1998) FEBS Lett.
423-324-328), ci7 (Kirch et al., (1997) Plant Mol Biol. 33:897-909), ci2lA (Schneider et al.,
(1997) Plant Physiol. 113:335-45); drought-inducible promoters, such as Trg-31 (Chaudhary et
al., (1996) Plant Mol. Biol. 30:1247-57), rd29 (Kasuga et al., (1999) Nature Biotechnology
18:287-291); osmotic inducible promoters, such as Rabl7 (Vilardell et al., (1991) Plant Mol.
Biol. 17:985-93) and osmotin (Raghothama et al., (1993) Plant Mol Biol 23:1117-28); and heat
inducible promoters, such as heat shock proteins (Barros et al., (1992) Plant Mol. 19:665-75;
Marrs et al., (1993) Dev. Genet. 14:27-41), smHSP (Waters et al., (1996) J. Experimental
Botany 47:325-338), and the heat-shock inducible element from the parsley ubiquitin promoter
(WO 03/102198). Other stress-inducible promoters include rip2 (U.S. Patent No. 5,332,808 and
U.S. Publication No. 2003/0217393) and rd29a (Yamaguchi-Shinozaki et al., (1993) Mol. Gen.
Genetics 236:331-340).         Certain promoters     are inducible by wounding, including the
Agrobacterium pMAS promoter (Guevara-Garcia et al., (1993) Plant J. 4(3):495-505) and the
Agrobacterium ORF13 promoter (Hansen et al., (1997) Mol. Gen. Genet. 254(3):337-343).
                                                  25

1002026714
        [0081] Tissue-preferred promoters can be utilized to target enhanced transcription and/or
expression within a particular plant tissue. When referring to preferential expression, what is
meant is expression at a higher level in the particular plant tissue than in other plant tissue.
Examples of these types of promoters include seed preferred expression such as that provided by
the phaseolin promoter (Bustos et al., (1989) The Plant Cell Vol. 1, 839-853), and the maize
globulin-i gene (Belanger, et al. (1991)      Genetics 129:863-972). For dicots, seed-preferred
promoters include, but are not limited to, bean P-phaseolin, napin,   p-conglycinin, soybean lectin,
cruciferin, and the like. For monocots, seed-preferred promoters include, but are not limited to,
maize 15 kDa zein, 22 kDa zein, 27 kDa zein, 7-zein, waxy, shrunken 1, shrunken 2, globulin 1,
etc.   Seed-preferred promoters also include those promoters that direct gene expression
predominantly to specific tissues within the seed such as, for example, the endosperm-preferred
promoter of -- zein, the cryptic promoter from tobacco (Fobert et al., (1994) T-DNA tagging of a
seed coat-specific cryptic promoter in tobacco. Plant J. 4: 567-577), the P-gene promoter from
corn (Chopra et al., (1996) Alleles of the maize P gene with distinct tissue specificities encode
Myb-homologous proteins with C-terminal replacements. Plant Cell 7:1149-1158, Erratum in
Plant Cell.1997, 1:109), the globulin-I promoter from corn (Belenger and Kriz (1991) Molecular
basis for Allelic Polymorphism of the maize Globulin-i gene. Genetics 129: 863-972), and
promoters that direct expression to the seed coat or hull of corn kernels, for example the
pericarp-specific glutamine synthetase promoter (Muhitch et al., (2002) Isolation of a Promoter
Sequence From the Glutamine Synthetasep 2 Gene Capable of Conferring Tissue-Specific Gene
Expression in Transgenic Maize. Plant Science 163:865-872).
        [0082] In addition to the promoter, the expression vector typically              contains a
transcription unit or expression cassette that contains all the additional elements required for the
expression of the nucleic acid in host cells, either prokaryotic or eukaryotic.           A typical
expression cassette thus contains a promoter operably linked, e.g., to a nucleic acid sequence
encoding the protein, and signals required, e.g., for efficient polyadenylation of the transcript,
                                                 26

1002026714
transcriptional termination, ribosome binding sites, or translation termination.        Additional
elements of the cassette may include, e.g., enhancers and heterologous splicing signals.
         [0083] Other components of the vector may be included, also depending upon intended
use of the gene. Examples include selectable markers, targeting or regulatory sequences, transit
peptide sequences such as the optimized transit peptide sequence (see U.S. Patent No. 5,510,471)
stabilizing sequences such as RB7 MAR (see Thompson and Myatt, (1997) PlantMol. Biol., 34:
687-692 and International Patent Publication No. W09727207) or leader sequences, introns etc.
General descriptions and examples of plant expression vectors and reporter genes can be found
in Gruber, et al., "Vectors for Plant Transformation" in Methods in Plant Molecular Biology and
Biotechnology, Glick et al eds; CRC Press pp. 89-119 (1993).       The selection of an appropriate
expression vector will depend upon the host and the method of introducing the expression vector
into the host. The expression cassette will also include at the 3' terminus of the heterologous
nucleotide sequence of interest, a transcriptional and translational termination region functional
in plants.   The termination region can be native with the promoter nucleotide sequence of
embodiments of the present disclosure, can be native with the DNA sequence of interest, or can
be derived from another source.       Convenient termination regions are available from the Ti
plasmid of A. tumefaciens, such as the octopine synthase and nopaline synthase (nos) termination
regions (Depicker et al., Mol. and Appl. Genet. 1:561-573 (1982) and Shaw et al. (1984) Nucleic
Acids Research vol. 12, No. 20 pp7831-7846(nos)); see also Guerineau et al. Mol. Gen. Genet.
262:141-144 (1991); Proudfoot, Cell 64:671-674 (1991); Sanfacon et al. Genes Dev. 5:141-149
(1991); Mogen et al. Plant Cell 2:1261-1272 (1990); Munroe et al. Gene 91:151-158 (1990);
Ballas et al., Nucleic Acids Res. 17:7891-7903 (1989); Joshi et al. Nucleic Acid Res. 15:9627
9639 (1987).
         [0084] The expression cassettes can additionally contain 5' leader sequences.        Such
leader sequences can act to enhance translation. Translation leaders are known in the art and
include by way of example, picornavirus leaders, EMCV leader (Encephalomyocarditis 5'
                                                27

1002026714
noncoding region), Elroy-Stein et al., Proc. Nat. Acad. Sci. USA 86:6126-6130 (1989); potyvirus
leaders, for example, TEV leader (Tobacco Etch Virus) Carrington and Freed Journal of
Virology, 64:1590-1597 (1990), MDMV leader (Maize Dwarf Mosaic Virus), Allison et al.,
Virology 154:9-20 (1986); human immunoglobulin heavy-chain binding protein (BiP), Macejak
et al., Nature 353:90-94 (1991); untranslated leader from the coat protein mRNA of alfalfa
mosaic virus (AMV RNA 4), Jobling et al., Nature 325:622-625 (1987); Tobacco mosaic virus
leader (TMV), Gallie et al., (1989) Molecular Biology of RNA, pages 237-256; and maize
chlorotic mottle virus leader (MCMV) Lommel et al., Virology 81:382-385 (1991).               See also
Della-Cioppa et al., Plant Physiology 84:965-968 (1987).
         [0085] The construct can also contain sequences that enhance translation and/or mRNA
stability such as introns. An example of one such intron is the first intron of gene II of the histone
H3.III variant of Arabidopsis thaliana. Chaubet et al., Journal of Molecular Biology, 225:569
574 (1992).
         [0086] In those instances where it is desirable to have the expressed product of the
heterologous nucleotide sequence directed to a particular organelle, particularly the plastid,
amyloplast, or to the endoplasmic reticulum, or secreted at the cell's surface or extracellularly,
the expression cassette can further comprise a coding sequence for a transit peptide. Such transit
peptides are well known in the art and include, but are not limited to, the transit peptide for the
acyl carrier protein, the small subunit of RUBISCO, plant EPSP synthase and Helianthus annuus
(U.S. Patent No. 5,510,417), Zea mays Brittle-i chloroplast transit peptide (Nelson et al., Plant
Physiol 117(4):1235-1252 (1998); Sullivan et al., Plant Cell 3(12):1337-48; Sullivan et al.,
Planta (1995) 196(3):477-84; Sullivan et al., J. Biol. Chem. (1992) 267(26):18999-9004) and the
like.   In addition, chimeric chloroplast transit peptides are known in the art, such as the
Optimized Transit Peptide (U.S. Patent No. 5,510,471). Additional chloroplast transit peptides
have been described previously in U.S. Patents No. 5,717,084 and U.S. Patent No. 5,728,925.
One skilled in the art will readily appreciate the many options available in expressing a product
                                                 28

1002026714
to a particular organelle. For example, the barley alpha amylase sequence is often used to direct
expression to the endoplasmic reticulum (Rogers, J. Biol. Chem. 260:3731-3738 (1985)).
         [0087] It will be appreciated by one skilled in the art that use of recombinant DNA
technologies can improve control of expression of transfected nucleic acid molecules by
manipulating, for example, the number of copies of the nucleic acid molecules within the host
cell, the efficiency with which those nucleic acid molecules are transcribed, the efficiency with
which the resultant transcripts are translated, and the efficiency          of post-translational
modifications. Additionally, the promoter sequence might be genetically engineered to improve
the level of expression as compared to the native promoter. Recombinant techniques useful for
controlling the expression of nucleic acid molecules include, but are not limited to, stable
integration of the nucleic acid molecules into one or more host cell chromosomes, addition of
vector stability sequences to plasmids, substitutions or modifications of transcription control
signals (e.g., promoters, operators, enhancers), substitutions or modifications of translational
control signals (e.g., ribosome binding sites, Shine-Dalgarno or Kozak sequences), modification
of nucleic acid molecules to correspond to the codon usage of the host cell, and deletion of
sequences that destabilize transcripts.
         [0088] Reporter or marker genes for selection of transformed cells or tissues or plant
parts or plants can be included in the transformation vectors. Examples of selectable markers
include those that confer resistance to anti-metabolites such as herbicides or antibiotics, for
example, dihydrofolate reductase, which confers resistance to methotrexate (Reiss, Plant Physiol.
(Life Sci. Adv.) 13:143-149, 1994; see also Herrera Estrella et al., Nature 303:209-213, (1983);
Meijer et al., Plant Mol. Biol. 16:807-820, (1991)); neomycin phosphotransferase, which confers
resistance to the aminoglycosides neomycin, kanamycin and paromycin (Herrera-Estrella,
EMBO J. 2:987-995, 1983 and Fraley et al., Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci USA 80:4803 (1983)) and
hygromycin phosphotransferase, which confers resistance to hygromycin (Marsh, Gene 32:481
485, (1984); see also Waldron et al., Plant Mol. Biol. 5:103-108, (1985); Zhijian et al., Plant
                                                29

1002026714
Science 108:219-227, (1995)); trpB, which allows cells to utilize indole in place of tryptophan;
hisD, which allows cells to utilize histinol in place of histidine (Hartman, Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci.,
USA 85:8047, (1988)); mannose-6-phosphate isomerase which allows cells to utilize mannose
(International Patent Application No. WO 94/20627); ornithine decarboxylase, which confers
resistance to the ornithine decarboxylase inhibitor, 2-(difluoromethyl)-DL-ornithine (DFMO;
McConlogue, 1987, In: Current Communications in Molecular Biology, Cold Spring Harbor
Laboratory ed.); and deaminase from Aspergillus terreus, which confers resistance to Blasticidin
S (Tamura, Biosci. Biotechnol. Biochem. 59:2336-2338, (1995)).
        [0089] Additional selectable markers include, for example, a mutant acetolactate
synthase, which confers imidazolinone or sulfonylurea resistance (Lee et al., EMBO J. 7:1241
1248, (1988)), a mutant psbA, which confers resistance to atrazine (Smeda et al., Plant Physiol.
103:911-917, (1993)), or a mutant protoporphyrinogen oxidase (see U.S. Patent No. 5,767,373),
or other markers conferring resistance to an herbicide such as glufosinate. Examples of suitable
selectable marker genes include, but are not limited to, genes encoding resistance to
chloramphenicol (Herrera Estrella et al., EMBO J. 2:987-992, (1983)); streptomycin (Jones et
al., Mol. Gen. Genet. 210:86-91, (1987)); spectinomycin (Bretagne-Sagnard et al., Transgenic
Res. 5:131-137, (1996)); bleomycin (Hille et al., Plant Mol. Biol. 7:171-176, (1990));
sulfonamide (Guerineau et al., Plant Mol. Biol. 15:127-136, (1990)); bromoxynil (Stalker et al.,
Science 242:419-423, (1988));       glyphosate    (Shaw et al., Science 233:478-481,       (1986));
phosphinothricin (DeBlock et al., EMBO J. 6:2513-2518, (1987)), and the like.
        [0090] One option for use of a selective gene is a glufosinate-resistance encoding DNA
and in one embodiment can be the phosphinothricin acetyl transferase (pat), maize optimized pat
gene or bar gene under the control of the Cassava Vein Mosaic Virus promoter. These genes
confer resistance to bialaphos. See, (see, Wohlleben et al., (1988) Gene 70: 25-37); Gordon
Kamm et al., Plant Cell 2:603; 1990; Uchimiya et al., BioTechnology 11:835, 1993; White et al.,
Nucl. Acids Res. 18:1062, 1990; Spencer et al., Theor. Appl. Genet. 79:625-631, 1990; and
                                                  30

1002026714
Anzai et al., Mol. Gen. Gen. 219:492, 1989). A version of the pat gene is the maize optimized
pat gene, described in U.S. Patent No. 6,096,947.
        [0091] In addition, markers that facilitate identification of a plant cell containing the
polynucleotide encoding the marker may be employed.          Scorable or screenable markers are
useful, where presence of the sequence produces a measurable product and can produce the
product without destruction of the plant cell. Examples include a P-glucuronidase, or uidA gene
(GUS), which encodes an enzyme for which various chromogenic substrates are known (for
example, U.S. Patent Nos. 5,268,463        and 5,599,670); chloramphenicol acetyl transferase
(Jefferson et al. The EMBO Journal vol. 6 No. 13 pp. 3901-3907); and alkaline phosphatase. In a
preferred embodiment, the marker used is beta-carotene or provitamin A (Ye et al., Science
287:303-305- (2000)).     The gene has been used to enhance the nutrition of rice, but in this
instance it is employed instead as a screenable marker, and the presence of the gene linked to a
gene of interest is detected by the golden color provided. Unlike the situation where the gene is
used for its nutritional contribution to the plant, a smaller amount of the protein suffices for
marking purposes. Other screenable markers include the anthocyanin/flavonoid genes in general
(See discussion at Taylor and Briggs, The Plant Cell (1990)2:115-127) including, for example, a
R-locus gene, which encodes a product that regulates the production of anthocyanin pigments
(red color) in plant tissues (Dellaporta et al., in Chromosome Structure and Function, Kluwer
Academic Publishers, Appels and Gustafson eds., pp. 263-282 (1988)); the genes which control
biosynthesis of flavonoid pigments, such as the maize C1 gene (Kao et al., Plant Cell (1996) 8:
1171-1179; Scheffler et al., Mol. Gen. Genet. (1994) 242:40-48) and maize C2 (Wienand et al.,
Mol. Gen. Genet. (1986) 203:202-207); the B gene (Chandler et al., Plant Cell (1989) 1:1175
1183), the p1 gene (Grotewold et al.,       Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci USA (1991)       88:4587-4591;
Grotewold et al., Cell (1994) 76:543-553; Sidorenko et al., Plant Mol. Biol. (1999)39:11-19);
the bronze locus genes (Ralston et al., Genetics (1988) 119:185-197; Nash et al., Plant Cell
(1990) 2(11): 1039-1049), among others.
                                                 31

1002026714
        [0092] Further examples of suitable markers include the cyan fluorescent protein (CYP)
gene (Bolte et al., (2004) J. Cell Science 117: 943-54 and Kato et al., (2002) Plant Physiol 129:
913-42), the yellow fluorescent protein gene (PHIYFP TM from Evrogen; see Bolte et al., (2004) J.
Cell Science 117: 943-54); a lux gene, which encodes a luciferase, the presence of which may be
detected using, for example, X-ray film, scintillation counting, fluorescent spectrophotometry,
low-light video cameras, photon counting cameras or multiwell luminometry (Teeri et al. (1989)
EMBO J. 8:343); a green fluorescent protein (GFP) gene (Sheen et al., Plant J. (1995) 8(5):777
84); and DsRed2 where plant cells transformed with the marker gene are red in color, and thus
visually selectable (Dietrich et al., (2002) Biotechniques 2(2):286-293).   Additional examples
include a B-lactamase gene (Sutcliffe, Proc. Nat'l. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. (1978) 75:3737), which
encodes an enzyme for which various chromogenic substrates are known (e.g., PADAC, a
chromogenic cephalosporin); a xylE gene (Zukowsky et al., Proc. Nat'l. Acad. Sci. U.S.A.
(1983) 80:1101), which encodes a catechol dioxygenase that can convert chromogenic catechols;
an u-amylase gene (Ikuta et al., Biotech. (1990) 8:241); and a tyrosinase gene (Katz et al., J.
Gen. Microbiol. (1983) 129:2703), which encodes an enzyme capable of oxidizing tyrosine to
DOPA and dopaquinone, which in turn condenses to form the easily detectable compound
melanin. Clearly, many such markers are available and known to one skilled in the art.
        [0093] In certain embodiments, the nucleotide sequence can be optionally combined with
another nucleotide sequence of interest. The term "nucleotide sequence of interest" refers to a
nucleic acid molecule (which may also be referred to as a polynucleotide) which can be a
transcribed RNA molecule as well as DNA molecule, that encodes for a desired polypeptide or
protein, but also may refer to nucleic acid molecules that do not constitute an entire gene, and
which do not necessarily encode a polypeptide or protein (e.g., a promoter). For example, in
certain embodiments the nucleic acid molecule can be combined or "stacked" with another that
provides additional resistance or tolerance to glyphosate or another herbicide, and/or provides
resistance to select insects or diseases and/or nutritional enhancements, and/or improved
                                                32

1002026714
agronomic characteristics, and/or proteins or other products useful in feed, food, industrial,
pharmaceutical or other uses. The "stacking" of two or more nucleic acid sequences of interest
within a plant genome can be accomplished, for example, via conventional plant breeding using
two or more events, transformation of a plant with a construct which contains the sequences of
interest, re-transformation of a transgenic plant, or addition of new traits through targeted
integration via homologous recombination.
         [0094] Such nucleotide sequences of interest include, but are not limited to, those
examples provided below:
         [0095] 1. Genes or Coding Sequence (e.g. iRNA) That Confer Resistance to Pests or
Disease
         [0096] (A) Plant Disease Resistance Genes. Plant defenses are often activated by specific
interaction between the product of a disease resistance gene (R) in the plant and the product of a
corresponding avirulence (Avr) gene in the pathogen. A plant variety can be transformed with
cloned resistance gene to engineer plants that are resistant to specific pathogen strains. Examples
of such genes include, the tomato Cf-9 gene for resistance to Cladosporiumfulvum (Jones et al.,
1994 Science 266:789), tomato Pto gene, which encodes a protein kinase, for resistance to
Pseudomonas syringae pv. tomato (Martin et al., 1993 Science 262:1432), and Arabidopsis
RSSP2 gene for resistance to Pseudomonas syringae (Mindrinos et al., 1994 Cell 78:1089).
         [0097] (B) A Bacillus thuringiensis protein, a derivative thereof or a synthetic
polypeptide modeled thereon, such as, a nucleotide sequence of a Bt 6-endotoxin gene (Geiser et
al., 1986 Gene 48:109), and a vegetative insecticidal (VIP) gene (see, e.g., Estruch et al., (1996)
Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. 93:5389-94). Moreover, DNA molecules encoding 5-endotoxin genes can
be purchased from American Type Culture Collection (Rockville, Md.), under ATCC accession
numbers 40098, 67136, 31995 and 31998.
         [0098] (C) A lectin, such as, nucleotide sequences of several Clivia miniata mannose
binding lectin genes (Van Damme et al., 1994 Plant Molec. Biol. 24:825).
                                                33

 1002026714
         [0099] (D) A vitamin binding protein, such as avidin and avidin homologs which are
useful as larvicides against insect pests. See U.S. Patent No. 5,659,026.
         [00100]       (E) An enzyme inhibitor, e.g., a protease inhibitor or an amylase inhibitor.
Examples of such genes include a rice cysteine proteinase inhibitor (Abe et al., 1987 J. Biol.
Chem. 262:16793), a tobacco proteinase inhibitor I (Huub et al., 1993 Plant Molec. Biol.
21:985), and an a-amylase inhibitor (Sumitani et al., 1993 Biosci. Biotech. Biochem. 57:1243).
         [00101]       (F) An insect-specific hormone or pheromone such as an ecdysteroid and
juvenile hormone a variant thereof, a mimetic based thereon, or an antagonist or agonist thereof,
such as baculovirus expression of cloned juvenile hormone esterase, an inactivator of juvenile
hormone (Hammock et al., 1990 Nature 344:458).
         [00102]       (G) An insect-specific peptide or neuropeptide which, upon expression,
disrupts the physiology of the affected pest (J. Biol. Chem. 269:9). Examples of such genes
include an insect diuretic hormone receptor (Regan, 1994), an allostatin identified in Diploptera
punctata (Pratt, 1989), and insect-specific, paralytic neurotoxins (U.S. Patent No. 5,266,361).
         [001031       (H) An insect-specific venom produced in nature by a snake, a wasp, etc.,
such as a scorpion insectotoxic peptide (Pang, (1992) Gene 116:165).
         [00104]       (I) An enzyme responsible for a hyperaccumulation of monoterpene, a
sesquiterpene, a steroid, hydroxamic acid, a phenylpropanoid derivative or another non-protein
molecule with insecticidal activity.
         [00105]       (J) An enzyme involved in the modification, including the post
translational modification, of a biologically active molecule; for example, glycolytic enzyme, a
proteolytic enzyme, a lipolytic enzyme, a nuclease, a cyclase, a transaminase, an esterase, a
hydrolase, a phosphatase, a kinase, a phosphorylase, a polymerase, an elastase, a chitinase and a
glucanase, whether natural or synthetic. Examples of such genes include, a callas gene (PCT
published application W093/02197), chitinase-encoding sequences (which can be obtained, for
example, from the ATCC under accession numbers 3999637 and 67152), tobacco hookworm
                                                  34

1002026714
chitinase (Kramer et al., (1993) Insect Molec. Biol. 23:691), and parsley ubi4-2 polyubiquitin
gene (Kawalleck et al., (1993) Plant Molec. Biol. 21:673).
         [001061        (K) A molecule that stimulates signal transduction. Examples of such
molecules include nucleotide sequences for mung bean calmodulin cDNA clones (Botella et al.,
(1994) Plant Molec. Biol. 24:757) and a nucleotide sequence of a maize calmodulin cDNA clone
(Griess et al., (1994) Plant Physiol. 104:1467).
         [00107]        (L) A hydrophobic moment peptide. See U.S. Patent Nos. 5,659,026 and
5,607,914; the latter teaches synthetic antimicrobial peptides that confer disease resistance.
         [00108]        (M) A membrane permease, a channel former or a channel blocker, such
as a cecropin-p lytic peptide analog (Jaynes et al., (1993) Plant Sci. 89:43) which renders
transgenic tobacco plants resistant to Pseudomonas solanacearum.
         [00109]        (N) A viral-invasive protein or a complex toxin derived therefrom. For
example, the accumulation of viral coat proteins in transformed plant cells imparts resistance to
viral infection and/or disease development effected by the virus from which the coat protein gene
is derived, as well as by related viruses. Coat protein-mediated resistance has been conferred
upon transformed plants against alfalfa mosaic virus, cucumber mosaic virus, tobacco streak
virus, potato virus X, potato virus Y, tobacco etch virus, tobacco rattle virus and tobacco mosaic
virus. See, for example, Beachy et al., (1990) Ann. Rev. Phytopathol. 28:45 1.
         [00110]        (0) An insect-specific antibody or an immunotoxin derived therefrom.
Thus, an antibody targeted to a critical metabolic function in the insect gut would inactivate an
affected enzyme, killing the insect. For example, Taylor et al., (1994) Abstract #497, Seventh
Int'l. Symposium on Molecular Plant-Microbe Interactions shows enzymatic inactivation in
transgenic tobacco via production of single-chain antibody fragments.
         [00111]        (P) A virus-specific antibody. See, for example, Tavladoraki et al., (1993)
Nature 266:469, which shows that transgenic plants expressing recombinant antibody genes are
protected from virus attack.
                                                  35

1002026714
         [001121       (Q) A developmental-arrestive protein produced in nature by a pathogen
or a parasite. Thus, fungal endo a-i1,4-D polygalacturonases facilitate fungal colonization and
plant nutrient release by solubilizing plant cell wall homo-a-1,4-D-galacturonase (Lamb et al.,
(1992) Bio/Technology 10:1436). The cloning and characterization of a gene which encodes a
bean endopolygalacturonase-inhibiting protein is described by (Toubart et al., (1992) Plant J.
2:367).
         [001131       (R) A developmental-arrestive protein produced in nature by a plant, such
as the barley ribosome-inactivating gene that provides an increased resistance to fungal disease
(Longemann et al., (1992). Bio/Technology 10:3305).
         [00114]       (S) RNA interference, in which a DNA polynucleotide encoding an RNA
molecule is used to inhibit expression of a target gene. An RNA molecule in one example is
partially or fully double stranded, which triggers a silencing response, resulting in cleavage of
dsRNA into small interfering RNAs, which are then incorporated into a targeting complex that
destroys homologous mRNAs. See, e.g., Fire et al., U.S. Patent No. 6,506,559; Graham et al.,
U.S. Patent No. 6,573,099.
         [00115]       2. Genes That Confer Resistance to a Herbicide
         [001161       (A) Genes encoding resistance or tolerance to a herbicide that inhibits the
growing point or meristem, such as an imidazalinone, sulfonanilide or sulfonylurea herbicide.
Exemplary genes in this category code for a mutant ALS enzyme (Lee et al., (1988) EMBOJ.
7:1241), which is also known as AHAS enzyme (Miki et al., (1990) Theor. Appl. Genet.
80:449).
         [00117]       (B) One or more additional genes encoding resistance or tolerance to
glyphosate imparted by mutant EPSP synthase and aroA genes, or through metabolic inactivation
by genes such as GAT (glyphosate acetyltransferase) or GOX (glyphosate oxidase) and other
phosphono      compounds     such   as  glufosinate    (pat and    bar genes;     DSM-2),      and
aryloxyphenoxypropionic acids and cyclohexanediones (ACCase inhibitor encoding genes). See,
                                                36

1002026714
for example, U.S. Patent No. 4,940,835, which discloses the nucleotide sequence of a form of
EPSP which can confer glyphosate resistance. A DNA molecule encoding a mutant aroA gene
can be obtained under ATCC Accession Number 39256, and the nucleotide sequence of the
mutant gene is disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 4,769,061. European Patent application No. 0 333 033
and U.S. Patent No. 4,975,374 disclose nucleotide sequences of glutamine synthetase genes
which confer resistance to herbicides such as L-phosphinothricin. The nucleotide sequence of a
phosphinothricin acetyl-transferase gene is provided in European Patent application No. 0 242
246. De Greef et al., (1989) Bio/Technology 7:61 describes the production of transgenic plants
that express chimeric bar genes coding for phosphinothricin acetyl transferase activity.
Exemplary     of    genes     conferring  resistance  to    aryloxyphenoxypropionic   acids   and
cyclohexanediones, such as sethoxydim and haloxyfop, are the Accl-Sl, Accl-S2 and Accl-S3
genes described by Marshall et al., (1992) Theor. Appl. Genet. 83:435.
        [001181          (C) Genes encoding resistance or tolerance to a herbicide that inhibits
photosynthesis, such as a triazine (psbA and gs+ genes) and a benzonitrile (nitrilase gene).
Przibilla et al., (1991)    Plant Cell 3:169 describe the use of plasmids encoding mutant psbA
genes to transform Chlamydomonas. Nucleotide sequences for nitrilase genes are disclosed in
U.S. Patent No. 4,810,648, and DNA molecules containing these genes are available under
ATCC accession numbers 53435, 67441 and 67442. Cloning and expression of DNA coding for
a glutathione S-transferase is described by Hayes et al., (1992) Biochem. J. 285:173.
        [00119]          (D)   Genes encoding resistance or tolerance to a herbicide that bind to
hydroxyphenylpyruvate dioxygenases (HPPD), enzymes which catalyze the reaction in which
para-hydroxyphenylpyruvate (HPP) is transformed into homogentisate. This includes herbicides
such as isoxazoles (European Patent No. 418175, European Patent No. 470856, European Patent
No. 487352, European Patent No. 527036, European Patent No. 560482, European Patent No.
682659, U.S. Patent No. 5,424,276), in particular isoxaflutole, which is a selective herbicide for
maize, diketonitriles (European Patent No. 496630, and European Patent No. 496631), in
                                                  37

1002026714
particular 2-cyano-3-cyclopropyl-1-(2-SO2CH3-4-CF3 phenyl) propane- 1,3-dione and 2-cyano
3-cyclopropyl-1-(2-SO2CH3-4-2,3Cl2phenyl)        propane- 1,3-dione, triketones (European Patent
No. 625505, European Patent No. 625508, U.S. Patent No. 5,506,195), in particular sulcotrione,
and pyrazolinates. A gene that produces an overabundance of HPPD in plants can provide
tolerance or resistance to such herbicides, including, for example, genes described in U.S. Patent
Nos. 6,268,549 and 6,245,968 and U.S. Patent Application, Publication No. 20030066102.
        [00120]        (E) Genes encoding resistance or tolerance to phenoxy auxin herbicides,
such as 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic      acid (2,4-D) and which may also confer resistance or
tolerance to aryloxyphenoxypropionate (AOPP) herbicides. Examples of such genes include the
 x-ketoglutarate-dependent dioxygenase enzyme (aad-1) gene, described in U.S. Patent No.
7,838,733.
        [00121]        (F) Genes encoding resistance or tolerance to phenoxy auxin herbicides,
such as 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic      acid (2,4-D) and which may also confer resistance or
tolerance to pyridyloxy auxin herbicides, such as fluroxypyr or triclopyr. Examples of such
genes include the a-ketoglutarate-dependent dioxygenase enzyme gene (aad-12), described in
WO 2007/053482 A2.
        [00122]        (G)    Genes encoding resistance or tolerance to dicamba (see, e.g., U.S.
Patent Publication No. 20030135879).
        [00123]        (H) Genes providing resistance or tolerance to herbicides that inhibit
protoporphyrinogen oxidase (PPO) (see U.S. Patent No. 5,767,373).
        [00124]        (I) Genes providing resistance or tolerance to triazine herbicides (such as
atrazine) and urea derivatives (such as diuron) herbicides which bind to core proteins of
photosystem II reaction centers (PS II) (See Brussian et al., (1989) EMBO J. 1989, 8(4): 1237
1245.
        [00125]        3. Genes That Confer or Contribute to a Value-Added Trait
                                                 38

1002026714
         [001261        (A) Modified fatty acid metabolism, for example, by transforming maize
or Brassicawith an antisense gene or stearoyl-ACP desaturase to increase stearic acid content of
the plant (Knultzon et al., (1992) Proc. Nat. Acad. Sci. USA 89:2624.
         [001271        (B) Decreased phytate content
         [00128]        (1) Introduction of a phytase-encoding gene, such as the Aspergillus niger
phytase gene (Van Hartingsveldt et al., (1993) Gene 127:87), enhances breakdown of phytate,
adding more free phosphate to the transformed plant.
         [00129]        (2) A gene could be introduced that reduces phytate content. In maize,
this, for example, could be accomplished by cloning and then reintroducing DNA associated
with the single allele which is responsible for maize mutants characterized by low levels of
phytic acid (Raboy et al., (1990) Maydica 35:383).
         [001301        (C)   Modified carbohydrate     composition   effected, for example, by
transforming plants with a gene coding for an enzyme that alters the branching pattern of starch.
Examples of such enzymes include, Streptococcus mucus fructosyltransferase gene (Shiroza et
al., (1988) J. Bacteriol. 170:810), Bacillus subtilis levansucrase gene (Steinmetz et al., (1985)
Mol. Gen. Genel. 200:220), Bacillus licheniformis a-amylase (Pen et al., (1992) Bio/Technology
10:292), tomato invertase genes (Elliot et al., (1993), barley amylase gene (Sogaard et al., (1993)
J. Biol. Chem. 268:22480), and maize endosperm starch branching enzyme II (Fisher et al.,
(1993) Plant Physiol. 102:10450).
         [001311        Described herein are methods of identifying the presence of a donor DNA
polynucleotide inserted within a targeted genomic loci. As a further embodiment a site specific
nuclease can be used to cleave an unmodified endogenous plant genomic locus, a previously
targeted plant genomic locus, or a previously inserted exogenous DNA. The targeting of an
endogenous genomic loci is one embodiment of the disclosure.
         [00132]        In embodiments, the methods and compositions described herein make use
of a site specific nuclease that comprises an engineered (non-naturally occurring) Meganuclease
                                                  39

1002026714
(also described as a homing endonuclease). The recognition sequences of homing endonucleases
or meganucleases such as I-Scel, I-Ceul, PI-PspI, PI-Sce, I-SceIV, I-CsmI, I-PanI, I-Scell, I
PpoI, I-ScellI, I-Crel, I-TevI, I-TevII and I-TevIII are known. See also U.S. Patent No. 5,420,032;
U.S. Patent No. 6,833,252; Belfort et al. (1997) Nucleic Acids Res. 25:3379-30 3388; Dujon et
al. (1989) Gene 82:115-118; Perler et al. (1994) Nucleic Acids Res. 22, 11127; Jasin (1996)
Trends Genet. 12:224-228; Gimble et al. (1996) J. Mol. Biol. 263:163-180; Argast et al. (1998)
J. Mol. Biol. 280:345-353 and the New England Biolabs catalogue. In addition, the DNA
binding specificity of homing endonucleases and meganucleases can be engineered to bind non
natural target sites. See, for example, Chevalier et al. (2002) Molec. Cell 10:895-905; Epinat et
al. (2003) Nucleic Acids Res. 5 31:2952-2962; Ashworth et al. (2006) Nature 441:656-659;
Paques et al. (2007) Current Gene Therapy 7:49-66; U.S. Patent Publication No. 20070117128.
The DNA-binding domains of the homing endonucleases and meganucleases may be altered in
the context of the nuclease as a whole (i.e., such that the nuclease includes the cognate cleavage
domain) or may be fused to a heterologous cleavage domain.
        [00133]         In other embodiments, the DNA-binding domain of one or more of the
nucleases used in the methods and compositions described herein comprises a naturally
occurring or engineered (non-naturally occurring) TAL effector DNA binding domain. See, e.g.,
U.S. Patent Publication No. 20110301073, incorporated by reference in its entirety herein. The
plant pathogenic bacteria of the genus Xanthomonas are known to cause many diseases in
important crop plants. Pathogenicity of Xanthomonas depends on a conserved type III secretion
(T3S) system which injects more than different effector proteins into the plant cell. Among these
injected proteins are transcription activator-like (TALEN)          effectors which mimic plant
transcriptional activators and manipulate the plant transcriptome (see Kay et al (2007) Science
318:648-651). These proteins contain a DNA binding domain and a transcriptional activation
domain. One of the most well characterized TAL-effectors is AvrBs3 from Xanthomonas
campestgris pv. Vesicatoria (see Bonas et al (1989) Mol Gen Genet 218: 127-136 and
                                                  40

1002026714
W02010079430). TAL-effectors contain a centralized domain of tandem repeats, each repeat
containing approximately 34 amino acids, which are key to the DNA binding specificity of these
proteins. In addition, they contain a nuclear localization sequence and an acidic transcriptional
activation domain (for a review see Schornack S, et al (2006) JPlantPhysiol 163(3): 256-272).
In addition, in the phytopathogenic bacteria Ralstonia solanacearum two genes, designated
brgl1 and hpxl7 have been found that are homologous to the AvrBs3 family of Xanthomonas in
the R. solanacearumbiovar strain GMI1000 and in the biovar 4 strain RS1000 (See Heuer et al
(2007) Appl and Enviro Micro 73(13): 4379-4384). These genes are 98.9% identical in
nucleotide sequence to each other but differ by a deletion of 1,575 bp in the repeat domain of
hpxl7. However, both gene products have less than 40% sequence identity with AvrBs3 family
proteins of Xanthomonas. See, e.g., U.S. Patent Publication No. 20110301073, incorporated by
reference in its entirety.
        [00134]          Specificity of these TAL effectors depends on the sequences found in the
tandem repeats. The repeated sequence comprises approximately 102 bp and the repeats are
typically 91-100% homologous with each other (Bonas et al, ibid). Polymorphism of the repeats
is usually located at positions 12 and 13 and there appears to be a one-to-one correspondence
between the identity of the hypervariable diresidues at positions 12 and 13 with the identity of
the contiguous nucleotides in the TAL-effector's target sequence (see Moscou and Bogdanove,
(2009) Science 326:1501 and Boch et al (2009) Science 326:1509-1512). Experimentally, the
natural code for DNA recognition of these TAL-effectors has been determined such that an HD
sequence at positions 12 and 13 leads to a binding to cytosine (C), NG binds to T, NI to A, C, G
or T, NN binds to A or G, and ING binds to T. These DNA binding repeats have been assembled
into proteins with new combinations and numbers of repeats, to make artificial transcription
factors that are able to interact with new sequences and activate the expression of a non
endogenous reporter gene in plant cells (Boch et al, ibid). Engineered TAL proteins have been
                                                 41

1002026714
linked to a FokI cleavage half domain to yield a TAL effector domain nuclease fusion (TALEN)
exhibiting activity in a yeast reporter assay (plasmid based target).
        [00135]         The    CRISPR     (Clustered  Regularly   Interspaced    Short Palindromic
Repeats)/Cas (CRISPR Associated) nuclease system is a recently engineered nuclease system
based on a bacterial system that can be used for genome engineering. It is based on part of the
adaptive immune response of many bacteria and Archea. When a virus or plasmid invades a
bacterium, segments of the invader's DNA are converted into CRISPR RNAs (crRNA) by the
'immune' response. This crRNA then associates, through a region of partial complementarity,
with another type of RNA called tracrRNA to guide the Cas9 nuclease to a region homologous to
the crRNA in the target DNA called a "protospacer". Cas9 cleaves the DNA to generate blunt
ends at the DSB at sites specified by a 20-nucleotide guide sequence contained within the crRNA
transcript. Cas9 requires both the crRNA and the tracrRNA for site specific DNA recognition
and cleavage. This system has now been engineered such that the crRNA and tracrRNA can be
combined into one molecule (the "single guide RNA"), and the crRNA equivalent portion of the
single guide RNA can be engineered to guide the Cas9 nuclease to target any desired sequence
(see Jinek et al (2012) Science 337, p. 816-821, Jinek et al, (2013), eLife 2:e00471, and David
Segal, (2013) eLife 2:e00563).      Thus, the CRISPR/Cas system can be engineered to create a
double-stranded break (DSB) at a desired target in a genome, and repair of the DSB can be
influenced by the use of repair inhibitors to cause an increase in error prone repair.
        [001361         In certain embodiments, Cas protein may be a "functional derivative" of a
naturally occurring Cas protein. A "functional derivative" of a native sequence polypeptide is a
compound having a qualitative biological property in common with a native sequence
polypeptide. "Functional derivatives" include, but are not limited to, fragments of a native
sequence and derivatives of a native sequence polypeptide and its fragments, provided that they
have a biological activity in common with a corresponding native sequence polypeptide. A
biological activity contemplated herein is the ability of the functional derivative to hydrolyze a
                                                  42

1002026714
DNA substrate into fragments. The term "derivative" encompasses both amino acid sequence
variants of polypeptide, covalent modifications, and fusions thereof. Suitable derivatives of a Cas
polypeptide or a fragment thereof include but are not limited to mutants, fusions, covalent
modifications of Cas protein or a fragment thereof. Cas protein, which includes Cas protein or a
fragment thereof, as well as derivatives of Cas protein or a fragment thereof, may be obtainable
from a cell or synthesized chemically or by a combination of these two procedures. The cell may
be a cell that naturally produces Cas protein, or a cell that naturally produces Cas protein and is
genetically engineered to produce the endogenous Cas protein at a higher expression level or to
produce a Cas protein from an exogenously introduced nucleic acid, which nucleic acid encodes
a Cas that is same or different from the endogenous Cas. In some case, the cell does not naturally
produce Cas protein and is genetically engineered to produce a Cas protein. The Cas protein is
deployed in mammalian cells (and putatively within plant cells) by co-expressing the Cas
nuclease with guide RNA. Two forms of guide RNAs can be ued to facilitate Cas-mediated
genome cleavage as disclosed in Le Cong, F., et al., (2013) Science 339(6121):819-823.
         [00137]        In certain embodiments, the DNA binding domain of one or more of the
nucleases used for in vivo cleavage and/or targeted cleavage of the genome of a cell comprises a
zinc finger protein. In some embodiments, the zinc finger protein is non-naturally occurring in
that it is engineered to bind to a target site of choice. See, for example, Beerli et al. (2002)
Nature Biotechnol. 20:135-141; Pabo et al. (2001) Ann. Rev. Biochem. 70:313-340; Isalan et al.
(2001) Nature Biotechnol. 19:656-660; Segal et al. (2001) Curr. Opin. Biotechnol. 12:632-637;
Choo et al. (2000) Curr. Opin. Struct. Biol. 10:411-416; U.S. Patent Nos. 6,453,242; 6,534,261;
6,599,692;    6,503,717; 6689,558; 7,030,215;     6,794,136; 7,067,317; 7,262,054; 7,070,934;
7,361,635;    7,253,273;   and U.S.    Patent Publication Nos. 2005/0064474; 2007/0218528;
2005/0267061, all incorporated herein by reference in their entireties.
         [001381        An engineered zinc finger binding domain can have a novel binding
specificity, compared to a naturally-occurring zinc finger protein. Engineering methods include,
                                                43

1002026714
but are not limited to, rational design and various types of selection. Rational design includes, for
example, using databases comprising triplet (or quadruplet) nucleotide sequences and individual
zinc finger amino acid sequences, in which each triplet or quadruplet nucleotide sequence is
associated with one or more amino acid sequences of zinc fingers which bind the particular
triplet or quadruplet sequence. See, for example, U.S. Patent Nos. 6,453,242 and 6,534,261,
incorporated by reference herein in their entireties.
         [001391         Selection of target sites; ZFPs and methods for design and construction of
fusion proteins (and polynucleotides encoding same) are known to those of skill in the art and
described in detail in U.S. Patent Nos. 6,140,0815; 789,538; 6,453,242; 6,534,261; 5,925,523;
6,007,988; 6,013,453; 6,200,759; WO 95/19431; WO 96/06166; WO 98/53057; WO 98/54311;
WO 00/27878; WO 01/60970 WO 01/88197; WO 02/099084; WO 98/53058; WO 98/53059;
WO 98/53060; WO 02/016536 and WO 03/016496.
         [00140]        In addition, as disclosed in these and other references, zinc finger domains
and/or multi-fingered zinc finger proteins may be linked together using any suitable linker
sequences, including for example, linkers of 5 or more amino acids in length. See, also, U.S.
Patent Nos. 6,479,626; 6,903,185; and 7,153,949 for exemplary linker sequences 6 or more
amino acids in length. The proteins described herein may include any combination of suitable
linkers between the individual zinc fingers of the protein.
         [00141]        Thus, the site specific nuclease comprises a DNA-binding domain that
specifically binds to a target site in any gene into which it is desired to insert a donor DNA
polynucleotide (i.e. comprising at least one transgene).
         [00142]        Any suitable cleavage domain can be operatively linked to a DNA-binding
domain to form a nuclease fusion protein. For example, ZFP DNA-binding domains have been
fused to nuclease domains to create ZFNs - a functional entity that is able to recognize its
intended nucleic acid target through its engineered (ZFP) DNA binding domain and cause the
DNA to be cut near the ZFP binding site via the nuclease activity. See, e.g., Kim et al. (1996)
                                                    44

1002026714
Proc Nati Acad Sci USA 93(3):1156-1160. More recently, ZFNs have been used for genome
modification in a variety of organisms. See, for example, United States Patent Publications
20030232410; 20050208489; 20050026157; 20050064474; 20060188987; 20060063231; and
International Publication WO 07/014275. Likewise, TALEN DNA-binding domains have been
fused to nuclease domains to create TALENs. See, e.g., U.S. Publication No. 20110301073.
        [00143]        As noted above, the cleavage domain may be heterologous to the DNA
binding domain, for example a zinc finger DNA-binding domain and a cleavage domain from a
different nuclease or a TALEN DNA-binding domain and a cleavage domain from a different
nuclease, or a meganuclease DNA-binding domain and cleavage domain from a different
nuclease. Heterologous     cleavage   domains can be obtained       from any endonuclease       or
exonuclease. Exemplary endonucleases from which a cleavage domain can be derived include,
but are not limited to, restriction endonucleases and homing endonucleases. See, for example,
2002-2003 Catalogue, New England Biolabs, Beverly, MA; and Belfort et al. (1997) Nucleic
Acids Res. 25:3379-3388. Additional enzymes which cleave DNA are known (e.g., S Nuclease;
mung bean nuclease; pancreatic DNase I; micrococcal nuclease; yeast HO endonuclease; see also
Linn et al. (eds.) Nucleases, Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press,1993). One or more of these
enzymes (or functional fragments thereof) can be used as a source of cleavage domains and
cleavage half-domains.
        [00144]        Similarly, a cleavage half-domain can be derived from any nuclease or
portion thereof, as set forth above, that requires dimerization for cleavage activity. In general,
two fusion proteins are required for cleavage if the fusion proteins comprise cleavage half
domains. Alternatively, a single protein comprising two cleavage half-domains can be used. The
two cleavage half-domains can be derived from the same endonuclease (or functional fragments
thereof), or each cleavage half-domain can be derived from a different endonuclease (or
functional fragments thereof). In addition, the target sites for the two fusion proteins are
preferably disposed, with respect to each other, such that binding of the two fusion proteins to
                                                45

1002026714
their respective target sites places the cleavage half-domains in a spatial orientation to each other
that allows the cleavage half-domains to form a functional cleavage domain, e.g., by dimerizing.
Thus, in certain embodiments, the near edges of the target sites are separated by 5-8 nucleotides
or by 15-18 nucleotides. However any integral number of nucleotides or nucleotide pairs can
intervene between two target sites (e.g., from 2 to 50 nucleotide pairs or more). In general, the
site of cleavage lies between the target sites.
         [00145]        Restriction endonucleases (restriction enzymes) are present in many
species and are capable of sequence-specific binding to DNA (at a recognition site), and cleaving
DNA at or near the site of binding. Certain restriction enzymes (e.g., Type IIS) cleave DNA at
sites removed from the recognition site and have separable binding and cleavage domains. For
example, the Type IIS enzyme Fok I catalyzes double-stranded cleavage of DNA, at 9
nucleotides from its recognition site on one strand and 13 nucleotides from its recognition site on
the other. See, for example, U.S. Patent Nos. 5,356,802; 5,436,150 and 5,487,994; as well as Li
et al. (1992) Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 89:4275-4279; Li et al. (1993) Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci.
USA 90:2764-2768; Kim et al. (1994a) Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 91:883-887; Kim et al.
(1994b) J. Biol. Chem. 269:31,978-31,982. Thus, in one embodiment, fusion proteins comprise
the cleavage domain (or cleavage half-domain) from at least one Type IIS restriction enzyme and
one or more zinc finger binding domains, which may or may not be engineered.
         [00146]        An exemplary Type IIS restriction enzyme, whose cleavage domain is
separable from the binding domain, is Fok I. This particular enzyme is active as a dimer.
Bitinaite et al., (1998) Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 95: 10,570-10,575. Accordingly, for the
purposes of the present disclosure, the portion of the Fok I enzyme used in the disclosed fusion
proteins is considered a cleavage half-domain. Thus, for targeted double-stranded cleavage
and/or targeted replacement of cellular sequences using zinc finger-Fok I fusions, two fusion
proteins, each comprising a FokI cleavage half-domain, can be used to reconstitute a catalytically
active cleavage domain. Alternatively, a single polypeptide molecule containing a zinc finger
                                                  46

1002026714
binding domain and two Fok I cleavage half-domains can also be used. Parameters for targeted
cleavage and targeted sequence alteration using zinc finger-Fok I fusions are provided elsewhere
in this disclosure.
         [00147]         A cleavage domain or cleavage half-domain can be any portion of a
protein that retains cleavage activity, or that retains the ability to multimerize (e.g., dimerize) to
form a functional cleavage domain.
         [001481         Exemplary Type IIS restriction enzymes are described in International
Patent Application Publication WO 07/014275, incorporated herein in its entirety. Additional
restriction enzymes also contain separable binding and cleavage domains, and these are
contemplated by the present disclosure. See, for example, Roberts et al. (2003) Nucleic Acids
Res. 31:418-420.
         [00149]         In certain embodiments, the cleavage domain comprises one or more
engineered cleavage half-domain (also referred to as dimerization domain mutants) that
minimize or prevent homodimerization, as described, for example, in U.S. Patent Publication
Nos. 20050064474; 20060188987; 20070305346 and 20080131962, the disclosures of all of
which are incorporated by reference in their entireties herein. Amino acid residues at positions
446, 447, 479, 483, 484, 486, 487, 490, 491, 496, 498, 499, 500, 531, 534, 537, and 538 ofFok I
are all targets for influencing dimerization of the Fok I cleavage half-domains.
         [001501         Exemplary engineered cleavage half-domains of Fok I that form obligate
heterodimers include a pair in which a first cleavage half-domain includes mutations at amino
acid residues at positions 490 and 538 of Fok I and a second cleavage half-domain includes
mutations at amino acid residues 486 and 499.
         [001511         Thus, in one embodiment, a mutation at 490 replaces Glu (E) with Lys
(K); the mutation at 538 replaces Iso (I) with Lys (K); the mutation at 486 replaced Gln (Q) with
Glu (E); and the mutation at position 499 replaces Iso (I) with Lys (K). Specifically, the
engineered cleavage half-domains described herein were prepared by mutating positions 490
                                                  47

1002026714
(E-+K) and 538 (I-+K) in one cleavage half-domain to produce an engineered cleavage half
domain designated "E490K:1538K" and by mutating positions 486 (Q-+E) and 499 (I-+L) in
another cleavage half-domain to produce an engineered cleavage half-domain designated
"Q486E:1499L". The        engineered    cleavage    half-domains   described herein    are obligate
heterodimer mutants in which aberrant cleavage is minimized or abolished. See, e.g., U.S. Patent
Publication No. 2008/0131962, the disclosure of which is incorporated by reference in its
entirety for all purposes. In certain embodiments, the engineered cleavage half-domain
comprises mutations at positions 486, 499 and 496 (numbered relative to wild-type FokI), for
instance mutations that replace the wild type Gln (Q) residue at position 486 with a Glu (E)
residue, the wild type Iso (I) residue at position 499 with a Leu (L) residue and the wild-type Asn
(N) residue at position 496 with an Asp (D) or Glu (E) residue (also referred to as a "ELD" and
"ELE" domains, respectively). In other embodiments, the engineered cleavage half-domain
comprises mutations at positions 490, 538 and 537 (numbered relative to wild-type FokI), for
instance mutations that replace the wild type Glu (E) residue at position 490 with a Lys (K)
residue, the wild type Iso (I) residue at position 538 with a Lys (K) residue, and the wild-type
His (H) residue at position 537 with a Lys (K) residue or a Arg (R) residue (also referred to as
"KKK" and "KKR" domains, respectively). In other embodiments, the engineered cleavage half
domain comprises mutations at positions 490 and 537 (numbered relative to wild-type FokI), for
instance mutations that replace the wild type Glu (E) residue at position 490 with a Lys (K)
residue and the wild-type His (H) residue at position 537 with a Lys (K) residue or a Arg (R)
residue (also referred to as "KIK" and "KIR" domains, respectively). (See US Patent Publication
No. 20110201055). In other embodiments, the engineered cleavage half domain comprises the
"Sharkey" and/or "Sharkey" mutations (see Guo et al, (2010) J. Mol. Biol. 400(1):96-107).
        [00152]         Engineered cleavage half-domains described herein can be prepared using
any suitable method, for example, by site-directed mutagenesis of wild-type cleavage half
                                                   48

1002026714
domains (Fok I) as described in U.S. Patent Publication Nos. 20050064474; 20080131962; and
20110201055.
        [00153]         Alternatively, nucleases may be assembled in vivo at the nucleic acid
target site using so-called "split-enzyme" technology (see e.g. U.S. Patent Publication No.
20090068164). Components of such split enzymes may be expressed either on separate
expression constructs, or can be linked in one open reading frame where the individual
components are separated, for example, by a self-cleaving 2A peptide or IRES sequence.
Components may be individual zinc finger binding domains or domains of a meganuclease
nucleic acid binding domain.
        [00154]         Nucleases can be screened for activity prior to use, for example in a yeast
based chromosomal system as described in WO 2009/042163 and 20090068164. Nuclease
expression constructs can be readily designed using methods known in the art. See, e.g., United
States   Patent   Publications    20030232410;      20050208489;       20050026157;   20050064474;
20060188987; 20060063231; and International Publication WO 07/014275. Expression of the
nuclease may be under the control of a constitutive promoter or an inducible promoter.
        [001551         A "target" or "target site" or "targeted genomic locus" is a nucleic acid
sequence that defines a portion of a nucleic acid to which a binding molecule (e.g. site specific
nuclease) will bind, provided sufficient conditions for binding exist.
        [00156]         In an embodiment a genomic locus sequence includes those present in
chromosomes,     episomes, organellar genomes (e.g., mitochondria, chloroplasts), artificial
chromosomes and any other type of nucleic acid present in a cell such as, for example, amplified
sequences, double minute chromosomes and the genomes of endogenous or infecting bacteria
and viruses. Genomic locus sequences can be normal (i.e., wild-type) or mutant; mutant
sequences    can comprise,     for example,     insertions (e.g.,   previously inserted  exogenous
polynucleotides), deletions, translocations, rearrangements, and/or point mutations. A genomic
locus sequence can also comprise one of a number of different alleles.
                                                  49

1002026714
         [001571       Also described herein as an embodiment of the invention are methods for
inserting a donor DNA polynucleotide sequence within a genomic loci. Reported and observed
frequencies of targeted genomic modification indicate that targeting of a genomic loci within
plants is relatively inefficient. The success rate of such methods are low, due in part to poor
efficiency of homologous recombination and a high frequency of non-specific insertion of the
donor DNA into regions of the genome other than the target site. The present disclosure provides
methods for identifying a donor DNA polynucleotide within a targeted genomic loci
         [001581       The methods of the subject disclosure involve making and using site
specific nucleases (e.g., engineered zinc finger binding domains fused to cleavage domains) to
make one or more targeted double-stranded breaks in cellular DNA. Because double-stranded
breaks in cellular DNA stimulate cellular repair mechanisms several thousand-fold in the vicinity
of the cleavage site, such targeted cleavage allows for the alteration or replacement (via
homology-directed repair) of sequences at virtually any site in the genome.
         [00159]       In addition to the fusion molecules described herein, targeted replacement
of a selected genomic sequence also requires the introduction of the replacement or donor DNA
polynucleotide sequence. The donor DNA polynucleotide sequence can be introduced into the
cell prior to, concurrently with, or subsequent to, expression of the fusion protein(s). The donor
DNA polynucleotide        contains  sufficient homology to a genomic sequence to support
homologous recombination (or homology-directed repair) between it and the genomic sequence
to which it bears homology. Approximately 25, 50 100, 200, 500, 750, 1,000, 1,500, 2,000
nucleotides or more of sequence homology between a donor DNA polynucleotide and a genomic
locus (or any integral value between 10 and 2,000 nucleotides, or more) will support homologous
recombination therebetween. Donor DNA polynucleotide sequences can range in length from 10
to 5,000 nucleotides (or any integral value of nucleotides therebetween) or longer. It will be
readily apparent that the donor DNA polynucleotide sequence is typically not identical to the
genomic sequence that it replaces. For example, the sequence of the donor DNA polynucleotide
                                                 50

1002026714
can contain one or more single base changes, insertions, deletions, inversions or rearrangements
with respect to the genomic sequence, so long as sufficient homology with chromosomal
sequences is present. Alternatively, a donor DNA polynucleotide sequence can contain a non
homologous sequence flanked by two regions of homology. Additionally, donor DNA
polynucleotide sequences can comprise a vector molecule containing sequences that are not
homologous to the region of interest in cellular chromatin. Generally, the homologous region(s)
of a donor DNA polynucleotide sequence will have at least 50% sequence identity to a genomic
locus with which recombination is desired. In certain embodiments, 60%, 70%, 80%, 90%, 95%,
       99
98%,      %, or 99.9% sequence identity is present. Any value between 1% and 100% sequence
identity can be present, of depending upon the length the donor DNA polynucleotide.
        [001601        A donor DNA polynucleotide molecule can contain several, discontinuous
regions of homology to cellular chromatin. For example, for targeted insertion of sequences not
normally present in a region of interest, said sequences can be present in a donor DN polynucleic
acid molecule and flanked by regions of homology to sequence in the region of interest.
        [001611        The donor polynucleotide can be DNA or RNA, single-stranded or
double- stranded and can be introduced into a cell in linear or circular form. If introduced in
linear form, the ends of the donor sequence can be protected (e.g. , from exonucleolytic
degradation) by methods known to those of skill in the art. For example, one or more
dideoxynucleotide residues are added to the 3' terminus of a linear molecule and/or self
complementary oligonucleotides are ligated to one or both ends. See, for example, Chang et al.,
(1987) Proc. Natl Acad. Sd. USA 84:4959- 4963; Nehls et al., (1996) Science 272:886-889.
Additional methods for protecting exogenous polynucleotides from degradation include, but are
not limited to, addition of terminal amino group(s) and the use of modified internucleotide
linkages such as, for example, phosphorothioates, phosphoramidates, and 0-methyl ribose or
deoxyribose residues.
                                                 51

1002026714
        [001621         A donor DNA polynucleotide can be introduced into a cell as part of a
vector molecule having additional sequences such as, for example, replication origins, promoters
and genes encoding antibiotic resistance. Moreover, donor DNA polynucleotides can be
introduced as naked nucleic acid, as nucleic acid complexed with an agent such as a liposome or
poloxamer or can be delivered by bacteria or viruses (e.g., Agrobacterium sp., Rhizobium sp.
NGR234, Sinorhizoboium meliloti, Mesorhizobium loti, tobacco mosaic virus, potato virus X,
cauliflower mosaic virus and cassava vein mosaic virus. See, e.g., Chung et al. (2006) Trends
Plant Sd. 11(1): 1-4)
        [00163]         Without being bound by one theory, it appears that the presence of a
double- stranded break in a cellular sequence, coupled with the presence of an exogenous DNA
molecule having homology to a region adjacent to or surrounding the break, activates cellular
mechanisms which repair the break by transfer of sequence information from the donor molecule
into the cellular {e.g., genomic or chromosomal) sequence; i.e., by a processes of homology
directed repair, also known as "gene conversion." Applicants' methods advantageously combine
the powerful targeting capabilities of engineered ZFPs with a cleavage domain (or cleavage half
domain) to specifically target a double-stranded break to the region of the genome at insertion of
exogenous sequences is desired.
        [00164]         For alteration of a chromosomal sequence, it is not necessary for the entire
sequence of the donor to be copied into the chromosome, as long as enough of the donor
sequence is copied to effect the desired sequence alteration.
        [00165]         The   efficiency   of insertion  of donor    sequences by      homologous
recombination is inversely related to the distance, in the cellular DNA, between the double
stranded break and the site at which recombination is desired. In other words, higher homologous
recombination efficiencies are observed when the double-stranded break is closer to the site at
which recombination is desired. In cases in which a precise site of recombination is not
predetermined (e.g., the desired recombination event can occur over an interval of genomic
                                                 52

1002026714
sequence), the length and sequence of the donor nucleic acid, together with the site(s) of
cleavage, are selected to obtain the desired recombination event. In cases in which the desired
event is designed to change the sequence of a single nucleotide pair in a genomic sequence,
cellular chromatin is cleaved within 10,000 nucleotides on either side of that nucleotide pair. In
certain embodiments, cleavage occurs within 1,000, 500, 200, 100, 90, 80, 70, 60, 50, 40, 30, 20,
10, 5, or 2 nucleotides, or any integral value between 2 and 1,000 nucleotides, on either side of
the nucleotide pair whose sequence is to be changed.
         [001661       As detailed above, the binding sites for two fusion proteins, each
comprising a zinc finger binding domain and a cleavage half-domain, can be located 5-8 or 15
18 nucleotides apart, as measured from the edge of each binding site nearest the other binding
site, and cleavage occurs between the binding sites. Whether cleavage occurs at a single site or at
multiple sites between the binding sites is immaterial, since the cleaved genomic sequences are
replaced by the donor sequences. Thus, for efficient alteration of the sequence of a single
nucleotide pair by targeted recombination, the midpoint of the region between the binding sites is
within 10,000 nucleotides of that nucleotide pair, preferably within 1,000 nucleotides, or 500
nucleotides, or 200 nucleotides, or 100 nucleotides, or 50 nucleotides, or 20 nucleotides, or 10
nucleotides, or 5 nucleotide, or 2 nucleotides, or one nucleotide, or at the nucleotide pair of
interest.
         [00167]       In certain embodiments, a homologous chromosome can serve as the
donor DNA polynucleotide. Thus, for example, correction of a mutation in a heterozygote can be
achieved by engineering fusion proteins which bind to and cleave the mutant sequence on one
chromosome, but do not cleave the wild-type sequence on the homologous chromosome. The
double-stranded break on the mutation-bearing chromosome stimulates a homology-based "gene
conversion" process in which the wild-type sequence from the homologous chromosome is
copied into the cleaved chromosome, thus restoring two copies of the wild- type sequence.
                                                53

1002026714
        [001681        Methods and compositions are also provided that may enhance levels of
targeted recombination including, but not limited to, the use of additional ZFP- functional
domain fusions to activate expression of genes involved in homologous recombination, such as,
for example, members of the RAD52 epistasis group (e.g., Rad50, Rad5l, Rad5lB, RadSIC,
RadSID, Rad52, Rad54, Rad54B, Mrell, XRCC2, XRCC3), genes whose products interact with
the aforementioned gene products (e.g., BRCAl, BRCA2) and/or genes in the NBSl complex.
See, e.g., Boyko et al. (2006) Plant Physiology 141 :488-497 and LaFarge et al. (2003) Nucleic
Acids Res 31(4): 1148-        1155. Similarly ZFP-functional domain fusions can be used, in
combination with the methods and compositions disclosed herein, to repress expression of genes
involved in non-homologous end joining (e.g., Ku70/80, XRCC4, poly(ADP ribose) polymerase,
DNA ligase 4). See, for example, Riha et al. (2002) EMBO 21 :2819- 2826; Freisner et al. (2003)
Plant J. 34:427-440; Chen et al. (1994) European Journal of Biochemistry 224:135-142. Methods
for activation and repression of gene expression using fusions between a zinc finger binding
domain and a functional domain are disclosed, for example, in co-owned US Patents 6,534,261;
6,824,978    and 6,933,113.    Additional repression methods include the use of antisense
oligonucleotides and/or small interfering RNA (siRNA or RNAi) targeted to the sequence of the
gene to be repressed.
        [00169]        The genetic manipulations of a recombinant host disclosed herein can be
performed using standard genetic techniques in any host cell that is suitable to genetic
manipulation.    In some embodiments, a recombinant host cell disclosed herein can be any
organism or microorganism host useful for genetic modification and recombinant gene
expression. In some embodiments, a recombinant host can be but is not limited to any higher
plant, including both dicotyledonous and monocotyledonous plants, and consumable plants,
including crop plants and plants used for their oils. Thus, any plant species or plant cell can be
selected as described further below.
                                                54

1002026714
        [001701         In   some     embodiments,     plants  which    comprise    a   donor   DNA
polynucleotide inserted within a targeted genomic locus in accordance with the present
disclosure (e.g., plant host cells) include, but is not limited to, any higher plants, including both
dicotyledonous and monocotyledonous plants, and particularly consumable plants, including
crop plants.   Such plants can include, but are not limited to, for example: alfalfa, soybeans,
cotton, rapeseed (also described as canola), linseed, corn, rice, brachiaria, wheat, safflowers,
sorghum, sugarbeet, sunflowers, tobacco and turf grasses. Thus, any plant species or plant cell
can be selected. In embodiments, plant cells used herein, and plants grown or derived therefrom,
include, but are not limited to, cells obtainable from rapeseed (Brassicanapus); indian mustard
(Brassica juncea); Ethiopian mustard (Brassica carinata); turnip (Brassica rapa); cabbage
(Brassica oleracea); soybean (Glycine max); linseed/flax (Linum usitatissimum); maize (also
described as corn) (Zea mays); safflower (Carthamustinctorius); sunflower (Helianthusannuus);
tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum); Arabidopsis thaliana;Brazil nut (Betholettia excelsa); castor bean
(Ricinus communis); coconut (Cocus nucifera); coriander (Coriandrum sativum); cotton
(Gossypium spp.); groundnut (Arachis hypogaea); jojoba (Simmondsia chinensis); oil palm
(Elaeis guineeis); olive (Olea eurpaea);rice (Oryza sativa); squash (Cucurbita maxima); barley
(Hordeum vulgare); sugarcane (Saccharum officinarum); rice (Oryza sativa); wheat (Triticum
spp. including Triticum durum and Triticum aestivum); and duckweed (Lemnaceae sp.). In some
embodiments, the genetic background within a plant species may vary.
        [00171]         "Plant parts," as used herein, include any parts of a plant, including, but
not limited to, seeds (including mature seeds and immature seeds), a plant cutting, a plant cell, a
plant cell culture, a plant organ, pollen, embryos, flowers, fruits, shoots, leaves, roots, stems,
explants, etc. A plant cell is the structural and physiological unit of the plant, comprising a
protoplast and a cell wall. A plant cell can be in the form of an isolated single cell or aggregate
of cells such as a friable callus, or a cultured cell, or can be part of a higher organized unit, for
example, a plant tissue, plant organ, or plant. Thus, a plant cell can be a protoplast, a gamete
                                                   55

1002026714
producing cell, or a cell or collection of cells that can regenerate into a whole plant. As such, a
seed, which comprises multiple plant cells and is capable of regenerating into a whole plant, is
considered a plant cell for purposes of this disclosure. A plant tissue or plant organ can be a
seed, protoplast, callus, or any other groups of plant cells that is organized into a structural or
functional unit. Particularly useful parts of a plant include harvestable parts and parts useful for
propagation of progeny plants. A harvestable part of a plant can be any useful part of a plant, for
example, flowers, pollen, seedlings, tubers, leaves, stems, fruit, seeds, roots, and the like. A part
of a plant useful for propagation includes, for example, seeds, fruits, cuttings, seedlings, tubers,
rootstocks, and the like. The tissue culture will preferably be capable of regenerating plants
having the physiological and morphological characteristics of the foregoing inbred plant, and of
regenerating plants having substantially the same genotype as the foregoing inbred plant. In an
embodiment, the regenerable cells in such tissue cultures will be embryos, protoplasts,
meristematic cells, callus, pollen, leaves, anthers, roots, root tips, silk, flowers, kernels, ears,
cobs, husks or stalks. Still further, embodiments of the present disclosure provide plants
regenerated from the tissue cultures of embodiments of the disclosure.
        [00172]        With regard to the production of plants comprising a donor DNA
polynucleotide inserted within a genomic locus, methods for the transformation of plants are well
known in the art. For instance, numerous methods for plant transformation have been developed,
including biological and physical transformation protocols for dicotyledenous plants as well as
monocotyledenous plants (e.g., Goto-Fumiyuki et al., Nature Biotech 17:282-286 (1999); Miki et
al., Methods in Plant Molecular Biology and Biotechnology, Glick, B. R. and Thompson, J. E.
Eds., CRC Press, Inc., Boca Raton, pp. 67-88 (1993)). In addition, vectors comprising gene
expression cassettes and in vitro culture methods for plant cell or tissue transformation and
regeneration of plants are available, for example, in Gruber et al., Methods in Plant Molecular
Biology and Biotechnology, Glick, B. R. and Thompson, J. E. Eds., CRC Press, Inc., Boca
Raton, pp. 89-119 (1993).
                                                  56

1002026714
        [001731        A large number of techniques are available for inserting DNA comprising
a gene expression cassette into a plant host cell. Those techniques include transformation with
disarmed T-DNA using Agrobacterium tumefaciens or Agrobacterium rhizogenes as the
transformation agent, calcium phosphate transfection, polybrene transformation, protoplast
fusion, electroporation, ultrasonic methods (e.g., sonoporation), liposome transformation,
microinjection,   naked    DNA,    plasmid   vectors,    viral  vectors,  biolistics  (microparticle
bombardment), silicon carbide WHISKERSTM mediated transformation, aerosol beaming, or
Poly Ethylene Glycol mediated transformation as well as other possible methods.
        [00174]        For example, the DNA construct comprising a gene expression cassette
may be introduced directly into the genomic DNA of the plant cell using techniques such as
electroporation and microinjection of plant cell protoplasts, or the DNA constructs can be
introduced directly to plant tissue using biolistic methods, such as DNA particle bombardment
(see, e.g., Klein et al. (1987) Nature 327:70-73).             Additional methods for plant cell
transformation include microinjection via silicon carbide WHISKERSTM mediated DNA uptake
(Kaeppler et al. (1990) Plant Cell Reporter 9:415-418). Alternatively, the DNA construct can be
introduced into the plant cell via nanoparticle transformation (see, e.g., US Patent Application
No. 12/245,685, which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety).
        [00175]        Another known method of plant transformation is microprojectile
mediated transformation wherein DNA is carried on the surface of microprojectiles.           In this
method, the expression vector is introduced into plant tissues with a biolistic device that
accelerates the microprojectiles to speeds sufficient to penetrate plant cell walls and membranes.
Sanford et al., Part. Sci. Technol. 5:27 (1987), Sanford, J. C., Trends Biotech. 6:299 (1988),
Sanford, J. C., Physiol. Plant 79:206 (1990), Klein et al., Biotechnology 10:268 (1992).
        [00176]        Alternatively, gene transfer and transformation methods include, but are
not limited to, protoplast transformation through calcium chloride precipitation, poly ethylene
glycol (PEG) or electroporation-mediated uptake of DNA (see Paszkowski et al. (1984) EMBO J
                                                 57

1002026714
3:2717-2722, Potrykus et al. (1985) Molec. Gen. Genet. 199:169-177; Fromm et al. (1985) Proc.
Nat. Acad. Sci. USA         82:5824-5828; and Shimamoto (1989)          Nature 338:274-276) and
electroporation of plant tissues (D'Halluin et al. (1992) Plant Cell 4:1495-1505).
         [001771       A widely utilized method for introducing an vector comprising a gene
expression cassette into plants is based on the natural transformation system of Agrobacterium.
Horsch et al., Science 227:1229 (1985). A. tumefaciens and A. rhizogenes are plant pathogenic
soil bacteria known to be useful to genetically transform plant cells. The Ti and Ri plasmids of
A. tumefaciens and A. rhizogenes, respectively,            carry   genes responsible    for  genetic
transformation of the plant. Kado, C. I., Crit. Rev. Plant. Sci. 10:1 (1991).       Descriptions of
Agrobacterium vector systems and methods for Agrobacterium-mediated gene transfer are also
available, for example, Gruber et al., supra, Miki et al., supra, Moloney et al., Plant Cell
Reports 8:238 (1989), and U.S. Patent Nos. 4,940,838 and 5,464,763.
         [00178]       If Agrobacterium is used for the transformation, the DNA to be inserted
should be cloned into special plasmids, namely either into an intermediate vector or into a binary
vector. Intermediate vectors cannot replicate themselves in Agrobacterium. The intermediate
vector can be transferred into Agrobacterium tumefaciens by means of a helper plasmid
(conjugation). The Japan Tobacco Superbinary system is an example of such a system (reviewed
by Komari et al., (2006) In: Methods in Molecular Biology (K. Wang, ed.) No. 343:
Agrobacterium Protocols ( 2 "d Edition, Vol. 1) HUMANA PRESS Inc., Totowa, NJ, pp.15-41;
and Komori et al., (2007) Plant Physiol. 145:1155-1160).        Binary vectors can replicate in both
  . coli and in Agrobacterium. They comprise a selection marker gene and a linker or polylinker
which are framed by the right and left T-DNA border regions. They can be transformed directly
into Agrobacterium (Holsters, 1978). The Agrobacterium used as host cell is to comprise a
plasmid carrying a vir region. The Ti or Ri plasmid also comprises the vir region necessary for
the transfer of the T-DNA. The vir region is necessary for the transfer of the T-DNA into the
plant cell. Additional T-DNA may be contained.
                                                  58

1002026714
        [001791         The virulence functions of the Agrobacterium tumefaciens host will direct
the insertion of a T-strand containing the construct and adjacent marker into the plant cell DNA
when the cell is infected by the bacteria using a binary T DNA vector (Bevan (1984) Nuc. Acid
Res.   12:8711-8721)     or the     co-cultivation    procedure  (Horsch  et al. (1985)    Science
227:1229-1231).      Generally, the Agrobacterium transformation system is used to engineer
dicotyledonous plants (Bevan et al. (1982) Ann. Rev. Genet 16:357-384; Rogers et al. (1986)
Methods Enzymol. 118:627-641). The Agrobacterium transformation system may also be used to
transform, as well as transfer, DNA to monocotyledonous plants and plant cells. See U.S. Patent
No. 5, 591,616; Hernalsteen et al. (1984) EMBO J 3:3039-3041; Hooykass-Van Slogteren et al.
(1984) Nature 311:763-764; Grimsley et al. (1987) Nature 325:1677-179; Boulton et al. (1989)
PlantMol. Biol. 12:31-40; and Gould et al. (1991) PlantPhysiol. 95:426-434.
        [00180]         Following the introduction of the genetic construct comprising a gene
expression cassette into plant cells, plant cells can be grown and upon emergence of
differentiating tissue such as shoots and roots, mature plants can be generated.          In some
embodiments, a plurality of plants can be generated. Methodologies for regenerating plants are
known to those of ordinary skill in the art and can be found, for example, in: Plant Cell and
Tissue Culture, 1994, Vasil and Thorpe Eds. Kluwer Academic Publishers and in: Plant Cell
Culture Protocols (Methods in Molecular Biology 111, 1999 Hall Eds Humana Press).              The
genetically modified plant described herein can be cultured in a fermentation medium or grown
in a suitable medium such as soil. In some embodiments, a suitable growth medium for higher
plants can include any growth medium for plants, including, but not limited to, soil, sand, any
other particulate media that support root growth (e.g., vermiculite, perlite, etc.) or hydroponic
culture, as well as suitable light, water and nutritional supplements which optimize the growth of
the higher plant.
        [001811         Transformed plant cells which are produced by any of the above
transformation techniques can be cultured to regenerate a whole plant which possesses the
                                                   59

1002026714
transformed genotype and thus the desired phenotype.              Such regeneration techniques rely on
manipulation of certain phytohormones in a tissue culture growth medium, typically relying on a
biocide and/or herbicide marker which has been introduced together with the desired nucleotide
sequences. Plant regeneration from cultured protoplasts is described in Evans, et al., "Protoplasts
Isolation and Culture" in Handbook of Plant Cell Culture, pp. 124-176, Macmillian Publishing
Company, New York, 1983; and Binding, Regeneration of Plants, Plant Protoplasts, pp. 21-73,
CRC Press, Boca Raton, 1985.         Regeneration can also be obtained from plant callus, explants,
organs, pollens, embryos or parts thereof. Such regeneration techniques are described generally in
Klee et al. (1987) Ann. Rev. of Plant Phys. 3 8:467-486.
          [00182]         Nucleic acids introduced into a plant cell can be used to confer desired traits
on essentially any plant. A wide variety of plants and plant cell systems may be engineered for the
desired physiological and agronomic characteristics described herein using the nucleic acid
constructs of the present disclosure and the various transformation methods mentioned above. In
preferred embodiments, plants and plant cells for engineering include, but are not limited to, those
monocotyledonous and dicotyledonous plants, such as crops including grain crops (e.g., wheat,
maize, rice, millet, barley), fruit crops (e.g., tomato, apple, pear, strawberry, orange), forage crops
(e.g., alfalfa), root vegetable crops (e.g., carrot, potato, sugar beets, yam), leafy vegetable crops
(e.g., lettuce, spinach); flowering plants (e.g., petunia, rose, chrysanthemum), conifers and pine trees
(e.g., pine fir, spruce); plants used in phytoremediation (e.g., heavy metal accumulating plants); oil
crops (e.g., sunflower, rape seed) and plants used for experimental purposes (e.g., Arabidopsis).
Thus, the disclosed methods and compositions have use over a broad range of plants, including, but
not limited to, species from the genera Asparagus, Avena, Brassica, Citrus, Citrullus, Capsicum,
Cucurbita, Daucus, Erigeron, Glycine, Gossypium, Hordeum, Lactuca, Lolium, Lycopersicon,
Malus, Manihot, Nicotiana, Orychophragmus, Oryza, Persea, Phaseolus, Pisum, Pyrus, Prunus,
Raphanus, Secale, Solanum, Sorghum, Triticum, Vitis, Vigna, and Zea mays.
                                                     60

1002026714
         [001831          A transformed plant cell, callus, tissue or plant may be identified and isolated
by selecting or screening the engineered plant material for traits encoded by the marker genes
present on the transforming DNA.         For instance, selection can be performed by growing the
engineered plant material on media containing an inhibitory amount of the antibiotic or herbicide to
which the transforming gene construct confers resistance. Further, transformed plants and plant
cells can also be identified by screening for the activities of any visible marker genes (e.g., the
p-glucuronidase,    luciferase, or gfp genes) that may be present on the recombinant nucleic acid
constructs. Such selection and screening methodologies are well known to those skilled in the art.
         [00184]          The term "introduced" in the context of inserting a nucleic acid into a cell,
includes transformation into the cell, as well as crossing a plant having the sequence with another
plant, so that the second plant contains the heterologous sequence, as in conventional plant breeding
techniques. Such breeding techniques are well known to one skilled in the art. For a discussion of
plant breeding techniques, see Poehlman (1995) Breeding Field Crops. AVI Publication Co.,
Westport Conn,    4 th Edit.   Backcrossing methods may be used to introduce a gene into the plants.
This technique has been used for decades to introduce traits into a plant. An example of a
description of this and other plant breeding methodologies that are well known can be found in
references such as Poehlman, supra, and Plant Breeding Methodology, edit. Neal Jensen, John
Wiley & Sons, Inc. (1988). In a typical backcross protocol, the original variety of interest (recurrent
parent) is crossed to a second variety (nonrecurrent parent) that carries the single gene of interest to
be transferred. The resulting progeny from this cross are then crossed again to the recurrent parent
and the process is repeated until a plant is obtained wherein essentially all of the desired
morphological and physiological characteristics of the recurrent parent are recovered in the
converted plant, in addition to the single transferred gene from the nonrecurrent parent.
         [00185]          The term transgenic "event" refers to a recombinant plant produced by
transformation and regeneration of a single plant cell with heterologous DNA, for example, an
expression cassette that includes a gene of interest. The term "event" refers to the original
                                                    61

1002026714
transformant and/or progeny of the transformant that include the heterologous DNA. The term
"event" also refers to progeny produced by a sexual outcross between the transformant and another
plant. Even after repeated backcrossing to a recurrent parent, the inserted DNA and the flanking
DNA from the transformed parent is present in the progeny of the cross at the same chromosomal
location. Normally, transformation of plant tissue produces multiple events, each of which represent
insertion of a DNA construct into a different location in the genome of a plant cell. Based on the
expression of the transgene or other desirable characteristics, a particular event is selected. In
embodiments of the subject disclosure the particular event comprises a donor DNA polynucleotide
inserted within a targeted genomic locus.
         [001861        A "transgene" refers to a gene introduced into the genome of an organism by
genetic manipulation in order to alter its genotype.
         [00187]        A "transgenic plant" is a plant having one or more plant cells that contain an
expression vector comprising a gene expression cassette. The term "Messenger RNA (mRNA)"
refers to the RNA that is without introns and that can be translated into protein by the cell.
         [001881        As used herein, "insert DNA" refers to the heterologous DNA within the
donor DNA polynucleotide comprising a gene expression cassette used to transform the plant
material while "flanking DNA" or "junction DNA" can comprise either genomic DNA naturally
present in an organism such as a plant, or foreign (heterologous) DNA introduced via the
transformation process which is extraneous to the original insert DNA molecule, e.g. fragments
associated with the transformation event. A "junction" or "flanking region" or "flanking
sequence" as used herein refers to a sequence of at least 20, 50, 100, 200, 300, 400, 1000, 1500,
2000, 2500, or 5000 base pair or greater which is located either immediately upstream of and
contiguous with or immediately downstream of and contiguous with the original foreign insert
DNA molecule.
         [001891        In an embodiment the disclosure relates to a method to identify the
presence of a donor DNA polynucleotide within a targeted genome via an amplification reaction
                                                   62

1002026714
in which an amplicon is generated. The detection of the absence of the amplicon is an indication
of whether the genomic loci has been disrupted. In additional embodiments, the presence of an
amplicon is an indication that a donor DNA polynucleotide was inserted within the genomic loci.
        [00190]          Various assays can be employed in connection with the amplification
reaction of certain embodiments of the disclosure.         The following techniques are useful in a
variety of situations, and in one embodiment, are useful in detecting the presence of the nucleic
acid molecule and/or the polypeptide encoded in a plant cell. For example, the presence of the
molecule can be determined in a variety of ways, including using a primer or probe of the
sequence. The transgene may be selectively expressed in some tissues of the plant or at some
developmental stages, or the transgene may be expressed in substantially all plant tissues,
substantially along its entire life cycle.    However, any combinatorial expression mode is also
applicable.
        [00191] Amplification of a selected, or target, nucleic acid sequence may be carried out by
any suitable means. See generally, Kwoh et al., Am. Biotechnol. Lab. 8, 14-25 (1990). Examples of
suitable amplification techniques include, but are not limited to, polymerase chain reaction, ligase
chain reaction, strand displacement amplification (see generally G. Walker et al., Proc. Natl. Acad.
Sci. USA 89, 392-396 (1992); G. Walker et al., Nucleic Acids Res. 20, 1691-1696 (1992)),
transcription-based amplification (see D. Kwoh et al., Proc. Natl. Acad Sci. USA 86, 1173-1177
(1989)), self-sustained sequence replication (or "3SR") (see J. Guatelli et al., Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci.
USA 87, 1874-1878 (1990)), the Qp replicase system (see P. Lizardi et al., BioTechnology 6, 1197
1202 (1988)), nucleic acid sequence-based amplification (or "NASBA") (see R. Lewis, Genetic
Engineering News 12 (9), 1 (1992)), the repair chain reaction (or "RCR") (see R. Lewis, supra), and
boomerang DNA amplification (or "BDA") (see R. Lewis, supra). Polymerase chain reaction is
generally preferred.
        [00192]          "Amplification" is a special case of nucleic acid replication involving
template specificity. It is to be contrasted with non-specific template replication (i.e., replication that
                                                    63

1002026714
is template-dependent but not dependent on a specific template). Template specificity is here
distinguished from fidelity of replication (i.e., synthesis of the proper polynucleotide sequence) and
nucleotide (ribo- or deoxyribo-) specificity. Template specificity is frequently described in terms of
"target" specificity. Target sequences are "targets" in the sense that they are sought to be sorted out
from other nucleic acid. Amplification techniques were designed primarily for this sorting out.
         [001931        As used herein, the term "polymerase chain reaction" and "PCR" generally
refers to the method for increasing the concentration of a segment of a target sequence in a mixture
of genomic DNA without cloning or purification (U.S. Pat. Nos. 4,683,195; 4,683,202; and
4,965,188; herein incorporated by reference). This process for amplifying the target sequence
comprises introducing an excess of two oligonucleotide primers to the DNA mixture containing the
desired target sequence, followed by a precise sequence of thermal cycling in the presence of a
DNA polymerase. The two primers are complementary to their respective strands of the double
stranded target sequence. To effect amplification, the mixture is denatured and the primers then
annealed to their complementary sequences within the target molecule. Following annealing, the
primers are extended with a polymerase so as to form a new pair of complementary strands. The
steps of denaturation, primer annealing and polymerase extension can be repeated many times (i.e.,
denaturation, annealing and extension constitute one "cycle"; there can be numerous "cycles") to
obtain a high concentration of an amplified segment of the desired target sequence. The length of
the amplified segment of the desired target sequence is determined by the relative positions of the
primers with respect to each other, and therefore, this length is a controllable parameter. By virtue of
the repeating aspect of the process, the method is referred to as the "polymerase chain reaction"
(hereinafter "PCR"). Because the desired amplified segments of the target sequence become the
predominant sequences (in terms of concentration) in the mixture, they are said to be "PCR
amplified.
                                                    64

1002026714
         [001941        The term "plurality" is used herein to mean two or more, for example, three,
four, five or more, including ten, twenty, fifty or more polynucleotides, nucleic acid probes, and the
like.
         [00195]        The term "reverse-transcriptase" or "RT-PCR" refers to a type of PCR where
the starting material is mRNA. The starting mRNA is enzymatically converted to complementary
DNA or "cDNA" using a reverse transcriptase enzyme. The cDNA is then used as a "template" for
a "PCR" reaction.
         [001961        In an embodiment, the amplification reaction is quantified.          In other
embodiments, the amplification reaction is quantitated using a signature profile, in which the
signature profile is selected from the group consisting of a melting temperature or a fluorescence
signature profile.
         [00197]        The nucleic acid molecule of embodiments of the disclosure, or segments
thereof, can be used as primers for PCR amplification. In performing PCR amplification, a
certain degree of mismatch can be tolerated between primer and template. Therefore, mutations,
deletions, and insertions (especially additions of nucleotides to the 5' or 3' end) of the
exemplified primers fall within the scope of the subject disclosure. Mutations, insertions, and
deletions can be produced in a given primer by methods known to an ordinarily skilled artisan.
         [001981        Molecular Beacons have been described for use in sequence detection.
Briefly, a FRET oligonucleotide probe is designed that overlaps the flanking genomic and insert
DNA junction. The unique structure of the FRET probe results in it containing a secondary
structure that keeps the fluorescent and quenching moieties in close proximity. The FRET probe
and PCR primers (one primer in the insert DNA sequence and one in the flanking genomic
sequence) are cycled in the presence of a thermostable polymerase and dNTPs. Following
successful PCR amplification, hybridization of the FRET probe(s) to the target sequence results
in the removal of the probe secondary structure and spatial separation of the fluorescent and
quenching     moieties.     A   fluorescent    signal  indicates  the   presence   of the     flanking
                                                   65

1002026714
genomic/transgene insert sequence due to successful amplification and hybridization. Such a
molecular beacon assay for detection of as an amplification reaction is an embodiment of the
subject disclosure.
        [00199]        Hydrolysis    probe  assay,  otherwise   known    as   TAQMAN*       (Life
Technologies, Foster City, Calif.), is a method of detecting and quantifying the presence of a
DNA sequence. Briefly, a FRET oligonucleotide probe is designed with one oligo within the
transgene and one in the flanking genomic sequence for event-specific detection. The FRET
probe and PCR primers (one primer in the insert DNA sequence and one in the flanking genomic
sequence) are cycled in the presence of a thermostable polymerase and dNTPs. Hybridization of
the FRET probe results in cleavage and release of the fluorescent moiety away from the
quenching moiety on the FRET probe. A fluorescent signal indicates the presence of the
flanking/transgene insert sequence due to successful amplification and hybridization. Such a
hydrolysis probe assay for detection of as an amplification reaction is an embodiment of the
subject disclosure.
        [00200]        KASPar assays are a method of detecting and quantifying the presence of
a DNA sequence. Briefly, the genomic DNA sample comprising the targeted genomic locus is
screened using a polymerase chain reaction (PCR) based assay known as a KASPar" assay
system. The KASPar" assay used in the practice of the subject disclosure can utilize a KASPar*
PCR assay mixture which contains multiple primers. The primers used in the PCR assay mixture
can comprise at least one forward primers and at least one reverse primer. The forward primer
contains a sequence corresponding to a specific region of the donor DNA polynucleotide, and the
reverse primer contains a sequence corresponding to a specific region of the genomic sequence.
In addition, the primers used in the PCR assay mixture can comprise at least one forward primers
and at least one reverse primer.     For example, the KASPar* PCR assay mixture can use two
forward primers corresponding to two different alleles and one reverse primer.       One of the
forward primers contains a sequence corresponding to specific region of the endogenous
                                                66

1002026714
genomic sequence. The second forward primer contains a sequence corresponding to a specific
region of the donor DNA polynucleotide. The reverse primer contains a sequence corresponding
to a specific region of the genomic sequence. Such a KASPar@ assay for detection of an
amplification reaction is an embodiment of the subject disclosure.
         [00201]         In some embodiments the fluorescent signal or fluorescent dye is selected
from the group consisting of a HEX fluorescent dye, a FAM fluorescent dye, a JOE fluorescent dye,
a TET fluorescent dye, a Cy 3 fluorescent dye, a Cy 3.5 fluorescent dye, a Cy 5 fluorescent dye, a
Cy 5.5 fluorescent dye, a Cy 7 fluorescent dye, and a ROX fluorescent dye.
         [00202]         In other embodiments the amplification reaction is run using suitable second
fluorescent DNA dyes that are capable of staining cellular DNA at a concentration range detectable
by flow cytometry, and have a fluorescent emission spectrum which is detectable by a real time
thermocycler. It should be appreciated by those of ordinary skill in the art that other nucleic acid
dyes are known and are continually being identified. Any suitable nucleic acid dye with appropriate
excitation and emission spectra can be employed, such as YO-PRO-1,           SYTOX Green@, SYBR
Green I@, SYTOl1,            SYTO12@, SYTO13@, BOBO@, YOYO@, and TOTO@. in one
embodiment, a second fluorescent DNA dye is SYTO13@ used at less than 10 pM, less than 4 pM,
or less than 2.7 pM.
         [002031         Embodiments of the present invention are further defined in the following
Examples. It should be understood that these Examples are given by way of illustration only. From
the above discussion and these Examples, one skilled in the art can ascertain the essential
characteristics of this invention, and without departing from the spirit and scope thereof, can make
various changes and modifications of the embodiments of the invention to adapt it to various usages
and conditions. Thus, various modifications of the embodiments of the invention, in addition to
those shown and described herein, will be apparent to those skilled in the art from the foregoing
                                                  67

1002026714
description. Such modifications are also intended to fall within the scope of the appended claims.
The following is provided by way of illustration and not intended to limit the scope of the invention.
                                           EXAMPLES
 Example 1. Analysis of Targeted Loci in Maize Callus
        [00204] Genomic Loci Targeting:      The genomic locus for corn event DAS-59132 that was
previously disclosed in W02009100188 METHODS FOR DETECTION OF CORN EVENT DAS
59132, herein incorporated by its entirety, was targeted using a zinc finger nuclease designed to
specifically bind and cleave the genomic DNA which makes up this event.                 The resulting
transformants were maintained until an analysis to identify and characterize the disruption of the
genomic loci within specific events via an amplification reaction could be completed.
        [00205]        The zinc finger proteins directed against DNA sequences which comprise
the genomic locus for DAS-59132 were designed as previously described. See, e.g., Urnov et al.
(2005) Nature 435:646-651. The DAS-59132 zinc finger designs were incorporated into vectors
encoding a protein having at least one finger with a CCHC structure.               See, U.S. Patent
Publication No. 2008/0182332.      In particular, the last finger in each protein had a CCHC
backbone for the recognition helix. The non-canonical zinc finger-encoding sequences were
fused to the nuclease domain of the type IIS restriction enzyme, FokI (amino acids 384-579 of
the sequence of Wah et al. (1998) Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 95:10564-10569) via a four amino
acid linker and an opaque-2 nuclear localization signal derived from Zea mays to form DAS
59132 zinc-finger nucleases (ZFNs).         Expression of the fusion proteins in a bicistronic
expression construct utilizing a 2A ribosomal stuttering signal as described in Shukla et al.
(2009) Nature 459:437-441 was driven by a relatively strong, constitutive and ectopic promoter
such as the CsVMV promoter.
        [002061        The optimal ZFNs were verified for cleavage activity using a budding
yeast based system previously shown to identify active nucleases.             See, e.g., U.S. Patent
Publication No. 20090111119; Doyon et al. (2008) Nat Biotechnol. 26:702-708; Geurts et al.
                                                 68

1002026714
(2009) Science 325:433. Of the numerous ZFNs that were designed, produced and tested to bind
to the putative DAS-59132 genomic polynucleotide target sites, preferred ZFNs were identified
as having in vivo activity at high levels, and selected for further experimentation. These ZFNs
were characterized as being capable of efficiently binding and cleaving the DAS-59132 genomic
polynucleotide target sites in planta.
         [00207]        Plasmid vectors containing ZFN expression constructs of the exemplary
zinc finger nucleases, which were identified using the yeast assay, were designed and completed
using skills and techniques commonly known in the art. Next, the opaque-2 nuclear localization
signal::zinc finger nuclease fusion sequence was paired with the complementary opaque-2
nuclear localization signal::zinc finger nuclease fusion sequence.       As such, each construct
consisted of a single open reading frame comprised of two opaque-2 nuclear localization
signal::zinc finger nuclease fusion sequences separated by the 2A sequence from Thosea asigna
virus (Mattion et al. (1996) J. Virol. 70:8124-8127).    Expression of the ZFN coding sequence
was driven by the highly expressing constitutive Zea mays Ubiquitin 1 Promoter (Christensen et
al. (1992) Plant Mol. Biol. 18(4):675-89) and flanked by the Zea mays Per 5 3' polyA
untranslated region (US PAT NO. 6,699,984).
         [002081        A donor construct was designed to integrate into the ZFN cleaved
genomic DNA of the DAS-59132 genomic locus. This single gene expression cassette is driven
by the Rice ActinI promoter (Os Act1 promoter) :: the phosphinothricinacetyl transferase
coding sequence (PAT; US Patent No. 7,838,733) :: and is terminated by the Zea mays lipase 3'
untranslated region (ZmLip 3'UTR). In addition, the donor plasmid was designed with 1 kB
sequence (homology arms) on either end of the target PAT gene that is homologous to sequence
on either end of the ZFN cut site in the DAS-59132 genomic locus. The homology arms served
as the substrate that the homologous recombination machinery used to insert the transgene into
the genomic ZFN cut site. The various gene elements were assembled in a high copy number
pUC based plasmid.
                                                69

1002026714
        [002091         Targeted Integration: Transgenic events were targeted to the endogenous
genomic locus of DAS-59132. Constructs as described previously include the donor sequence
(pDAB107855) and DAS-59132 ZFN 6 (pDAB105906). Co-transformation of these two
plasmids resulted in 854 transgenic PAT events that were screened with the method for
identifying the presence of a donor DNA polynucleotide within a targeted genomic locus of the
subject disclosure.
        [00210]         Maize callus cells, consisting of 12 mL of packed cell volume (PCV) from
a previously cryo-preserved cell line plus 28 mL of conditioned medium was subcultured into 80
mL of GN6 liquid medium in a 500 mL Erlenmeyer flask, and placed on a shaker at 125 rpm at
28'C. This step was repeated two times using the same cell line, such that a total of 36 mL PCV
was distributed across three flasks. After 24 hours, the GN6 liquid media was removed and
replaced with 72 mL GN6 S/M osmotic medium. The flask was incubated in the dark for 30-35
minutes at 280 C with moderate agitation (125 rpm). During the incubation period, a 50 mg/mL
suspension of silicon carbide WHISKERSTM (Advanced Composite Materials, LLC, Greer, SC)
was prepared by adding 8.1 mL of GN6 S/M liquid medium to 405 mg of sterile, silicon carbide
WHISKERSTM.
        [00211]         Following incubation in GN6 S/M osmotic medium, the contents of each
flask were pooled into a 250 mL centrifuge bottle. After all cells in the flask settled to the
bottom, the content volume in excess of approximately 14 mL of GN6 S/M liquid was drawn off
and collected in a sterile 1-L flask for future use. The pre-wetted suspension of WHISKERSTM
was mixed at maximum speed on a vortex for 60 seconds, and then added to the centrifuge
bottle.
        [00212]         In this example, pDAB 107855 (donor sequence) and pDAB 105906 (ZFN)
plasmid DNA were added to each bottle. Once the plasmid DNA was added, the bottle was
immediately placed in a modified RED DEVIL 5400TM commercial paint mixer (Red Devil
Equipment Co., Plymouth, MN), and agitated for 10 seconds. Following agitation, the cocktail
                                                   70

1002026714
of cells, media, WHISKERSTM and plasmid DNA were added to the contents of a 1 L flask along
with 125 mL fresh GN6 liquid medium to reduce the osmoticant. The cells were allowed to
recover on a shaker set at 125 rpm for 2 hours. 6 mL of dispersed suspension was filtered onto
Whatman #4 filter paper (5.5 cm) using a glass cell collector unit connected to a house vacuum
line such that 60 filters were obtained per bottle. Filters were placed onto 60 x 20 mm plates of
GN6 solid medium and cultured at 280 C under dark conditions for 1 week.
         [002131         One week post-DNA delivery, filter papers were transferred to 60x20 mm
plates of GN6 (1H) selection medium containing a selective agent. These selection plates were
incubated at 28' C for one week in the dark. Following 1 week of selection in the dark, the tissue
was embedded onto fresh media by scraping % the cells from each plate into a tube containing
3.0 mL of GN6 agarose medium held at 37-38' C.
         [00214]         The agarose/tissue mixture was broken up with a spatula and,
subsequently, 3 mL of agarose/tissue mixture was evenly poured onto the surface of a 100 x 25
mm petri dish containing GN6 (1lH) medium. This process was repeated for both halves of each
plate. Once all the tissue was embedded, plates incubated at 28' C under dark conditions for up
to 10 weeks. Putatively transformed isolates that grew under these selection conditions were
removed from the embedded plates and transferred to fresh selection medium in 60 x 20 mm
plates. If sustained growth was evident after approximately 2 weeks, an event was deemed to be
resistant to the applied herbicide (selective agent) and an aliquot of cells was subsequently
harvested for genotype analysis. In this example, a large number of events were recovered from
the treated bottles. These events were advance for molecular analysis to confirm the integration
of a transgene within a genomic locus of Corn Event DAS-59132.
         [00215] DNA Extraction: Callus tissue samples were collected in 96-well collection
plates (Qiagen, Valencia, CA) and then lyophilized for 48 hours. Tissue disruption was
performed with a KLECKOTM tissue pulverizer (Garcia Manufacturing, Visalia, CA) in
BIOSPRINT96 APlTM lysis buffer (Qiagen) with one stainless steel bead. Following tissue
                                                  71

1002026714
maceration, genomic DNA was isolated in high throughput format using the BIOSPRINT96TM
plant kit (Qiagen) using the BIOSPRINT96TM extraction robot (Qiagen). A sample of genomic
DNA was then diluted to 2 ng/pl prior to setting up the qPCR reactions to achieve appropriate
Cp (quantification cycle) scores which resulted in the production of a signature profile.
         [00216] DAS-59132 Locus Disruption Assay: WHISKERSTM mediated transformation of
Hi-Il callus cells with the DAS-59132-ZFN and donor plasmid resulted in targeted and random
transgene insertions. To distinguish random insertion events from the targeted event populations, all
854 events generated were initially screened using a locus disruption assay. This assay determined
whether the ZFN binding site within the locus remains intact or had been disrupted through ZFN
cleavage or donor insertion. Indication of a disruption within the genomic loci is initial evidence
that the ZFN has cleaved the endogenous DAS-59132 target locus and indicates targeted insertion
of the donor DNA molecule. Primers were designed to amplify the endogenous target region that
contains the ZFN recognition sites, and samples were set up to be analyzed by qPCR. Amplification
of the intact region, indicative of an untargeted event, resulted in a 140 base pair amplicon measured
as a detectable qPCR signal. Successful targeted integration of the donor molecule results in
disruption of the detectable qPCR signal and is shown as a lower overall signal compared to control.
         [00217]    The DAS-59132 locus disruption assay was performed by real-time PCR using
the LIGHTCYCLER@480 system (Roche Applied Science, Indianapolis, IN). Assays were
designed to monitor the DAS-59132 ZFN (25716/25717) binding sequences at the DAS-59132
locus (and the internal reference gene IVF (Genbank Acc No: U16123.1|ZMU16123)                   using
LIGHTCYCLER@ Probe Design Software 2.0. For amplification, LIGHTCYCLER@480 Probes
Master mix (Roche Applied Science, Indianapolis, IN) was prepared at 1X final concentration in a
10 pL volume multiplex reaction containing 0.4 uM of each primer and 0.2 pM of each probe
(Table 1). A two step amplification reaction was performed with an extension at 55 0 C for 30
seconds with fluorescence acquisition. Analysis for the disruption assay was performed using target
to reference ratio.
                                                   72

1002026714
Table 1: Oligonucleotide Primer and Probe Sequences for DAS-59132 Locus Disruption Assay.
Primer           SEQ ID NO:            Sequence                                          Detection
Name
MAS604           SEQ ID NO: 1          ACACGGCACACACGGCGACATTCA                          -
MAS606           SEQ ID NO:2           AGGGCAGTGGCCAGTGTTCCTGTG                          -
UPL 69           --                    Roche Sequence                                    FAM
IVF-Taq          SEQ ID NO:3           TGGCGGACGACGACTTGT                                -
IVR-Taq          SEQ ID NO:4           AAAGTTTGGAGGCTGCCGT                               -
IV-Probe         SEQ ID NO:5           CGAGCAGACCGCCGTGTACTTCTACC                        HEX
        [00218] The 854 events generated from precision transformation were screened with the
disruption assay, and scored as disrupted based on a significant drop in the target to reference signal.
The results indicated that 63 of the 854 events assayed had a disrupted signal at the DAS-59132
locus, indicative of targeted gene insertion (Figure 2). Despite the quantitative measurement of a
disrupted locus that the disruption assay provides, this assay cannot resolve targeted insertions from
mutations at the cleavage site resulting from error prone break repair. The development of a
secondary In-Out PCR assay for screening events in parallel to ensure robust and accurate
evaluation of all events was developed.
        [00219] DAS-59132 Locus In-Out PCR Assay: The events screened by the disruption
assay were also screened by a locus specific end-point PCR assay at the DAS-59132 locus. One
oligonucleotide primer is designed to anneal to a region of target genomic DNA outside the ZFN
cleavage site and a second oligonucleotide primer is designed to anneal only to the transgene region
of the donor DNA. The primers are designed to analyze the 5' and 3' insert DNA junction regions
of the target site at the DAS-59132 locus. Many of the events generated from transformation are
random insertions and so are not amplified during the In-Out PCR, as the donor sequence is not in
proximity to the target sequence (Figure 3A). As the primers are designed to only amplify regions of
donor DNA and genomic DNA that are inserted in the targeted region, amplification is a result of a
targeted transgene event (Figure 3B). This PCR analysis, called "In-Out" PCR, ensures that a
                                                  73

1002026714
complete picture of targeted gene insertion is obtained, as the primers are designed to target both the
target sequence and inserted donor sequence and both the 5' and 3' junctions are analyzed.
Following PCR, amplified samples are analyzed by electrophoresis and samples with transgene
integration at the target site in the DAS-59132 locus result in amplification of two bands at 2 kb and
1.5 kb. This is indicative of integrated target sequence at the 5' and 3' junctions of the transgene.
         [00220] In-Out PCR amplification reactions were conducted using a Takara Ex Taq HS
kitTM  (Clontech Laboratories, Inc., Mountain View, CA). Each PCR reaction was carried out in 15
or 20 pL final volume, which contained 1x Ex Taq buffer, 200 nM of forward and reverse primers,
10 to 20 ng of genomic DNA template, and a final concentration of 0.05 unit/pL Ex Taq HS
polymerase. For real-time In-Out PCR, a SYTO13@ dye from Invitrogen (Grand Island, NY) was
included in the PCR reaction mix at a final concentration of 4 pM or 2.67 pM.                Initially the
SYTO13@ green fluorescent dye was used per manufacturer recommended concentrations as it had
been previously shown to increase overall assay sensitivity and exhibit low inhibition of polymerase
activity. This dye resulted in a stronger signal and more consistent results, but the high-throughput
system still had limitations. Background fluorescence continued to be problematic, as primer-dimer
formations or non-specific primer annealing (from impure primers) were generating false positive
signals. As such, the concentrations which were used in the assay were lower from 10 pM to 4 pM
or 2.67 pM. The reduction in concentration of the dye resulted in a signature profile that provided
reliable detection and quantitation of the PCR assay.
         [00221]   Real-time In-Out PCR was performed on an ABI VIIA7 PCR SYSTEMTM (Life
Technologies Corporation, Carlsbad, CA). After initial denaturing, the amplification program
contained 40 cycles of 98'C for 10 see, 66'C for 30 see and 68'C for 2 min with fluorescence
acquisition before a melting temperature analysis program. Following the amplification step, the
reaction was kept at 65'C for 30 see and 72'C for 10 min, and finally held at 4'C. Both direct
fluorescence signals and melting temperature profiles were used for sample analysis. Positive
samples identified on the real-time system were further confirmed using a standard gel shift assay.
                                                    74

1002026714
Table 2: Primer and Probe Sequences for DAS-59132 Locus In Out Assay.
               Primer       SEQ ID NO:         Primer Sequence
               Name
 5' Junction   E32-5F3      SEQ ID NO:6        GAAGGCAAAACGAATATAAGTGCATTCG
 Sequence                                      G
               E32-         SEQ ID NO:7        TCGTGGATAGCACTTTGGGCT
               OLP-R1
 3' Junction   E32-         SEQ ID NO:8        TCTACAGTGAACTTTAGGACAGAGCCA
 Sequence      OLP-F3
               E32-3R2      SEQ ID NO:9        GCCCTTACAGTTCATGGGCG
        [00222] In an effort to differentiate targeted insert PCR amplicons from false positives, a
protocol was designed to assign a signature profile to every PCR product generated. Melting
temperature profiles of the PCR amplicons       were compared to a positive control, and matching
curves identified positive In-Out PCR products (Figures 4A and 4B). Correlating the In-Out PCR
analysis using a signature profile that comprises a melting temperature profile of both the both the
3' and 5' ends is a novel analytical methodology that generates greater confidence in identifying a
targeted donor DNA polynucleotide insertion event within a genomic locus.
        [00223] The results of the disruption assay and the DAS-59132 locus In-Out PCR assay
were further confirmed via Southern blotting and sequencing (standard of Next Generation
Sequencing).
        [00224] The novel assay resulted in a robust analytical process to identify targeted donor
DNA polynucleotide insertion events at a ZFN cleavage site in maize. The endogenous genomic
loci was successfully targeted and the targeted events were efficiently identified using the novel
assay. A total of 854 samples were submitted for the analysis using the disclosed assay. The
disruption assay was performed on all of the putative events with 63 of the events showing
disruption. The In-Out PCR was performed on all of the events, and 8 positive events were
                                                  75

1002026714
identified. As a result, there were a total of 8 events that were confirmed to be targeted inserts
(Figure 5).
 Example 2. Analysis of Targeted Loci in Maize Plants
         [00225] Maize transgenic B104 embryos were generated, wherein the DAS-59132 locus
was targeted via the Zinc Finger Nuclease construct, pDAB105906, and a donor construct,
pDAB104179.         These constructs were transformed into the plant tissue using a biolistic
transformation method as described in Example 7 of US Patent Application No. 2011/0191899,
herein incorporated by reference in its entirety. Putatively transformed embryos were identified via
selection of the herbicide phosphinothricin.
         [00226] The putatively identified transgenic embryos were analyzed using the disruption
assay to identify events which contained the presence of a donor DNA polynucleotide inserted
within a targeted genomic locus. The ZFN disruption assay was completed using the protocols and
reagents described above. In the events that were not targeted or disrupted, a target to reference ratio
in the 0.4 to 0.6 range was observed; for samples that were disrupted or targeted a range from 0.2 to
0.35 (plate to plate variation) was reported (Figure 6). The targeted events which did not produce an
amplicon resulted in a lower quantity of amplified product, as depicted in the graph.
         [00227] Next, locus specific In-Out PCR was completed using the protocol and reagents
described above.     The results of the In-Out PCR identified specific events which contained a
transgene insertion within the DAS-59132 locus.
         [00228] A total of 1,223 sample events were submitted for the analysis. The disruption
assay was completed on every event, and identified 85 of the events showing disruption. The In-Out
PCR was completed on all 1,223 sample events and identified 11 events that were positive and 2
partial positive events. Southern blotting and sequencing was completed to confirm that the
identified events comprised full transgene insertions within the DAS-59132 genomic locus.
                                                   76

1002026714
 Example 3. Analysis of Targeted Loci in Maize Plants
         [00229] Maize transgenic B104 embryos were generated, wherein an engineered landing
pad    locus (US Patent Application No. 2011/0191899, herein incorporated by reference in its
entirety) was targeted via the Zinc Finger Nuclease and a donor construct were transformed into the
plant tissue using biolistics. Multiple transformations were completed to target a donor construct
within the engineered landing pad locus. The first series of transformations were completed using
the pDAB109714 donor construct and the pDAB105941 Zinc Finger Nuclease construct. A second
series of transformations were completed using the pDAB 109715 donor construct and the
pDAB105943 Zinc Finger Nuclease construct. A third series of transformations were completed
using the pDAB109716 donor construct and the pDAB105942 Zinc Finger Nuclease construct. The
final series of transformations were completed using the pDAB109717 donor construct and the
pDAB105945 Zinc Finger Nuclease construct. Putatively transformed embryos were identified via
selection of the herbicide phosphinothricin.
         [00230] ELP Locus Disruption Assay: Primers were designed to amplify the endogenous
target region that contains the ZFN recognition sites, and samples were set up to be analyzed by
qPCR. Amplification of the intact region, indicative of an untargeted event, resulted in a 193 base
pair amplicon measured as a detectable qPCR signal. Successful targeted integration of the donor
molecules within the respective ELP event results in disruption of the detectable qPCR signal and is
shown as a lower overall signal compared to control.
         [00231]   The ELP locus disruption assay was performed by real-time PCR using the
LIGHTCYCLER@480 system (Roche Applied Science, Indianapolis, IN). Assays were designed to
monitor the ELP ZFN binding sequences at the ELP locus, and the internal reference gene IVF
using LIGHTCYCLER@ Probe Design Software 2.0). For amplification, LIGHTCYCLER@480
Probes Master mix (Roche Applied Science, Indianapolis, IN) was prepared at IX final
concentration in a 10 iL volume multiplex reaction containing 0.4 [tM of each primer and 0.2 tM
of each probe (Table 3). A two step amplification reaction was performed with an extension at 55 0 C
                                                 77

1002026714
for 30 seconds with fluorescence acquisition. Analysis for the disruption assay was performed using
target to reference ratio.
Table 3: Primer and Probe Sequences for ELP Locus Disruption Assay. The ELP1 and ELP2
reactions were multiplexed with the IVF primers and probe, the sequences of which are described in
Table 1.
            Primer         SEQ ID NO:     Sequence                                        Detection
            Name
 ELP1                        SEQ ID
             MAS622          NO:10         TAGGAGTTCTCTTTTATGCCACCC
             MAS621          SEQ ID
                             NO: 11        CCTTGGGATTTCAGTTGGTAGGTT
          _  _UPL69            --                      Roche Sequence                        FAM
 ELP2        MAS617          SEQ ID       TGGGTAGGAGGACACCAAAGATGA                            -
                             NO:12
             MAS618          SEQ ID       CCATTGGATTATTGAAAACTGGCAG                           -
                             NO:13
             UPL122            --                      Roche Sequence                        FAM
         [00232] The 1738 events generated from precision transformation were screened with the
disruption assay, and scored as disrupted based on a significant drop in the target to reference signal.
The results indicated that 158 of the 1738 events assayed had a disrupted signal at the ELP locus,
indicative of targeted gene insertion (Figure 7). Despite the quantitative measurement of a disrupted
locus that the disruption assay provides, this assay does not resolve targeted insertions from
mutations at the cleavage site resulting from error prone break repair. Therefore, the development
of a secondary In-Out PCR assay for screening events in parallel to ensure robust and accurate
evaluation of all events was developed.
         [00233] ELP Loci In-Out PCR Assay: The events screened by the disruption assay were
also screened by a newly-developed locus specific end-point PCR assay at the ELP loci. One primer
was designed to anneal to a region of target genomic DNA outside the ZFN cleavage site and a
                                                   78

1002026714
second primer was designed to anneal only to the transgene region of the donor DNA. The primers
were designed to analyze the 5' and 3' regions of the target site at the ELP locus. As the primers
were designed to only amplify regions of donor DNA and genomic DNA that are inserted in the
targeted region, amplification is a result of a targeted transgene event, both of the 5' and 3' junctions
were analyzed.
         [00234] In-Out PCR amplification reactions were conducted using a TAKARA EX TAQ
HS KITTM (Clontech Laboratories, Inc., Mountain View, CA). Each PCR reaction was carried out
in 15 or 20 pL final volume, which contained 1X Ex Taq buffer, 200 nM of forward and reverse
primers, 10 to 20 ng of genomic DNA template, and a final concentration of 0.05 unit/pL Ex Taq
HS polymerase. For real-time In-Out PCR, a SYTO13@ dye (Invitrogen, Carlsbad, CA) was
included in the PCR reaction mix at a final concentration of 4 pM or 2.67 pM.
         [00235]  Real-time In-Out PCR was performed on an ABI VIIA7 PCR SYSTEMTM (Life
Technologies Corporation, Carlsbad, CA). After initial denaturing, the amplification program
contained 40 cycles of 98'C for 10 see, 66'C for 30 see and 68'C for 2 min with fluorescence
acquisition before a melting temperature analysis program. Following that, the reaction was kept at
65'C for 30 see and 72'C for 10 min, and finally held at 4'C. Both direct fluorescence signals and
melting temperature profiles were used for sample analysis. Positive samples identified on the real
time system were further confirmed using a standard gel shift assay.
Table 4: Primer and Probe Sequences for ELP Locus In Out Assay.
               Primer       SEQ ID NO:            Primer Sequence
               Name
 5' Junction   ELP1-        SEQ ID NO:14          AGA CCT ACC ACC CAT TAG GGC
 Sequence      PriFI
               OsAct-       SEQ ID NO:15          TCG TGG ATA GCA CTT TGG GCT
               PriR3
 3' Junction   AAD1-        SEQ ID NO:16          CTT GAC TCG CAC CAC AGT TGG
 Sequence      PriFI
               ELP2-        SEQ ID NO: 17         GAT GGT GGT TAT GAC AGG CTC CT
                                                    79

1002026714
              PriR1
        [00236] In an effort to identify PCR amplicons from false positives, a protocol was
designed to assign a signature profile to every PCR product generated. Melting temperature profiles
of the PCR amplicons were compared to a positive control, and matching curves identified positive
In-Out PCR products. Correlating the In-Out PCR analysis using a signature profile that comprises
a melting temperature profile of both the both the 3' and 5' ends is an analytical methodology that
generates greater confidence in identifying a targeted transgene insertion event.
        [00237] A total of 1738 PAT positive samples were submitted for this project. The
disruption assay and the In-Out PCR was performed on all events.           The results indicated that
158/1738 events were positive for disruption, and 46/1738 of these events were positive for both the
3' and 5' In-Out PCR amplification reactions.
 Example 4. Analysis of Targeted Loci in Maize Plants
        [00238] Zea mays c.v. B104 plants were transformed with an engineered landing pad gene
construct (pDAB105817 or pDAB105818) as previously described in US Patent Application No.
2011/0191899. Transformed maize plants were obtained and confirmed to contain the ELP. Four
ELP     maize   lines;   105817[1]-015.Sx001.Sx011,        105818[1]-269.Sx001.Sx008,     105818[1]
271.Sx001.Sx005, and 105818[2]-388.Sx001.Sx008 were crossed with Zea mays c.v. B104 to
produce as hemizygotes.      The resulting progeny plants were co-transformed with either eZFN
plasmid pDAB105941 encoding eZFN1 and corresponding donor plasmid pDAB104182 or eZFN
pDAB105948 encoding eZFN8 and donor pDAB104183. The transformations were completed via
bombardment of isolated embryos that were shot one time using a PDS-1000 (Bio-Rad) per
manufacturer's specifications. A total of 20,896 embryos (about 5000 embryos for each target line)
were bombarded and selected for Bialaphos resistance:             12,404 were co-bombarded with
pDAB105941      and its corresponding donor, and 8,492 embryos were co-bombarded with
pDAB105948 and its corresponding donor.
                                                  80

1002026714
         [00239] Following bombardment, embryos were cultured in media and grown into
plantlets. Transgenic events were identified via a qPCR that was developed to screen and detect the
presence of the pat transgene.         The copy number were determined by comparison of
Target/Reference (Invertase) values for unknown samples (output by the LightCycler 480TM) to
Target/Reference values of known copy number standards (1-Copy: hemi, 2-Copy: homo). A total
of 614 regenerated plants survived, and 354 (or 58%) of the plants were identified as positive for the
presence of the pat gene and retained for further analysis.
         [00240] ELP Locus Disruption Assay: A ZFN disruption assay was designed to monitor
the changes in the integrated ELP. In a non-targeted ELP, PCR primers MAS621 and MAS622
(Table 5) amplified a 214 bp product encompassing the eZFN binding sites. Integration into (or
modification of) the eZFN binding site at the ELP locus would disrupt amplification using qPCR
with low extension time resulting in either no signal or significantly lower signal being produced in
the qPCR reaction. A control qPCR reaction for the amplification of the Invertase gene was also
included as an internal control reference.
         [00241] For amplification, LightCycler@480 Probes Master mix (Roche Applied Science,
Indianapolis, IN) was prepared at 1X final concentration in a 10 pL volume multiplex reaction
containing 0.4 pM of each primer and 0.2 pM of each probe.         A three step amplification reaction
was performed with 10 seconds at 95'C for denaturation, 35 seconds at 60'C for annealing and 1
second at 72'C with fluorescence acquisition.      The FAM fluorescent moiety was excited at an
optical density of 465/510 nm and HEX at 533/580 nm. The copy number was determined by
comparison of Target/Reference (Invertase)values for unknown samples (output by the LightCycler
480TM)  to Target/Reference values of known single copy hemizygotes.
         [00242] To distinguish random insertion events from ELP-targeted events, the 354 samples
that were identified via the pat qPCR screening were further analyzed using the disruption assay.
The ELP disruption assay was designed to monitor the large insertions/deletions in the eZFN
cleavage site. In a non-targeted ELP, a 214 bp PCR product encompassing the eZFN binding sites
                                                  81

 1002026714
is amplified and generates strong fluorescent signals. Integration into (or modification of) the eZFN
binding site would disrupt amplification and result in either no signal or significantly lower levels of
fluorescent signal produced via the PCR reaction. Out of the 354 pat positive events, about 8% (28
events) appeared to be disrupted (Figure 8b), indicating potential targeting.
Table 5: Primer and probe used for disruption assay.
      Primer           SEQ ID NO:
       Name                                Sequence
  MAS621            SEQ  ID NO:18         CCTTGGGATTTCAGTTGGTAGGTT
  UPL67              -                    Roche Sequence                                   Disruion
  MAS622            SEQ  ID NO:19         TAGGAGTTCTCTTTTATGCCACCC
  InvertaseF        SEQ  ID NO:20         TGGCGGACGACGACTTGT                                Invertase
  InvertaseProbe    SEQ  ID NO:21         Hex-CGAGCAGACCGCCGTGTACTT                         Reference
  InvertaseR        SEQ  ID NO:22         AAAGTTTGGAGGCTGCCGT                                 gene
         [00243] In-Out PCR: The disruption assay identified changes in the eZFN binding region
on the ELP. Any variation in the primer binding sites or random insertions in the locus are possible
indications of disruption to the locus that is caused by ZFN cleavage. Next, an        In-Out PCR was
used to validate the presence of a donor insertion within the ELP locus. The both ends of the
junction sequences comprising the target locus and the donor. One primer was designed to anneal
to a pre-integrated ELP region only present in the target lines and a second primer was designed to
anneal only to donor DNA          sequences that are only present within the donor construct.
Amplification via PCR indicated a result of targeting of the donor within the ELP genomic locus.
Any events generated from random insertions do not produce a PCR amplification.
         [00244] For the donor/ELP 5' junction In-Out PCR, the forward primer was designed to
bind the OsActl region (50sF3, SEQ ID NO:23 ATTTCACTTTGGGCCACCTT) of the donor
insert, while the reverse primer (5R3, SEQ ID NO:24 AGGCTCCGTTTAAACTTGCTG) was
designed to bind the 193 bp sequence unique to the target line in the ELP Left Arm. For the 3'
                                                  82

1002026714
donor/ELP     locus junction In-Out PCR, the forward           primer (3PAF1,     SEQ ID NO:25
ATGGTGGATGGCATGATGTT) was designed to bind the in the PATv6 region of the donor
insert, and the reverse primer (3R1, SEQ ID NO:26 TGGAGGTTGACCATGCTAGG) was
designed to bind the 192 bp sequence unique to the target line in the ELP Right Arm. Amplification
resulted only when the forward and reverse primers bound to sequences in close proximity of one
another. Random integration of the donor sequences was not detectable using the above described
PCR primers. To increase the throughput of the In-Out PCR detection, the melting curve analysis
was completed with the green fluorescent nucleic acid stain, SYTO13@. The PCR amplification
was performed on LightCycler 480TM real time PCR system in a 15 pl reaction containing 0.75 units
of TaKaRa Ex TaqTM DNA polymerase (Takara Bio Inc., Shiga, Japan), 200nM of dNTP, 200nM
each of forward and reverse primers, 2.67 pM of SYTOl3@ and 10 ng of genomic DNA.
Amplification started with a 2 min. denaturing cycle at 95'C, then 30 cycles of 98 'C for 20
seconds, 60 'C for 30 seconds and 68 'C for 90 seconds, followed by melting curve analysis at
97'C with 0.11PC/s ramp speed.
        [00245] The results of the PCR reaction resulted in the analysis of both the 5' and 3'
flanking ends. A donor targeted ELP locus event results in a 1.1 kb fragment for the 5' In-Out PCR
reaction and a 1.4 kb fragment for the 3' In-Out PCR reaction. The results of the PCR reactions
were determined via melting curve analysis, which produces different graphical results depending
on the length and composition of the amplicon (Figure 9). Short PCR amplicons usually display a
single-peak melting temperature (Tm) curve that appears as a flat line and produces low-levels of
fluorescent signal when displayed graphically. But for long amplicons (i.e., 1-2 kb fragments), the
Tm profile appears more complex, and results in multiple peaks (depending on local sub-sequences
of the amplicons) and produces high-levels of fluorescent signal. Five events were identified to be
positive for both the 5' and 3' PCR reactions. Each of the four target lines produced an event
comprising a donor inserted within the ELP genomic locus. All of the In-Out PCR positives were
run on gel where they only showed one band of PCR amplicon, as expected.
                                                83

1002026714
         [00246] Molecular Confirmation: Additional molecular detection methods were completed
to confirm that the results of the disruption assay and In-Out PCR reactions were not false positives.
A Southern blot analysis and sequencing of the 5' and 3' donor insert/ELP genomic locus junctions
were completed. The results confirmed that the events identified via the disruption assay and In
Out PCR analysis contained a donor insert within the ELP genomic locus.
Example 5. Analysis of Disrupted Loci in Maize Plants
         [00247] Delivery of ZFNs to a genomic locus of a target line plant were introduced via a
plant crossing strategy as previously disclosed in US Pat. Pub. No. 20110191877. Separate target
and excisor plant events were generated in Zea mays c.v. B104. Five lines of target plants were
produced from transformations with constructs pDAB105816,             pDAB105817, pDAB105818,
pDAB105820, and pDAB105821.             These constructs contained a stack of transgenes, an aad-1
selectable marker gene, and an ELP containing the eZF 1 and eZF8 binding sites. Next, two lines of
excisor plants were produced from transformation with constructs pDAB105828 and pDAB105825.
The pDAB105828 construct contained ZFN8 driven by the Zea mays Ubiquitin 1 promoter and
terminated by Zea mays Per5 3'UTR. The pDAB105825 construct contained ZFN1 driven by the
Zea mays Ubiquitin 1 promoter and terminated by Zea mays Per5 3'UTR. Both of the excisor
constructs also contained a pat selectable marker. Transgenic plants were produced and confirmed
via molecular confirmation assays. The plants were selfed to produce homozygous progeny. The
resulting homozygous target and excisor events were crossed producing progeny. The progeny
were assayed to determine if the ZFN transgene provided by the parent excisor event cleaved the
ELP target locus provided by the other parent target event. The majority of all crosses were made
with target lines as females and excisor lines as males. Only one control cross was made with the
excisor line as a female and the target line as a male. The target and excisor plants were crossed to
produce progeny that were screened by applying Assure IITM (quizalofop) (184 g ae/ha + 1% COC)
and IgniteTM 280 SL (glufosinate) (480 gae/ha) at the V3 stage of development. Any surviving
progeny were selected for further molecular analysis that entailed screening for the presence of an
                                                   84

1002026714
aad-1 transgene via a qPCR method. A total of 1902 samples were genotyped for the presence of
aad-1 locus using a qPCR assay utilizing invertase as the reference gene. The aad-1 target to
reference ratios were calculated and normalized to known standards, where a ratio of 2, 1, or 0
indicated homozygosity, hemizygosity, or null status respectively. 1822 plants were confirmed as
aad-1 hemizygous.
        [00248] ZFN disruption assay: A PCR based disruption assay was designed for an indirect
measurement of ZFN cutting activity of the ELP target genomic locus. The assays were designed
such that the fluorescently labeled probes sat on top of the spacer required for the integrity of the
ZFN functions (Figure 10).      The eZFN1 disruption assay resulted in the detection of a 69 bp
fragment covering the entire eZFN 1 binding site sequence. The eZFN8 disruption assay resulted in
the detection of a 109 bp fragment flanking the eZFN8 binding site sequence. Both assays utilize
MGB probes synthesized by Life Technologies (Grand Island, NY). When ZFNs cleaved the ELP
genomic locus the cleavage was repaired via NHEJ which resulted in the incorporation of InDels
within the genomic sequences, thereby modifying the genomic sequence which had been used for
design of PCR primers. As a result any PCR amplification reactions designed to amplify and detect
an amplicon over the ZFN binding sequence within the ELP genomic locus would not produce a
fluorescent signal (as the genomic sequences would be deleted or rearranged, and the primers could
not bind these genomic sequences).
        [00249] Bi-plex assays were performed with real-time or qPCR using the LightCycler@480
system (Roche Applied Science, Indianapolis, IN).         A control reaction was completed with
Invertase used as an endogenous reference gene.        For amplification, LightCycler@480 Probes
Master mix (Roche Applied Science, Indianapolis, IN) was prepared at 1X final concentration in a
10 pL volume multiplex reaction containing 0.4 pM of each primer and 0.2 pM of each probe
(Table 6).  A three-step amplification reaction started with 10 seconds at 95"C for denaturation, 35
seconds at 60'C for annealing and 1 second at 72'C for fluorescence acquisition. Analysis for the
                                                 85

1002026714
disruption assay was performed using target to reference ratios and normalized to known
homozygotes. The results of the PCR assay are provided as Figure 11.
Table 6: Primers used for qPCR detection.
Name              SEQ ID NO:   Sequence
ZFN1_F              SEQ ID     TAGTGAGATGGGCGGGAG
                    NO:27      TCT
ZFN1_P              SEQ ID     CCTAGTGGATAAACTGC                   For eZFN1
                    NO:28                                            detection
ZFN1_R              SEQ ID     CCCACAGTGATCCGCCTTT
                    NO:29
ZFN8_F              SEQ ID     GCTTCTCTGTGATGATAAC
                    NO:30      CCCTA
ZFN8_R              SEQ ID     TCCGCCTTTTGCAGTTTAT                 For eZFN8
                    NO:31      C                                     detection
ZFN8SP              SEQ ID     TGTCCCTAGTGAGATG
                    NO:32
InvertaseF          SEQ ID     TGGCGGACGACGACTTGT
                    NO:33
InvertaseProbe      SEQ ID     CGAGCAGACCGCCGTGTA                    Invertase
                    NO:34      CTT                               Reference gene
InvertaseR          SEQ ID     AAAGTTTGGAGGCTGCCG
                    NO:35      T
aad-1F              SEQ ID     TGTTCGGTTCCCTCTACCA
                    NO:36      A
aad-1P              SEQ ID     CACAGAACCGTCGCTTCA                    For aad-1
                I   NO:37      GCAACA                           control detection
aad-1R              SEQ ID     CAACATCCATCACCTTGA
                    NO:38      CTGA
        [00250] To determine the eZFN cutting rate of the ELP genomic locus, F1 leaf samples
from the plant crosses were first analyzed for zygosity and were then tested for ELP disruption
using a qPCR assay that detects intact eZFN binding sites. If the ELP genomic locus incurred
                                               86

1002026714
InDels during DSB repair on the eZF binding site, there was a loss or decrease in detectable signal
in the qPCR assay. The normalized ELP ratios were compared to their sister lines. If the ratio was
between 0 to 0.05, they were considered as being cut with the ZFN (with imperfect repair); if the
ratio was between 0.05 to 0.4, they were labeled as chimeric, indicating not all copies of the ELPs
have been cut with the ZFN; if the ratio was over 0.4, they were identified as not being cut with the
ZFN (could also have been cut but with perfect repair).      Taking both cut and chimeric scoring
together, eZFN1 activity detected with the disruption assay was 46.6% (524 out of 1125 plant
events) and the activity of eZFN8 was 70.2% (489 out of 697 plant events). (Table 7). Tukey
Kramer test revealed significant differences among crosses for the cleavage frequencies.         The
combination of L2BG and excisor lines proved crucial for the success of cleavage (p<0.0001).
Table 7: ZFN cleavage activities among 5 ELP target lines and excisor line progeny.
                  Crosses                      total    cut  chimeric no cut cut rate
 pDAB105821.1.295.1::pDAB105828.1.40.1            49     35          0        14 71.4%
 pDAB105821.1.295.1::pDAB105828.1.35.1             3      2          0         1 66.7%
 pDAB105821.1.295.1::pDAB105825.1.91.1             7      3          2         2 71.4%
 pDAB105821.1.295.1::pDAB105825.1.87.1            25     13          4         8 68.0%
 pDAB105821.1.295.1::pDAB105825.1.12.1            19      8          4         7 63.2%
 pDAB105821.1.264.1::pDAB105828.1.40.1            70     63          0         7 90.0%
 pDAB105821.1.264.1::pDAB105828.1.35.1            37     30          0         7 81.1%
 pDAB105821.1.264.1::pDAB105825.1.87.1            15      3          1        11   26.7%
 pDAB105821.1.264.1::pDAB105825.1.12.1            20     17          2         1 95.0%
 pDAB105820.1.199.1::pDAB105828.1.35.1            77     55          0       22 71.4%
 pDAB105820.1.199.1::pDAB105825.1.91.1            21     16          2         3 85.7%
 pDAB105820.1.199.1::pDAB105825.1.87.1             9      2          1         6 33.3%
 pDAB105828.1.40.1::pDAB105820.1.199.1            41     30          0        11   73.2%
 pDAB105820.1.140.1::pDAB105828.1.40.1            16     15          0         1 93.8%
 pDAB105820.1.140.1::pDAB105828.1.35.1            25      8          0        17 32.0%
 pDAB105820.1.140.1::pDAB105825.1.91.1            15     15          0         0 100.0%
 pDAB105820.1.140.1::pDAB105825.1.87.1           104     15          3        86 17.3%
 pDAB105820.1.140.1::pDAB105825.1.12.1            44      5          3        36 18.2%
                                                87

1002026714
 pDAB105818.2.388.1::pDAB105828.1.40.1          58    52         0        6    89.7%
 pDAB105818.2.388.1::pDAB105828.1.35.1          18    10         0        8   55.6%
 pDAB105818.2.388.1::pDAB105825.1.91.1         176   110         7       59   66.5%
 pDAB105818.2.388.1::pDAB105825.1.87.1          19     5         3       11   42.1%
 pDAB105818.2.388.1::pDAB105825.1.12.1           2     2         0        0   100.0%
 pDAB105818.1.269.1::pDAB105828.1.40.1          18    14         0        4   77.8%
 pDAB105818.1.269.1::pDAB105828.1.35.1          35    23         0       12   65.7%
 pDAB105818.1.269.1::pDAB105825.1.91.1         152    29        13     110    27.6%
 pDAB105818.1.269.1::pDAB105825.1.87.1          98    21        14       63   35.7%
 pDAB105818.1.269.1::pDAB105825.1.12.1          30    14        11        5    83.3%
 pDAB105817.1.81.1::pDAB105828.1.35.1           59    36         0       23   61.0%
 pDAB105817.1.81.1::pDAB105825.1.91.1           24     0         0       24    0.0%
 pDAB105817.1.81.1::pDAB105825.1.87.1           97    17         8       72   25.8%
 pDAB105817.1.81.1::pDAB105825.1.12.1           42    36         5        1   97.6%
 pDAB105817.1.6.1::pDAB105828.1.40.1            20    17         0        3    85.0%
 pDAB105817.1.6.1::pDAB105828.1.35.1            15     3         0       12   20.0%
 pDAB105817.1.6.1::pDAB105825.1.91.1            52    49          1       2   96.2%
 pDAB105816.2.496.1::pDAB105828.1.40.1          29    27          1       1   96.6%
 pDAB105816.2.496.1::pDAB105828.1.35.1          27    13         0       14   48.1%
 pDAB105816.2.496.1::pDAB105825.1.91.1           7     2          1       4   42.9%
 pDAB105816.2.496.1::pDAB105825.1.87.1          16     5         0       11   31.3%
 pDAB105816.2.496.1::pDAB105825.1.12.1          10    10         0        0   100.0%
 pDAB105816.2.447.1::pDAB105828.1.40.1          13     7         0        6   53.8%
 pDAB105816.2.447.1::pDAB105828.1.35.1          61    39         0       22   63.9%
 pDAB105816.2.447.1 ::pDAB105825.1.87.1         82    12         5       65   20.7%
 pDAB105821.1.309.1::pDAB105828.1.35.1          26     9         0       17   34.6%
 pDAB105821.1.309.1::pDAB105825.1.91.1          21     8         4        9   57.1%
 pDAB105821.1.309.1::pDAB105825.1.87.1          10     4          1       5   50.0%
 pDAB105821.1.309.1::pDAB105825.1.12.1           8     8         0        0   100.0%
        [00251] Sequence analysis of ZFN cleavage: To confirm the qPCR based ELP disruption
data, representative samples from progeny crosses, and two negative controls represented by the
parental target lines were selected for NGS amplicon deep sequencing. High quality reads were
aligned against the reference sequence from the ELP construct and insertions and/or deletions
                                              88

1002026714
(InDels) were identified. As expected, the two parental lines had very small percentage (<0.1 %) of
indels at the ZFN cleavage site when comparing to the reference sequence, most likely due to PCR
amplification and/or sequencing error (Figure 12). There was a correlation between the qPCR and
sequencing data. The four crosses exhibiting 100% cutting efficiencies based on the qPCR data had
a 910% or more modified ELPs with sequencing. In summary, NGS deep amplicon sequencing data
concurred with the qPCR data and proved the disruption assay method to be highly sensitive. In
addition, the ELP disruption assay was demonstrated to be an effective asay for estimating the ZFN
(or any other site specific nuclease) cutting activities in planta.
        [00252] While aspects of this invention have been described in certain embodiments, they
can be further modified within the spirit and scope of this disclosure. This application is therefore
intended to cover any variations, uses, or adaptations of embodiments of the invention using its
general principles. Further, this application is intended to cover such departures from the present
disclosure as come within known or customary practice in the art to which these embodiments
pertain and which fall within the limits of the appended claims.
                                                    89

1002026714
                                              CLAIMS
What is claimed is:
   1. A method for identifying a disruption of a genomic locus comprising:
            a. amplifying in a first amplification reaction a genomic DNA sample comprising
               the disrupted genomic locus using a plurality of oligonucleotides that bind under
               hybridization conditions proximal to the disrupted genomic locus, to thereby
               generate a first amplicon comprising the disrupted genomic locus; and,
           b. detecting the presence or absence of the first amplicon, wherein the absence of the
               amplicon indicates the disruption of the genomic locus resulting from the deletion
               of nucleotides from the genomic locus.
   2. The method of claim 1, the method further comprising:
            a. identifying the presence of a donor insertion within a disrupted genomic locus;
               and,
           b. selecting a transgenic event comprising a donor insertion within a disrupted
               genomic locus.
   3. A plant, comprising the transgenic event of claim 1.
   4. The plant of claim 3, wherein the plant is a dicot plant.
   5. The dicot plant of claim 4, wherein the dicot plant is selected from the group consisting
       of a soybean plant, a canola plant and a cotton plant.
   6. The plant of claim 3, wherein the plant is a monocot plant.
   7. The monocot plant of claim 6, wherein the monocot plant is selected from the group
       consisting of a corn plant, a rice plant, and a wheat plant.
   8. The method of claim 1, wherein the genomic locus is cleaved by a site specific nuclease.
   9. The method of claim 8, wherein the nuclease comprises a zinc finger nuclease.
   10. The method of claim 8, wherein the nuclease comprises a TALEN or CRISPR nuclease.
                                                  90

1002026714
   11. The method of claim 1, wherein the amplifying comprises amplifying in a polymerase
       chain reaction.
   12. The method of claim 1, wherein the donor DNA polynucleotide comprises at least one
       gene expression cassette.
   13. The method of claim 1, wherein the plurality of oligonucleotides, or both, comprise a
       fluorescent dye.
   14. The method of claim 13, wherein the fluorescent dye is selected from the group
       consisting of a HEX fluorescent dye, a FAM fluorescent dye, a JOE fluorescent dye, a
       TET fluorescent dye, a Cy 3 fluorescent dye, a Cy 3.5 fluorescent dye, a Cy 5 fluorescent
       dye, a Cy 5.5 fluorescent dye, a Cy 7 fluorescent dye, and a ROX fluorescent dye.
                                                91

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
                                                         71783_ST25. t x t
<removed-date>
                                                 SEQUENCE LI STI NG
              <110>    Sas t r y - Dent , Lak s hmi
                       Si mps on, Mat t hew
                       Cao, Zehui
                       Chen, Wei
                       Zhou, Ni ng
                       Webb, St ev e
              <120>    DNA DETECTI ON METHODS FOR SI TE SPECI FI C NUCLEASE ACTI VI TY
              <130>    71783
<removed-apn>
              <160>    91
              <170>    Pat ent I n v er s i on 3. 5
              <210>    1
              <211>    24
              <212>    DNA
              <213>    Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>    MAS604 Pr i mer Sequenc e
              <400> 1
              ac ac ggc ac a c ac ggc gac a t t c a                                      24
              <210>    2
              <211>    24
              <212>    DNA
              <213>    Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>    MAS606 pr i mer s equenc e
              <400> 2
              agggc agt gg c c agt gt t c c t gt g                                       24
              <210>    3
              <211>    18
              <212>    DNA
              <213>    Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>    I VF- Taq Pr i mer Sequenc e
              <400> 3
              t ggc ggac ga c gac t t gt                                                 18
              <210>    4
              <211>    19
              <212>    DNA
              <213>    Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>    I VR- Taq Pr i mer Sequenc e
              <400> 4
              aaagt t t gga ggc t gc c gt                                                19
              <210>    5
              <211>    26
              <212>    DNA
                                                               Page 1

                                                            71783_ST25. t x t
<removed-date>
              <213>     Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>     I V- Pr obe Pr i mer Sequenc e
              <400> 5
              c gagc agac c gc c gt gt ac t t c t ac c                          26
              <210>     6
              <211>     29
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
<removed-apn>
              <220>
              <223>     E32- 5F3 Pr i mer Sequenc e
              <400> 6
              gaaggc aaaa c gaat at aag t gc at t c gg                          29
              <210>     7
              <211>     21
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>     E32- OLP- R1       Pr i mer Sequenc e
              <400> 7
              t c gt ggat ag c ac t t t gggc t                                  21
              <210>     8
              <211>     27
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>     E32- OLP- F3       Pr i mer Sequenc e
              <400> 8
              t c t ac agt ga ac t t t aggac agagc c a                          27
              <210>     9
              <211>     20
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>     E32- 3R2 Pr i mer Sequenc e
              <400> 9
              gc c c t t ac ag t t c at gggc g                                  20
              <210>     10
              <211>     24
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>     MAS622 Pr i mer Sequenc e
              <400> 10
              t aggagt t c t c t t t t at gc c ac c c                           24
                                                                 Page 2

                                                           71783_ST25. t x t
<removed-date>
              <210>     11
              <211>     24
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>     MAS621 Pr i mer Sequenc e
              <400> 11
              c c t t gggat t t c agt t ggt a ggt t                            24
<removed-apn>
              <210>     12
              <211>     24
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>     MAS617 Pr i mer Sequenc e
              <400> 12
              t gggt aggag gac ac c aaag at ga                                 24
              <210>     13
              <211>     25
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>     MAS618 Pr i mer Sequenc e
              <400> 13
              c c at t ggat t at t gaaaac t ggc ag                             25
              <210>     14
              <211>     21
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>     ELP1- Pr i F1 Pr i mer Sequenc e
              <400> 14
              agac c t ac c a c c c at t aggg c                                21
              <210>     15
              <211>     21
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>     Os Ac t - Pr i R3 Pr i mer Sequenc e
              <400> 15
              t c gt ggat ag c ac t t t gggc t                                 21
              <210>     16
              <211>     21
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>     AAD1- Pr i F1 Pr i mer Sequenc e
                                                                Page 3

                                                           71783_ST25. t x t
<removed-date>
              <400> 16
              c t t gac t c gc ac c ac agt t g g                               21
              <210>     17
              <211>     23
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>     ELP2- Pr i R1 Pr i mer Sequenc e
<removed-apn>
              <400> 17
              gat ggt ggt t at gac aggc t c c t                                23
              <210>     18
              <211>     24
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     ar t i f i c i al s equenc e
              <220>
              <223>     pr i mer s equenc e
              <400> 18
              c c t t gggat t t c agt t ggt a ggt t                            24
              <210>     19
              <211>     24
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     ar t i f i c i al s equenc e
              <220>
              <223>     pr i mer s equenc e
              <400> 19
              t aggagt t c t c t t t t at gc c ac c c                          24
              <210>     20
              <211>     18
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     ar t i f i c i al s equenc e
              <220>
              <223>     pr i mer s equenc e
              <400> 20
              t ggc ggac ga c gac t t gt                                       18
              <210>     21
              <211>     21
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     ar t i f i c i al s equenc e
              <220>
              <223>     pr obe s equenc e
              <400> 21
              c gagc agac c gc c gt gt ac t t                                  21
              <210>     22
              <211>     19
              <212>     DNA
                                                                Page 4

                                                        71783_ST25. t x t
<removed-date>
              <213>      ar t i f i c i al s equenc e
              <220>
              <223>      pr i mer s equenc e
              <400> 22
              aaagt t t gga ggc t gc c gt                                   19
              <210>      23
              <211>      20
              <212>      DNA
              <213>      ar t i f i c i al s equenc e
<removed-apn>
              <220>
              <223>      pr i mer s equenc e
              <400> 23
              at t t c ac t t t gggc c ac c t t                             20
              <210>      24
              <211>      21
              <212>      DNA
              <213>      ar t i f i c i al s equenc e
              <220>
              <223>      pr i mer s equenc e
              <400> 24
              aggc t c c gt t t aaac t t gc t g                             21
              <210>      25
              <211>      20
              <212>      DNA
              <213>      ar t i f i c i al s equenc e
              <220>
              <223>      pr i mer s equenc e
              <400> 25
              at ggt ggat g gc at gat gt t                                  20
              <210>      26
              <211>      20
              <212>      DNA
              <213>      ar t i f i c i al s equenc e
              <220>
              <223>      pr i mer s equenc e
              <400> 26
              t ggaggt t ga c c at gc t agg                                 20
              <210>      27
              <211>      21
              <212>      DNA
              <213>      ar t i f i c i al s equenc e
              <220>
              <223>      pr i mer s equenc e
              <400> 27
              t agt gagat g ggc gggagt c t                                  21
                                                             Page 5

                                                        71783_ST25. t x t
<removed-date>
              <210>      28
              <211>      17
              <212>      DNA
              <213>      ar t i f i c i al s equenc e
              <220>
              <223>      pr i mer s equenc e
              <400> 28
              c c t agt ggat aaac t gc                                      17
<removed-apn>
              <210>      29
              <211>      19
              <212>      DNA
              <213>      ar t i f i c i al s equenc e
              <220>
              <223>      pr i mer s equenc e
              <400> 29
              c c c ac agt ga t c c gc c t t t                              19
              <210>      30
              <211>      24
              <212>      DNA
              <213>      ar t i f i c i al s equenc e
              <220>
              <223>      pr i mer s equenc e
              <400> 30
              gc t t c t c t gt gat gat aac c c c t a                       24
              <210>      31
              <211>      20
              <212>      DNA
              <213>      ar t i f i c i al s equenc e
              <220>
              <223>      pr i mer s equenc e
              <400> 31
              t c c gc c t t t t gc agt t t at c                            20
              <210>      32
              <211>      16
              <212>      DNA
              <213>      ar t i f i c i al s equenc e
              <220>
              <223>      pr i mer s equenc e
              <400> 32
              t gt c c c t agt gagat g                                      16
              <210>      33
              <211>      18
              <212>      DNA
              <213>      ar t i f i c i al s equenc e
              <220>
              <223>      pr i mer s equenc e
                                                             Page 6

                                                        71783_ST25. t x t
<removed-date>
              <400> 33
              t ggc ggac ga c gac t t gt                                    18
              <210>      34
              <211>      21
              <212>      DNA
              <213>      ar t i f i c i al s equenc e
              <220>
              <223>      pr i mer s equenc e
<removed-apn>
              <400> 34
              c gagc agac c gc c gt gt ac t t                               21
              <210>      35
              <211>      19
              <212>      DNA
              <213>      ar t i f i c i al s equenc e
              <220>
              <223>      pr i mer s equenc e
              <400> 35
              aaagt t t gga ggc t gc c gt                                   19
              <210>      36
              <211>      20
              <212>      DNA
              <213>      ar t i f i c i al s equenc e
              <220>
              <223>      pr i mer s equenc e
              <400> 36
              t gt t c ggt t c c c t c t ac c aa                            20
              <210>      37
              <211>      24
              <212>      DNA
              <213>      ar t i f i c i al s equenc e
              <220>
              <223>      pr i mer s equenc e
              <400> 37
              c ac agaac c g t c gc t t c agc aac a                         24
              <210>      38
              <211>      22
              <212>      DNA
              <213>      ar t i f i c i al s equenc e
              <220>
              <223>      pr i mer s equenc e
              <400> 38
              c aac at c c at c ac c t t gac t ga                           22
              <210>      39
              <211>      80
              <212>      DNA
                                                             Page 7

                                                                 71783_ST25. t x t
<removed-date>
              <213>      Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>      Zi nc Fi nger Bi ndi ng Sequenc e
              <400> 39
              at t t t ac aat c c t gt c c c t a gt gagat ggg c gggagt c t t c aat c c t gt c c c t agt ggat          60
              aaac t gc aaa aggc ggat c a                                                                             80
              <210>      40
              <211>      80
<removed-apn>
              <212>      DNA
              <213>      ar t i f i c i al s equenc e
              <220>
              <223>      Compl ement ar y s equenc e of Zi nc Fi nger bi ndi ng s equenc e
              <400> 40
              t aaaat gt t a ggac agggat c ac t c t ac c c gc c c t c agaa gt t aggac ag ggat c ac c t a              60
              t t t gac gt t t t c c gc c t agt                                                                       80
              <210>      41
              <211>      248
              <212>      DNA
              <213>      ar t i f i c i al s equenc e
              <220>
              <223>      r ef er enc e s equenc e f or ZFN bi ndi ng
              <400> 41
              c c t t gggat t t c agt t ggt a ggt t aaaaat gggagt ggc a t ggagaggaa at aac agagg                      60
              c c c t c c agc a at agc t t c t c t gt gat gat a ac c c c t at ac t c t at at t t t ac aat c c t gt   120
              c c c t agt gag at gggc ggga gt c t t c aat c c t gt c c c t ag t ggat aaac t gc aaaaggc g             180
              gat c ac t gt g gggt ggc at a aaagagaac t c c t agat gaa t gt c t gc c ag gt aaac aac a                240
              gt t gac t t                                                                                           248
              <210>      42
              <211>      236
              <212>      DNA
              <213>      ar t i f i c i al s equenc e
              <220>
              <223>      Sequenc ed f r agment s howi ng ZFN c l eav age
              <400> 42
              c c t t gggat t t c agt t ggt a ggt t aaaaat gggagt ggc a t ggagaggaa at aac agagg                      60
              c c c t c c agc a at agc t t c t c t gt gat gat a ac c c c t at ac t c t at at t t t ac aat c c t gt   120
              c c c t agat gg gc gggagt c t t c aat c c t gt c c c t agt gga t aaac t gc aa aaggc ggat c             180
              ac t gt ggggt ggc at aaaag agaac t c c t a gat gaat gt c t gc c aggt aa ac aac a                       236
              <210>      43
              <211>      244
              <212>      DNA
              <213>      ar t i f i c i al s equenc e
                                                                       Page 8

                                                                 71783_ST25. t x t
<removed-date>
              <220>
              <223>     Sequenc ed f r agment s howi ng ZFN c l eav age
              <400> 43
              c c t t gggat t t c agt t ggt a ggt t aaaaat gggagt ggc a t ggagaggaa at aac agagg                      60
              c c c t c c agc a at agc t t c t c t gt gat gat a ac c c c t at ac t c t at at t t t ac aat c c t gt   120
              c c c t agt ggg c gggagt c t t c aat c c t gt c c c t agt ggat aaac t gc aaa aggc ggat c a             180
              c t gt ggggt g gc at aaaaga gaac t c c t ag at gaat gt c t gc c aggt aaa c aac agt t ga                240
              ct t a                                                                                                 244
<removed-apn>
              <210>     44
              <211>     243
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     ar t i f i c i al s equenc e
              <220>
              <223>     Sequenc ed f r agment s howi ng ZFN c l eav age
              <400> 44
              c c t t gggat t t c agt t ggt a ggt t aaaaat gggagt ggc a t ggagaggaa at aac agagg                      60
              c c c t c c agc a at agc t t c t c t gt gat gat a ac c c c t at ac t c t at at t t t ac aat c c t gt   120
              c c c t agt ggg c gggagt c t t c aat c c t gt c c c t agt ggat aaac t gc aaa aggc ggat c a             180
              c t gt ggggt g gc at aaaaga gaac t c c t ag at gaat gt c t gc c aggt aaa c aac agt t ga                240
              ct t                                                                                                   243
              <210>     45
              <211>     244
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     ar t i f i c i al s equenc e
              <220>
              <223>     Sequenc ed f r agment s howi ng ZFN c l eav age
              <400> 45
              c c t t gggat t t c agt t ggt a ggt t aaaaat gggagt ggc a t ggagaggaa at aac agagg                      60
              c c c t c c agc a at agc t t c t c t gt gat gat a ac c c c t at ac t c t at at t t t ac aat c c t gt   120
              c c c t agt at g ggc gggagt c t t c aat c c t g t c c c t agt gg at aaac t gc a aaaggc ggat            180
              c ac t gt gggg t ggc at aaaa gagaac t c c t agat gaat gt c t gc c aggt a aac aac agt t                 240
              gac t                                                                                                  244
              <210>     46
              <211>     241
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     ar t i f i c i al s equenc e
              <220>
              <223>     Sequenc ed f r agment s howi ng ZFN c l eav age
              <400> 46
              c c t t gggat t t c agt t ggt a ggt t aaaaat gggagt ggc a t ggagaggaa at aac agagg                      60
              c c c t c c agc a at agc t t c t c t gt gat gat a ac c c c t at ac t c t at at t t t ac aat c c t gt   120
                                                                       Page 9

                                                              71783_ST25. t x t
<removed-date>
              c c c t agt ggg c gggagt c t t c aat c c t gt c c c t agt ggat aaac t gc aaa aggc ggat c a             180
              c t gt ggggt g gc at aaaaga gaac t c c t ag at gaat gt c t gc c aggt aaa c aac agt t ga                240
              c                                                                                                      241
              <210>     47
              <211>     244
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     ar t i f i c i al s equenc e
              <220>
<removed-apn>
              <223>     Sequenc ed f r agment s howi ng ZFN c l eav age
              <400> 47
              c c t t gggat t t c agt t ggt a ggt t aaaaat gggagt ggc a t ggagaggaa at aac agagg                      60
              c c c t c c agc a at agc t t c t c t gt gat gat a ac c c c t at ac t c t at at t t t ac aat c c t gt   120
              c c c t agat gg gc gggagt c t t c aat c c t gt c c c t agt gga t aaac t gc aa aaggc ggat c             180
              ac t gt ggggt ggc at aaaag agaac t c c t a gat gaat gt c t gc c aggt aa ac aac agc t g                 240
              ac t t                                                                                                 244
              <210>     48
              <211>     243
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     ar t i f i c i al s equenc e
              <220>
              <223>     Sequenc ed f r agment s howi ng ZFN c l eav age
              <400> 48
              c c t t gggat t t c agt t ggt a ggt t aaaaat gggagt ggc a t ggagaggaa at aac agagg                      60
              c c c t c c agc a at agc t t c t c t gt gat gat a ac c c c t at ac t c t at at t t t ac aat c c t gt   120
              c gggagt c t t c aat c c t gt c c c t agt ggat aaac t gc aaa aggc ggat c a c t gt ggggt g              180
              gc at aaaaga gaac t c c t ag at gaat gt c t gc c aggt aaa c aac agt t ga c t t aggac t t               240
              gat                                                                                                    243
              <210>     49
              <211>     235
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     ar t i f i c i al s equenc e
              <220>
              <223>     Sequenc ed f r agment s howi ng ZFN c l eav age
              <400> 49
              c c t t gggat t t c agt t ggt a ggt t aaaaat gggagt ggc a t ggagaggaa at aac agagg                      60
              c c c t c c agc a at agc t t c t c t gt gat gat a ac c c c t at ac t c t at at t t t ac aat c c t gt   120
              c c c t agat gg gc gggagt c t t c aat c c t gt c c c t agt gga t aaac t gc aa aaggc ggat c             180
              ac t gt ggggt ggc at aaaag agaac t c c t a gat gaat gt c t gc c aggt aa ac aac                         235
              <210>     50
              <211>     242
              <212>     DNA
                                                                      Page 10

                                                                 71783_ST25. t x t
<removed-date>
              <213>     ar t i f i c i al s equenc e
              <220>
              <223>     Sequenc ed f r agment s howi ng ZFN c l eav age
              <400> 50
              c c t t gggat t t c agt t ggt a ggt t aaaaat gggagt ggc a t ggagaggaa at aac agagg                      60
              c c c t c c agc a at agc t t c t c t gt gat gat a ac c c c t at ac t c t at at t t t ac aat c c t gt   120
              c c c t agggc g ggagt c t t c a at c c t gt c c c t agt ggat aa ac t gc aaaag gc ggat c ac t           180
              gt ggggt ggc at aaaagaga ac t c c t agat gaat gt c t gc c aggt aaac a ac agt t gac t                   240
<removed-apn>
              ta                                                                                                     242
              <210>     51
              <211>     242
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     ar t i f i c i al s equenc e
              <220>
              <223>     Sequenc ed f r agment s howi ng ZFN c l eav age
              <400> 51
              c c t t gggat t t c agt t ggt a ggt t aaaaat gggagt ggc a t ggagaggaa at aac agagg                      60
              c c c t c c agc a at agc t t c t c t gt gat gat a ac c c c t at ac t c t at at t t t ac aat c c t gt   120
              c c c t at gggc gggagt c t t c aat c c t gt c c c t agt ggat a aac t gc aaaa ggc ggat c ac             180
              t gt ggggt gg c at aaaagag aac t c c t aga t gaat gt c t g c c aggt aaac aac agt t gac                 240
              tt                                                                                                     242
              <210>     52
              <211>     243
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     ar t i f i c i al s equenc e
              <220>
              <223>     Sequenc ed f r agment s howi ng ZFN c l eav age
              <400> 52
              c c t t gggat t t c agt t ggt a ggt t aaaaat gggagt ggc a t ggagaggaa at aac agagg                      60
              c c c t c c agc a at agc t t c t c t gt gat gat a ac c c c t at ac t c t at at t t t ac aat c c t gt   120
              c c c t agggc g ggagt c t t c a at c c t gt c c c t agt ggat aa ac t gc aaaag gc ggat c ac t           180
              gt ggggt ggc at aaaagaga ac t c c t agat gaat gt c t gc c aggt aaac a ac agt t gac t                   240
              t ag                                                                                                   243
              <210>     53
              <211>     242
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     ar t i f i c i al s equenc e
              <220>
              <223>     Sequenc ed f r agment s howi ng ZFN c l eav age
              <400> 53
              c c t t gggat t t c agt t ggt a ggt t aaaaat gggagt ggc a t ggagaggaa at aac agagg                      60
                                                                      Page 11

                                                                71783_ST25. t x t
<removed-date>
              c c c t c c agc a at agc t t c t c t gt gat gat a ac c c c t at ac t c t at at t t t ac aat c c t gt   120
              c c c t agt ggg c gggagt c t t c aat c c t gt c c c t agt ggat aaac t gc aaa aggc ggat c a             180
              c t gt ggggt g gc at aaaaga gaac t c c t ag at gaat gt c t gc c aggt aaa c aac agt t ga                240
              ct                                                                                                     242
              <210>     54
              <211>     244
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     ar t i f i c i al s equenc e
<removed-apn>
              <220>
              <223>     Sequenc ed f r agment s howi ng ZFN c l eav age
              <400> 54
              c c t t gggat t t c agt t ggt a ggt t aaaaat gggagt ggc a t ggagaggaa at aac agagg                      60
              c c c t c c agc a at agc t t c t c t gt gat gat a ac c c c t at ac t c t at at t t t ac aat c c t gt   120
              c c c t agat gg gc gggagt c t t c aat c c t gt c c c t agt gga t aaac t gc aa aaggc ggat c             180
              ac t gt ggggt ggc at aaaag agaac t c c t a gat gaat gt c t gc c aggt aa ac aac agt t g                 240
              ac t t                                                                                                 244
              <210>     55
              <211>     244
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     ar t i f i c i al s equenc e
              <220>
              <223>     Sequenc ed f r agment s howi ng ZFN c l eav age
              <400> 55
              c c t t gggat t t c agt t ggt a ggt t aaaaat gggagt ggc a t ggagaggaa at aac agagg                      60
              c c c t c c agc a at agc t t c t c t gt gat gat a ac c c c t at ac t c t at at t t t ac aat c c t gt   120
              c c c t aat ggg c gggagt c t t c aat c c t gt c c c t agt ggat aaac t gc aaa aggc ggat c a             180
              c t gt ggggt g gc at aaaaga gaac t c c t ag at gaat gt c t gc c aggt aaa c aac agt t ga                240
              ct t a                                                                                                 244
              <210>     56
              <211>     235
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     ar t i f i c i al s equenc e
              <220>
              <223>     Sequenc ed f r agment s howi ng ZFN c l eav age
              <400> 56
              c c t t gggat t t c agt t ggt a ggt t aaaaat gggagt ggc a t ggagaggaa at aac agagg                      60
              c c c t c c agc a at agc t t c t c t gt gat gat a ac c c c t at ac t c t at at t t t ac aat c c t gt   120
              c c c t agt ggg c gggagt c t t c aat c c t gt c c c t agt ggat aaac t gc aaa aggc ggat c a             180
              c t gt ggggt g gc at aaaaga gaac t c c t ag at gaat gt c t gc c aggt aaa c aac a                       235
              <210>     57
                                                                      Page 12

                                                                 71783_ST25. t x t
<removed-date>
              <211>     234
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     ar t i f i c i al s equenc e
              <220>
              <223>     Sequenc ed f r agment s howi ng ZFN c l eav age
              <400> 57
              c c t t gggat t t c agt t ggt a ggt t aaaaat gggagt ggc a t ggagaggaa at aac agagg                      60
              c c c t c c agc a at agc t t c t c t gt gat gat a ac c c c t at ac t c t at at t t t ac aat c c t gt   120
              c c c t agat gg gc gggagt c t t c aat c c t gt c c c t agt gga t aaac t gc aa aaggc ggat c             180
<removed-apn>
              ac t gt ggggt ggc at aaaag agaac t c c t a gat gaat gt c t gc c aggt aa ac aa                          234
              <210>     58
              <211>     244
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     ar t i f i c i al s equenc e
              <220>
              <223>     Sequenc ed f r agment s howi ng ZFN c l eav age
              <400> 58
              c c t t gggat t t c agt t ggt a ggt t aaaaat gggagt ggc a t ggagaggaa at aac agagg                      60
              c c c t c c agc a at agc t t c t c t gt gat gat a ac c c c t at ac t c t at at t t t ac aat c c t gt   120
              c c c t gggc gg gagt c t t c aa t c c t gt c c c t agt ggat aaa c t gc aaaagg c ggat c ac t g          180
              t ggggt ggc a t aaaagagaa c t c c t agat g aat gt c t gc c aggt aaac aa c agt t gac t t                240
              agga                                                                                                   244
              <210>     59
              <211>     244
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     ar t i f i c i al s equenc e
              <220>
              <223>     Sequenc ed f r agment s howi ng ZFN c l eav age
              <400> 59
              c c t t gggat t t c agt t ggt a ggt t aaaaat gggagt ggc a t ggagaggaa at aac agagg                      60
              c c c t c c agc a at agc t t c t c t gt gat gat a ac c c c t at ac t c t at at t t t ac aat c c t gg   120
              gc gggagt c t t c aat c c t gt c c c t agt gga t aaac t gc aa aaggc ggat c ac t gt ggggt               180
              ggc at aaaag agaac t c c t a gat gaat gt c t gc c aggt aa ac aac agt t g ac t t aggac t                240
              t gat                                                                                                  244
              <210>     60
              <211>     234
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     ar t i f i c i al s equenc e
              <220>
              <223>     Sequenc ed f r agment s howi ng ZFN c l eav age
              <400> 60
              c c t t gggat t t c agt t ggt a ggt t aaaaat gggagt ggc a t ggagaggaa at aac agagg                      60
                                                                      Page 13

                                                                71783_ST25. t x t
<removed-date>
              c c c t c c agc a at agc t t c t c t gt gat gat a ac c c c t at ac t c t at at t t t ac aat c c t gt   120
              c c c t at gggc gggagt c t t c aat c c t gt c c c t agt ggat a aac t gc aaaa ggc ggat c ac             180
              t gt ggggt gg c at aaaagag aac t c c t aga t gaat gt c t g c c aggt aaac aac a                         234
              <210>     61
              <211>     241
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     ar t i f i c i al s equenc e
              <220>
<removed-apn>
              <223>     Sequenc ed f r agment s howi ng ZFN c l eav age
              <400> 61
              c c t t gggat t t c agt t ggt a ggt t aaaaat gggagt ggc a t ggagaggaa at aac agagg                      60
              c c c t c c agc a at agc t t c t c t gt gat gat a ac c c c t at ac t c t at at t t t ac aat c c t gt   120
              c c c t aat ggg c gggagt c t t c aat c c t gt c c c t agt ggat aaac t gc aaa aggc ggat c a             180
              c t gt ggggt g gc at aaaaga gaac t c c t ag at gaat gt c t gc c aggt aaa c aac agt t ga                240
              c                                                                                                      241
              <210>     62
              <211>     230
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     ar t i f i c i al s equenc e
              <220>
              <223>     Sequenc ed f r agment s howi ng ZFN c l eav age
              <400> 62
              c c t t gggat t t c agt t ggt a ggt t aaaaat gggagt ggc a t ggagaggaa at aac agagg                      60
              c c c t c c agc a at agc t t c t c t gt gat gat a ac c c c t at ac t c t at at t t t ac aat c c t gt   120
              c c c t agat gg gc gggagt c t t c aat c c t gt c c c t agt gga t aaac t gc aa aaggc ggat c             180
              ac t gt ggggt ggc at aaaag agaac t c c t a gat gaat gt c t gc c aggt aa                                230
              <210>     63
              <211>     243
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     ar t i f i c i al s equenc e
              <220>
              <223>     Sequenc ed f r agment s howi ng ZFN c l eav age
              <400> 63
              c c t t gggat t t c agt t ggt a ggt t aaaaat gggagt ggc a t ggagaggaa at aac agagg                      60
              c c c t c c agc a at agc t t c t c t gt gat gat a ac c c c t at ac t c t at at t t t ac aat c c t gt   120
              c c c t at gggc gggagt c t t c aat c c t gt c c c t agt ggat a aac t gc aaaa ggc ggat c ac             180
              t gt ggggt gg c at aaaagag aac t c c t aga t gaat gt c t g c c aggt aaac aac agt t gac                 240
              tta                                                                                                    243
              <210>     64
              <211>     244
              <212>     DNA
                                                                      Page 14

                                                                 71783_ST25. t x t
<removed-date>
              <213>     ar t i f i c i al s equenc e
              <220>
              <223>     Sequenc ed f r agment s howi ng ZFN c l eav age
              <400> 64
              c c t t gggat t t c agt t ggt a ggt t aaaaat gggagt ggc a t ggagaggaa at aac agagg                      60
              c c c t c c agc a at agc t t c t c t gt gat gat a ac c c c t at ac t c t at at t t t ac aat c c t gt   120
              c c c t agggc g ggagt c t t c a at c c t gt c c c t agt ggat aa ac t gc aaaag gc ggat c ac t           180
              gt ggggt ggc at aaaagaga ac t c c t agat gaat gt c t gc c aggt aaac a ac agt t gac t                   240
<removed-apn>
              t agg                                                                                                  244
              <210>     65
              <211>     239
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     ar t i f i c i al s equenc e
              <220>
              <223>     Sequenc ed f r agment s howi ng ZFN c l eav age
              <400> 65
              c c t t gggat t t c agt t ggt a ggt t aaaaat gggagt ggc a t ggagaggaa at aac agagg                      60
              c c c t c c agc a at agc t t c t c t gt gat gat a ac c c c t at ac t c t at at t t t ac aat c c t gt   120
              c c c t at gggc gggagt c t t c aat c c t gt c c c t agt ggat a aac t gc aaaa ggc ggat c ac             180
              t gt ggggt gg c at aaaagag aac t c c t aga t gaat gt c t g c c aggt aaac aac agt t ga                  239
              <210>     66
              <211>     237
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     ar t i f i c i al s equenc e
              <220>
              <223>     Sequenc ed f r agment s howi ng ZFN c l eav age
              <400> 66
              c c t t gggat t t c agt t ggt a ggt t aaaaat gggagt ggc a t ggagaggaa at aac agagg                      60
              c c c t c c agc a at agc t t c t c t gt gat gat a ac c c c t at ac t c t at at t t t ac aat c c t gt   120
              c c c t t gggc g ggagt c t t c a at c c t gt c c c t agt ggat aa ac t gc aaaag gc ggat c ac t          180
              gt ggggt ggc at aaaagaga ac t c c t agat gaat gt c t gc c aggt aaac a ac agt t g                       237
              <210>     67
              <211>     243
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     ar t i f i c i al s equenc e
              <220>
              <223>     Sequenc ed f r agment s howi ng ZFN c l eav age
              <400> 67
              c c t t gggat t t c agt t ggt a ggt t aaaaat gggagt ggc a t ggagaggaa at aac agagg                      60
              c c c t c c agc a at agc t t c t c t gt gat gat a ac c c c t at ac t c t at at t t t ac aat c c t gt   120
              c c c t agt gag at gggc ggga gt c t t c aat c c t gt c c c t ag at aaac t gc a aaaggc ggat             180
                                                                      Page 15

                                                          71783_ST25. t x t
<removed-date>
              c ac t gt gggg t ggc at aaaa gagaac t c c t agat gaat gt c t gc c aggt a c ac aac agt t                240
              gac                                                                                                    243
              <210>     68
              <211>     237
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     ar t i f i c i al s equenc e
              <220>
              <223>     Sequenc ed f r agment s howi ng ZFN c l eav age
<removed-apn>
              <400> 68
              c c t t gggat t t c agt t ggt a ggt t aaaaat gggagt ggc a t ggagaggaa at aac agagg                      60
              c c c t c c agc a at agc t t c t c t gt gat gat a ac c c c t at ac t c t at at t t t ac aat c c t gt   120
              c c c t agt gag at gggc ggga gt c t t c aat c c t gt c c c t ag at aaac t gc a aaaggc ggat             180
              c ac t gt gggg t ggc at aaaa gagaac t c c t agat gaat gt c t gc c aggt a aac aac a                     237
              <210>     69
              <211>     241
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     ar t i f i c i al s equenc e
              <220>
              <223>     Sequenc ed f r agment s howi ng ZFN c l eav age
              <400> 69
              c c t t gggat t t c agt t ggt a ggt t aaaaat gggagt ggc a t ggagaggaa at aac agagg                      60
              c c c t c c agc a at agc t t c t c t gt gat gat a ac c c c t at ac t c t at at t t t ac aat c c t gt   120
              c c c t agt gag at gggc ggga gt c t t c aat c c t gt c c c t ag aaac t gc aaa aggc ggat c a            180
              c t gt ggggt g gc at aaaaga gaac t c c t ag at gaat gt c t gc c aggt aaa c aac agc t ga                240
              c                                                                                                      241
              <210>     70
              <211>     235
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     ar t i f i c i al s equenc e
              <220>
              <223>     Sequenc ed f r agment s howi ng ZFN c l eav age
              <400> 70
              c c t t gggat t t c agt t ggt a ggt t aaaaat gggagt ggc a t ggagaggaa at aac agagg                      60
              c c c t c c agc a at agc t t c t c t gt gat gat a ac c c c t at ac t c t at at t t t ac aat c c t gt   120
              c c c t agt gag at gggc ggga gt c t t c aat c c t gt c c c t ag aaac t gc aaa aggc ggat c a            180
              c t gt ggggt g gc at aaaaga gaac t c c t ag at gaat gt c t gc c aggt aaa c aac a                       235
              <210>     71
              <211>     223
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     ar t i f i c i al s equenc e
              <220>
              <223>     Sequenc ed f r agment s howi ng ZFN c l eav age
                                                           Page 16

                                                                 71783_ST25. t x t
<removed-date>
              <400> 71
              c c t t gggat t t c agt t ggt a ggt t aaaaat gggagt ggc a t ggagaggaa at aac agagg                      60
              c c c t c c agc a at agc t t c t c t gt gat gat a ac c c c t at ac t c t at at t t t ac aat c c t gt   120
              c c c t agt gag at gggc ggga gt c t t c aat c c t gt c c c t ag aaac t gc aaa aggc ggat c a            180
              c t gt ggggt g gc at aaaaga gaac t c c t ag at gaat gt c t gc c                                        223
              <210>     72
              <211>     241
<removed-apn>
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     ar t i f i c i al s equenc e
              <220>
              <223>     Sequenc ed f r agment s howi ng ZFN c l eav age
              <400> 72
              c c t t gggat t t c agt t ggt a ggt t aaaaat gggagt ggc a t ggagaggaa at aac agagg                      60
              c c c t c c agc a at agc t t c t c t gt gat gat a ac c c c t at ac t c t at at t t t ac aat c c t gt   120
              c c c t agt gag at gggc ggga gt c t t c aat c c t gt c c c t gc aaaaggc gga t c ac t gt ggg            180
              gt ggc at aaa agagaac t c c t agat gaat g t c t gc c aggt aaac aac agt t gac t t agga                  240
              c                                                                                                      241
              <210>     73
              <211>     222
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     ar t i f i c i al s equenc e
              <220>
              <223>     Sequenc ed f r agment s howi ng ZFN c l eav age
              <400> 73
              c c t t gggat t t c agt t ggt a ggt t aaaaat gggagt ggc a t ggagaggaa at aac agagg                      60
              c c c t c c agc a at agc t t c t c t gt gat gat a ac c c c t at ac t c t at at t t t ac aat c c t gt   120
              c c c t agt gag at gggc ggga gt c t t c aat c c t gt c c c t ag t t aaac t gc a aaaggc ggat            180
              c ac t gt gggg t ggc at aaaa gagaaat c c t agat gaat gt c t                                            222
              <210>     74
              <211>     235
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     ar t i f i c i al s equenc e
              <220>
              <223>     Sequenc ed f r agment s howi ng ZFN c l eav age
              <400> 74
              c c t t gggat t t c agt t ggt a ggt t aaaaat gggagt ggc a t ggagaggaa at aac agagg                      60
              c c c t c c agc a at agc t t c t c t gt gat gat a ac c c c t at ac t c t at at t t t ac aat c c t gt   120
              c c c t agt gag at gggc ggga gt c t t c aat c c t gt c c c t ag aaac t gc aaa aggc ggat c a            180
              c t gt ggggt g gc at aaaaga gaac t c c t ag at gaat gt c t t c c aggt aaa c aac a                      235
              <210>     75
                                                                      Page 17

                                                                 71783_ST25. t x t
<removed-date>
              <211>     243
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     ar t i f i c i al s equenc e
              <220>
              <223>     Sequenc ed f r agment s howi ng ZFN c l eav age
              <400> 75
              c c t t gggat t t c agt t ggt a ggt t aaaaat gggagt ggc a t ggagaggaa at aac agagg                      60
              c c c t c c agc a at agc t t c t c t gt gat gat a ac c c c t at ac t c t at at t t t ac aat c c t gt   120
              c c c t agt gag at gggc ggga gt c t t c aat c c t gt c c c t ag at aaac t gc a aaaggc ggat             180
<removed-apn>
              c ac t gt gggg t ggc at aaaa gagaac t c c t agat gaat gt c t gc c aggt a aac aac agt t                 240
              gac                                                                                                    243
              <210>     76
              <211>     242
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     ar t i f i c i al s equenc e
              <220>
              <223>     Sequenc ed f r agment s howi ng ZFN c l eav age
              <400> 76
              c c t t gggat t t c agt t ggt a ggt t aaaaat gggagt ggc a t ggagaggaa at aac agagg                      60
              c c c t c c agc a at agc t t c t c t gt gat gat a ac c c c t at ac t c t at at t t t ac aat c c t gt   120
              c c c t agt gag at gggc ggga gt c t t c aat c c t gt c c c t ag aaac t gc aaa aggc ggat c a            180
              c t gt ggggt g gc at aaaaga gaac t c c t ag at gaat gac t gc c aggt aaa c aac agt t ga                 240
              ct                                                                                                     242
              <210>     77
              <211>     244
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     ar t i f i c i al s equenc e
              <220>
              <223>     Sequenc ed f r agment s howi ng ZFN c l eav age
              <400> 77
              c c t t gggat t t c agt t ggt a ggt t aaaaat gggagt ggc a t ggagaggaa at aac agagg                      60
              c c c t c c agc a at agc t t c t c t gt gat gat a ac c c c t at ac t c t at at t t t ac aat c c t gt   120
              c c c t agt gag at gggc ggga gt c t t c aat c c t gt c c c t ag aaac t gc aaa aggc ggat c a            180
              c t gt ggggt g gc at aaaaga gaac t c c t ag at gaat gt c t gc c aggt aaa c aac agt t ga                240
              ct t a                                                                                                 244
              <210>     78
              <211>     243
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     ar t i f i c i al s equenc e
              <220>
              <223>     Sequenc ed f r agment s howi ng ZFN c l eav age
              <400>     78
                                                                      Page 18

                                                           71783_ST25. t x t
<removed-date>
              c c t t gggat t t c agt t ggt a ggt t aaaaat gggagt ggc a t ggagaggaa at aac agagg                      60
              c c c t c c agc a at agc t t c t c t gt gat gat a ac c c t t at ac t c t at at t t t ac aat c c t gt   120
              c c c t agt gag at gggc ggga gt c t t c aat c c t gt c c c t ag at aaac t gc a aaaggc ggat             180
              c ac t gt gggg t ggc at aaaa gagaac t c c t agat gaat gt c t gc c aggt a aac aac agt t                 240
              gac                                                                                                    243
              <210>     79
              <211>     243
<removed-apn>
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     ar t i f i c i al s equenc e
              <220>
              <223>     Sequenc ed f r agment s howi ng ZFN c l eav age
              <400> 79
              c c t t gggat t t c agt t ggt a ggt t aaaaat gggagt ggc a t ggagaggaa at aac agagg                      60
              c c c t c c agc a at agc t t c t c t gt gat gat a ac c c c t at ac t c t at at t t t ac aat c c t gt   120
              c c c t agt gag at gggc ggga gt c t t c aat c c t gt c c c t ag at aaac t gc a aaaggc ggat             180
              c ac t gt gggg t ggc c t aaaa gagaac t c c t agat gaat gt c t gc c aggt a aac aac agt t                240
              gac                                                                                                    243
              <210>     80
              <211>     236
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     ar t i f i c i al s equenc e
              <220>
              <223>     Sequenc ed f r agment s howi ng ZFN c l eav age
              <400> 80
              c c t t gggat t t c agt t ggt a ggt t aaaaat gggagt ggc a t ggagaggaa at aac agagg                      60
              c c c t c c agc a at agc t t c t c t gt gat gat a ac c c c t at ac t c t at at t t t ac aat c c t gt   120
              c c c t agt gag at gggc ggga gt c t t c aat c c t gt c c c t ag at aaac t gc a aaaggc ggat             180
              c ac t gt gggg t ggc at aaaa gagaac t c c t agat gaat gt c t gc c aggt a aac aac                       236
              <210>     81
              <211>     238
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     ar t i f i c i al s equenc e
              <220>
              <223>     Sequenc ed f r agment s howi ng ZFN c l eav age
              <400> 81
              c c t t gggat t t c agt t ggt a ggt t aaaaat gggagt ggc a t ggagaggaa at aac agagg                      60
              c c c t c c agc a at agc t t c t c t gt gat gat a ac c c c t at ac t c t at at t t t ac aat c c t gt   120
              c c c t agt gag at gggc ggga gt c t t c aat c c t gt c c c t ag at aaac t gc a aaaggc ggat             180
              c ac t gt gggg t ggc at aaaa gagaac t c c t agat gaat gt c t gc c aggt a aac aac ag                    238
              <210>     82
                                                                      Page 19

                                                                 71783_ST25. t x t
<removed-date>
              <211>     237
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     ar t i f i c i al s equenc e
              <220>
              <223>     Sequenc ed f r agment s howi ng ZFN c l eav age
              <400> 82
              c c t t gggat t t c agt t ggt a ggt t aaaaat gggagt ggc a t ggagaggaa at aac agagg                      60
              c c c t c c agc a at agc t t c t c t gt gat gat a ac c c c t at ac t c t at at t t t ac aat c c t gt   120
              c c c t agt gag at gggc ggga gt c t t c aat c c t gt c c c t ag aaac t gc aaa aggc ggat c a            180
<removed-apn>
              c t gt ggggt g gc at aaaaga gaac t c c t ag at gaat gt c t gc c aggt aaa c aac agt                     237
              <210>     83
              <211>     237
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     ar t i f i c i al s equenc e
              <220>
              <223>     Sequenc ed f r agment s howi ng ZFN c l eav age
              <400> 83
              c c t t gggat t t c agt t ggt a ggt t aaaaat gggagt ggc a t ggggaggaa at aac agagg                      60
              c c c t c c agc a at agc t t c t c t gt gat gat a ac c c c t at ac t c t at at t t t ac aat c c t gt   120
              c c c t agt gag at gggc ggga gt c t t c aat c c t gt c c c t ag t t aaac t gc a aaaggc ggat            180
              c ac t gt gggg t ggc at aaaa gagaac t c c t agat gaat gt c t gc c aggt a aac aac a                     237
              <210>     84
              <211>     237
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     ar t i f i c i al s equenc e
              <220>
              <223>     Sequenc ed f r agment s howi ng ZFN c l eav age
              <400> 84
              c c t t gggat t t c agt t ggt a ggt t aaaaat gggagt ggc a t ggagaggaa at aac agagg                      60
              c c c t c c agc a at agc t t c t c t gt gat gat a ac c c c t at ac t c t at at t t t ac aat c c t gt   120
              c c c t agt gag at gggc ggga gt c t t c aat c c t gt c c c t ag t t aaac t gc a aaaggc ggat            180
              c ac t gt gggg t ggc at aaaa gagaac t c c t agat gaat gt c t gc c aggt a aac aac a                     237
              <210>     85
              <211>     237
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     ar t i f i c i al s equenc e
              <220>
              <223>     Sequenc ed f r agment s howi ng ZFN c l eav age
              <400> 85
              c c t t gggat t t c agt t ggt a ggt t aaaaat gggagt ggc a t ggagaggaa at aac agagg                      60
              c c c t c c agc a at agc t t c t c t gt gat gat a ac c c c t at ac t c t at at t t t ac aat c c t gt   120
              c c c t agt gag at gggc ggga gt c t t c aat c c t gt c c c t ag t t aaac t gc a aaaggc ggat            180
                                                                      Page 20

                                                         71783_ST25. t x t
<removed-date>
              c ac t gt gggg t ggc at aaaa gagaaat c c c agat gaat gt c t gc c aggt a aac aac a                      237
              <210>     86
              <211>     225
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     ar t i f i c i al s equenc e
              <220>
              <223>     Sequenc ed f r agment s howi ng ZFN c l eav age
              <400> 86
              c c t t gggat t t c agt t ggt a ggt t aaaaat gggagt ggc a t ggagaggaa at aac agagg                      60
<removed-apn>
              c c c t c c agc a at agc t t c t c t gt gat gat a ac c c c t at ac t c t at at t t t ac aat c c t gt   120
              c c c t agt gag at gggc ggga gt c t t c aat c c t gt c c c t ag t aaac t gc aa aaggc ggat c            180
              ac t gt ggggt ggc at aaaag agaac t c c t a gat gaat gt c t gc c a                                      225
              <210>     87
              <211>     243
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     ar t i f i c i al s equenc e
              <220>
              <223>     Sequenc ed f r agment s howi ng ZFN c l eav age
              <400> 87
              c c t t gggat t t c agt t ggt a ggt t aaaaat gggagt ggc a t ggagaggaa at aac agagg                      60
              c c c t c c agc a at agc t t c t c t gt gat gat a ac c c c t at ac t c t at at t t t ac aat c c t gt   120
              c c c t agt gag at gggc ggga gt c t t c aat c c t gt c c c t ag aaac t gc aaa aggc ggat c a            180
              c t gt ggggt g gc at aaaaga gaac t c c t ag at gaat gt c t gc c aggt aaa c aac agt t ga                240
              ct t                                                                                                   243
              <210>     88
              <211>     244
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     ar t i f i c i al s equenc e
              <220>
              <223>     Sequenc ed f r agment s howi ng ZFN c l eav age
              <400> 88
              c c t t gggat t t c agt t ggt a ggt t aaaaat gggagt ggc a t ggagaggaa at aac agagg                      60
              c c c t c c agc a at agc t t c t c t gt gat gat a ac c c c t at ac t c t at ac t t t ac aat c c t gt   120
              c c c t agt gag at gggc ggga gt c t t c aat c c t gt c c c t ag at aaac t gc a aaaggc ggat             180
              c ac t gt gggg t ggc at aaaa gagaac t c c t agat gaat gt c t gc c aggt a aac aac agt t                 240
              gac t                                                                                                  244
              <210>     89
              <211>     244
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     ar t i f i c i al s equenc e
              <220>
              <223>     Sequenc ed f r agment s howi ng ZFN c l eav age
                                                           Page 21

                                                                 71783_ST25. t x t
<removed-date>
              <400> 89
              c c t t gggat t t c agt t ggt a ggt t aaaaat gggagt ggc a t ggagaggaa at aac agagg                      60
              c c c t c c agc a at agc t t c t c t gt gat gat a ac c c c t at ac t c t at at t t t ac aat c c t gt   120
              c c c t agt gag at gggc ggga gt c t t c aat c c t gt c c c t ag t t aaac t gc a aaaggc ggat            180
              c ac t gt gggg t ggc at aaaa gagaac t c c t agat gaat gt c t gc c aggt a aac aac agt t                 240
              gac t                                                                                                  244
<removed-apn>
              <210>     90
              <211>     238
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     ar t i f i c i al s equenc e
              <220>
              <223>     Sequenc ed f r agment s howi ng ZFN c l eav age
              <400> 90
              c c t t gggat t t c agt t ggt a ggt t aaaaat gggagt ggc a t ggagaggaa at aac agagg                      60
              c c c t c c agc a at agc t t c t c t gt gat gat a ac c c c t at ac t c t at at t t t ac aat c c t gt   120
              c c c t agt gag at gggc ggga gt c t t c aat c c t gt c c c t ag t t aaac t gc a aaaggc ggat            180
              c ac t gt gggg t ggc at aaaa gagaac t c c t agat gaat gt c t gc c aggt a aac aac ag                    238
              <210>     91
              <211>     226
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     ar t i f i c i al s equenc e
              <220>
              <223>     Sequenc ed f r agment s howi ng ZFN c l eav age
              <400> 91
              c c t t gggat t t c agt t ggt a ggt t aaaaat gggagt ggc a t ggagaggaa at aac agagg                      60
              c c c t c c agc a at agc t t c t c t gt gat gat a ac c c c t at ac t c t at at t t t ac aat c c t gt   120
              c c c t agt gag at gggc ggga gt c t t c aat c c t gt c c c t ag t t aaac t gc a aaaggc ggat            180
              c ac t gt gggg t ggc at aaaa gagaac t c c t agat gaat gt c t gc c a                                    226
                                                                      Page 22

