                                            ABSTRACT
A barrier for insertion into the space or potential space between the lens of an eye and the lens
capsule of the eye. It may be a protective barrier to mitigate damage from laser light or other
targeted electromagnetic radiation. It may be a defining barrier that facilitates machine recognition
of boundaries. The barrier may perform both functions. The use of the barrier is optimised for use
with automated systems for lens removal, including the intraocular probe disclosed in this
specification.

          16    20       17
  19                               23
  15                             142
                                  13
                                      12
         11                          34
                                  10
                            33
             242 Fig 5
19
                   Fi262
                                  28
     19a
                    Fig7       /A19b
                     Fig 7

Title:
Lens barrier to facilitate automated surgery.
Background to Cataract Surgery.
A Cataract is the loss of clarity in the Crystalline Lens of an Eye.
Operations to remove the cloudy "Cataractous Lens" and help restore at least some
degree of visual clarity have been around since Antiquity, with most of the advances
occurring during the past 100 years.
Following World War II, Intraocular lenses, made of a variety of polymers, started to
be utilised to replace the optical component that was previously rendered by an
animal Crystalline Lens.
Known methods of replacing a defective lens (most commonly secondary to cataract
formation) in a human or animal eye are via the front (anterior surface)         of the
capsule enclosing the lens. Access to the front of the capsule is via one or more
incisions around the edge of the cornea and the insertion of instruments through the
space of the anterior chamber of the eye. A circular piece of the anterior lens capsule
is then removed, the lens fractured (typically by phacoemulsification) into multiple
pieces small enough to remove through the opening in the lens capsule and then
into, and out of the portal created between the anterior chamber and the
environment. A new lens may then be inserted.
It is important that a) the posterior capsule of the lens is not damaged, b) the lens
chamber formed by the lens capsule is cleaned as thoroughly as possible from
unwanted material, c) that material from elsewhere ( eg cells) does not contaminated
the lens chamber and d) that material from the lens chamber does not contaminate
the anterior chamber.
Crystalline lens surgery already utilises a variety of semi-automated machines,
including the use of laser energy directed into the eye from a source external to the
eye and phacoemulsification (Ultrasound). All methods presently require manual
intervention by the surgeon and their expert assessment as to whether or not they
have adequately cleaned the lens and that they are not infringing on the viability of
the surrounding capsule. The known art also requires removal of a portion of the
anterior lens capsule, immediately introducing the potential for cross contamination
between the lens domain and that of the anterior chamber. The portion removed
should be circular in nature as any irregularities are likely to provide structural
weakness leading to problematic linear tearing of the lens capsule.
An important objective of the disclosure is to provide a means to highly if not fully
automate cataract surgery and to reduce the chance of adverse events resulting from
cataract surgery. As such a surgical probe is disclosed capable of insertion into the
limbus of the eye, circumventing the need to disrupt the integrity of the lens capsule
apart from the puncture location of the probe, said location preferably at the lateral
edges of the lens. In order to operate through such a minimalist conduit, disruption
and removal of lens material needs to be achieved by instruments effectively able to
constrain the physical movement within the space defined by the lens capsule. This
may be achieved by the use of micro and or nano electronics, and micro and or nano
mechanical components. This technology is well known to the art - for example
micro-tubules for use in automated laboratory analysis and DNA sequencing. The
                                             1

use of micro tools fabricated from silicon is well understood. Computer controlled
micro mirrors form part of consumer products, for example: video projectors.
Computer controlled redirection of laser light is also well understood.
Nanotechnology, is also well understood, including advances in self assembling nano
machines.
The invention discloses a means to insert computer controlled micro-tools inside a
lens capsule via an instrument inserted into the side of the lens as shown in the
drawings.
One of the objectives of the present invention is the creation of a barrier within a
human and animal crystalline lens to assist in protecting the crystalline lens capsule
from inadvertent damage. The barrier may take one of two forms (and clearly, both
may be used and certain materials may be used to concurrently provide both
functions):
        a) a blocking effect that prevents damage to unwanted structures. This has
        particular application in preventing unwanted damage from laser light (or
        other directed electromagnetic radiation) during either clear lens extraction
        and/or cataract surgery. This method has application with known methods of
        using laser to disrupt lens material and also with the automated methods
        disclosed in the specification.
        b) A defining barrier that facilitates identification of boundaries. For example it
        may be a coloured fluid or preferably a fluid that fluoresces (or changes
        colour) when struck by light of the appropriate frequency and energy. Whilst
        this may assist the present methods of lens surgery, it has particular
        application to the automated system disclosed that includes the insertion of
        imaging and light directing (eg mirror, lens) inside the lens capsule during
        surgery.
The vast majority of current lens surgery is for the removal and replacement of a
cataract lens of variably reduced opacity, including completely opaque. It is
anticipated that future developments will result in the replacement of otherwise
healthy and transparent lens to correct the problem of presbyopia that occurs at an
age significantly less than the cataract demographic. Furthermore, both barrier
means should assist the removal of lens material that is not so readily identifiable as
the more opaque material in older lens.
A successful laser barrier will increase the safety and the scope of current surgery
techniques. Together with other innovations described in the specification it allows
for the application of a new surgical technique which will be quite radically different
from all currently described lens extraction techniques, including up to a fully
automated technique.
The overall objective of the invention is to provide:
a) an instrument for insertion inside the lens capsule for use in removing a contained
lens whilst maintaining the integrity of the anterior part of the lens capsule.
b) an instrument to enable a high degree of automation in the removal of lens
material and or insertion of a new lens. This automated process takes advantage of
micro and nano technology to closely monitor and control this process.
                                              2

The claims also cover a broad range of sources of EMR. There are known laser
frequencies currently suitable, however a newer source of this energy should not
obviate the validity of the invention. The technique of Cataract removal has
proceeded through a pathway of evolution, with the occasional giant steps of
technological revolution.
Early to Mid 20th Century Cataract Technique involved dividing (either by Physical or
Chemical means) the supporting structures (the Lens Zonules), which hold the
Crystalline lens in situ, and expelling, the entire lens structure out through a large
wound. This Technique was called "INTRACAPSULAR LENS EXTRACTION".
By the middle part of the latter stage of the 2 0 th Century the technique had evolve to
a technique known as "EXTRA-CAPSULAR LENS EXTRACTION". This technique
involved leaving the Lens Capsule in place, and removing the contents of the lens
(comprising the Nucleus, and Cortex material), through a moderate sized opening of
the front surface of the Lens Capsule, and through a moderately large (7 to 10mm)
external wound.
 A key goal of the surgery is to maintain the integrity of the lens Capsule within the
minimal limits that are necessarily imposed by the need to remove the Intracapsular
Contents, and to place a Polymer Artificial Optical Lens within the Capsular
Structure.
Placement of the Artificial Lens within the Capsular Structure, or alternatively in front
of the Capsular Structure allows the Artificial Lens to be adequately positioned and
supported in a stable location.
The early EXTRA-CAPSULAR LENS EXTRACTION technique involved expelling the
harder nuclear material out of the Capsular Structure, and out of the eye through a
moderate sized wound of the external eye wall (namely either the Cornea, Sclera, or
the junction of the two structures called the Limbus)
By the late 1980's, a new technique known as "PHACOEMULSIFICATION" was
developed and became available. This allowed the micro-fragmentation of the harder
nuclear material, which could be removed, either from within the capsular structure,
or from just anterior to that structure. This was a significant advance, as a much
smaller external eye wound could be utilised.
Techniques for cataract treatment have been advanced by phacoemulsification
surgery, which permitted the fragmentation and removal of the lens material by high
frequency ultrasound and suction with irrigation. The Capsule Structure and its
supporting Zonular apparatus are left largely intact, except for the anterior
capsulotomy (the incision in the capsule through which the cataractous lens is
removed and its replacement inserted). Preservation of this inert ocular structure (i.e.
capsule and Zonular apparatus) supplies a mechanism by which intraocular lenses
can be implanted so that they do not impinge on vital structures (as occurs with angle
or iris supported intraocular lenses) and thus avoids chronic complications such as
uveitis, glaucoma and corneal decompensation.
During phacoemulsification surgery the anterior crystalline lens capsule is torn away
to form a circular opening by which the lens material can be removed (continuous
curvilinear capsulorhexis). This produces a strong capsular rim that resists tearing
even when stretched - generally improving the safety margin during surgery.
                                            3

In extra-capsular surgery, a so-called can-opener capsulotomy is performed, but the
irregular edges of the capsule are prone to radial capsular extension tears which can
result in loss of vitreous or the lens into the vitreous, both adverse events which
frequently result in a sub-optimal result and complications.
The external eye wound was by now largely dictated by the opening required to
insert the Artificial Intraocular Lens. The later advent of foldable Intraocular Lens
allowed further reduction in wound size.
In the first decade of the 21st Century, a new Technique known as "FEMTOSECOND
LASER ASSISTED CATARACT SURGERY " was developed. This technique utilised
a Femtosecond Laser to create the external wounds, create a round opening in the
front surface of the Lens Capsule, and partially fragment the Nucleus Material.
One objective of the present invention applying the described Automated Surgical
Probe aims to further the evolution of Cataract Surgery by performing the Surgery
within the Capsular Structure, rather than within the combined volume of the Lens
Capsule and Anterior Chamber, thereby further reducing the Anatomical Disruption of
the Eye. This may also provide additional protection to the Corneal Endothelial
surface, which presently sustains at least some degree of trauma with all current
Cataract Surgery techniques. It is also anticipated that an application of the present
invention may further expand the scope and safety of Femtosecond laser assisted
cataract surgery.
Summary of the invention:
The present invention, whilst not limited to, has particular application to computer
controlled and or computer facilitated in-vivo animal (including human) intervention
using suitably constructed instruments (that unless otherwise specifically identified
may be generically referenced as Automated Surgical Probes or ASP's) for insertion
into one or more in-vivo tissues and or cavities (preferably natural and or
synthesised).
In this specification the use of examples is not necessarily intended to limit other
embodiments and provision of an example(s) is not intended to imply that any one or
more of said example is necessarily required: either absolutely or in particular
embodiment's. The term 'and or' preferably indicates that any one or more of the
items joined by 'and or' may be applicable. Plural items linked by commas or 'or', are
preferably understood as: any one or more of the items may apply, unless the
context suggests a selection of one (or more) from the larger plurality. The use of
'and' preferably indicates (where the context is appropriate) that all items linked by
'and' are required unless a subset is nominated (eg any one of the claims selected
from 1,2 and 3.
Medicine is set to benefit significantly from the convergence of a number of
advanced technologies, including a) the ultra-miniaturisation of electronic circuits, b)
nano motors and machines (eg MEMS -Micro Electric Mechanical Systems), c)
highly integrated micro/nano mirrors/lenses operable by said nano motors, d)
biotechnology, e) nucleic acid sequencing, f) on chip path labs and cell substrate
synthesis, g) integration of electronics with living tissue, h) carbon nanotubes, i) 3d
printing and j) the increasing ability to target drugs, dyes, antibodies, proteins,
markers, etc to specific cell types and or intracellular components. Delivering one or
more of the preceding non-limiting examples to their target tissue/cells and
controlling/coordinating them is likely to be a challenge that one or more disclosures
                                            4

in this specification may facilitate. It is further anticipated that the ASP's themselves
may evolve into increasingly reduced packages. One end of the scale may target
macro tissue structures (eg the lens of an eye, bone marrow, bowel polyps,
neoplastic tissue) with the other end of the scale targeting individual cells with the
ultimate goal to enter a cell and target specific structures within the cell for
deletion/modification/enhancement, preferably using hybrid structures of nano/pico
electronics and organic nano/molecular structures. It is anticipated that larger ASP's
may be used for delivery of smaller ASP's.
It is preferable that an ASP may be inserted into the animal and remain in place for a
period of time enclosed by animal tissue while continuing to function. It is also
preferable that an ASP may be inserted into the animal and remain in place for a
period of time enclosed by animal tissue with one at least tubes/wires leading
externally and continue to function.
In this specification the term electromagnetic frequencies preferably include one at
least of infra-red, visible and ultraviolet as non-limiting examples. The source of said
electromagnetic frequency preferably including laser light and or other high intensity
light source.
         Non-limiting examples of said laser preferably include one at least of:
             -   external to the animal and directed through a transparent tissue - for
                 example directed via: the anterior chamber of the eye to the lens
                 region, or an orifice or an incision.
             -   a laser external to the eye with its output transmitted via a fibre-optic
                 cable coupled to an ASP.
             -   A laser(s) that is(are) located internal to the animal (eg part of and or
                 coupled to an ASP (for example, one at least semiconductor laser
                 diodes (see Photonic Energy Device or PED later in this disclosure).
         An ASP preferably may include and or be coupled to a plurality of different
         lasers and or laser frequencies.
                 It is further preferable that two at least lasers may be separately
                 directed at a target wherein each has sub critical output (eg insufficient
                 to cut/ablate, or insufficient to transform a dye, melt plastic in 3d
                 printing) that becomes critical when they combine in phase (for
                 example) at said target. Non-limiting examples applications of this
                 preferably allow for one at least of:
                      -  gang a plurality of low cost semiconductor laser diodes into a
                         cheap/disposable precision effective laser,
                      -  allowing laser frequencies to be used that are not readily
                         available otherwise ( for example, it is difficult to send femto
                      -  laser light down a fibre-optic channel, however by combining
                         plural sources, this problem may be overcome.
                      -  allow precise targeting in 3 dimensions for 3d shape cutting,
                         tissue protection, 3d printing,
                                               5

                      -  accurately mark boundaries in 3d,
                      -  by varying the coherence of the two (or more) beams, fine
                         tuning of tissue damage or the type of tissue, cells or
                         intracellular affected by laser energy.
        Non-limiting examples of the use of said lasers preferably may include one at
        least of:
                tissue disruption, tissue welding (tissue to tissue, or tissue to
                synthetic), identification marking (eg of boundaries), fluorescing,
                flipping biphasic material state, 3d printing, deletion/modification of
                synthetic structures.
Although the specification usually refers to laser as the source of electromagnetic
radiation for use with the invention, it is preferable that other sources are permitted
where applicable. For example, non-coherent ultraviolet or visible light may be of use
in setting or destroying particular polymers. Non-limiting examples of said non
coherent light sources preferably may include one at least of: LEDs and OLEDS
Non-limiting examples of said in-vivo intervention preferably may includes one at
least of:
        a) 'tissue disruption': that unless otherwise further clarified in this document
        preferably includes one at least of: cutting, disruption, destruction,
        transformation, ablation, interference with, removal and or similar processes
        to one or more tissues or parts thereof within said living animal.
                 Non-limiting examples of said tissue disruption preferably may include:
                         i)      part at least of the lens substrate from within the lens
                         capsule of       an eye;
                         ii)     one at least constituents of bone marrow in part at
                         least,
                         iii)    malignant tissue
                         iv)     damaged tissue,
                         v)      pathogens
                         vi)     healthy tissue.
                 It is preferable that said disruption may vary from a macroscopic
                attack on tissue (eg fragmentation of the lens of an eye) to targeting
                on a cellular (eg neoplastic cells) or sub-cellular (eg aberrant DNA,
                 RNA, Proteins) level.
                 Non-limiting example approaches to tissue disruption preferably may
                 include one at least of:
                      -  ultrasound (eg phacoemulsification in cataract surgery),
                      -   laser,
                                               6

            -  fluid jet (eg water jet),
            -  cautery,
            -  physical disruption (eg pushing an ASP through tissue, cutting
               (eg micro pincers/shears, spinning blade)),
            -  targeted delivery of immune system components (eg cells,
               antibodies)
            -  dissolution using organic and or inorganic substances,
            -  focused delivery of cytotoxic drugs,
            -  local variation of pH,
            -  local variations to tissue oxygenation.
b) 'Barrier': insertion, enhancement, construction, removal, modification,
transformation and or state change, in part at least within said living animal.
        Non-limiting examples of said barrier preferably may include:
            -  Barrier to protect tissues/regions from the effect of one at least
               electromagnetic frequencies used for processes described for
               an ASP, the barrier preventing or reducing the transmission of
               said electromagnetic frequencies (eg, opaque to infra-red
               light), wherein, for example, the barrier is for insertion: into a
               natural cavity and or a fabricated cavity/void; non-limiting
               examples preferably including one at least of:
                    -   flowable (eg water soluble or elastoviscous) into a
                        natural and or fabricated cavity/void, non-limiting
                        examples preferably including one at least of:
                            -  India ink
                            -  mix of starch and iodine
                            -  bio-compatible infra-red absorbing dyes
                            -  suspension of plastic micro/nano beads (said
                               plastic preferably biodegradable),
                            -  photobiphasic material - increased opacity with
                                1st frequency of electromagnetic radiation (EMR)
                               and reduced opacity with 2 nd frequency of EMR,
                            -  carbon nanotubes and or nanoelectronics
                               preferably self assembling and provided in
                               suspension.
                    -   Fabricated protective barrier - eg 3 D printing.
                                       7

            -  Barrier to indicate a particular area/region, preferably        to
               computer aided detection apparatus. For example:
                   -   a dye that fluoresces upon exposure to particular
                       frequency(s) of EMR.
                               For example: a dye that fluoresces when hit by a
                               laser may be detected by a digital imaging
                               system to indicate that a 'No Go Zone' has been
                               reached.
                   -   a coloured fluid placed into a particular space (eg
                       between lens and lens capsule of the eye) wherein a
                       computer coupled to digital imaging may recognise (or
                       dynamically learn to recognise) a particular shape and
                       be able to determine if this shape changes (eg image of
                       coloured fluid in lens space may indicate that the
                       periphery of the lens has been reached).
                   -   an indicating barrier may        include a plurality of
                       micro/nano electronic devices    (eg they preferably may
                       be suspended in fluid that is    infused into a space or
                       fixed to adjacent structures) -   said devices preferably
                       may monitor one at least of:
                               One at least EMR frequency (eg U/V, light, infra
                               red),     Pressure,    Temperature,     Vibration,
                               Chemicals (eg cytotoxic), p02, pH; as non
                               limiting examples.
                       and report back status (preferably dynamically) with
                       said reporting preferably wireless. Said devices
                       preferably may be powered by one at least of vibration
                       and or power derived from surrounding nutrients (eg
                       glucose/oxygen) as non-limiting examples.
            -  Barrier to segregate different components, preferably with
               selective permeability. For example in a patient with a
               haemopoeitic neoplasm, chambers may be constructed and
               healthy cells selectively sorted to a particular compartment and
               neoplastic cells to another.
            -  Packaging Barrier - for example a Bowel ASP may remove a
               polyp, package it in a membrane and attach it to the ASP for
               subsequent removal with the ASP.
       It is preferable that one or more barriers may be removed in part at
       least. For example, suction of fluid barriers, destruction by laser, fluid
      jet or ultrasound, biodegradable, conversion to more readily eliminated
       format (or useable for constructing other materials).
c) Construction, preferably using synthetic and or biological materials.
                                      8

         d) Delivery of materials to an ASP and or tissue. Non-limiting examples of
         said delivery preferably may include one at least of:
             -   Delivery from external to the animal - eg using pipes/tubes/conduits.
             -   Fabrication of materials from external deliveries and or available in
                 vivo resources.
         e) Removal of materials. Non-limiting examples of said removal preferably
         may include one at least of:
                 Removal to the outside (or elsewhere in the body) by                 using
                 pipes/tubes/conduits, Bio-degradation, Destruction,           Conversion,
                 Consumption.
         f) maintaining a safe in-vivo environment.
It is preferable that ASP's may include one at least of the following non-limiting
attributes:
              -  may be for insertion and subsequent removal.
               -  physical connection     (eg   tubes,  power, fibre-optic) to external
                  apparatus.
               -  autonomous of external physical connection.
               -  to remain indwelling - said indwelling preferably may include ASP's
                  fabricated to biodegrade and or self degrade in-vivo, in part at least
               -  to be modifiable in-vivo: eg self construct additions, alterations and or
                  reductions, preferably using a combination of biological and non
                  biological substrates.
The invention preferably allows for operator intervention/assistance with one or more
processes.
It is preferable that said computer (for example, one at least of: digital computer,
analogue computer, neural network, DSP, microprocessor, and or hardware arranged
for executing a computer program) control includes one at least of:
         a) one at least computers external to the animal. Said external computer is
         preferably operatively coupled to the ASP and or means for positioning the
         ASP and or for positioning parts of said ASP;
         b) one at least computers internal to the animal and preferably part of the ASP
         and or coupled to said ASP. For example, said internal computer is preferably
         operatively coupled to i) one at least external computers as applicable and or
         ii) means for positioning the ASP and or iii) for positioning and or controlling
         parts of said ASP;
Allowance is made for the use of plural ASP's that may communicate with each other
and other devices ( eg external to the animal), said communication, for example, via
one at least known art wired and or wireless means. Said other devices preferably
including one at least controlling computers.
                                              9

Automated Surgical Probes (ASP's) are preferably constructed of materials able to
undergo one at least sterilising processes.
It is preferably that motion of an ASP may be controlled/facilitated by external
mechanisms, non-limiting examples preferably may include one at least of:
         a) an external framework (eg. fixed to the animal and or supporting
         infrastructure able to position/reposition the ASP within said tissue/cavity as
         required. Said framework is preferably under computer control and said
         computer control preferably may be manually overridden in part at least;
         b) cable/rod/linkage coupling the ASP to         the environment external to the
         animal.
It is preferable that motion of an ASP may in part at least be independent of external
mechanisms and said independent motion is preferably facilitated by one at least
motion/positioning/propulsion devices/methods attached to and/or part of said ASP.
         Known art motors, actuators and other motion devices, including micro and
         nano: motors, actuators and motion devices, are readily adaptable for said
         motion. On the smaller scale these are amenable to fabrication on an
         integrated circuit type scale.        Motion preferably may be facilitated by
         piezoelectric device and shape metal alloys (eg nano-muscles). Known art
         micro-robotic devices have 'legs' that can walk. It is preferable that a bio
         electronic hybrid motor may be used for motion - for example muscles tissue
         coupled to a semiconductor device that provides electronic stimulation/control
         - muscle tissue preferably operable from glucose/oxygen in surrounding
         tissue and electronics preferably powered by known art in-vivo source (eg
         glucose, vibration). For ASP's at the micro and nano scale, they preferably
         may be insert-able into one or more cell types of the animal (or a vector) and
         hitch a rid (for example, embedded in neutrophils may deliver to the site of
         infection).
Non-limiting examples of enabling an ASP to move its location within the animal
preferably may include one at least of:
         a) Propulsion through a fluid, that preferably may be natural body fluid and or
         a fluid synthesised in part at least in-vivo (eg by an ASP) and or a fluid
         provided from an external source, non-limiting examples of said propulsion
         preferably include one at least of:
                     -    Jet Propulsion (eg squid like),
                     -    Propeller (eg driven by nano motor or bio-electronic hybrid),
                     -    Flagellate (eg driven by nano motor or bio-electronic hybrid),
         b) Worm-like motion, eg alternate compression and extension along the axis
         of travel.
                  For example, the front of the ASP attaches to adjacent tissue and pulls
                 the trailing parts towards it and subsequently fixes the back of the ASP
                 to tissue, freeing the front and extending the ASP to push the front
                 forward.
                                              10

         c) Moving Loop Motion- eg Bulldozer track like motion.
         d) Mechanical Legs.
         e) Building a structure in tissue using the ASP (eg 3D printing) and advancing
         the ASP from this structure as it is fabricated. It is preferable that part at least
         of previously fabricated structures may be removed and or modified.
The invention allows that movement may be facilitated by clamping part of the motion
apparatus (eg front of tread, tip of leg, front or back of ASP to adjacent tissue, for
example to facilitate 'push off' or 'pulling'. Said clamping is preferably reversible. Non
limiting examples of said clamping preferably may include:
             -   Suction to tissue
             -   Wedging - eg the tip of a leg may be placed in a tissue crevice/fold
                 and reversibly inflated to hold it in position.
             -   welding/gluing eg lay down polymer that is set by Type A laser and
                 released by Type B laser. Polymer preferably may be biodegradable.
                 Preferably may attach to tissue and or synthesised (eg plastic)
                 substrate.
It is preferable that motion may be through body fluids and or solid tissue and or
natural cavities/lumen and or fabricated cavities/lumen. It is preferable that motion
may be facilitated by tissue disruption and or disruption of artificial structures.
It is preferable that the ASP may obtain power from one at least of the following non
limiting examples:
                     -   external power delivered by cable
                     -   external light source (eg laser) used to power photovoltaic cell
                         in ASP
                     -   battery coupled to ASP
                     -   power generated from biological milieu (eg glucose in body
                         fluids) or in fluids provided from an external source (eg
                         delivered to a natural or synthetic cavity).
                     -   Generated using vibration powered electrical generator located
                         inside an ASP and or coupled to an ASP. These methods are
                         known to the art to generate power for wearable electronic
                         devices and may be adapted for in-vivo use.
It is preferable that part at least of the ASP (eg the tip) may be adjusted horizontally
and or vertically and or rotationally with respect to another part of the ASP
The positioning of an ASP within the animal preferably may be facilitated by one at
least of:
                 1)external determination: for example, one at least of:
                                               11

                        a) direct imaging (eg digital imaging) - for example in the case
                        of eye surgery (eg lens replacement surgery) directly via the
                        cornea /anterior chamber;
                        b) CT scanning and or MRI (for non-magnetic apparatus);
                        c) Known art ocular imaging system;
                        d) triangulation from a radio/microwave source coupled directly
                        and or indirectly to the ASP.
                II) internal determination: for example direct imaging (eg digital
                imaging and or ultrasound imaging) by the ASP or another device(s)
                inserted in-vivo. Said internal determination preferably may include
                one at least of:
                        a) terrain recognition - for example, able to recognise one at
                        least of:
                                 i) normal anatomical structures;
                                 ii) abnormal anatomical structures;
                                 iii) synthetic structures (eg plastic/metal         parts
                                constructed in-vivo, eg by in-vivo 3d printing).
                        b) barrier recognition - for example a barrier previously
                        inserted/constructed in-vivo, for example, one at least of:
                                 i) a dye inserted into the space between the lens and
                                 lens capsule of the eye may fluoresce when hit by a
                                 particular wavelength(s) and detection of said
                                fluorescence may indicate to the system to stop further
                                 laser activity beyond this point/region;
                                 ii) a grouping of nano-electronic device and or nano
                                 motors (that preferably may themselves be able to
                                 provide active and or passive signalling (eg R/F), for
                                example detecting particular EMR frequency/intensity,
                                detecting pressure, detecting temperature, detecting
                                vibration;
                                 iii) 3d printed - eg using biodegradable plastic.
                        c) imaging at a cellular/sub-cellular level.
                        d) information provided by one             at  least sensors   (eg
                        temperature,pressure, ph, p02).
It is preferable that an ASP may include tissue/fluid pH measuring capability, (for
example to dynamically measure and feedback information on pH changes during
one at least of the processes described for an ASP).
It is preferable that an ASP may include p02 and or C02 measuring capability, (for
example to dynamically measure and feedback information on gas concentration
changes during one at least of the processes described for an ASP).
                                                12

It is preferable that an ASP may include temperature and or pressure measuring
capability, (for example to dynamically measure and feedback information on
temperature and or pressure changes during one at least of the processes described
for an ASP).
It is preferable that an ASP may include a facility for measuring one or more
biochemical parameters, haematology, chemicals (eg using integrated micro/nano
laboratory).
It is preferable that an ASP may include a facility for nucleic acid sequencing and or
synthesis and or editing.
It is preferable that an ASP may include cell recognition and or sorting capability.
Said recognition/sorting preferably may be facilitated by one at least cell markers (eg
fluorescent dye, antibodies) and or direct imaging of cell/cell contents.
It is preferable that an ASP may include 3D printing capability, for example: plastic,
metal, biological material (eg supporting tissue, cells).
Preferred Embodiment:
Photonic Energy Device.
A Photonic Energy Device (PED) to facilitate in-vivo surgery is described with
reference to Figure 1 of the drawings. This preferably may comprise and or be
included in an apparatus (eg. a probe or similar surgical instrument) for in-vivo
processes that may include one at least of : tissue disruption, targeted cellular
destruction (for example, identifying a previously marked           (eg by fluorescent
techniques) cell or cell group, eg neoplastic cell). Allowance is made that part at least
of the photonic energy device may be incorporated into in-vivo surgical instruments,
preferably including one at least ASP's disclosed in this specification. The PED
permits a plurality of laser sources to be combined into a preferably variable strength
beam that may be adjusted by varying the the phases of each laser beam relatively
to each other. Completely out of phase minimises total output, whereas completely in
phase maximises output. The phase relationship preferably may be adjusted
(preferably computer controlled) in response to feed back of effects of the combined
beam (eg a) digital imaging of destruction rate, b) temperature/pressure increase, c)
intensity of light from laser responsive fluorescing material). PED 1 of Fig 1 shows
fibre-optic conduits 2a and 2b each bringing laser light from a source (eg external
Femto or YAG lasers). The position of the outputs from 2a and 2b may be positioned
relatively to one another by micro-motors 3a and 3b (thereby altering the phase
relationship). Focusing and or phase relationship preferably may be further adjusted
by positionable lenses 4a and 4b and positional mirrors 5a and 5b. It will be
appreciated that MEMS technology permits large numbers of motors, lens and
mirrors to be fabricated in tiny packages. The combined output may be directed using
direction mechanism 6 (eg positionable lens). A feed back system 7 is shown, to
facilitate determination of output results (eg digital imaging, light level detection,
temperature, pressure, detection of various substances resulting from tissue
destruction. PED la of Fig 2 shows a similar arrangement however semiconductor
laser diodes with adjustment motors are shown at 3c and 3d. Another arrangement is
shown in PED 1b of Fig 3 wherein at least two laser beams 8a and 8b converge
outside the device at point 9a. These may be individually adjusted to ensure
coherence between the two beams and by varying the angles of the emitted beams
they may be made to focus over a large x,y z co-ordinate range, allowing accurate
                                           13

cutting, welding, printing etc in 3 dimensions. In Fig 4, 1c and 1d represent two
distinct PED that may be separately arranged to intersect respective beams 8c and
8d at 9b. It is preferable that vibration generated electricity (preferably augmented)
may be used to power part at least of an PED. It will be appreciated that the PED
disclosure may have more general application in more macroscopic applications (eg
combining lasers for cutting, holography, etc). Accurate tracking and feedback may
enhance the power of lasers at considerable distance, including on moving targets.
Cataract Surgery Probe
A method, system and apparatus for computer controlled or facilitated replacement of
a lens in the eye (for example, as a response to cataract formation). Whilst the
present disclosure is applicable to a highly automated process, it will be appreciated
that parts of the disclosure preferably have application in facilitating eye surgery with
varying degrees of manual intervention. Furthermore, processes described for the
eye preferably may be adapted/expanded for other in-vivo surgery. For example:
intervention within living animals that whilst not restricted to, has particular
application to humans and other mammals. It is preferable that the cataract probe
disclosed in this preferred embodiment may also include one at least functions
disclosed for an ASP in this specification.
Figure 5 shows a cross section 10 through an eye, with the cornea 17 forming the
front of the eye and also the front of the anterior chamber 16. The iris/pupil 20 cover
the crystalline lens 15, that is located behind the iris. The lens 15 is enclosed in lens
capsule 13. A space (or potential space) 14 is between the lens 15 and lens capsule
13. It is preferable that the automated process includes the infusion of a fluid (eg
elastoviscous) substance into said space 14. Said infused fluid preferably may
include one at least of the example 'flowable protective barriers' disclosed earlier in
this specification. The infused fluid preferably also includes a barrier to indicate (eg
material capable of fluorescing in response to laser light of particular frequency(s)) to
facilitate determination of when a laser may be encroaching on protected territory. It
is preferably a barrier to indicate may be used instead of or together with a barrier to
protect/block. The lens is supported by zonules 22 and the ciliary body 23 that also
provides the muscle system to facilitate accommodation of the lens. The back of the
eye includes the outer sclera 11, the choroid 34 and the retina 33. The vitreous 12
fills the bulk of the region between lens/capsule and the retina. The probe 19 is
coupled to external framework 18 ( to facilitate movement of the probe within the
eye) said framework preferably coupled to an ocular imaging system. The probe 19
preferably may be coupled to an external laser (eg femto or YAG) and or a laser (eg
PED) inside the animal, eg within said probe.
In one embodiment the probe 19 is one piece and preferably curved to facilitate
movement within the capsule 13. It is designed to remove the material within the
crystalline lens of an eye leaving an intact continuous lens capsule with the exception
of a small entry wound in the lens capsule.
A curved probe 19 is shown in Fig 6 with an external casing housing 25 a lower
pressure system to aspirate fluid 42 in a direction opposite to the water jet 41. The
internal wall of the outer casing 25 is preferably lined with a fibre optic system 26 to
enable transmission of laser light energy. Within the probe is a secondary inner tube
24, which houses a smaller diameter high pressure stream that functions as a water
jet 41. The flows in both the high pressure water jet, and lower pressure aspiration
                                            14

system is computer controlled and the flow rates in each system are independently
controlled. The probe is preferably mounted on external frame 18, which attaches it
to a linked ocular imaging system, and optional external femto laser system. This
apparatus is in turn coupled to the eye. The horizontal, vertical, and rotary
movements of the probe are computer controlled. The function of this probe is to
facilitate an automated removal of the material from a human lens capsule. An
alternative embodiment in Fig 7 shows a proximal part of the probe 19a and a distal
part 19b that preferably may be extended/retracted/rotated/tilted at 28 independently
of movement of proximal part 19a.
Figure 8 of the drawings shows the capsule of a lens 13, a lens 15 and the region
between the capsule and lens filled with fluid 27. Said fluid preferably provides both
an impediment to the passage of a particular wavelength(s) of infrared (for example)
from a laser, and emits light when struck by a laser. Both the blocking and signalling
characteristics preferably may be by the one agent (eg plastic micro-beads may be
both blocking and made of a fluorescing plastic). It is also preferable that the laser
that requires blocking may also trigger the signal barrier or a separate laser may be
used for each of the two functions. ASP 19 includes a laser providing laser beam 29
and a digital imaging device 6. In this example the single beam 29 both disrupts lens
material at location 32 where it is adjacent to fluid 27, and also causes the region at
32 to illuminate because of proximity of the beam 29 to fluid 27. The beam 29 may
be from one laser with a dual effect, or may be two beams from two lasers ( one
disruptive and the other for signalling) that are focused together and emerge as one.
Fig 9 is similar however it provides for two laser beam outputs - the first beam 30
from 19a for disruption and the second beam 31 from 19b for signalling. The second
beam is directed at the region 32a being disrupted by beam 30 such that illumination
at 32a is consistent with concurrent disruptive activity at this point.
The material within a human ocular lens consists of a central harder "nucleus", and a
softer outer cortex. The nucleus has to be removed by its disassembly by
fragmentation or emulsification. The softer material of the cortex can be removed by
aspiration. The Fibre Optic light system is designed to deliver laser light energy to
fragment the lens nuclear material. The Water Jet 41 is designed to help break up
the nucleus material, to provide irrigating fluid, and to cleave the soft cortical material
free from the lens capsule. The water jet can be used to manipulate the position of
lens material. The Aspiration system is designed the remove gas, heat, and material
created by the fragmentation process. By increasing the flow rate in the aspiration
system relative to the water jet, the water jet can be opposed to the hard nuclear
material.
The respective flow rates of the inflow and outflow channels of the probe can be
varied independently of each other, to enable the manipulation of tissue fragments,
aspiration of material, and can function as a water jet to erode tissues. The water jet
can be used to cleave soft lens cortical material away from the capsule membrane,
for later aspiration.
The inflow channel preferably may be used to introduce the protective (eg infrared
opaque viscous fluid) and or other fluid (eg defining barrier) between the soft lens
matter and the lens capsule. As lens material is cut/removed is preferable that
additional protective and or defining material may be introduced into the expanding
spaces. As appropriate it is preferable that introduced fluid is removed (eg by
aspiration). It further preferable that any remaining 'fluid' is biodegradable.
                                             15

The Delivery Conduit preferably has fluid at higher pressure than fluid in the
Removal Conduit.
The Removal Conduit is preferably optimised for use as an aspiration
channel.
It is preferable that the Delivery and Removal Conduits have independently
controllable flow rates that preferably may each be automatically or semi
automatically adjusted.
The Delivery Conduit is preferably narrower than the Removal Conduit.
The Delivery Conduit preferably may comprise a plurality distinct conduits. It
is preferably that different functions may be provided for by a a particular
member of said plurality.
The Delivery Conduit preferably permits fluid to be delivered into the lens as a
jet (at or otherwise focused fluid stream). Said focus is preferably variable
Fluid from the delivery conduit is preferably able to disrupt lens material. The
fluid output pressure/force is preferably variable. It may preferably be pulsed.
Said pulse rate is preferably variable.
The position of the Delivery Conduit within the probe is preferably central
compared to the Removal Conduit. It is preferable that the Removal Conduit
surrounds the Delivery Conduit in part at least.
The Delivery Conduit is preferably optimised to facilitate/enable the delivered
fluid to cut and or otherwise destroy lens tissue, said cutting/destruction part
of a controlled process.
The Delivery Conduit and or apparatus coupled to the probe preferably allows
the flow rate and or flow pressure and or flow direction as it exits the probe
and or the frequency of any pulsation of pressure, to be machine controlled
(said machine control preferably including, in part at least,computer control).
Said flow characteristics are preferably independent of those that may apply
to fluid in the Return Conduit.
The probe preferably includes and or is coupled to a device(s) for measuring
temperature and or pressure in one at least parts of the lens. Said part of the
eye preferably includes in the vicinity of the probe tip and or where active lens
destruction is occurring. The preferred device for measuring temperature is a
digital means.
The probe preferably includes a conduit suitable for inserting a new lens
inside the lens capsule.
Computer controlled mechanism (eg motor) preferably able to operate tip
movement ( eg horizontally and/or vertically and/or in rotation and or
extension and or retraction).
Said automation preferably includes computer control that may include one at
least of:
         - remote computing (preferably coupled by a WAN eg internet);
                                     16

                - local computing local to the patient and preferably coupled to the
                 probe by wireless and or wired communications;
                . computing integrated into the probe.
        Said Automation preferably includes an external framework (preferably
        including movable electromechanical parts able to facilitate positioning of the
        probe and or imaging system and or one or more external lasers and or one
        or more internal lasers (eg directed through the fibre-optic conduit).
        Said automation preferably includes the use of digital imaging
        means/device/software that in part at least may be external to the eye and/or
        internal to the eye (eg part of the probe).
        The fibre-optic conduit preferably forms part of a system that in conjunction
        with other parts of the probe and/or other supporting apparatus (non-limiting
        examples: computer, laser light source(s); electro-mechanical devices for
        controlling movement and or positioning of the probe; imaging systems for
        detecting eye movement, position of the probe relative to the eye and or
        within the eye; apparatus to determine the progress of lens destruction)
        controls and or provides laser light such that one at least of the following
        preferably apply:
                a) laser light is suitable for use in the cutting and or otherwise
                destruction of part at least of said lens material.
                 b) laser light is delivered using a method that provides for the
                controlled cutting and or otherwise destruction of part at least of said
                 lens material, and in particular under the control (in part at least) of
                apparatus and/or control system that preferably eliminates and at least
                 minimises damage or the probability of damage to the lens capsule.
                c) laser light that can be focused and or otherwise controlled/modified
                such that the region of cutting and or otherwise destruction of lens
                 material relative to its exit from the probe (eg: the probe tip) may be
                constrained and or otherwise controlled.
                d) laser light of different frequencies or other characteristics may be
                delivered separately and or concurrently. For example, light of a
                 particular characteristic may be used for cutting and or vaporising lens
                 material, another may be used to activate a material to make it
                 impervious to laser light (eg to protect part of the lens and or
                surrounding tissue from laser light) and yet another may be used to
                deactivate a protective fluid (eg alter a dye from blue to transparent).
The cataract embodiment seeks to provide for a number of methodologies for
automating the removal of lens material. Advantages may include lower cost
procedures, less damage to the eye, increased versatility on what may be achieved
within the lens capsule.
Several methods for mobilising an ASP are now described with reference to Figures
10, 11,12 and 13 of the drawings. A structure (eg tissue or artificial) 36 for ASP 35 to
move along is shown. ASP 35 in Fig 10 and 11_are the same ASP in different
positions along the identical section of structure 36. The ASP includes a looped belt
that moves around rear wheel (or similar) 39 and front wheel (or similar) 38.The ASP
                                              17

temporarily fixes a location on the belt 37 with the structure 36. Rotation of the
wheels 38 and 39 move the ASP forward, however the the point of connection
between belt 37 and structure 36 is unchanged. The next step is to break the bond at
40 and move it forward along the track to enable continued forward motion.
Reversing the steps permits reverse motion. ASP 35 of Fig 12 uses mechanical legs
for movement. In position A , ASP 35 has the rear leg 41 fixed to adjacent structure at
location 42. ASP 35 then moves forward to position B by extension/hyperextension of
rear leg 41 that remains fixed at point 42. For subsequent (not shown) forward
motion, front leg fixes (eg laser melting of plastic) to the structure and rear leg 41 is
unfixed (eg laser cutting). Extrusion of a polymer through a channel inside said legs
that exits at the end of the leg preferably facilitates fixing of the leg to the structure. A
compression/extension method is depicted with 45 and 46 of Figure 13. The rear of
the mechanism 45 is initially fixed as shown by the X with the mechanism
compressed and the front 46 unattached. In the next step extension occurs moving
the front to a forward position 46a. The rear is still fixed. The next step is to fix the
front (same location as 46a however now fixed and identified as 46b with the rear
freed and pulled forward to the position 45b.
Example ASP
An ASP is preferably a small, intelligent and adaptable instrument, that under
computer control (that is preferably within said ASP in part at least) with feedback
from one or more sensors may intervene (eg surgery) inside the animal with a
greater or lesser amount of autonomy. It preferably includes digital imaging and
preferably is able to transfer said imagery (and or other information) externally (eg to
a doctor). It is envisaged that as the software is refined, the ASP may be capable of
performing intricate surgery and or other in-vivo processes unaided. It is envisaged
that ASP's may be versatile mobile medical instrumentation responsive to a variety
of downloadable Apps for directing a variety of surgical and medical interventions.
Ongoing refinements in micro electronics, micro-power generation and MEMS is
expected to reflect in the evolution of smaller and more versatile ASP's.
It is preferable that an ASP(s) may be left inside the animal for extended periods.
         Standard surgery performed under anaesthesia, relies on opening the patient
         and getting them closed again as quickly as possible.
         The ASP allows for surgery to be performed over a continuous period a bit at
         a time.
                 For example an ASP embedded in the front of the vitreous may
                 progressively tackle a lens problem, a portion at a time. An
                 assessment of the results of a first stage may be made before tackling
                 another. This may also be the case for replacing vitreous and or
                 embedding microelectronics into the retina to improve vision as a non
                 limiting example.
                 'Of course, it may be a little bit annoying to see the ASP 'walking
                 around' in your eye, but hey! At least while you have a surgeon in your
                 eye, you can keep an eye on your surgeon.'
It is preferable that the ASP may move parts of itself relative to each other and also
move within the animal. Said movement preferably may be facilitated by external
                                            18

infrastructure and or by motion apparatus attached to the ASP. (eg mechanical legs,
belt loop etc). The ASP may also fix part of itself to surrounding structures that may
be biological and or synthetic (eg previously constructed by the ASP). The fixture
may be transient (eg holding a mechanical leg in place while it pushes the ASP
forward) or more robust (eg fixing the ASP in place while it operates) - this may be
particularly applicable in locations where it may be swept away (eg in a blood
vessels, the bladder or the gut.. .
In one embodiment, the ASP, while preferably still subject to external control, is
standalone and includes the necessary tools and resources (and or is capable of
manufacturing those resources from available substances, eg: in the animal
tissue/fluids, stored items or recycled items). The preferred power units comprise one
at least of: battery, vibration electricity generator, and or energy derived from
available resources in the tissue (eg glucose). The latter option may be particularly
applicable for an ASP with hybrid biological (eg muscle) and synthetic structures:
         An example bioelectronic hybrid is described with reference to Figure 20 and
         21: wherein a thin polymer sheet 80, with fenestrations 83, electrodes 81
         (preferably printed conductive polymers), and electrical conductors 82
         (preferably printed conductive polymers) is shown viewed from above in Fig
         20. It preferably may have other electronic devices, for example: a) polymer
         printing of diode, capacitors, semiconductors or b) silicon based electronics.
         Step 1 of Fig 21 shows a cross section through AB. Step 2 shows a fibrous
         sheath 84 that has been grown on the substrate 80. Step 3 depicts the top
         layer of muscles cells 85 grown onto the supporting fibrous sheath 84. Blood
         vessels and other supporting structures are not depicted. The biological tissue
         preferable receives nutrient via blood vessel, artifical conduits and infusion
         from surrounding tissue. The muscle 85 preferably may be stimulated by the
         printed electrodes 81.
It is preferable that the ASP may have access to another ASP and or a docking
station with internal and external portals for replenishment, waste removal etc. In
another preferred embodiment, the ASP is physically coupled by one at least by
cables (eg wire, fibre) and or conduits to an internal docking station and or directly to
external resources.
A preferred ASP tool is a Suturing Tool for joining together a plurality of pieces of
tissue
An example method step and apparatus for automated joining of tissue (eg suturing)
by an ASP is described with reference to Fig 14 of the drawings. While a single probe
60 is described, it is preferable that the number of probes coupled to an ASP is not
limited.
         Step 1 shows two pieces of tissue 61 and 62 that have been opposed (eg by
         an ASP's micro forceps) with an intervening gap. A probe 60 (identified as
         60a, 60b etc in successive steps) is coupled to an apparatus that enables it to
         be positioned and moved up and down. It may includes a conduit for
         extruding a polymer out its tip. Examples of said polymer may be liquid, solid
         (eg powder), or a thread. Examples methods of setting the polymer may
         include: setting on exposure to light (eg U/V or visible) or melting (eg laser,
         U/S welding, direct heat) or curing as a glue or a two part polymer solution.
         The probe 60 preferably includes one at least of: laser output, light output,
         heat source and or US at or the vicinity of the tip for setting the polymer,
                                            19

         source and delivery of setting catalyst. A tip related energy source preferably
         may be used for other ASP functions (eg deleting unwanted structures,
         cautery). Step 1 shows the tissue pieces opposed and the probe 60a above
         tissue 62. In Step 2 the probe 60b has punched/pushed a hole 64a in tissue
         62. In Step 3 the probe 60c extrudes and sets a securing pad of polymer 65
         on the underside of tissue 62. In Step 4 the probe 60d progressively
         withdraws along opening 64a, extruding and setting polymer as it withdraws,
         preferably leaving a pad on the top surface of tissue 62. In Step 5 the probe
         60e is then positioned over tissue piece 61, in Step 6 the probe 60f has
         punched/pushed a hole 64b in tissue 61. In Step 7 the probe 60g extrudes
         and sets a securing pad 66 of polymer on the underside of tissue 60. In Step
         8 the probe 60h progressively withdraws along opening 64b, extruding and
         setting polymer as it withdraws, preferably leaving a pad on the top surface of
         tissue 61. In Step 9 the probe moves across both pieces of tissue extruding a
         setting a polymer bridge 67 that anchors tissue 60 and 61 together.
Some alternative suturing examples are described with reference to: Figure 15,
wherein the securing pads 65 and 66 are embedded in there respective tissue pieces
61 and 62 - the probe extrudes and sets material into the tissue instead of on the
other side. Pads 65 and 66 are joined by bridge 67. Figure 16 depicts fixing pads 65
and 66 adherent to the surface of the respective tissue pieces 61 and 62.
Figure 17 is similar to Fig 15 however the fixing pads 65 and 66 are inserted from the
underside of tissue pieces 61 and 62 respectively with bridge 67. An example
application for the Fig 17 arrangement preferably includes joining skin together, with
the top of the tissue 61 and 62 correlating with surface of the skin. ASP facilitate
suturing from outside in. Useful for cosmetic surgery.
It will be appreciated that the methods depicted with reference to Figs 14, 15, 16 and
17 may also have other applications.
         For example, this type of fixing may be used to assist an ASB to move (eg
         alternate fixing and releasing (eg: cutting, burning) of the end of a mechanical
         leg), and or to attach and hold an ASB in place and or to provide a base for
         construction of synthetic structures.
Figure 18 depicts a contiguous piece of tissue 70 with several example fixing pads:
67 (adhered to the surface of tissue 70), 68 (embedded in the tissue 70) and 69
(attached through the tissue 70 to the bottom surface). Examples of the tissue 70
may include soft tissue, bone, wall of a blood vessel or bronchus, wall of the GIT .
Structure 70 preferably may also be non-biological, for example a synthetic structure
deposited by the ASP or a synthetic structure provided from an external location
(which may have been imported in pieces and fused together internally by the ASP).
It will be further appreciated that the methods depicted in Figs 14 through 18
provides a method and apparatus for building synthetic and or biological structure
within an animal. The methodology is fundamentally 3d printing of structures within a
living animal that includes: the depositing (sequentially or in parallel) of building
blocks and the fixing of them in place by fusing to adjacent structure. Examples of
said building blocks may include: a) droplet of a fluid (eg polymer, resin), b) powder
(eg plastic microbeads, metal powder) c) fibres (eg polymer, carbon fibres, metal
fibres), d) ink for printing electronic device and conductors, e) silicon semiconductor
(eg delivered on tape that may be placed using a similar tool to that of Figure 19 and
used in conjunction with a forceps/cutting tool), components imported from outside
                                             20

the animal (eg the bio-electronic hybrid of Fig 20 and 21, that in preferably may
alternatively be constructed in-vivo),f) self assembling microelectronics, g) carbon
nano tubes that preferably self assemble, h) biological connective tissue (eg
collagen, elastin, fibrin), i) cells (eg stem cells, cultured cells) and j) proteins (eg
synthesised by ASP), k) chemicals, 1)cytotoxics, m) enzymes.
An example apparatus for delivering fibre from an ASP may include a spool of fibre
that may be fed onto a worksite. Figure 19 depicts a probe 71, that is preferably a
retractable extension from an ASP, a spool of fibre 73 on an axle 72 that may be
moved out (or in) by rollers 74 through opening 76. The fibre may be cut by shear 75.
Fibre cutting preferably may use other means, for example, another ASP tool with
shears that may have other uses.
Examples of methods for joining adjacent building blocks may include: exposure to
light, laser, heat, ultrasound, multipart polymers, curing, protein linking.
The concurrent availability of laser, ultrasound, fluid jets and a variety of cutting and
polishing tools further coupled to ASP's further facilitates in-vivo 3d printing and
finishing, polishing and removal of unwanted parts. The Photonic Energy device that
provides accurate focusing in all 3 Cartesian co-ordinates may also assist.
Figure 22 depicts an embodiment for a tool storage pod for tools coupled to or part of
an ASP. The pod 99 includes a storage bay 98 and shows a generic tool 40. When
not in use (closed) the tool 40 is retracted and cover 41 closed. When in use (open)
the cover is opened and the tool projected out. Examples configuration of the pod
include protruding from the ASP or buried within. It is preferable that the pod may
store multiple tools and use a micro-mechanism to switch them as required. Fig 23
shows an example method of moving tool 40 in and out by using a row of linear teeth
97 along the bottom of tool 40 that meshes with toothed cog 96. Movement of the
tool in and out may also facilitate operation of the tool (eg a knife on the end may be
able to cut).Figure 24 is a view of the extended tool 40 from the side. It may move up
and down using the teeth on 110 together with the toothed cog 111. The distal end
113 with the active part of the tool 114 is able to move up and down in the arc shown
around pivot 112. Figure 25 is functionally similar to Fig 24. It shows tool 40 from
above. The teeth on 115 and 116 permits linear side to side motion and the pivot 117
permits the distal part 113 to move in an arc sideways. Figure 26 is an end view
showing rotation around the long axis.
Example tools may include: light source, laser, ultrasound probe, hot tip, fluid jet,
delivery conduit (eg fibre, liquid polymer, plastic granules, metal granules, nutrients,
chemicals, biological material), removal conduit, scalpel, blunt probe, suturing probe,
scissors, forceps, intracellular probe, cutting disc, polishing wheel/disc, circular saw,
clamp.
Accommodating Lens
Whilst current ophthalmic intervention on the lens is predominantly to remove a
cataract and replace it with an artificial lens, an ASP preferably may have application
intervening earlier to solve the problem of lost lens elasticity associated with
presbyopia - a problem affecting a much younger age group than cataract formation.
For example: Part only of the lens may be removed and replaced (eg externally
supplied component or 3d printed in-situ). The entire lens may be removed and
replaced (the replacement preferably may be an entire lens or one provided part at
                                             21

least as components that are joined (eg fused,glued) together in situ and or 3d
printed in part at least). The new material is preferably responsive to ciliary muscle
activity. The use of nano-technology may have application here. It may be than
adaptive lens comprises a mix of biologically compatible material and micro/nano
electronic devices that are powered by tissue fluids and or nerve impulse and can be
programmed to adapt the lens shape accordingly. It may be that artificial devices are
coupled to ciliary muscle and or nerves supplying the same.
It is envisaged that machine controlled sculpting of lens material and or adjacent
structures with a fluid jet and or laser light may be able to carve appropriate niches to
facilitate coupling of any adaptive lens structure to existing anatomical structures.
                                             22

       EDITORIAL NOTE
          <removed-apn>
There are 3 pages in claims only.

Claim 1. A barrier for insertion within the lens capsule, said barrier for use in protecting
against unwanted changes to said capsule or capsule contents when directed
electromagnetic radiation, ultrasound and or computer controlled fluid flow is used within
said capsule,
wherein the barrier provides at least one of:
                      i) impedes or blocks said electromagnetic radiation,
                      ii) facilitates computer determination of boundaries.
Claim 2. The barrier of claim 1 wherein said directed electromagnetic radiation facilitates
the removal of part at least of the lens from within said capsule.
Claim 3. The barrier of claim 1 wherein said directed electromagnetic radiation facilitates
the deposition of material within said capsule.
Claim 4. The barrier of claim 3 wherein said deposition includes intraocular 3D printing.
Claim 5. The barrier of claim 1 wherein the source of said electromagnetic radiation is
external to the eye and directed through the anterior chamber.
Claim 6. The barrier of claim 1 wherein said electromagnetic radiation emerges from a
device in part at least internal to the lens capsule.
Claim 7. The barrier of claim 6 wherein said electromagnetic radiation originates from a
plurality of sources, that under computer control are directed to perform a combined effect.
Claim 8. The barrier of claim 7 wherein said combined effect is the amalgamation of a
plurality of electromagnetic radiation sources to a predetermined area to elicit synergistic
delivery of energy.
Claim 9. The barrier of claim 7 wherein said combined effect is the delivery of a first source
at a first angle and the delivery of a second source at a second angle to achieve a
synergistic effect at a particular location within the three dimensional space of the intra
capsular boundaries.
Claim 10. The barrier of claim 9 wherein at least one angle is modified by an adjustable
intraocular mirror.
Claim 11. The barrier of claim 9 wherein at least one angle is modified by an adjustable
intraocular lens.
Claim 12. The barrier of claim 9 wherein at least one angle is modified by an intraocular
motor.
Claim 13. The barrier of claim 7 wherein said synergistic effect is varied by altering the
phase relationship of plural sources of electromagnetic radiation.
Claim 14. The barrier of claim 7 wherein said combined effect uses one at least of:
         a) an adjustable intraocular mirror,
         b) an adjustable intraocular lens,
         c) an adjustable intraocular motor.
Claim 15. The barrier of claim 6 wherein said electromagnetic radiation is directed by one

at least of:
        a) an adjustable intraocular mirror,
        b) an adjustable intraocular lens,
        c) an adjustable intraocular motor.
Claim 16. The barrier of any one or more of claims 1 through 15 comprising at least one
of:
a) fluorescent material,
b) contrasting material,
to facilitate computer recognition of said boundaries.
Claim 17. The barrier of any one or more of claims 1 through 17 wherein said barrier
mitigates the effect of said electromagnetic radiation on the lens capsule.
Claim 18. The barrier of claim 17 comprising at least one of:
a) Indian ink;
b) Starch/Iodine Mix
c) Biocompatible Infra-red absorbing dye,
d) Suspension of plastic micro/nano beads,
e) Carbon Nanotubes
f) Nano-electronics
g) Fabricated barrier.
Claim 19. The barrier of claim 18 wherein said barrier is biodegradable in part at least.
Claim 20. The barrier of claim 18 wherein said fabrication includes intraocular 3D laser
printing.
Claim 21. The barrier of any one or more of claims 1 through 20 wherein said
electromagnetic radiation is laser light.
Claim 22. The barrier of any one or more of claims 1 through 21 wherein said barrier is
flowable.
Claim 23. The barrier of any one or more of claims 1 through 22 including use of a digital
imaging to monitor progress of processes within said lens capsule.
Claim 24. The barrier of claim 23 wherein said imaging includes use of an intraocular
device.
Claim 25. The barrier of any one or more of claims 16 through 24 , wherein said computer
determination influences the progress of ultrasound disruption of lens material.
Claim 26. The barrier of claim 25, wherein said ultrasound disruption is computer
controlled and said influences is feedback to said computer controlled.
Claim 27. The barrier of any one or more of claims 16 through 24, wherein said computer
determination influences the flow of fluids into and or out of the region bounded by the lens
capsule.
Claim 28. The barrier of claim 27, wherein said flow is computer controlled and said
influences is feedback to said computer controlled.

Claim 29. The barrier of any one or more of claims 1 through 28, wherein said barrier is for
use in conjunction with an instrument for use in removing lens material whilst maintaining
the integrity of the anterior part of the lens capsule.

<removed-date>
                        3a         4a      5a             6
              2a
                                                                7
<removed-apn>
               2b       3b        4b       5b             1
                                        Fig 1
                        3c    4c         5c           6a
                                                               7a
                   3d        4d          5d          1a
                                        Fig 2
                        1b                      8a
                                                               9a
                                                          8b
                                           Fig 3
                                          1/8

                        <removed-apn>        <removed-date>
                                     1c
              1d
2/8
      Fig 4
                                     8c
                   8d
                                9b

<removed-date>
                                         20           17
                               16
                                                                  18
                    19                                           23
                                                                      22
                    15                                           14
<removed-apn>
                                                                 13
                                                                      12
                   11                                                 34
                                                                 10
                                                           33
                                         Fig 5
                                                                                 41
                   19
                                                                           42
                          26        25
              18                                                                      42
                         24
                                                            25
                                              Fig 6
                                                                 28
                                                                                19b
                         19a
                                               Fig 7
                                          3/8

<removed-date>                6               15
                                                    27
                19
                                                         13
<removed-apn>
                          29
                                          32
                                Fig 8
                                     15
                           6                   27
              19a                                   13
               19b
                     31
                          30              32
                                Fig 9
                               4/8

                                             37
<removed-date>
              35
                                               38
              39
                                                            36
<removed-apn>
                                        40
                            Fig 10
                                                            37
                   35
                                                             38
                   39
                    40                                       36
                                       Fig 11
                                               35      35
                                       A                          B
                                                      41
                            41         43                             43
                            42                        42
                                         Fig 12
                   45             46
                        X
                   45                          46a
                        X
                                                46b
                            45b            X
                                        Fig 13
                                   5/8

                                            60a                                    60e
                         61          63
<removed-date>
                                                   62
                   Step 1                               Step 5
                                    64a          60b                    42    60f        64b
                   Step 2                                Step 6
                                                60c                     60g
                   Step 3                                Step 7
<removed-apn>
                                     65          60d                                     66
                                                                      60h
                   Step 4                                Step 8
                                     65a                                           66a
                                                                                             67
                                       Fig 14                Step 9
                                                                  67
                              67                  62                                               66
              61                                         65
               65                                66                                               62
                                                             61
                              Fig 15                                          Fig 16
                                                               67                                  69
                        65                       66
                   61                                                  68                               70
                                                        62
                        67                                                     Fig 18
                                   Fig 17
                                                                                   75
                              71
                               72                                                       76
                                                                              74
                                            73               Fig 19
                                                        6/8

<removed-date>
                                                                     80
                                                                      81
              A                                                            B
                                                                     82
<removed-apn>
                                  83
                                           Fig 20
                            83
                  81
                  80                                                 81
                  84                                                  80
                                                                      81
                       85                                            80
                                           Fig 21
                                                                               41
                  98         99                          98     99
                                                41
                                                                                    40
                                           40
                       Closed                                 Open
                                                Fig 22
                                 40
                                      97
              Fig 23         96
                                           7/8

                    Top
              40           112
<removed-date>
                    111      113         114
              110   Bottom
                              Fig 24
<removed-apn>
                     Side 1
              40
                                          114
              116    117           113
                     Side 2
              115
                    Fig 25
                                117
                           40
               Fig 26
                          8/8

