                             ABSTRACT
        A system for a customer initiated payment transaction
   includes a mobile device of a customer, a card of the
   customer having card information, and a merchant having
 5 merchant information and payment information. The mobile
   device is operative to process a card payment transaction
   by the steps of, the mobile device: receiving the merchant
   information and the payment information; being activated,
   for processing the card payment transaction, by the card;
10 creating a payment authorization request using the card
   information, the merchant information, and the payment
   information, and sending the payment authorization request
   to an acquirer; and receiving a result of the payment
   authorization request from the acquirer.
15

                                    5/8
                                  FIG.     5
                                                                     50
                                        40        Settlement Request
              Customer's Mobile
              phone                            a              User's Account
   Authorization                            Mobile Acquirer
                                Settlement
                                 Delegate with
                                   erchant Info
       Settlement
10
          20   Act as a Terminal of
               a Merchant
                                                     Notify
                                                            Merchant's Account
                                        30

           SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR CUSTOMER INITIATED PAYMENT
         TRANSACTION USING CUSTOMER'S MOBILE DEVICE AND CARD
                                   BY
                             Soo Hyang KANG
 5
                CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
          This application is a continuation-in-part  application
   of and claims priority to U.S. Patent Application Ser. No.
   15/605,808,    entitled "Method for Activating Multi-Function
10 Device Card", filed May 25,    2017, which claims priority to
   Korean patent application no. 10-2017-0000669 filed on
   January 3, 2017,    and U.S. Patent Application Ser. No.
   15/679,072,    entitled "System and Method for Integrated
   Management of Loyalty Points", filed August 16,    2017, which
15 is  a continuation-in-part of U.S.   Patent Application Ser.
   No.  15/665,333 filed on July 31,   2017, the disclosures of
   which are incorporated herein in their entirety by
   reference.
                         FIELD OF THE INVENTION
20        The present invention relates to a system and method
   for a customer initiated payment transaction using
   customer's mobile device and card, and, more particularly,
   to a system and method for a card payment transaction
   initiated by a customer on behalf of a merchant using the
                                    1

   customer's mobile device and card. The card may be a
   credit/debit card, a point card, a multi-function device
    (MFD) card, or a near field communication    (NFC) card, and
   the mobile device communicates with the card via near-field
 5 communication, Bluetooth    (Trademark), or the likes.
                     BACKGROUND OF THE   INVENTION
         Payment cards  (hereinafter "cards" or "card") are
   widely used by millions of people around the world to
   facilitate payments by electronic funds transfers. Payment
10 cards may be a credit card, debit card, point card, multi
   function device   (MFD) card, near field communication    (NFC)
   card, and so forth. A consumer may make a payment using his
   card to purchase a product or service from a merchant. In a
   typical case of purchase at a merchant's physical location
15 as shown in FIGS.   1 and 2, the customer has   to present his
   card at a point of sale   (POS) terminal located at the
   merchant's place of business. The card is     inserted or
   swiped through the POS terminal. Alternatively, the
   required card information may be entered or the POS
20 terminal accepts near field communication contactless
   transactions and the card information is saved in the POS
   terminal. Once the card information is     received and saved,
   the POS terminal transmits    it to the acquirer for approval
   of the transaction along with the merchant information,
                                    2

   such as a merchant code, and the transaction information,
   such as the payment amount and currency. The POS terminal
   transmits such information to the acquirer through the
   wired or wireless Internet or the standard telephone line.
 5 The acquirer communicates with the issuer as part of the
   approval process, where the issuer is the entity that
   issued the card to the consumer.
        Here, an acquirer is usually a business entity such as
   a bank that has a pre-existing business relationship with a
10 merchant. An issuer is usually a business entity such as a
   bank that issues a card to a consumer. The approval of the
   payment transaction or clearance and settlement thereof may
   involve communication between the acquirer and the issuer.
   The acquirer and/or issuer either approves or denies the
15 payment transaction, and transfers such decision back to
   the POS terminal.
        However, a customer's card information is transferred
   to a merchant's POS terminal and thus, there is a risk of
   the customer's card information being stolen. Additionally,
20 if the merchant does not have a POS terminal or the POS
   terminal does not work, the customer cannot make a payment
   using his card.
        Mobile devices such as a cellular phones, mobile
   phones, smart phones, tablet computing devices, personal
                                 3

   digital assistants  (PDAs), or the like, are becoming
   popular and being widely used as payment devices. The
   mobile device typically permits a device owner to make a
   payment for a merchant's goods or services. The mobile
 5 device may be linked to the device owner's payment account
   or the device owner's card information may be stored in the
   mobile device.
        However, if the mobile device is  stolen, the user of
   the mobile device may have access to the device owner's
10 payment account or card information and be able to make
   payments without the device owner's approval.
        A number of new payment systems have been introduced.
   Such systems typically utilize servers  or management
   systems to manage the new payment transaction processes and
15 databases. However, most systems drastically change
   existing payment transaction systems which makes it very
   expensive to implement and not practical.
        Therefore, in order to overcome these disadvantages
   and shortcomings, there is a need for a system and method
20 for a customer initiated payment transaction using a
   customer's mobile device and card. This invention is
   directed to address the above problems and satisfy a long
   felt need.
                      SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
                                  4

         The present invention contrives to solve the
   disadvantages and shortcomings of the prior art by
   providing a system and method for customer initiated
   payment transactions using a customer's mobile device and
 5 card.
         The object of the invention is to provide a system for
   a customer initiated payment transaction, which includes a
   mobile device of a customer, a card of the customer having
   card information, and a merchant having merchant
10 information and payment information. The card may be a
   credit card, debit card, point card, multi-function device
    (MFD) card, near field communication  (NFC) card, and so
   forth, and the card information may include a card number,
   an expiration date, an EMV parameter, a card name, user
15 information, card verification value, password, etc. The
   merchant information may include a merchant code assigned
   to the merchant for card transactions with an acquirer, POS
   terminal parameter, etc.,  and the payment information may
   include the payment amount for goods or services provided
20 to the customer, currency, transaction identification, etc.
         The mobile device is operative to process a card
   payment transaction by the steps of, the mobile device:
   receiving the merchant information and the payment
   information;  being activated, for processing the card
                                  5

   payment transaction, by the card;  creating a payment
   authorization request using the card information, the
   merchant information, and the payment information, and
   sending the payment authorization request to an acquirer;
 5 and receiving a result of the payment authorization request
   from the acquirer.
        Preferably, the card is  a multi-function device  (MFD)
   card or a near field communication   (NFC) card having an
   antenna for near field communication   (NFC), and the mobile
10 device includes an NFC sensor. The mobile device is
   activated for processing the card payment transaction via
   NFC between the card and the mobile device, and the mobile
   device receives the card information from the card via NFC
   between the card and the mobile device.
15      The card number or the card information is not   stored
   in the mobile device before the step of the mobile device
   being activated. Furthermore, the steps also include the
   mobile device deleting the card number or the card
   information after sending the payment authorization request
20 to the acquirer.
        The mobile device receives the merchant information or
   the payment information by:  wireless communication from the
   merchant; tapping the mobile device to an NFC tag of the
   merchant which stores the merchant information;   or typing
                                  6

   the merchant information to the mobile device. The merchant
   may generate and transmit to the mobile device quick
   response  (QR) code or bar code for the merchant information
   or the payment information.
 5      Alternatively, the system may utilize a server having
   a database which stores the merchant information. The
   mobile device may obtain geolocation data of the merchant
   using a global positioning sensor of the mobile device and
   sends the geolocation data to the server, and in response,
10 the server may search for and retrieve the merchant
   information corresponding to the geolocation data and send
   the merchant information to the mobile device.
        Another object of the invention is to provide a system
   for a customer initiated payment transaction where the
15 customer makes a payment by his  integrated loyalty points.
   The system includes a mobile device of a customer, a card
   of the customer having information on integrated loyalty
   points;  and a merchant who subscribes to accept integrated
   loyalty points as a payment method. The information on the
20 integrated loyalty points includes customer identification
   and the amount of the integrated loyalty points  owned by
   the customer.
        The mobile device is operative to process a payment
   transaction using the integrated loyalty points  of the
                                  7

   customer by the steps of, the mobile device:  receiving the
   merchant information and the payment information; being
   activated, for processing the payment transaction, by the
   card;  creating a payment authorization request using the
 5 information on the integrated loyalty points, the merchant
   information, and the payment information, and sending the
   payment authorization request to an acquirer for the
   integrated loyalty points;  and receiving a result of the
   payment authorization request from the acquirer.
10       Preferably, the information on the integrated loyalty
   points  is not stored in the mobile device before the step
   of the mobile device being activated. In addition, the
   steps further include the mobile device deleting the
   information on the integrated loyalty points after sending
15 the payment authorization request to the acquirer.
         Still another object of the invention is to provide a
   method for a customer initiated payment transaction using
   the customer's card. The method includes the steps of the
   customer's mobile device:  receiving the merchant
20 information and the payment information; being activated,
   for processing a card payment transaction, by the
   customer's card;  creating a payment authorization request
   using card information, the merchant information, and the
   payment information, and sending the payment authorization
                                  8

   request to an acquirer;  and receiving a result of the
   payment authorization request from the acquirer. The method
   further includes the step of the mobile device deleting the
   card information after sending the payment authorization
 5 request to the acquirer.
        Still another object of the invention is to provide a
   method for a customer initiated payment transaction using
   the customer's integrated loyalty points which are stored
   in the customer's card. The method includes the steps of
10 the customer's mobile device:   receiving the merchant
   information and the payment information; being activated,
   for processing the payment transaction, by the card;
   creating a payment authorization request using the
   information on the integrated loyalty points, the merchant
15 information, and the payment information, and sending the
   payment authorization request to an acquirer for the
   integrated loyalty points;  and receiving a result of the
   payment authorization request from the acquirer. The method
   further includes the step of the mobile device deleting the
20 information on the integrated loyalty points after sending
   the payment authorization request to the acquirer.
        The advantages of the present invention are:    (1) a
   customer's payment transaction is possible even with the
   merchant's POS terminal or when the POS terminal does not
                                  9

   work;   (2) sensitive customer's card information does not
   have to be transmitted to a merchant;      (3) both customer's
   mobile device and card are necessary for a payment
   transaction, and the mobile device does not store the card
 5 information, resulting in increased security;       (4) merchants
   do not have to pay expensive card processing fees and the
   payment process becomes simplified;      (5) the system of the
   present invention can get rid of the necessity of merchant
   POS terminals;    (6) various cards  such as debit/credit cards
10 or loyalty point cards    can be used as a payment method;     (7)
   the system of the present invention utilizes pre-existing
   systems   and does not drastically change such pre-existing
   systems,   and thus it is  easy to implement, effective, and
   cost-saving;   (8) the system of the present invention
15 minimizes the impact to the existing payment processes and
   infrastructures such as the Europay      (Trademark), Mastercard
    (Trademark) and Visa    (Trademark; collectively    EMV) standard;
    (9) a customer's mobile device plays the role of the
   merchant's POS terminal and thus, the customer's card
20 information does not have to be disclosed to the merchant;
    (10) under the system of the present invention, security
   has been improved because the customer needs his       card and
   mobile device to make a card payment and the mobile device
   does not store the card information except when it
                                    10

   processes a payment request;  and (11) the system of the
   present invention provides even more improved security when
   the card is an MDF or NFC card and activated by the mobile
   device because even if the card is lost or stolen, it
 5 cannot be used unless activated by the mobile device.
        Although the present invention is briefly summarized,
   the fuller understanding of the invention can be obtained
   by the following drawings, detailed description, and
   appended claims.
10               BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
        These and other features, aspects, and advantages of
   the present invention will become better understood with
   reference to the accompanying drawings, wherein:
        FIG. 1 is a schematic illustration of a conventional
15 card payment transaction;
        FIG. 2 is another schematic illustration of a
   conventional card payment transaction;
        FIG. 3 is a schematic illustration of a card payment
   transaction using customer's mobile device and card
20 according to the present invention;
        FIG. 4 is another schematic illustration of the card
   payment transaction using customer's mobile device and card
   according to the present invention;
                                 11

        FIG. 5 is still another schematic illustration of the
   card payment transaction using customer's mobile device and
   card according to the present invention;
        FIG.  6 shows communication methods between a card and
 5 a mobile device for a card payment transaction according to
   the present invention;
        FIG. 7 shows communication methods between a card and
   a merchant or its POS terminal for the card payment
   transaction according to the present invention;  and
10      FIG. 8 shows a communication between customer's mobile
   device and a card, a merchant or the merchant's POS
   terminal according to the present invention.
     DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE EMBODIMENTS OF THE INVENTION
        Reference will now be made in detail to the preferred
15 embodiments of the present invention, examples of which are
   illustrated in the accompanying drawings, which form a part
   of this disclosure. It  is to be understood that this
   invention is not  limited to the specific devices, methods,
   conditions or parameters described and/or shown herein, and
20 that the terminology used herein is for the purpose of
   describing particular embodiments by way of example only
   and is not intended to be limiting of the claimed
   invention.
                                 12

        Also, as used in the specification including the
   appended claims, the singular forms "a",   "an",  and "the"
   include the plural, and reference to a particular numerical
   value includes at least that particular value, unless the
 5 context clearly dictates otherwise. Ranges may be expressed
   herein as from "about"  or "approximately" one particular
   value and/or to "about"  or "approximately" another
   particular value. When such a range is   expressed, another
   embodiment includes from the one particular value and/or to
10 the other particular value. Similarly, when values are
   expressed as approximations by use of the word "about", it
   will be understood that the particular value forms another
   embodiment.
        FIGS.  1 and 2 illustrate a conventional payment system
15 using a merchant's point of sale   (POS) terminal 35 and a
   customer's card 10 such as a credit/debit card, a point
   card, a loyalty point card, a multi-function device     (MFD)
   card, a near field communication   (NFC) card, digital card,
   dual interface card or radio frequency   (RF) card, or the
20 likes.
        A consumer may make a payment using his card 10     to
   purchase a product or service from a merchant. The customer
   presents his  card 10 at a point of sale  (POS) terminal 35
   located at a merchant's place of business 30.    The card 10
                                 13

   is inserted or swiped through the POS terminal 35.
   Alternatively, the required card information may be entered
   or the POS terminal 35 may accept near field communication
   contactless transactions from the card 10.  The card
 5 information is then saved in the POS terminal. Once the
   card information is received and saved, the POS terminal 35
   transmits it to the acquirer 40  for approval of the
   transaction along with the merchant information, such as a
   merchant code, and the transaction information, such as the
10 payment amount and currency. The merchant code  is an
   identification assigned to the merchant for card
   transaction. The POS terminal 35  transmits such information
   to the acquirer 40 through the wired or wireless Internet
   or the standard telephone line. The acquirer 40
15 communicates with the issuer 50 as part of the approval
   process, where the issuer 50  is the entity that issued the
   card 10 to the consumer.
        Here, an acquirer 40 is usually a business entity such
   as a commercial bank that has a pre-existing business
20 relationship with a merchant and an issuer 50 is usually a
   business entity such as a bank that issues  a card 10 to a
   consumer. The approval of the payment transaction or
   clearance and settlement thereof may involve communication
   between the acquirer 40  and the issuer 50. The acquirer
                                 14

   and/or issuer either approves or denies the payment
   transaction, and transfers   such decision back to the POS
   terminal 35.
        FIGS. 3,  4 and 5 illustrate the system for a customer
 5 initiated payment system using customer's card 10 and
   mobile device 20 according to the present invention.
        The system for a customer initiated payment
   transaction includes a mobile device 20   of a customer;  a
   card 10  of the customer having card information;  and a
10 merchant having merchant information and payment
   information. The merchant information may include a
   merchant code and the merchant's POS or other terminal
   parameter, and the payment information includes a payment
   amount, currency, or transaction number that the customer
15 has to pay to purchase goods or services of the merchant.
        The mobile device 10 may be a cellular phone, mobile
   phone,  smart phone, tablet computing device, personal
   digital assistant   (PDA), or the like. Here, the mobile
   device 10 also includes the application installed therein
20 to implement the system of the present invention.
        The acquirer 40 communicates with the issuer 60 as
   part of the approval process, where the issuer 60 is    the
   entity that  issued the card 10 to the consumer. Here,   an
   acquirer 40  is usually a business entity such as a
                                  15

   commercial bank that has a pre-existing business
   relationship with a merchant and an issuer 60 is usually a
   business entity such as a bank that issues  a card 10  to a
   consumer. The approval of the payment transaction or
 5 clearance and settlement thereof may involve communication
   between the acquirer 40  and the issuer 60. The acquirer 40
   and/or issuer 60 either approves or denies the payment
   transaction, and transfers  such decision back to the mobile
   device 20. As  in FIG. 4, the system may further include a
10 payment gateway 60.
        The mobile device 20 is  operative to process a card
   payment transaction by the steps of, the mobile device 20:
   receiving the merchant information and the payment
   information;  being activated, for processing the card
15 payment transaction, by the card 10;  creating a payment
   authorization request using the card information, the
   merchant information, and the payment information, and
   sending the payment authorization request   to an acquirer  40;
   and receiving a result of the payment authorization request
20 from the acquirer 40.
        Here, the step of the mobile device 20 being activated
   includes not just activation for processing the card
   payment transaction but also authorization to use the card
   by the mobile device. Such activation, including
                                 16

   authorization, may be accomplished in different ways: NFC
   or Bluetooth   (Trademark) communication between the card and
   the mobile device, typing the card information into the
   mobile device 20,   etc. Such activation may additionally
 5 include typing password or matching finger print or the
   likes.
         Additionally, the step of the mobile device 20 being
   activated may be performed before the step of the mobile
   device 20  receiving the merchant information and the
10 payment information.
         The result of the payment authorization request may be
   approval or denial of the card payment, and such result is
   transmitted and displayed on the mobile device.
         FIG. 6 shows the communication between the customer's
15 card 10  and the customer's mobile device 20.   Such
   communication is preferably by Bluetooth    (Trademark) or
   near field communication. Or, the card information may be
   typed in the mobile device 20.
         Preferably, the card 10 may be a multi-function device
20  (MFD) card or a near field communication   (NFC) card having
   an antenna for near field communication    (NFC), and the
   mobile device 20 may include an NFC sensor. The NFC card
   may have dual interface or may be a contactless card. The
   mobile device 20 may be activated for processing the card
                                  17

   payment transaction via NFC between the card 10  and the
   mobile device 20, and the mobile device 20 may receive the
   card information from the card 10 via NFC between the card
   and the mobile device. In other words, by tapping the card
 5 10 to the mobile device 20, the mobile device 20  is
   activated for processing a card payment transaction and
   receives the card information.
        The card 10 may be the MFD card which stores
   information on a plurality of different cards, and the
10 customer may select a card to be used for the card payment
   transaction from the list of the plurality of different
   cards using the MFD card. Alternatively, the card 10 may be
   the MFD card which stores information on a plurality of
   different cards, and the customer may select a card to be
15 used for the card payment transaction from a list of the
   plurality of different cards using the mobile device. In
   other words, an MFD card can store a number of debit/credit
   cards and/or point cards together and a user can select
   which card to be used as a payment means. The MFD card may
20 have a display such that the user can select a card from
   the list of cards displayed on the MFD card. Alternatively,
   such list may be transferred to the mobile device 20  and
   displayed on the screen of the mobile device 20  so that the
   user can select a card from the list.
                                18

         The steps may further include the step of activating
   the card 10  such as the MFD card or NFC card via NFC or
   Bluetooth Light Energy   (BLE) communication between the
   mobile device 20   and the  card 10.  For the BLE communication,
 5 the card 10 may have a BLE chip and the mobile device 20
   may have a BLE antenna. Upon activation, the card can be
   used for payment transactions. U.S. Patent Application Ser.
   No.  15/605,808, entitled "Method for Activating Multi
   Function Device Card", discloses method for activating the
10 MFD card using the mobile device, the disclosure of which
   is  incorporated herein in its entirety by reference.
         The step of activating the card 10 may be performed
   before the step of the mobile device 20    receiving the
   merchant information and the payment information.
15       The method for activating an MFD card 10 by a mobile
   device 20  includes:  switching on an NFC chip of the mobile
   device 20  to enable the mobile device 20 to wirelessly
   connect to the MFD card 10 via an NFC network;    searching
   with the mobile device 20 in the NFC network for the MFD
20 card 10 within a communicable range of the mobile device 20
   by transmitting NFC signal    from the mobile device 20  to the
   MFD card 10 to enable electromagnetic induction in an NFC
   antenna of the MFD card 10;    launching on the mobile device
   20  a preloaded application for initiating MFD card
                                   19

   activation if the MFD card 10 is discovered via the NFC
   network;  connecting the mobile device 20 to the MFD card 10
   by a wireless personal area network    (WPAN) using a WPAN
   antenna and WPAN chip of the MFD card 10 upon launching the
 5 preloaded application for initiating MFD card activation on
   the mobile device 20;   mutually authenticating the MFD card
   10  and the mobile device 20  through the WPAN by a
   predetermined method by the application;    and when the MFD
   card 10  is authenticated, completing activation of the MFD
10 card 10  for use. Preferably, the WPAN connection is a
   Bluetooth Low Energy   (BLE) connection enabled by a BLE
   antenna and a BLE chip of the MFD card 10 and corresponding
   BLE antenna and BLE chip of the mobile device 20.    Since the
   card 10  is activated by the mobile device 20,   even if it is
15 lost, it cannot be used for payment transactions without
   the mobile device 20.
         The step of the mobile device 20 being activated
   includes transferring a chip serial number or a card serial
   number of the card 10   from the card 10 to the mobile device
20 20,  and the mobile device 20  is activated for processing
   the card payment transaction if or only if the transferred
   chip serial number or the transferred card serial number
   matches the chip serial number or the card serial number
   stored in the mobile device 20.
                                  20

        The steps may further include a step of the mobile
   device receiving the card information. The card information
   may be received via NFC or Bluetooth communication or typed
   into the mobile device 20.
 5      For security reasons, the card number or the card
   information is not stored in the mobile device 20 before
   the step of the mobile device 20 being activated.
   Furthermore, the steps further include the step of the
   mobile device 20 deleting the card information after
10 sending the payment authorization request to the acquirer
   40.
        The steps may further include the step of the mobile
   device 20 creating and sending a clearance and settlement
   request to the acquirer 40.  In other words, the mobile
15 device 20 sends two requests:  the payment authorization
   request and the clearance and settlement request. By these
   two separate requests, customers can have better control
   over the merchant's production of the goods or services.
        FIG. 7 illustrates the communication between the
20 mobile device 20  and the merchant  30 or its POS  terminal 35.
        The mobile device 20 may receive the merchant
   information from the merchant by:  wireless communication
   from the merchant;  tapping the mobile device 20  to an NFC
   tag or RFID tag of the merchant which stores the merchant
                                 21

   information;  or typing the merchant information to the
   mobile device 20 either by the customer or the merchant.
   Additionally, SMS, beacon, infrared communication may be
   used. Alternatively, the merchant may use QR code or bar
 5 code to store and transmit the merchant information.
        In the alternative embodiment, the system may further
   comprise a server having a database which stores the
   merchant information. The mobile device 20 may obtain
   geolocation data of the merchant using a global positioning
10 sensor  (GPS) of the mobile device 20 and sends the
   geolocation data to the server, and in response, the server
   searches for and retrieves the merchant information
   corresponding to the geolocation data and sends the
   merchant information back to the mobile device 20.
15      In one embodiment, the system may utilize a
   proprietary portal database to retrieve the merchant
   information. The customer can retrieve detailed merchant
   information using the proprietary system, using for example
   GPS location of the merchant's place of business. The
20 database may be updated from information gathered from
   participant users. The mobile device 20 may send the GPS
   location of the merchant and receive the merchant
   information from the proprietary merchant information
   provision system, or the mobile device 20 may send the GPS
                                 22

   location or the merchant ID to the proprietary merchant
   information provision system and the proprietary merchant
   information provision system may send the merchant
   information back to the mobile device 20.
 5      Besides,  the mobile device 20 may receive the payment
   information from the merchant by:    wireless communication
   from the merchant;   tapping the mobile device to an NFC tag
   or RFID tag of the merchant which stores the payment
   information;  or typing the payment information to the
10 mobile device 20 either by the customer or the merchant.
   Additionally, SMS, beacon, infrared communication may be
   used. Alternatively, the merchant may use QR code or bar
   code to store and transmit the payment information.
        The steps may further include a step of the acquirer
15 40 sending the result of the payment authorization request
   to the merchant via short message service      (SMS),  email,
   push message to the merchant terminal, etc.
        As  shown in FIG.  8, the mobile device 20 communicates
   with the card 10,  the merchant 30,   or the merchant's POS
20 terminal,  and plays  the  role  of customer's   own  POS terminal.
        FIGS. 3,  4 and 5 illustrate the system for a customer
   initiated payment system using customer's card 10 and
   mobile device 20 according to the present invention. The
   card 10 may be debit/credit card, but it can be point card
                                   23

   as well. U.S. Patent Application Ser. No.  15/679,072,
   entitled "System and Method for Integrated Management of
   Loyalty Points", discloses a method to convert non
   integrated loyalty points to integrated loyalty points, the
 5 disclosure of which is incorporated herein in its entirety
   by reference.
        The system for a customer initiated payment
   transaction according to the present invention includes: a
   mobile device 20 of a customer;  a card 10 of the customer
10 having information on integrated loyalty points;  and a
   merchant who subscribes to accept integrated loyalty points
   as a payment method. The merchant has merchant information
   and payment information, and the information on the
   integrated loyalty points includes customer identification
15 and the amount of the integrated loyalty points  owned by
   the customer. The merchant information includes a merchant
   code and the payment information includes a payment amount.
        The mobile device 20 is  operative to process a payment
   transaction using the integrated loyalty points  of the
20 customer by the steps of, the mobile device 20:  receiving
   the merchant information and the payment information, for
   instance, from the merchant; being activated, for
   processing the payment transaction, by the card 10;
   creating a payment authorization request using the
                                 24

   information on the integrated loyalty points, the merchant
   information, and the payment information, and sending the
   payment authorization request to an acquirer 40   for the
   integrated loyalty points;  and receiving a result of the
 5 payment authorization request from the acquirer 40.
         The system may further include an integrated
   management server for managing the integrated loyalty
   points.
         Preferably, the card 10 may be a multi-function device
10  (MFD) card or a near field communication  (NFC) card having
   an antenna for near field communication   (NFC), and the
   mobile device 20 may include an NFC sensor. The mobile
   device 20 may be activated for processing the payment
   transaction via NFC between the card 10 and the mobile
15 device 20,  and the mobile device 20 may receive the
   information on the integrated loyalty points from the card
   10 via NFC between the card 10 and the mobile device 20.
         For better security, the information on the integrated
   loyalty points may not be stored in the mobile device 20
20 before the step of the mobile device 20 being activated. In
   addition, the steps may further include the step of the
   mobile device 20 deleting the information on the integrated
   loyalty points after sending the payment authorization
   request to the acquirer 40.
                                 25

        The mobile device 20 may receive the merchant
   information and/or the payment information from the
   merchant by: wireless communication from the merchant;
   tapping the mobile device 20  to an NFC tag of the merchant
 5 which stores the merchant information;  or typing the
   merchant information to the mobile device 20  either by the
   customer or the merchant. Additionally, SMS, beacon,
   infrared communication may be used. Alternatively, the
   merchant may use QR code or bar code to store and transmit
10 the merchant or payment information.
        The steps may further include a step of the acquirer
   40 sending the result of the payment authorization request
   to the merchant via SMS,  email, push message to the
   merchant terminal, etc.
15      In still another embodiment, a method for a customer
   initiated payment transaction using the customer's card 10
   is disclosed. The method includes the steps of customer's
   mobile device 20: receiving the merchant information and
   the payment information, for instance, from the merchant;
20 being activated, for processing a card payment transaction,
   by customer's card 10;  creating a payment authorization
   request using card information, the merchant information,
   and the payment information, and sending the payment
   authorization request to an acquirer 40;  and receiving a
                                 26

   result of the payment authorization request from the
   acquirer 40. The method further includes the step of the
   mobile device deleting the card information after sending
   the payment authorization request to the acquirer 40.
 5      In still another embodiment, a method for a customer
   initiated payment transaction using the customer's
   integrated loyalty points, which are stored in the
   customer's card 10, is disclosed. The method includes the
   steps of the customer's mobile device 20: receiving the
10 merchant information and the payment information, for
   instance, from the merchant; being activated, for
   processing the payment transaction, by the customer's card
   10; creating a payment authorization request using the
   information on the integrated loyalty points, the merchant
15 information, and the payment information, and sending the
   payment authorization request to an acquirer 40 for the
   integrated loyalty points; and receiving a result of the
   payment authorization request from the acquirer 40.  The
   method further includes the step of the mobile device 20
20 deleting the information on the integrated loyalty points
   after sending the payment authorization request to the
   acquirer 40.
        Under the typical purchase situations using the system
   of the present invention, a customer enters a merchant's
                                27

   place of business and purchases goods or services of the
   merchant. The customer's mobile device 20 receives the
   merchant information and the payment information. The
   customer may activate his MFD card or NFC card 10 via BLE
 5 or NFC by tapping it to his mobile device 20,          and then the
   customer may select one of the stored payment methods
   credit/debit       cards or  (integrated    or non-integrated loyalty)
   point      cards -  from the  screen of the mobile device 20.      Then,
   the mobile device 20 creates and sends a payment
10 authorization request to an acquirer, and then the acquirer
   sends the authorization result back to the mobile device 20
   and the merchant.
            The system of the present invention may be
   additionally used for escrow situations. The customer may
15 separate the payment process into two:          sending a payment
   authorization request to an acquirer and sending a
   clearance and settlement request to an acquirer. Between
   the two steps, the customer can monitor and make sure
   whether the merchant fulfills certain requirements or
20 obligations.
            While the invention has been shown and described with
   reference to different embodiments thereof, it will be
   appreciated by those skilled in the art that variations in
   form, detail, compositions and operation may be made
                                            28

without departing from the spirit and scope of the
invention as defined by the accompanying claims.
                             29

What is  claimed is:
1.   A  system for a customer initiated payment transaction,
comprising:
     a mobile device of a customer;
     a card of the customer having card information;   and
     a merchant having merchant information and payment
information,
wherein the merchant information includes a merchant code and
the payment information includes a payment amount,
wherein the mobile device is  operative to process a card payment
transaction by the steps of, the mobile device:
     receiving the merchant information and the payment
information;
     being activated, for processing the card payment
transaction, by the card;
     creating a payment authorization request using the card
information, the merchant information, and the payment
information, and sending the payment authorization request to an
acquirer;  and
     receiving a result of the payment authorization request
from the acquirer.
2.   The system of claim 1, wherein the card is  a multi-function
device  (MFD) card or a near field communication  (NFC) card
                                 30

having an antenna for near field communication  (NFC), and the
mobile device includes an NFC sensor, and
wherein the mobile device is activated for processing the card
payment transaction via NFC between the card and the mobile
device, and wherein the mobile device receives the card
information from the card via NFC between the card and the
mobile device.
3.   The system of claim 2, wherein the card is  the MFD card
which stores information on a plurality of different cards, and
the customer can select a card to be used for the card payment
transaction from a list of the plurality of different cards
using the MFD card.
4.   The system of claim 2, wherein the card is  the MFD card
which stores information on a plurality of different cards, and
the customer can select a card to be used for the card payment
transaction from a list of the plurality of different cards
using the mobile device.
5.   The system of claim 2, wherein the steps further include
activating the card via NFC or Bluetooth Light Energy  (BLE)
communication between the mobile device and the card.
                                31

6.   The system of claim 1, wherein the step of the mobile
device being activated includes transferring a chip serial
number or a card serial number of the card from the card to the
mobile device, and wherein the mobile device is activated for
processing the card payment transaction if the transferred chip
serial number or the transferred card serial number matches the
chip serial number or the card serial number stored in the
mobile device.
7.   The system of claim 1, wherein the steps further include a
step of the mobile device receiving the card information.
8.   The system of claim 1, wherein the card information
includes a card number and the card number is not stored in the
mobile device before the step of the mobile device being
activated.
9.   The system of claim 8, wherein the steps further include
the mobile device deleting the card information after sending
the payment authorization request to the acquirer.
10.  The system of claim 1, wherein the steps further include
creating and sending a clearance and settlement request to the
acquirer.
                                32

11.  The system of claim 1, wherein the mobile device receives
the merchant information by:
     wireless communication from the merchant;
     tapping the mobile device to an NFC tag or an RFID tag of
the merchant which stores the merchant information;  or
     typing the merchant information to the mobile device.
12.  The system of claim 1,  further comprising a server having a
database which stores the merchant information, and
wherein the mobile device obtains geolocation data of the
merchant using a global positioning sensor of the mobile device
and sends the geolocation data to the server, and in response,
the server searches for and retrieves the merchant information
corresponding to the geolocation data and sends the merchant
information to the mobile device.
13.  The system of claim 1, wherein the mobile device receives
the payment information by:
     wireless communication from the merchant;
     tapping the mobile device to an NFC tag or an RFID tag of
the merchant which stores the payment information;  or
     typing the payment information to the mobile device.
                                 33

14.  The system of claim 1, wherein the steps further include a
step of the acquirer sending the result of the payment
authorization request to the merchant.
15.  A system for a customer initiated payment transaction,
comprising:
     a mobile device of a customer;
     a card of the customer having information on integrated
loyalty points; and
     a merchant who subscribes to accept integrated loyalty
points as a payment method wherein the merchant has merchant
information and payment information,
wherein the information on the integrated loyalty points
includes customer identification and the amount of the
integrated loyalty points owned by the customer,
wherein the merchant information includes a merchant code and
the payment information includes a payment amount,
wherein the mobile device is operative to process a payment
transaction using the integrated loyalty points  of the customer
by the steps of, the mobile device:
     receiving the merchant information and the payment
information;
     being activated, for processing the payment transaction, by
the card;
                                34

     creating a payment authorization request using the
information on the integrated loyalty points, the merchant
information, and the payment information, and sending the
payment authorization request to an acquirer for the integrated
loyalty points; and
     receiving a result of the payment authorization request
from the acquirer.
16.  The system of claim 15,  wherein the card is  a multi
function device  (MFD) card or a near field communication    (NFC)
card having an antenna for near field communication    (NFC),  and
the mobile device includes an NFC sensor, and
wherein the mobile device is  activated for processing the
payment transaction via NFC between the card and the mobile
device, and wherein the mobile device receives the information
on the integrated loyalty points   from the card via NFC between
the card and the mobile device.
17.  The system of claim 15,  wherein the information on the
integrated loyalty points is  not stored in the mobile device
before the step of the mobile device being activated.
18.  The system of claim 17,  wherein the steps  further include
the mobile device deleting the information on the integrated
                                 35

loyalty points after sending the payment authorization request
to the acquirer.
19.  The system of claim 15, wherein the mobile device receives
the merchant information and the payment information by:
     wireless communication from the merchant;
     tapping the mobile device to an NFC tag or an RFID tag of
the merchant which stores the merchant information; or
     typing the merchant information to the mobile device.
20.  The system of claim 15, wherein the steps further include a
step of the acquirer sending the result of the payment
authorization request to the merchant.
                                36

