                                                                               Ref: 5264AU199
             Interchangeable optical component for Linear Lighting
ABSTRACT
[001]      A modular linear lighting system for functioning with a plurality of fixed length
linear lights is provided. The modular linear lighting system includes an interchangeable
optical component comprising a bracket with a recessed circular void, a resiliently flexible
element and a recessed collimating optic. The recessed collimating optic is configured to
minimize glare. The resiliently flexible element is a thin walled substantially circular
protruding element and the diameter of its circular cross-section increases near the midpoint
of the elements length. The modular linear lighting system also includes a luminaire
comprising a bracket mounting hole configured to mechanically couple to the bracket, a light
source housing with a planar surface, and a light source.
                                             Dcaa 1

  o   oc o
  - 0 0  - - 0
(

                                                                                    Ref: 5264AU199
                   Interchangeable optical component for Linear Lighting
FIELD OF TECHNOLOGY
[001]       This disclosure relates generally to linear lighting systems, and more particularly to
an interchangeable low glare optical component configured to function with a plurality of
fixed length linear lights.
BACKGROUND
[002]       Typically, linear lighting systems use non-directional diffuse optics that results in
high glare which may cause discomfort, and in some cases temporary visual impairment to
the viewer. This effect is often intensified as the optical component is typically flush with the
front face of the luminaire and therefore visible from any position within the space.
Furthermore, the non-directional optics are both inefficient as an optical system, in
transferring the emitted rays from a light source to a luminaires usable light output; and in
context, whereby lack of directionality results in illumination of areas or surfaces that is
undesirable and inefficient.
[003]       To overcome the above mentioned problem, in existing systems, the reduction of
glare is achieved through an architecture or building design rather than at a product level,
whereby a non-directional linear light is recessed or installed in such a way to indirectly
illuminate a surface. Both the referred means require a specialist to design, build and install
linear lights, thereby increasing the overall cost of the system and reducing modularity of the
space (i.e features of the space are fixed and must be considered for any future changes). As
the recess of a non-directional light is increased (to lower glare), the efficiency of the system
decreases, requiring more lights and consequently increasing the cost of design, build,
installation and operation of the building. As a result, a system is needed that solves problems
with low efficiency, high glare, non-directional optics used in linear lighting.
[004]       In addition, the current linear lighting solutions have a fixed standard optic
whereby light characteristics cannot be modified to meet the requirements of the installation
environment. Therefore, an optical system is needed that can be modified in-situ after
installation with minimal effort to meet both initial spaces requirements and any changes to
                                               Page 1

                                                                                    Ref: 5264AU199
requirements over the lifetime of the product. Moreover, the existing linear lights are not
capable as of modifying the light output at a product level following installation.
SUMMARY
[005]      In order to solve at least some of the above mentioned problems, a system is
needed that solves problems of low efficiency, high glare, non-directional optics used in
linear lighting. Furthermore, a system is needed that solves the inability to change linear
optical systems to meet space requirements both at the time of the initial install and as the
environment changes over the lifetime of the product. Moreover, a system with directional
optics that can compensate for the recess with modification of the beam characteristics is
needed.
[0061      This summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in simple manners
that are further described in the detailed description of the disclosure. This summary is not
intended to identify key or essential inventive concepts of the subject matter nor is it intended
to determine the scope of the disclosure
[0071      Briefly, according to an exemplary embodiment, a modular linear lighting system
for functioning with a plurality of fixed length linear lights is provided.
[0081      The modular linear lighting system includes an interchangeable optical component
comprising a bracket with a recessed circular void, a resiliently flexible element and a
recessed collimating optic. The recessed collimating optic is configured to minimize glare.
The resiliently flexible element is a thin walled substantially circular protruding element and
the diameter of its circular cross-section increases near the midpoint of the elements length.
The modular linear lighting system also includes a luminaire comprising a bracket mounting
hole configured to mechanically couple to the bracket, a light source housing with a planar
surface, and a light source.
[009]      The summary above is illustrative only and is not intended to be in any way
limiting. Further aspects, exemplary embodiments, and features will become apparent by
reference to the drawings and the following detailed description.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE FIGURES
                                              Page 2

                                                                                   Ref: 5264AU199
[0010]      These and other features, aspects, and advantages of the exemplary embodiments
can be better understood when the following detailed description is read with reference to the
accompanying drawings in which like characters represent like parts throughout the
drawings, wherein:
[0011]      FIG. 1 illustrates a linear lighting system comprising a luminaire and an
interchangeable optical component according to an embodiment of the present disclosure;
and
[0012]      FIG. 2 illustrates several views of luminaire and bracket used in a several linear
lighting systems, according to an embodiment of the present disclosure.
[0013]      Further, skilled artisans will appreciate that elements in the figures are illustrated
for simplicity and may not have necessarily been drawn to scale. Furthermore, in terms of the
construction of the device, one or more components of the device may have been represented
in the figures by conventional symbols, and the figures may show only those specific details
that are pertinent to understanding the embodiments of the present invention so as not to
obscure the figures with details that will be readily apparent to those of ordinary skill in the
art having the benefit of the description herein.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION
[0014]      For the purpose of promoting an understanding of the principles of the invention,
reference will now be made to the embodiments illustrated in the figures and specific
language will be used to describe the same. It will nevertheless be understood that no
limitation of the scope of the invention is thereby intended, such alterations and further
modifications in the illustrated system, and such further applications of the principles of the
invention as illustrated therein being contemplated as would normally occur to one skilled in
the art to which the invention relates.
[0015]      It will be understood by those skilled in the art that the foregoing general
description and the following detailed description are exemplary and explanatory of the
invention and are not intended to be restrictive thereof.
[0016]      The terms "comprises", "comprising", or any other variations thereof, are intended
to cover a non-exclusive inclusion, such that a process or method that comprises a list of
                                               Page 3

                                                                                   Ref: 5264AU199
steps does not comprise only those steps but may comprise other steps not expressly listed or
inherent to such process or method. Similarly, one or more devices or sub-systems or
elements or structures or components proceeded by "comprises... a" does not, without more
constraints, preclude the existence of other devices or other sub-systems or other elements or
other structures or other components or additional devices or additional sub-systems or
additional elements or additional structures or additional components. Appearances of the
phrase "in an embodiment", "in another embodiment" and similar language throughout this
specification may, but do not necessarily, all refer to the same embodiment.
[0017]     At    least  one   exemplary     embodiment     is generally  directed   towards    an
interchangeable low glare optical component comprising a bracket reversibly coupled to a
light source housing of a luminaire and designed to function with a plurality of fixed length
linear lights. In one embodiment, the optical component comprising a bracket is designed to
provide low glare directional light in a linear lighting application and to enable the light
characteristics to be modified during or following installation of the luminaire to meet the
requirements of the space over the lifetime of the product. The former is achieved by
recessing collimating optics within the product housing and the use of a low glare material on
recessed surfaces. The latter is achieved via the interchangeable bracket assembly which
allows the user to easily change to beam characteristics of the luminaire after installation.
[0018]     Unless otherwise defined, all technical and scientific terms used herein have the
same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which this
invention belongs. The system, methods, and examples provided herein are illustrative only
and not intended to be limiting.
[0019]      In addition to the illustrative aspects, exemplary embodiments, and features
described above, further aspects, exemplary embodiments of the present disclosure will
become apparent by reference to the drawings and the following detailed description
[0020]      FIG. 1 illustrates a linear lighting system 100 comprising a luminaire 102 and an
interchangeable    optical component 104 according to an embodiment of the present
disclosure. In particular, the luminaire 102 includes a light source housing 106, a light source
108, a bracket mounting hole 110. The optical component 104 includes a bracket 112, a
collimating optic 114, a resiliently flexible element 116 and an edge 118 for removal.
                                                Page 4

                                                                                  Ref: 5264AU199
[0021]      Referring to FIG. 1, the system 100 illustrates a modular luminaire 102 and the
optical component 104. The luminaire 102 may be used in numerous applications such as
recessed, surface mounted, track mounted lights and the like. The system 100 includes optical
components which may be mechanically coupled to the bracket 112. The luminaire 102
includes the light source housing 106 with a planar surface and the light source 108.
[0022]      In one embodiment, the optical component 104 includes a low glare optical
bracket. The low glare optical component 104 is configured to prevent discomfort, and in
some cases temporary visual impairment to the viewer. In one embodiment, the optical
component 104 comprises the bracket 112 with a recessed circular void and the resiliently
flexible element 116.
[0023]      The bracket 112 is reversibly coupled to the light source housing 106 such that the
bracket 112 can be removed after installation to change the optics and substantially modify
beam characteristics over the lifetime of the system 100. For example, the optical component
104 can be changed for modifying the beam characteristics. The beam characteristics include
the beam angle such that it is wider or narrower. Further, the beam characteristics include the
beam direction such that it is asymmetrical on one axis. In addition, the beam characteristics
include the beam chromaticity or output consistency such that output or colour aberrations
are minimized.
[0024]      In the preferred embodiment the bracket's (112) resiliently flexible element 116 is
a thin walled substantially circular protruding element. The diameter of its circular cross
section increases near the midpoint of the elements length. The outer surface has voids such
that the remaining wall section can pass through a hole in the light source housing 106 that is
smaller than the maximum diameter of the element. The assembled position of bracket 112 is
such that the maximum diameter of the flexible element 116 has passed through the bracket
mounting hole 110 in the light source housing 106, retaining the bracket 112.
[0025]      In the preferred embodiment at least one of the walls in the recessed cavity of the
bracket 112 includes a void to provide an edge (as shown by reference numeral 118 for
removal) for an user to grip the bracket 112 with two fingers or a tool such as a screwdriver
to remove the assembled bracket 112 from the light source housing 106 for changing the
beam characteristics of the luminaire 102, for example.
                                             Page 5

                                                                                    Ref: 5264AU199
[0026]      The system 100 as disclosed in the present disclosure provides an interchangeable
optical component 104 comprising a low glare optical bracket 112 for use in linear lighting.
Current optical systems use non-directional diffuse optics causing high glare which may
cause discomfort, and in some cases temporary visual impairment to the viewer. This effect is
often intensified as the optical component is typically flush with the front face of the
luminaire and visible from any position within the space.
[0027]      Non-directional optics are both inefficient as an optical system, in transferring the
emitted rays from a light source to a luminaires usable light output, and in context whereby
lack of directionality results in illumination of areas or surfaces that is undesirable and
inefficient. The system 100 as disclosed in the present disclosure minimizes glare via a
recessed collimating optic 114 that may be interchanged to prevent light spill (undesirable
illumination of areas). In one embodiment, the system 100 introduces the ability to change
linear optical systems to meet space requirements both at the time of the initial install and as
the environment changes over the lifetime of the product thereby increasing the longevity of
the product.
[0028]      The bracket 112 may include any number of collimating optics 114 or flexible
members (116). The collimating optics 114 may be a linear lens i.e. not circular in cross
section. The flexible member (116) may be any type of reversible snap-fit and or may be
constructed of spring steel or plastic.
[0029]      FIG. 2 illustrates several views of luminaire and bracket used in a several linear
lighting systems, according to an embodiment of the present disclosure. Referring to FIG. 2, a
luminaire isometric view 202, a luminaire section view 204, a luminaire section view 206, a
luminaire-bracket exploded view 208, a bracket exploded view 210 and bracket elevations
212 are shown.
[0030]      The interchangeable optical component as shown in FIG. 2 includes a bracket with
a recessed circular void and a resiliently flexible element. The resiliently flexible element is a
thin walled substantially circular protruding element and the diameter of its circular cross
section increases near the midpoint of the elements length. At least one of the walls in the
recessed circular void of the bracket comprises a void configured to provide an edge for a
user to grip the bracket with two fingers or a tool such as a screwdriver to remove the
                                              Page 6

                                                                                 Ref: 5264AU199
assembled bracket from the light source housing to change the beam characteristics of the
luminaire.
[0031]      In the preferred embodiment the bracket's resiliently flexible element is a thin
walled substantially circular protruding element. The diameter of its circular cross-section
increases near the midpoint of the elements length. The outer surface has voids such that the
remaining wall section can pass through a hole in the light source housing that is smaller than
the maximum diameter of the element. The assembled position of bracket is such that the
maximum diameter of the flexible element has passed through the hole in the light source
housing, retaining the bracket.
[0032]      The optical bracket is configured to provide low glare directional light in linear
lighting systems and enable the light characteristics to be modified during or following
installation to meet the requirements of the space over the lifetime of the linear lighting
systems.
[0033]      The luminaire as shown in FIG. 2 includes an optical components mechanically
coupled to the bracket, a light source housing with a planar surface, and a light source. The
luminaire and the interchangeable optical component are used in modular linear lighting
system for functioning with a plurality of fixed length linear lights.
[0034]      The bracket is reversibly coupled to the light source housing such that the bracket
is removed after installation to change the optics and to modify beam characteristics over the
lifetime of the system. In one example, the optics are changed to modify the following beam
characteristics: the beam angle such that it is wider or narrower; the beam direction such that
it is asymmetrical on one axis; and the beam chromaticity or output consistency such that
output or color aberrations are minimized.
[0035]      While specific language has been used to describe the disclosure, any limitations
arising on account of the same are not intended. As would be apparent to a person skilled in
the art, various working modifications may be made to the method in order to implement the
inventive concept as taught herein. The figures and the foregoing description give examples
of embodiments. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that one or more of the described
elements may well be combined into a single functional element. Alternatively, certain
elements may be split into multiple functional elements. Elements from one embodiment may
be added to another embodiment. For example, orders of processes described herein may be
                                              Page 7

                                                                                Ref: 5264AU199
changed and are not limited to the manner described herein. Moreover, the actions of any
flow diagram need not be implemented in the order shown; nor do all of the acts necessarily
need to be performed. Also, those acts that are not dependent on other acts may be performed
in parallel with the other acts. The scope of embodiments is by no means limited by these
specific examples. Numerous variations, whether explicitly given in the specification or not,
such as differences in structure, dimension, and use of material, are possible. The scope of
embodiments is at least as broad as given by the following claims.
                                            Page 8

       Ref: 5264AU199
Page 9

                                             5264AU199
Claims:
1.        A modular linear lighting system for functioning with a plurality of fixed length
linear lights, the system comprises:
          an interchangeable optical component comprising:
                 a bracket with a recessed circular void;
                 a resiliently flexible element; wherein the resiliently flexible element is a thin
                 walled substantially circular protruding element and the diameter of its
                 circular cross-section increases near the midpoint of the elements length; and
                 a recessed collimating optic; wherein the recessed collimating optic is
                 configured to minimize glare; and
          a luminaire comprising:
                 a bracket mounting hole configured to mechanically couple to the bracket;
                 a light source housing with a planar surface, and
                 a light source.
2.        The system of claim 1, wherein at least one of the walls in the recessed circular void
of the bracket comprises a void configured to provide an edge for a user to grip the bracket
with two fingers or a tool such as a screwdriver to remove the assembled bracket from the
light source housing to change the beam characteristics of the luminaire.
3.        The system of claim 1, wherein the bracket is reversibly coupled to the light source
housing such that the bracket is removed after installation to change the optics and to modify
beam characteristics over the lifetime of the system.
4.        The system of claim 3, wherein the optics are changed to modify the following beam
characteristics:
                 the beam angle such that it is wider or narrower;
                 the beam direction such that it is asymmetrical on one axis; and
                 the beam chromaticity or output consistency such that output or color
                 aberrations are minimized.
5.        The system of claim 1, wherein the optical component is configured to:
                 provide low glare directional light in linear lighting systems; and
                                                Dcaa 1

                            5264AU199
enable the light characteristics to be modified during or following installation
to meet the requirements of the space over the lifetime of the linear lighting
systems.

            <removed-apn>  <removed-date>
 102          116
106
108
110
112
104
                    118
     Fig. 1

            <removed-apn> <removed-date>
        204                     206
                        212
210
 Fig. 2

