                                        ABSTRACT
        Mice, tissues, cells, and genetic material are provided that comprise a
humanized heavy chain immunoglobulin locus, a humanized light chain locus that
expresses a universal light chain, and a gene encoding an ADAM6 or ortholog or
homolog or functional fragment thereof. Mice are provided that express humanized
heavy chains comprising human variable domains, and that express humanized light
chains comprising human variable domains wherein the light chains are derived from no
more than one, or no more than two, light chain V and J or rearranged VIJ sequences.
Fertile male mice that express antibodies with universal light chains and humanized
heavy chains are provided. Methods and compositions for making bispecific binding
proteins are provided.

                        HUMANIZED UNIVERSAL LIGHT CHAIN MICE
                                   RELATED APPLICATIONS
[0001]       This application is a divisional of Australian Patent Application No. 2015255276,
in turn a divisional of Australian Patent Application No. 2012294624, the entire contents of
which are herein incorporated by reference.
                                     FIELD OF INVENTION
[0001A]      Genetically modified mice, cells, embryos, tissues, and isolated nucleic acids
for making antibodies and sequences encoding human immunoglobulin heavy chain
variable domains, including bispecific antibodies, and including bispecific antibodies that
comprise universal light chains. Compositions and methods include genetically modified
mice with germline replacements at the endogenous mouse heavy chain variable locus,
which comprise modified light chain loci that express light chains derived from no more than
one or two different light chain V gene segments, wherein the mice are further genetically
modified in their germline such that male mice bearing these modifications are fertile.
Genetically modified mice that express universal light chains and humanized heavy chain
variable domains are provided, wherein the mice comprise an ADAM6 activity that is
functional in a male mouse.
                                         BACKGROUND
[0002]       The development of antibodies for use as human therapeutics has a long and
complex history. One significant advance has been the ability to make essentially fully
human antibody sequences to use in designing effective human therapeutics with reduced
potential for immunogenicity. Mice now exist that are modified in their germline to generate
human antibody sequences derived from unrearranged gene segments (heavy and light)
either as transgenes or as replacements at endogenous mouse immunoglobulin loci.
Replacement of mouse variable sequences with human variable sequences at endogenous
loci in mice, as with VELOCIMMUNE@ humanized mice, allow for the mouse immune
system to function essentially normally. As a result, exposing these mice to an antigen of
choice generates a marvelously diverse, rich population of clonally selected B cells that
express high affinity somatically mutated human variable domains that can be used in
making fully human antibodies directed against the antigen of choice.
[0003]       Human variable domains made in humanized mice can be used to design fully
human bispecific antibodies, i.e., binding proteins that are heterodimers of heavy chains,
where the identities and binding specificities of the heavy chain variable domains differ.
                                                  1

But selecting light chains that can effectively associate and express with the heavy chain
heterodimers has no facile solution. Developing human light chain variable domains for
use in human therapeutics is certainly possible in humanized mice, but there are no easy
solutions to selecting which light chains will effectively associate and express with heavy
chains having desired binding characteristics, where the light chains are not detrimental to
the expression or binding behavior of both heavy chains.
                                                1A

[0004]      Thus, there remains a need in the art for compositions and methods for
developing human immunoglobulin variable regions for use in human therapeutics,
including human immunoglobulin variable regions generated from nucleic acid sequences
at endogenous mouse immunoglobulin loci.
                                          SUMMARY
[0005]      Mice are described that express human immunoglobulin variable domains that
are suitable for use in bispecific binding proteins, including bispecific antibodies, wherein
the mice comprise a humanization of an endogenous mouse heavy chain variable locus,
wherein male mice comprising the humanization are fertile, and wherein the mice further
comprise a humanization of an endogenous immunoglobulin light chain locus that results in
the mouse expressing an immunoglobulin light chain repertoire that is derived from no
more than one, or no more than two, k and/or K V gene segments.
[0006]      Genetically engineered mice are provided that select suitable affinity-matured
human immunoglobulin heavy chain variable domains derived from a repertoire of
unrearranged human heavy chain V, D, and J segments, wherein the affinity-matured
human heavy chain variable domains associate and express with a humanized universal
light chain. The humanized universal light chain is expressed from a locus that comprises
either no more than one or no more than two human light chain V segments and a human
J segment operably linked to a light chain constant gene, or no more than one or no more
than two rearranged (VX/JX, VxK/Jx, VX/JK, or VK/JX) human nucleic acid sequences
encoding a light chain variable domain operably linked to a light chain constant gene. In
various embodiments the universal humanized light chain domain pairs with a plurality of
affinity-matured human heavy chain variable domains, wherein the plurality of heavy chain
variable domains specifically bind different epitopes or antigens.
 [0007]      In one aspect, nucleic acid constructs, cells, embryos, mice, and methods are
 provided for making mice that comprise a humanized heavy chain immunoglobulin variable
 locus and a humanized light chain immunoglobulin variable locus, wherein the mouse
 expresses one of no more than two universal light chains, and mice that are males exhibit
wild-type fertility.
 [0008]      In one aspect, a modified mouse is provided that comprises in its germline a
 humanized heavy chain immunoglobulin variable locus at an endogenous mouse heavy
 chain locus, and a humanized light chain immunoglobulin variable locus, wherein the
 mouse expresses a universal light chain, and wherein the mouse comprises a nucleic acid
 sequence encoding a mouse ADAM6 or ortholog or homolog or functional fragment
                                                 2

thereof. In various embodiments the humanized light chain immunoglobulin variable locus
is at an endogenous mouse light chain locus.
[0009]       In one embodiment, the humanized heavy chain immunoglobulin variable locus
comprises a replacement at the endogenous mouse heavy chain variable locus of all or
substantially all functional mouse immunoglobulin heavy chain V, D, and J gene segments
with one or more human V, human D, and human J gene segments, wherein the one or
more human V, D, and J segments are operably linked and capable of rearranging to form
a rearranged V/D/J gene that is operably linked to a heavy chain constant sequence.
[0010]       In one embodiment, the mouse comprises a light chain locus that this
engineered to make a universal light chain, wherein the universal light chain is a light chain
that is derived from a light chain locus that comprises no more than one light chain V
segment and no more than one light chain J segment, or a light chain locus that comprises
a single rearranged light chain V/J sequence. In one embodiment, the mouse comprises
an immunoglobulin light chain locus that comprises single human immunoglobulin light
chain V segment that is capable of rearranging with a human light chain J gene segment
 (selected from one or a plurality of J segments) and encoding a human light chain variable
 domain. In another embodiment, the mouse comprises no more than two human light
 chain V segments at the light chain locus, each V segment of which is capable of
 rearranging with a human J gene segment (selected from one or a plurality of light chain J
 segments) and encoding a rearranged human light chain variable domain.
 [0011]      In one embodiment, the single human light chain V segment is operably linked
 to a human light chain J segment selected from Jx1, JK2, JK3, Jx4, and JK5, wherein the
 single human light chain V segment is capable of rearranging to form a sequence encoding
 a light chain variable region gene with any of the one or more human light chain J
 segments.
 [0012]       In one embodiment, the mouse comprises an endogenous light chain locus that
 comprises a replacement of all or substantially all mouse V and J gene segments with no
 more than one, or no more than two, rearranged (V/J) nucleic acid sequences. In one
 embodiment, the no more than one or no more than two rearranged (V/J) nucleic acid
 sequences are selected from a human Vx1-39JK5, a VK3-20JK1, and a combination
 thereof.
 [0013]       In one embodiment, the mouse lacks a functional endogenous light chain locus
 that is capable of expressing a mouse light chain variable domain. In one embodiment, the
 mouse comprises a nucleic acid sequence encoding a variable domain of a universal light
 chain at a  K  locus. In one embodiment, the mouse comprises a nucleic acid sequence
 encoding a variable domain of a universal light chain at a X locus.
                                                3

[0014]       In one embodiment, the human V segment (or rearranged V/J sequence) is
operably linked to a human or mouse leader sequence. In one embodiment, the leader
sequence is a mouse leader sequence. In a specific embodiment, the mouse leader
sequence is a mouse VK3-7 leader sequence.
[0015]       In one embodiment, the human V segment (or rearranged V/J sequence) is
operably linked to an immunoglobulin promoter sequence. In one embodiment, the
promoter sequence is a human promoter sequence. In a specific embodiment, the human
immunoglobulin promoter is a human VK3 -15 promoter.
[0016]       In one embodiment, the unrearranged V and J segments or the rearranged
(V/J) sequence is operably linked to a light chain immunoglobulin constant region gene. In
a specific embodiment, the constant region gene is a mouse Cx gene.
[0017]       In one embodiment, the unrearranged V and J segments or the rearranged
(V/J) sequence are present at a K light chain locus, and the K light chain locus comprises a
mouse K intronic enhancer, a mouse K 3' enhancer, or both an intronic enhancer and a 3'
enhancer. In a specific embodiment, the K locus is an endogenous K locus.
[0018]       In one embodiment, the mouse comprises a K locus comprising a sequence
encoding a variable domain of a universal light chain, and the mouse comprises a
nonfunctional immunoglobulin lambda (k) light chain locus. In a specific embodiment, the
k light chain locus comprises a deletion of one or more sequences of the locus, wherein
the one or more deletions renders the k light chain locus incapable of rearranging to form a
light chain gene. In another embodiment, all or substantially all of the V segments of the k
light chain locus are deleted. In one another embodiment, the mouse comprises a deletion
of all, or substantially all, of the endogenous light chain variable locus.
 [0019]       In one embodiment, the mouse further comprises in its germline a sequence
selected from a mouse K intronic enhancer 5' with respect to rearranged immunoglobulin
 light chain sequence or the unrearranged gene segments, a mouse K 3' enhancer, and a
 combination thereof.
 [0020]       In one embodiment, the universal light chain variable domain sequence of the
 mouse comprises one or more somatic hypermutations; in one embodiment, the variable
 domain sequence comprises a plurality of somatic hypermutations.
 [0021]       In one embodiment, the mouse makes a universal light chain that comprises a
 somatically mutated human variable domain. In one embodiment, the light chain
 comprises a somatically mutated human variable domain derived from a human V
 segment, a human J segment, and a mouse CK gene. In one embodiment, the mouse
 does not express a k light chain.
                                                 4

[0022]      In one embodiment, the human variable sequence is a rearranged human VK1
39JK5 sequence, and the mouse expresses a reverse chimeric light chain comprising (i) a
variable domain derived from VK1-39JK5 and (ii) a mouse CL; wherein the light chain is
associated with a reverse chimeric heavy chain comprising (i) a mouse CH and (ii) a
somatically mutated human heavy chain variable domain. In one embodiment, the mouse
expresses a light chain that is somatically mutated. In one embodiment the CL is a mouse
CK.
[0023]      In one embodiment, the human variable sequence is a rearranged human VK3
20JK1 sequence, and the mouse expresses a reverse chimeric light chain comprising (i) a
variable domain derived from VK3-20JK1, and (ii) a mouse CL; wherein the light chain is
associated with a reverse chimeric heavy chain comprising (i) a mouse CH, and (ii) a
somatically mutated human heavy chain variable domain.
[0024]      In one embodiment, the mouse comprises both a rearranged human VK1-39JK5
sequence and a rearranged human VK3-20JK1 sequence, and the mouse expresses a
reverse chimeric light chain comprising (i) a light chain comprising a variable domain
derived from the VK1-39JK5 sequence or the VK3-20JK1 sequence, and (ii) a mouse CL;
wherein the light chain is associated with a reverse chimeric heavy chain comprising (i) a
mouse CH, and (ii) a somatically mutated human heavy chain variable domain. In one
embodiment, the mouse expresses a light chain that is somatically mutated. In one
embodiment the CL is a mouse CK.
[0025]       In one embodiment, the mouse expresses a reverse chimeric antibody
comprising a light chain that comprises a mouse CK and a somatically mutated human
variable domain derived from a rearranged human VK1-39JK5 sequence or a rearranged
human VK3-20JK1 sequence, and a heavy chain that comprises a mouse CH and a
somatically mutated human heavy chain variable domain, wherein the mouse does not
express a fully mouse antibody and does not express a fully human antibody. In one
embodiment the mouse comprises a K light chain locus that comprises a replacement of
endogenous mouse K light chain gene segments with the rearranged human VK1-39JK5
sequence or the rearranged human VK3-20JK1 sequence, and comprises a replacement of
all or substantially all endogenous mouse heavy chain V, D, and J gene segments with a
complete or substantially complete repertoire of human heavy chain V, D, and J gene
segments.
 [0026]      In one aspect, a genetically modified mouse is provided that expresses a single
K light chain derived from no more than one, or no more than two, rearranged K light chain
 sequences, wherein the mouse, upon immunization with antigen, exhibits a serum titer that
                                                5

is comparable to a wild type mouse immunized with the same antigen. In a specific
embodiment, the mouse expresses a single K light chain sequence, wherein the single K
light chain sequence is derived from no more than one rearranged K light chain sequence.
In one embodiment, the serum titer is characterized as total immunoglobulin. In a specific
embodiment, the serum titer is characterized as IgM specific titer. In a specific
embodiment, the serum titer is characterized as IgG specific titer. In a more specific
embodiment, the rearranged K light chain sequence is selected from a Vx1-39JK5 and
VxK3-20JK1 sequence. In one embodiment, the rearranged K light chain sequence is a
VxK1-39Jx5 sequence. In one embodiment, the rearranged K light chain sequence is a
VK3-20JK1 sequence.
[0027]       In one aspect, a genetically modified mouse is provided that expresses a
plurality of immunoglobulin heavy chains associated with a single light chain sequence. In
one embodiment, the heavy chain comprises a human sequence. In various
embodiments, the human sequence is selected from a variable sequence, a CH1, a hinge,
a CH2, a CH3, and a combination thereof. In one embodiment, the single light chain
comprises a human sequence. In various embodiments, the human sequence is selected
from a variable sequence, a constant sequence, and a combination thereof. In one
embodiment, the mouse comprises a disabled endogenous immunoglobulin locus and
expresses the heavy chain and/or the light chain from a transgene or extrachromosomal
episome. In one embodiment, the mouse comprises a replacement at an endogenous
mouse locus of some or all endogenous mouse heavy chain gene segments (i.e., V, D, J),
and/or some or all endogenous mouse heavy chain constant sequences (e.g., CH 1 , hinge,
CH2, CH3, or a combination thereof), and/or some or all endogenous mouse light chain
sequences (e.g., V, J, constant, or a combination thereof), with one or more human
immunoglobulin sequences.
[0028]        In one embodiment, the mouse , following rearrangement of the one or more V,
 D, and J gene segments, or one or more V and J gene segments, the mouse comprises in
its genome at least one nucleic acid sequence encoding a mouse ADAM6 gene or
 homolog or ortholog or functional fragment thereof. In one embodiment, following
 rearrangement the mouse comprises in its genome at least two nucleic acid sequences
encoding a mouse ADAM6 gene or homolog or ortholog or functional fragment thereof. In
 one embodiment, following rearrangement the mouse comprises in its genome at least one
 nucleic acid sequence encoding a mouse ADAM6 gene or homolog or ortholog or
functional fragment thereof. In one embodiment, the mouse comprises the ADAM6 gene
 or homolog or ortholog or functional fragment thereof in a B cell.
                                                6

[0029]      In one embodiment, the male mice comprise a single unmodified endogenous
ADAM6 allele or ortholog of homolog or functional fragment thereof at an endogenous
ADAM6 locus.
[0030]       In one embodiment, the male mice comprise an ADAM6 sequence or homolog
or ortholog or functional fragment thereof at a location in the mouse genome that
approximates the location of the endogenous mouse ADAM6 allele, e.g., 3' of a final V
gene segment sequence and 5' of an initial D gene segment.
[0031]       In one embodiment, the male mice comprise an ADAM6 sequence or homolog
or ortholog or functional fragment thereof flanked upstream, downstream, or upstream and
downstream (with respect to the direction of transcription of the ADAM6 sequence) of a
nucleic acid sequence encoding an immunoglobulin variable region gene segment. In a
specific embodiment, the immunoglobulin variable region gene segment is a human gene
segment. In one embodiment, the immunoglobulin variable region gene segment is a
human gene segment, and the sequence encoding the mouse ADAM6 or ortholog or
homolog or fragment thereof functional in a mouse is between human V gene segments; in
one embodiment, the mouse comprises two or more human V gene segments, and the
sequence is at a position between the final V gene segment and the penultimate V gene
segment; in one embodiment, the sequence is at a position following the final V gene
segment and the first D gene segment.
 [0032]      In one embodiment, the humanized heavy chain immunoglobulin variable locus
 lacks an endogenous mouse ADAM6 gene. In one embodiment, the humanized heavy
chain immunoglobulin variable locus comprises an ADAM6 gene that is functional in a
 male mouse. In a specific embodiment, the ADAM6 gene that is functional in the male
 mouse is a mouse ADAM6 gene, and the mouse ADAM6 gene is placed within or
 immediately adjacent to the humanized heavy chain immunoglobulin variable locus.
 [0033]      In one embodiment, the humanized heavy chain immunoglobulin variable locus
 lacks an endogenous mouse ADAM6 gene, and the mouse comprises an ectopic ADAM6
 sequence that is functional in a male mouse. In one embodiment, the ectopic ADAM6
 gene that is functional in the male mouse is a mouse ADAM6 gene. In one embodiment,
 the mouse ADAM6 gene is on the same chromosome as the humanized heavy chain
 immunoglobulin variable locus. In one embodiment, the mouse ADAM6 gene is on a
 different chromosome than the humanized heavy chain immunoglobulin variable locus. In
 one embodiment, the mouse ADAM6 gene is on an episome.
 [0034]       In one embodiment, the mouse comprises a first endogenous heavy chain allele
 and a second endogenous heavy chain allele, and the first endogenous heavy chain allele
 comprises a deletion of a mouse ADAM6 locus, and the first endogenous heavy chain
 allele comprises a replacement of all or substantially all functional mouse V, D, and J
                                                7

segments with one or more human V, D, and J segments. In one embodiment, the first
and the second endogenous heavy chain alleles each comprise a deletion of an
endogenous mouse ADAM6 locus, and the first and the second endogenous heavy chain
alleles comprise a replacement of all or substantially all functional mouse V, D, and J
segments with one or more human V, D, and J segments.             In one embodiment, the first
and/or the second allele comprises an ectopic nucleic acid sequence that encodes a
mouse ADAM6 or ortholog or homolog or functional fragment thereof. In one embodiment,
the ectopic nucleic acid sequence is located 3' (with respect to the transcriptional
directionality of the heavy chain variable locust) of a final mouse V gene segment and
located 5' (with respect to the transcriptional directionality of the constant sequence) of a
mouse (or chimeric human/mouse) heavy chain constant gene or fragment thereof (e.g., a
nucleic acid sequence encoding a human and/or mouse: CH1 and/or hinge and/or CH2
and/or CH3 ). In one embodiment, the ectopic nucleic acid sequence is located downstream
(with respect to direction of transcription of the V segment locus) of a V segment and
upstream of a D segment. In one embodiment, the ectopic nucleic acid sequence is
located between the penultimate 3'-most V segment and the ultimate 3'-most V segment.
In a specific embodiment, the ectopic nucleic acid sequence is located between human V
segment VH1-2 and human V segment VH6 -1. In one embodiment, the nucleotide
sequence between the two human V gene segments is placed in opposite transcription
orientation with respect to the human V gene segments. In a specific embodiment,
 nucleotide sequence encodes, from 5' to 3' with respect to the direction of transcription of
ADAM6 genes, and ADAM6a sequence followed by an ADAM6b sequence. In a specific
embodiment, the ADAM6 gene(s) is oriented in opposite transcriptional orientation as
 compared with the upstream and downstream flanking V segments.
 [0035]       In one embodiment, the nucleic acid sequence comprises a sequence encoding
 mouse ADAM6a or functional fragment thereof and/or a sequence encoding mouse
ADAM6b or functional fragment thereof, wherein the ADAM6a and/or ADAM6b or
 functional fragment(s) thereof is operably linked to a promoter. In one embodiment, the
 promoter is a human promoter. In one embodiment, the promoter is the mouse ADAM6
 promoter. In a specific embodiment, the ADAM6 promoter comprises sequence located
 between the first codon of the first ADAM6 gene closest to the mouse 5'-most      DH  gene
 segment and the recombination signal sequence of the 5'-most          DH gene segment, wherein
 5' is indicated with respect to direction of transcription of the mouse immunoglobulin genes.
 In one embodiment, the promoter is a viral promoter. In a specific embodiment, the viral
 promoter is a cytomegalovirus (CMV) promoter. In one embodiment, the promoter is a
 ubiquitin promoter.
                                                  8

[0036]       In one embodiment, the mouse ADAM6a and/or ADAM6b are selected from the
ADAM6a of SEQ ID NO:1 and/or ADAM6b of sequence SEQ ID NO:2. In one
embodiment, the mouse ADAM6 promoter is a promoter of SEQ ID NO:3. In a specific
embodiment, the mouse ADAM6 promoter comprises the nucleic acid sequence of SEQ ID
NO:3 directly upstream (with respect to the direction of transcription of ADAM6a) of the first
codon of ADAM6a and extending to the end of SEQ ID NO:3 upstream of the ADAM6
coding region. In another specific embodiment, the ADAM6 promoter is a fragment
extending from within about 5 to about 20 nucleotides upstream of the start codon of
ADAM6a to about 0.5kb, 1kb, 2kb, or 3kb or more upstream of the start codon of ADAM6a.
[0037]       In one embodiment, the nucleic acid sequence comprises SEQ ID NO:3 or a
fragment thereof that when placed into a mouse that is infertile or that has low fertility due
to a lack of ADAM6, improves fertility or restores fertility to about a wild-type fertility. In one
embodiment, SEQ ID NO:3 or a fragment thereof confers upon a male mouse the ability to
produce a sperm cell that is capable of traversing a female mouse oviduct in order to
fertilize a mouse egg.
[0038]       In one embodiment, the mice comprise a nucleic acid sequence that encodes
an ADAM6 protein, or ortholog or homolog or fragment thereof, that is functional in a male
mouse. In a specific embodiment, the nucleic acid sequence is within or adjacent to a
human nucleic acid sequence that comprises one or more immunoglobulin variable region
gene segment. In one embodiment, the one or more immunoglobulin variable region gene
segments is at a modified endogenous mouse immunoglobulin heavy chain variable locus.
In one embodiment, the modification comprises a replacement of all or substantially all
functional mouse immunoglobulin heavy chain variable gene segments with a plurality of
unrearranged human heavy chain gene segments that are operably linked to an
endogenous mouse constant region gene. In a specific embodiment, the nucleic acid
sequence is between two human V segments. In a specific embodiment, the nucleic acid
sequence is between a human V segment and a human D segment. In a specific
embodiment, the nucleic acid sequence is between a human D segment and a human J
segment. In a specific embodiment, the nucleic acid sequence is upstream of the 5'-most
(with respect to direction of transcription of the V segment) human V segment. In a
specific embodiment, the nucleic acid sequence is between a human J segment and an
endogenous mouse heavy chain constant region gene sequence.
 [0039]      In one embodiment, the male mice are capable of generating offspring by
 mating, with a frequency that is about the same as a wild-type mouse. In one embodiment,
the male mice produce sperm that can transit from a mouse uterus through a mouse
oviduct to fertilize a mouse egg; in a specific embodiment, sperm of the mice transit
through the oviduct about as efficiently as sperm from a wild-type mouse. In one
                                                 9

embodiment, about 50% or more of the sperm produced in the mouse exhibit the ability to
enter and/or transit an oviduct to fertilize a mouse egg.
[0040]       In one embodiment, the mouse lacks a functional endogenous ADAM6 locus,
wherein the mouse comprises an ectopic nucleotide sequence that complements the loss
of mouse ADAM6 function in a male mouse. In one embodiment, the ectopic nucleotide
sequence confers upon the male mouse an ability to produce offspring that is comparable
to a corresponding wild-type male mouse that contains a functional endogenous ADAM6
gene. In one embodiment, the sequence confers upon the mouse an ability to form a
complex of ADAM2 and/or ADAM3 and/or ADAM6 on the surface of sperm cell of the
mouse. In one embodiment, the sequence confers upon the mouse an ability to travel from
a mouse uterus through a mouse oviduct to a mouse ovum to fertilize the ovum.
[0041]       In one embodiment, the mouse lacks a functional endogenous ADAM6 locus
and comprises an ectopic nucleotide sequence encoding an ADAM6 or ortholog or
homolog or fragment thereof that is functional in a male mouse and wherein the male
mouse produces at least about 50%, 60%, 70%, 80%, or 90% of the number of litters a
wild-type mouse of the same age and strain produces in a six-month time period.
[0042]       In one embodiment, the mouse lacking the functional endogenous ADAM6
gene and comprising the ectopic nucleotide sequence produces at least about 1.5-fold,
about 2-fold, about 2.5-fold, about 3-fold, about 4-fold, about 6-fold, about 7-fold, about 8
fold, or about 10-fold or more progeny when bred over a six-month time period than a
mouse of the same age and the same or similar strain that lacks the functional
endogenous ADAM6 gene and that lacks the ectopic nucleotide sequence that is bred over
substantially the same time period and under substantially the same conditions.
[0043]       In one embodiment, the mouse lacking the functional endogenous ADAM6
gene and comprising the ectopic nucleotide sequence produces an average of at least
about 2-fold, 3-fold, or 4-fold higher number of pups per litter in a 4- or 6-month breeding
period than a mouse that lacks the functional endogenous ADAM6 gene and that lacks the
ectopic nucleotide sequence, and that is bred for the same period of time.
[0044]       In one embodiment, the mouse lacking the functional endogenous ADAM6
gene and comprising the ectopic nucleotide sequence is a male mouse, and the male
mouse produces sperm that when recovered from oviducts at about 5-6 hours post
copulation reflects an oviduct migration that is at least 10-fold, at least 20-fold, at least 30
fold, at least 40-fold, at least 50-fold, at least 60-fold, at least 70-fold, at least 80-fold, at
least 90-fold, 100-fold, 110-fold, or 120-fold or higher than sperm of a mouse that lacks the
functional endogenous ADAM6 gene and that lacks the ectopic nucleotide sequence.
[0045]       In one embodiment, the mouse lacking the functional endogenous ADAM6
gene and comprising the ectopic nucleotide sequence when copulated with a female
                                                  10

mouse generates sperm that is capable of traversing the uterus and entering and
traversing the oviduct within about 6 hours at an efficiency that is about equal to sperm
from a wild-type mouse.
[0046]       In one embodiment, the mouse lacking the functional endogenous ADAM6
gene and comprising the ectopic nucleotide sequence produces about 1.5-fold, about 2
fold, about 3-fold, or about 4-fold or more litters in a comparable period of time than a
mouse that lacks the functional ADAM6 gene and that lacks the ectopic nucleotide
sequence.
[0047]       In one aspect, a mouse is provided that comprises a humanized endogenous
mouse heavy chain variable immunoglobulin locus and a modification of a mouse light
chain immunoglobulin locus, wherein the mouse expresses a B cell that comprises a
rearranged human heavy chain immunoglobulin sequence operably linked to a human or
mouse heavy chain constant region gene sequence, and the B cell comprises in its
genome (e.g., on a B cell chromosome) a gene encoding an ADAM6 or ortholog or
homolog or fragment thereof that is functional in a male mouse (e.g., a mouse ADAM6
gene, e.g., mouse ADAM6a and/or mouse ADAM6b), wherein the variable domains of
immunoglobulin X or K light chains of the mice are derived from no more than one or no
more than two light chain V gene segments.
 [0048]      In one embodiment, the rearranged immunoglobulin sequence operably linked
to the heavy chain constant region gene sequence comprises a human heavy chain V, D,
and/or J sequence; a mouse heavy chain V, D, and/or J sequence; a human or mouse light
chain V and/or J sequence. In one embodiment, the heavy chain constant region gene
sequence comprises a human or a mouse heavy chain sequence selected from the group
consisting of a CH1 , a hinge, a CH2 , a CH3 , and a combination thereof.
 [0049]      In one aspect, a mouse suitable for making antibodies that have the same light
 chain is provided, wherein all or substantially all antibodies made in the mouse are
 expressed with the same light chain, wherein the light chain comprises a human variable
 domain, and wherein the antibodies comprise a heavy chain that comprises a human
 variable domain.
 [0050]      In one aspect, a mouse is provided that is characterized by an inability of the
 mouse to make a B cell that expresses an immunoglobulin light chain variable domain that
 is derived from a rearranged light chain sequence that is not a human V1-39JK5 or a
 human VK3-20JK1 sequence.
 [0051]      In one embodiment, the mouse exhibits a K:X light chain ratio that is about the
 same as a mouse that comprises a wild type complement of immunoglobulin light chain V
 and J gene segments.
                                                 11

[0052]        In one aspect, a mouse as described herein is provided that expresses an
immunoglobulin light chain derived from a human VK1-39JK5 or a human VK3-20JK1
sequence, wherein the mouse comprises a replacement of all or substantially all
endogenous mouse heavy chain variable region gene segments with one or more human
heavy chain variable region gene segments, and the mouse exhibits a ratio of (a) CD19* B
cells that express an immunoglobulin having a X light chain, to (b) CD19* B cells that
express an immunoglobulin having a K light chain, of about 1 to about 20.
[0053]        In one embodiment, the mouse expresses a single K light chain, wherein the
single K light chain is derived from a human VK1-39JK5 sequence, and the ratio of CD19*
B cells that express an immunoglobulin having a X light chain to CD19* B cells that express
an immunoglobulin having a K light chain is about 1 to about 20; in one embodiment, the
ratio is about 1 to at least about 66; in a specific embodiment, the ratio is about 1 to 66.
[0054]        In one embodiment, the mouse expresses a single K light chain, wherein the
single K light chain is derived from a human VK3-20JK5 sequence, and the ratio of CD19*
 B cells that express an immunoglobulin having a X light chain to CD19* B cells that express
an immunoglobulin having a K light chain is about 1 to about 20; in one embodiment, the
 ratio is about 1 to about 21. In specific embodiments, the ratio is 1 to 20, or 1 to 21.
 [0055]       In one embodiment, the percent of IgKIgX* B cells in the mouse is about the
same as in a wild type mouse. In a specific embodiment, the percent of IgKIgx* B cells in
the mouse is about 2 to about 6 percent. In a specific embodiment, the percent of IgKIgx*
 B cells in a mouse wherein the single rearranged K light chain is derived from a VK1-39JK5
 sequence is about 2 to about 3; in a specific embodiment, about 2.6. In a specific
 embodiment, the percent of IgKlIgX* B cells in a mouse wherein the single rearranged K
 light chain is derived from a VK3-20JK1 sequence is about 4 to about 8; in a specific
 embodiment, about 6.
 [0056]        In one embodiment, the mouse is does not comprise a modification that
 reduces or eliminates an ability of the mouse to somatically mutate any functional light
 chain locus of the mouse. In one embodiment, the only functional light chain locus in the
 mouse expresses a light chain that comprises a human variable domain derived from a
 rearranged sequence selected from a human VK1-39JK5 sequence, a human VK3-20JK1
 sequence, and a combination thereof.
 [0057]        In one aspect, a genetically modified mouse is provided that expresses a single
 K light  chain derived from no more than one, or no more than two, rearranged K light chain
 sequences, wherein the mouse exhibits usage of the K light chain that is about 1 00-fold or
 more, at least about 200-fold or more, at least about 300-fold or more, at least about 400
                                                  12

fold or more, at least about 500-fold or more, at least about 600-fold or more, at least about
700-fold or more, at least about 800-fold or more, at least about 900-fold or more, at least
about 1000-fold or more greater than the usage of the same K light chain (i.e., derived from
the same V segment and the same J segment, or derived from the same rearranged V/J
segment) exhibited by a mouse bearing a complete or substantially complete human K light
chain locus. In a specific embodiment, the mouse bearing a complete or substantially
complete human K light chain locus lacks a functional unrearranged mouse K light chain
sequence. In a specific embodiment, the mouse expresses the single K light chain from no
more than one rearranged K light chain sequence. In one embodiment, the mouse
comprises one copy of a rearranged K light chain sequence (e.g., a heterozygote). In one
embodiment, the mouse comprises two copies of a rearranged K light chain sequence
(e.g., a homozygote). In a more specific embodiment, the rearranged K light chain
sequence is selected from a VO1-39JR5 and VK3-20JK1 sequence. In one embodiment,
the rearranged K light chain sequence is a VO1-39JR5 sequence. In one embodiment, the
rearranged K light chain sequence is a VK3-20JK1 sequence.
 [0058]       In one aspect, a genetically modified mouse is provided that expresses a single
 light chain derived from no more than one, or no more than two, rearranged       K light chain
sequences, wherein the light chain in the genetically modified mouse exhibits a level of
expression that is at least 10-fold to about 1,000-fold, 100-fold to about 1,000-fold, 200-fold
to about 1,000-fold, 300-fold to about 1,000-fold, 400-fold to about 1,000-fold, 500-fold to
 about 1,000-fold, 600-fold to about 1,000-fold, 700-fold to about 1,000-fold, 800-fold to
 about 1,000-fold, or 900-fold to about 1,000-fold higher than expression of the same
 rearranged light chain exhibited by a mouse bearing a complete or substantially complete
 human    K light chain variable locus. In one embodiment, the light chain comprises a human
 sequence. In one embodiment, the single light chain is derived from a rearranged         K light
 chain sequence selected from a human VK1-39JR5, a human VK3-20J1, and a
 combination thereof.
 [0059]        In one embodiment, the level of expression of the light chain, for the purpose of
 comparing the expression of the light chain with expression in a mouse comprising a
 substantially completely humanized light chain variable locus, is characterized by
 quantitating mRNA of transcribed light chain sequence (from the one or two rearranged
 sequences), and comparing it to transcribed light chain sequence of a mouse bearing a
 complete or substantially complete light chain locus.
 [0060]        In one aspect, a method for making an antibody is provided, comprising
 expressing in a cell (a) a first human heavy chain variable domain nucleic acid sequence of
 an immunized mouse as described herein fused with a human CH gene sequence; (b) a
                                                 13

human light chain variable domain nucleic acid sequence of an immunized mouse as
described herein fused with a human CL gene sequence; and, (c) maintaining the cell
under conditions sufficient to express a fully human antibody, and isolating the antibody. In
one embodiment, the cell comprises a second human heavy chain variable domain nucleic
acid sequence of a second immunized mouse as described herein fused with a human CH
gene sequence, the first heavy chain nucleic acid sequence encodes a first heavy chain
variable domain that recognizes a first epitope, and the second heavy chain nucleic acid
sequence encodes a second heavy chain variable domain that recognizes a second
epitope, wherein the first epitope and the second epitope are not identical.
[0061]        In one aspect, a method for making an epitope-binding protein is provided,
comprising exposing a mouse as described herein with an antigen that comprises an
epitope of interest, maintaining the mouse under conditions sufficient for the mouse to
generate an immunoglobulin molecule that specifically binds the epitope of interest, and
isolating the immunoglobulin molecule that specifically binds the epitope of interest;
wherein the epitope-binding protein comprises a heavy chain that comprises a somatically
mutated human variable domain and a mouse CH, associated with a light chain comprising
a mouse CL and a human variable domain derived from a rearranged human VK1-39JK5 or
a rearranged human VK3-20JK1.
[0062]        In one aspect, a method for making a bispecific antigen-binding protein is
provided, comprising exposing a first mouse as described herein to a first antigen of
interest that comprises a first epitope, exposing a second mouse as described herein to a
second antigen of interest that comprises a second epitope, allowing the first and the
second mouse to each mount immune responses to the antigens of interest, identifying in
the first mouse a first human heavy chain variable region that binds the first epitope of the
first antigen of interest, identifying in the second mouse a second human heavy chain
variable region that binds the second epitope of the second antigen of interest, making a
first fully human heavy chain gene that encodes a first heavy chain that binds the first
epitope of the first antigen of interest, making a second fully human heavy chain gene that
encodes a second heavy chain that binds the second epitope of the second antigen of
interest, expressing the first heavy chain and the second heavy chain in a cell that
expresses a single fully human light chain derived from a human VK1-39 or a human VK3
20 gene segment to form a bispecific antigen-binding protein, and isolating the bispecific
antigen-binding protein.
 [0063]        In one embodiment, the first antigen and the second antigen are not identical.
 [0064]        In one embodiment, the first antigen and the second antigen are identical, and
the first epitope and the second epitope are not identical. in one embodiment, binding of
                                                  14

the first heavy chain variable region to the first epitope does not block binding of the
second heavy chain variable region to the second epitope.
[0065]        In one embodiment, the first antigen is selected from a soluble antigen and a
cell surface antigen (e.g., a tumor antigen), and the second antigen comprises a cell
surface receptor. In a specific embodiment, the cell surface receptor is an immunoglobulin
receptor. In a specific embodiment, the immunoglobulin receptor is an Fc receptor. In one
embodiment, the first antigen and the second antigen are the same cell surface receptor,
and binding of the first heavy chain to the first epitope does not block binding of the second
heavy chain to the second epitope.
[0066]        In one embodiment, the light chain variable domain of the light chain comprises
2 to 5 somatic mutations. In one embodiment, the light chain variable domain is a
somatically mutated cognate light chain expressed in a B cell of the first or the second
immunized mouse with either the first or the second heavy chain variable domain.
[0067]        In one aspect, a cell that expresses an epitope-binding protein is provided,
wherein the cell comprises: (a) a human nucleotide sequence encoding a human light
chain variable domain that is derived from a rearranged human VK1-39JK5 or a rearranged
 human VK3-20JK1, wherein the human nucleic acid sequence is fused (directly or through
a linker) to a human immunoglobulin light chain constant domain nucleic acid sequence
 (e.g., a human K constant domain DNA sequence); and, (b) a first human heavy chain
variable domain nucleic acid sequence encoding a human heavy chain variable domain
 derived from a first human heavy chain variable domain nucleotide sequence, wherein the
first human heavy chain variable domain nucleotide sequence is fused (directly or through
 a linker) to a human immunoglobulin heavy chain constant domain nucleic acid sequence
 (e.g., a human IgG1, IgG2, IgG3, IgG4, or IgE sequence); wherein the epitope-binding
 protein recognizes a first epitope. In one embodiment, the epitope-binding protein binds
 the first epitope with a dissociation constant of lower than 10~6 M, lower than 10-8 M, lower
 than 10-9 M, lower than 10-10 M, lower than 10-11 M, or lower than 10-12 M. In one
 embodiment, the cell comprises a second human nucleotide sequence encoding a second
 human heavy chain variable domain, wherein the second human sequence is fused
 (directly or through a linker) to a human immunoglobulin heavy chain constant domain
 nucleic acid sequence, and wherein the second human heavy chain variable domain does
 not specifically recognize the first epitope (e.g., displays a dissociation constant of, e.g., 10
 6 M, 10- M, 104 M, or higher), and wherein the epitope-binding protein binds
                                                                                   both the first
 epitope and the second epitope, and wherein the first and the second immunoglobulin
 heavy chains each associate with a light chain according to (a). In one embodiment, the
 second    VH  domain binds the second epitope with a dissociation constant that is lower than
                                                 15

10-6 M, lower than 10-7 M, lower than 108 M, lower than 10~9 M, lower than 10-10 M, lower
than 1011 M, or lower than   10-12  M.
[0068]       In one embodiment, the epitope-binding protein comprises a first
immunoglobulin heavy chain and a second immunoglobulin heavy chain, each associated
with a universal light chain (e.g., a light chain derived from a rearranged human light chain
variable sequence selected from a human VK1-39JK5 or a human VK3-20JK1), wherein the
first immunoglobulin heavy chain binds a first epitope with a dissociation constant in the
nanomolar (e.g., 1 nM to 100 nM) to picomolar range (e.g., 1 pM to 100 pM), the second
immunoglobulin heavy chain binds a second epitope with a dissociation constant in the
nanomolar to picomolar range (e.g., 1 pM to 100 nM), the first epitope and the second
epitope are not identical, the first immunoglobulin heavy chain does not bind the second
epitope or binds the second epitope with a dissociation constant weaker than the
micromolar range (e.g., the millimolar range), the second immunoglobulin heavy chain
does not bind the first epitope or binds the first epitope with a dissociation constant weaker
than the micromolar range (e.g., the millimolar range), and one or more of the variable
domains (i.e., one or more of the light chain variable domain, the heavy chain variable
domain of the first immunoglobulin heavy chain, and the heavy chain variable domain) of
the second immunoglobulin heavy chain is somatically mutated. In one embodiment,
binding of the epitope-binding protein to the first epitope does not block binding of the
epitope-binding protein to the second epitope.
[0069]       In one embodiment, the first immunoglobulin heavy chain comprises a wild type
protein A binding determinant, and the second heavy chain lacks a wild type protein A
 binding determinant. In one embodiment, the first immunoglobulin heavy chain binds
 protein A under isolation conditions, and the second immunoglobulin heavy chain does not
 bind protein A or binds protein A at least 10-fold, a hundred-fold, or a thousand-fold weaker
than the first immunoglobulin heavy chain binds protein A under isolation conditions. In a
specific embodiment, the first and the second heavy chains are IgG1 isotypes, wherein the
second heavy chain comprises a modification selected from 95R (EU 435R), 96F (EU
 436F), and a combination thereof, and wherein the first heavy chain lacks such
 modification.
 [0070]       In aspect, a mouse, embryo, or cell as described herein comprises a K light
 chain locus that retains endogenous regulatory or control elements, e.g., a mouse     K
 intronic enhancer, a mouse K 3' enhancer, or both an intronic enhancer and a 3' enhancer,
 wherein the regulatory or control elements facilitate somatic mutation and affinity
 maturation of an expressed sequence of the K light chain locus.
                                                 16

[0071]       In one aspect, a mouse cell is provided that is isolated from a mouse as
described herein. In one embodiment, the cell is an ES cell. In one embodiment, the cell
is a lymphocyte. In one embodiment, the lymphocyte is a B cell. In one embodiment, the
B cell expresses a chimeric heavy chain comprising a variable domain derived from a
human V gene segment; and a light chain derived from (a) a rearranged human VK1-39/J
sequence, (b) a rearranged human VK3-20/J sequence, or (c) a combination thereof;
wherein the heavy chain variable domain is fused to a mouse constant region and the light
chain variable domain is fused to a mouse or a human constant region. In one
embodiment, the mouse cell comprises at least one gene that encodes a mouse ADAM6 or
ortholog or homolog or functional fragment thereof. In one embodiment, the cell is a B cell
and the B cell comprises a sequence encoding a rearranged human heavy chain
immunoglobulin variable domain and a sequence encoding a universal light chain variable
domain, wherein the B cell comprises on a chromosome a nucleic acid sequence encoding
an ADAM6 protein or ortholog or homolog or fragment thereof that is functional in a male
mouse; in one embodiment, the mouse B cell comprises two alleles of the nucleic acid
sequence.
[0072]       In one aspect, a mouse cell is provided, comprising a first chromosome that
comprises a humanized immunoglobulin heavy chain locus comprising unrearranged
human V, D, and J segments; a second chromosome that comprises a humanized
immunoglobulin light chain locus that encodes or is capable of rearranging to encode a
light chain, wherein the light chain locus comprises no more than one V segment (or no
more than two V segments) and no more than one J segment (or no more than two J
segments) operably linked to a light chain constant region gene, or no more than one or no
more than two rearranged light chain V/J sequences operably linked to a light chain
constant gene; and a third chromosome that comprises nucleic acid sequence encoding a
 mouse ADAM6 or ortholog or homolog or fragment thereof that is functional in a male
 mouse. In one embodiment, the first and third chromosomes are the same. In one
embodiment, the second and third chromosomes are the same. In one embodiment, the
first, the second, and the third chromosomes are each different. In one embodiment, the
 nucleic acid sequence encoding the mouse ADAM6 or ortholog or homolog or functional
fragment thereof is present in two copies. In one embodiment, the cell is a somatic cell. In
 a specific embodiment, the somatic cell is a B cell. In one embodiment, the cell is a germ
 cell.
 [0073]       In one aspect, a hybridoma is provided, wherein the hybridoma is made with a
 B cell of a mouse as described herein. In a specific embodiment, the B cell is from a
 mouse as described herein that has been immunized with an antigen comprising an
                                               17

epitope of interest, and the B cell expresses a binding protein that binds the epitope of
interest, the binding protein has a somatically mutated human heavy chain variable domain
and a mouse heavy chain constant region, and has a human light chain variable domain
derived from a rearranged human VK1-39JK5 or a rearranged human VK3-20JK1 and a
mouse CL.
[0074]       In one aspect, a cell is provided that comprises a fully human heavy chain gene
comprising a nucleic acid sequence encoding a first heavy chain variable domain of a
mouse as described herein, and a fully human light chain gene comprising a nucleic acid
sequence encoding a universal light chain sequence as described herein. In one
embodiment, the cell further comprises a nucleic acid sequence encoding a second heavy
chain variable domain of a mouse as described herein, wherein the first and the second
heavy chain variable domains are different. In one embodiment, the cell is selected from
CHO, COS, 293, HeLa, and a retinal cell expressing a viral nucleic acid sequence (e.g., a
 PERC.6 T M cell).
 [0075]      In one aspect, a mouse embryo is provided, wherein the embryo comprises a
donor ES cell that is derived from a mouse as described herein.
 [0076]      In one aspect, use of a mouse embryo that comprises a genetic modification as
 described herein is provided, wherein the use comprises making a genetically modified
 mouse as described herein.
 [0077]      In one aspect, a human heavy chain variable domain and a human light chain
 variable domain amino acid sequence of an antibody made in a mouse as described herein
 are provided.
 [0078]      In one aspect, a human heavy chain variable domain nucleotide sequence and
 a human light chain variable domain nucleotide sequence of an antibody made in a mouse
 as described herein is provided.
 [0079]       In one aspect, an antibody or antigen-binding protein or antigen-binding
 fragment thereof (e.g., Fab, F(ab) 2, scFv) made in a mouse as described herein is
 provided.
 [0080]       In one aspect, a mouse made using a targeting vector, nucleotide construct, or
 cell as described herein is provided.
  [0081]      In one aspect, a progeny of a mating of a first mouse as described herein with a
 second mouse that is a wild-type mouse or genetically modified is provided.
  [0082]      In one aspect, use of a mouse as described herein to make a fully human
 antibody, or a fully human antigen-binding protein comprising an immunoglobulin variable
  domain or functional fragment thereof, is provided.
  [0083]      In one aspect, use of a mouse or tissue or cell as described herein to make a
 fully human bispecific antibody is provided.
                                                 18

[0084]        In one aspect, use of a nucleic acid sequence made by a mouse as described
herein is provided, wherein the use comprises expressing the nucleic acid sequence in the
manufacture of a human therapeutic.
[0085]        In one aspect, use of a mouse as described herein to make an immortalized cell
line is provided.
[0086]        In one aspect, use of a mouse as described herein to make a hybridoma or
quadroma is provided.
[0087]       In one aspect, use of a mouse as described herein to make a nucleic acid
sequence encoding an immunoglobulin variable region or fragment thereof is provided. In
one embodiment, the nucleic acid sequence is used to make a human antibody or antigen
binding fragment thereof. In one embodiment, the mouse is used to make an antigen
binding protein selected from an antibody, a multispecific antibody (e.g., a bispecific
antibody), an scFv, a bis-scFV, a diabody, a triabody, a tetrabody, a V-NAR, a VHH, a VL,
an F(ab), an F(ab) 2, a DVD (i.e., dual variable domain antigen-binding protein), an SVD
(i.e., single variable domain antigen-binding protein), or a bispecific T-cell engager (BiTE).
[0088]       In one aspect, use of the mouse as described herein for the manufacture of a
medicament (e.g., an antigen-binding protein), or for the manufacture of a sequence
encoding a variable sequence of a medicament (e.g., an antigen-binding protein), for the
treatment of a human disease or disorder is provided.
[0089]       Any of the embodiments and aspects described herein can be used in
conjunction with one another, unless otherwise indicated or apparent from the context.
Other embodiments will become apparent to those skilled in the art from a review of the
ensuing description.
                           BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE FIGURES
[0090]       FIG. 1A shows a general illustration, not to scale, for direct genomic
replacement of about three megabases (Mb) of the mouse immunoglobulin heavy chain
variable gene locus (closed symbols) with about one megabase (Mb) of the human
immunoglobulin heavy chain variable gene locus (open symbols).
[0091]       FIG. 1B shows a general illustration, not to scale, for direct genomic
replacement of about three megabases (Mb) of the mouse immunoglobulin K light chain
variable gene locus (closed symbols) with about 0.5 megabases (Mb) of the first, or
proximal, of two nearly identical repeats of the human immunoglobulin K light chain
variable gene locus (open symbols).
[0092]       FIG. 2A shows a detailed illustration, not to scale, for three initial steps (A-C)
for direct genomic replacement of the mouse immunoglobulin heavy chain variable gene
                                                19

locus that results in deletion of all mouse VH, DH and   JH gene segments and replacement
with three human VH, all human DH and       JH gene segments. A targeting vector for the first
insertion of human immunoglobulin heavy chain gene segments is shown (3hVH BACvec)
with a 67 kb 5' mouse homology arm, a selection cassette (open rectangle), a site-specific
recombination site (open triangle), a 145 kb human genomic fragment and an 8 kb 3'
mouse homology arm. Human (open symbols) and mouse (closed symbols)
immunoglobulin gene segments, additional selection cassettes (open rectangles) and site
specific recombination sites (open triangles) inserted from subsequent targeting vectors
are shown.
[0093]       FIG. 2B shows a detailed illustration, not to scale, for six additional steps (D-1)
for direct genomic replacement of the mouse immunoglobulin heavy chain variable gene
locus that results in the insertion of 77 additional human VH gene segments and removal of
the final selection cassette. A targeting vector for insertion of additional human VH gene
segments (18hVH BACvec) to the initial insertion of human heavy chain gene segments
(3hVH-CRE Hybrid Allele) is shown with a 20 kb 5' mouse homology arm, a selection
cassette (open rectangle), a 196 kb human genomic fragment and a 62 kb human
homology arm that overlaps with the 5' end of the initial insertion of human heavy chain
gene segments which is shown with a site-specific recombination site (open triangle)
located 5' to the human gene segments. Human (open symbols) and mouse (closed
symbols) immunoglobulin gene segments and additional selection cassettes (open
rectangles) inserted by subsequent targeting vectors are shown.
[0094]       FIG. 2C shows a detailed illustration, not to scale, for three initial steps (A-C)
for direct genomic replacement of the mouse immunoglobulin 1Clight chain variable gene
locus that results in deletion of all mouse Vic, and JK gene segments (IgK-CRE Hybrid
Allele). Selection cassettes (open rectangles) and site-specific recombination sites (open
triangles) inserted from the targeting vectors are shown.
[0095]       FIG. 2D shows a detailed illustration, not to scale, for 5 additional steps (D-H)
for direct genomic replacement of the mouse immunoglobulin K light chain variable gene
locus that results in the insertion of all human VK and JK gene segments in the proximal
repeat and deletion of the final selection cassette (40hVKdHyg Hybrid Allele). Human
(open symbols) and mouse (closed symbols) immunoglobulin gene segments and
additional selection cassettes (open rectangles) inserted by subsequent targeting vectors
are shown.
 [0096]      FIG. 3A shows a general illustration of the locations of quantitative PCR (qPCR)
primer/probe sets for screening ES cells for insertion of human heavy chain gene
sequences and loss of mouse heavy chain gene sequences. The screening strategy in ES
                                                20

cells and mice for the first human heavy gene insertion is shown with qPCR primer/probe
sets for the deleted region ("loss" probes C and D), the region inserted ("higH" probes G
and H) and flanking regions ("retention" probes A, B, E and F) on an unmodified mouse
chromosome (top) and a correctly targeted chromosome (bottom).
[0097]      FIG. 3B shows a representative calculation of observed probe copy number in
parental and modified ES cells for the first insertion of human immunoglobulin heavy chain
gene segments. Observed probe copy number for probes A through F were calculated as
2/2AACt. AACt is calculated as ave[ACt(sample) - medACt(control)] where ACt is the
difference in Ct between test and reference probes (between 4 and 6 reference probes
depending on the assay). The term medACt(control) is the median ACt of multiple (>60)
non-targeted DNA samples from parental ES cells. Each modified ES cell clone was
assayed in sextuplicate. To calculate copy numbers of IgH probes G and H in parental ES
cells, these probes were assumed to have copy number of 1 in modified ES cells and a
maximum Ct of 35 was used even though no amplification was observed.
[0098]      FIG. 3C shows a representative calculation of copy numbers for four mice of
each genotype were calculated in a similar manner using only probes D and H. Wild-type
mice: WT Mice; Mice heterozygous for the first insertion of human immunoglobulin gene
segments: HET Mice; Mice homozygous for the first insertion of human immunoglobulin
gene segments: Homo Mice.
[0099]      FIG. 4A shows an illustration of the three steps employed for the construction of
the 3hVH BACvec by bacterial homologous recombination (BHR). Human (open symbols)
and mouse (closed symbols) immunoglobulin gene segments, selection cassettes (open
rectangles) and site-specific recombination sites (open triangles) inserted from targeting
vectors are shown.
[00100]     FIG. 4B shows pulse-field gel electrophoresis (PFGE) of three BAC clones (B1,
B2 and B3) after Notl digestion. Markers M1, M2 and M3 are low range, mid range and
lambda ladder PFG markers, respectively (New England BioLabs, Ipswich, MA).
[00101]     FIG. 5A shows a schematic illustration, not to scale, of sequential modifications
of the mouse immunoglobulin heavy chain locus with increasing amounts of human
immunoglobulin heavy chain gene segments. Homozygous mice were made from each of
the three different stages of heavy chain humanization. Open symbols reflect human
sequence; closed symbols reflect mouse sequence.
[00102]     FIG. 5B shows a schematic illustration, not to scale, of sequential modifications
of the mouse immunoglobulin      K light chain locus with increasing amounts of human
immunoglobulin    K light chain gene segments. Homozygous mice were made from each of
                                                 21

the three different stages of K light chain humanization. Open symbols reflect human
sequence; closed symbols reflect mouse sequence.
[00103]     FIG. 6 shows FACS dot plots of B cell populations in wild type and
VELOCIMMUNE@ humanized mice. Cells from spleen (top row, third row from top and
bottom row) or inguinal lymph node (second row from top) of wild type (wt) or
VELOCIMMUNE@ 1 (V1), VELOCIMMUNE@ 2 (V2) or VELOCIMMUNE@ 3 (V3) mice
were stained for surface IgM expressing B cells (top row, and second row from top),
surface immunoglobulin containing either K or X light chains (third row from top) or surface
IgM of specific haplotypes (bottom row), and populations separated by FACS.
[00104]     FIG. 7A shows representative heavy chain CDR3 sequences of randomly
selected VELOCIMMUNE@ antibodies around the         VH-DH-JH (CDR3) junction,
demonstrating junctional diversity and nucleotide additions. Heavy chain CDR3 sequences
are grouped according to   DH  gene segment usage, the germline of which is provided
above each group in bold.    VH  gene segments for each heavy chain CDR3 sequence are
noted within parenthesis at the 5' end of each sequence (e.g. 3-72 is human VH3 - 7 2 ). JH
gene segments for each heavy chain CDR3 are noted within parenthesis at the 3' end of
each sequence (e.g. 3 is human JH 3 ). SEQ ID NOs for each sequence shown are as
follows proceeding from top to bottom: SEQ ID NO:21; SEQ ID NO:22; SEQ ID NO:23;
SEQ ID NO:24; SEQ ID NO:25; SEQ ID NO:26; SEQ ID NO:27; SEQ ID NO:28; SEQ ID
NO:29; SEQ ID NO:30; SEQ ID NO:31; SEQ ID NO:32; SEQ ID NO:33; SEQ ID NO:34;
SEQ ID NO:35; SEQ ID NO:36; SEQ ID NO:37; SEQ ID NO:38; SEQ ID NO:39.
[00105]      FIG. 7B shows representative light chain CDR3 sequences of randomly
selected VELOCIMMUNE@ antibodies around the VK-Jx (CDR3) junction, demonstrating
junctional diversity and nucleotide additions. Vx gene segments for each light chain CDR3
sequence are noted within parenthesis at the 5' end of each sequence (e.g. 1-6 is human
VK1-6). JK gene segments for each light chain CDR3 are noted within parenthesis at the 3'
end of each sequence (e.g. 1 is human JK1). SEQ ID NOs for each sequence shown are
 as follows proceeding from top to bottom: SEQ ID NO:40; SEQ ID NO:41; SEQ ID NO:42;
 SEQ ID NO:43; SEQ ID NO:44; SEQ ID NO:45; SEQ ID NO:46; SEQ ID NO:47; SEQ ID
 NO:48; SEQ ID NO:49; SEQ ID NO:50; SEQ ID NO:51; SEQ ID NO:52; SEQ ID NO:53;
 SEQ ID NO:54; SEQ ID NO:55; SEQ ID NO:56; SEQ ID NO:57; SEQ ID NO:58.
 [00106]     FIG. 8 shows somatic hypermutation frequencies of heavy and light chains of
VELOCIMMUNE@ antibodies scored (after alignment to matching germline sequences) as
 percent of sequences changed at each nucleotide (NT; left column) or amino acid (AA;
 right column) position among sets of 38 (unimmunized IgM), 28 (unimmunized IgG), 32
                                               22

(unimmunized IgK from IgG), 36 (immunized IgG) or 36 (immunized IgK from IgG)
sequences. Shaded bars indicate the locations of CDRs.
[00107]       FIG. 9A shows levels of serum immunoglobulin for IgM and IgG isotypes in wild
type (open bars) or VELOCIMMUNE@ mice (closed bars).
[00108]       FIG. 9B shows levels of serum immunoglobulin for IgA isotype in wild type
(open bars) or VELOCIMMUNE@ mice (closed bars).
[00109]       FIG. 9C shows levels of serum immunoglobulin for IgE isotype in wild type
(open bars) or VELOCIMMUNE@ mice (closed bars).
[00110]       FIG. 10A shows antigen specific IgG titers against interleukin-6 receptor of
serum from seven VELOCIMMUNE@ (VI) and five wild type (WNT) mice after two (bleed 1)
or three (bleed 2) rounds of immunization with interleukin-6 receptor ectodomain.
[00111]       FIG. 10B shows anti-interleukin-6 receptor-specific IgG isotype-specific titers
from seven VELOCIMMUNE@ (VI) and five wild type (WNT) mice.
[00112]       FIG. 11A shows the affinity distribution of anti-interleukin-6 receptor monoclonal
antibodies generated in VELOCIMMUNE@ mice.
[00113]       FIG. 11B shows the antigen-specific blocking of anti-interleukin-6 receptor
 monoclonal antibodies generated in VELOCIMMUNE@ (VI) and wild type (VVT) mice.
 [00114]      FIG. 12 shows a schematic illustration, not to scale, of mouse ADAM6a and
ADAM6b genes in the mouse immunoglobulin heavy chain locus. A targeting vector
 (mADAM6 Targeting Vector) used for the insertion of mouse ADAM6a and ADAM6b into a
 humanized endogenous heavy chain locus is shown with a selection cassette (HYG:
 hygromycin) flanked by site-specific recombination sites (Frt) including engineered
 restriction sites on the 5' and 3' ends.
 [00115]      FIG. 13 shows a schematic illustration, not to scale, of a human ADAM6
 pseudogene (hADAM6W) located between human heavy chain variable gene segments 1
 2 (VH1- 2 ) and 6-1 (VH6-1). A targeting vector for bacterial homologous recombination
 (hADAM6W Targeting Vector) to delete a human ADAM6 pseudogene and insert unique
 restriction sites into a human heavy chain locus is shown with a selection cassette (NEO:
 neomycin) flanked by site-specific recombination sites (loxP) including engineered
 restriction sites on the 5' and 3' ends. An illustration, not to scale, of the resulting targeted
 humanized heavy chain locus containing a genomic fragment that encodes for the mouse
 ADAM6a and ADAM6b genes including a selection cassette flanked by site-specific
 recombination sites is shown.
 [00116]       FIG. 14A shows FACS contour plots of lymphocytes gated on singlets for
 surface expression of IgM and B220 in the bone marrow for mice homozygous for human
 heavy and human K light chain variable gene loci (H/K) and mice homozygous for human
                                                 23

heavy and human K light chain variable gene loci having an inserted mouse genomic
fragment comprising mouse ADAM6 genes (H/K-A6). Percentage of immature
(B220intIgM+) and mature (B220highlgM+) B cells is noted in each contour plot.
[00117]     FIG. 14B shows the total number of immature (B220intIgM+) and mature
(B220highlgM*) B cells in the bone marrow isolated from femurs of mice homozygous for
human heavy and human K light chain variable gene loci (H/K) and mice homozyogous for
human heavy and human K light chain variable gene loci having an ectopic mouse
genomic fragment encoding for mouse ADAM6 genes (H/K-A6).
[00118]     FIG. 15A shows FACS contour plots of CD1 9*-gated B cells for surface
expression of c-kit and CD43 in the bone marrow for mice homozygous for human heavy
and human K light chain variable gene loci (H/K) and mice homozyogous for human heavy
and human K light chain variable gene loci having an ectopic mouse genomic fragment
encoding for mouse ADAM6 genes (H/K-A6). Percentage of pro-B (CD1 9*CD43*ckit') and
pre-B (CD19*CD43~ckit~) cells is noted in the upper right and lower left quadrants,
respectively, of each contour plot.
[00119]     FIG. 15B shows the total number of pro-B cells (CD19*CD43*ckit*) and pre-B
cells (CD19*CD43~ckit~) in the bone marrow isolated from femurs of mice homozygous for
human heavy and human K light chain variable gene loci (H/K) and mice homozygous for
human heavy and human K light chain variable gene loci having an ectopic mouse
genomic fragment comprising mouse ADAM6 genes (H/K-A6).
[00120]     FIG. 16A shows FACS contour plots of lymphocytes gated on singlets for
surface expression of CD1 9 and CD43 in the bone marrow for mice homozygous for
human heavy and human K light chain variable gene loci (H/K) and mice homozygous for
human heavy and human K light chain variable gene loci having an ectopic mouse
genomic fragment encoding for mouse ADAM6 genes (H/K-A6). Percentage of immature B
(CD19*CD43-), pre-B (CD19*CD43i" t ) and pro-B (CD19*CD43*) cells is noted in each
contour plot.
 [00121]    FIG. 16B shows histograms of immature B (CD19+CD43-) and pre-B
 (CD19+CD43nt) cells in the bone marrow of mice homozygous for human heavy and
 human K light chain variable gene loci (H/K) and mice homozygous for human heavy and
 human K light chain variable gene loci having an ectopic mouse genomic fragment
 encoding for mouse ADAM6 genes (H/K-A6).
 [00122]    FIG. 17A shows FACS contour plots of lymphocytes gated on singlets for
 surface expression of CD1 9 and CD3 in splenocytes for mice homozygous for human
 heavy and human    - light chain variable gene loci (H/K) and mice homozygous for human
                                               24

heavy and human         x light chain variable gene loci having an ectopic mouse genomic
fragment encoding for mouse ADAM6 genes (H/<-A6). Percentage of B (CD1 9'CD3-) and
T (CD19~CD3*) cells is noted in each contour plot.
[00123]       FIG. 17B shows FACs contour plots for CD1 9*-gated B cells for surface
expression of lgX and Igx light chain in the spleen of mice homozygous for human heavy
and human      x  light chain variable gene loci (H/K) and mice homozygous for human heavy
and human       K light chain variable gene loci having an ectopic mouse genomic fragment
comprising mouse ADAM6 genes (H/K-A6). Percentage of lgX' (upper left quadrant) and
IgK' (lower right quadrant) B cells is noted in each contour plot.
[00124]       FIG. 17C shows the total number of CD1 9' B cells in the spleen of mice
 homozygous for human heavy and human               K light chain variable gene loci (H/K) and mice
 homozygous for human heavy and human               K light chain variable gene loci having an
ectopic mouse genomic fragment comprising mouse ADAM6 genes (H/K-A6).
 [00125]      FIG. 18A shows FACs contour plots of CD19*-gated B cells for surface
 expression of lgD and IgM in the spleen of mice homozygous for human heavy and human
 K  light chain variable gene loci (H/K) and mice homozygous for human heavy and human              K
 light chain variable gene loci having an ectopic mouse genomic fragment comprising
 mouse ADAM6 genes (HIK-A6). Percentage of mature B cells (CD19+IgDhi'hIgMint) is noted
 for each contour plot. The arrow on the right contour plot illustrates the process of
 maturation for B cells in relation to IgM and lgD surface expression.
 [00126]       FIG. 18B shows the total number of B cells in the spleen of mice homozygous
 for human heavy and human           K light chain variable gene loci (H/-K) and mice homozygous
 for human heavy and human           K light chain variable gene loci having an ectopic mouse
 genomic fragment encoding for mouse ADAM6 genes (HIK-A6) during maturation from
 CD19+IgM'9hlgDint to CD19+IgMintlgD'9.
 [00127]       FIG. 19 illustrates a targeting strategy for replacing endogenous mouse
 immunoglobulin light chain variable region gene segments with a human VK1-39JK5 gene
 region.
  [00128]      FIG. 20 illustrates a targeting strategy for replacing endogenous mouse
  immunoglobulin light chain variable region gene segments with a human VK3-20JK1 gene
  region.
  [00129]      FIG. 21 illustrates a targeting strategy for replacing endogenous mouse
  immunoglobulin light chain variable region gene segments with a human VpreB/Jk5 gene
  region.
                                                      25

[00130]      FIG. 22 shows the percent of CD19' B cells (y-axis) from peripheral blood for
wild type mice (WT), mice homozyogous for an engineered human rearranged VK1-39JK5
light chain region (VK1-39JK5 HO) and mice homozygous for an engineered human
rearranged VK3-20JK1 light chain region (VK3-20JK1 HO).
[00131]      FIG. 23A shows the relative mRNA expression (y-axis) of a VK1-39-derived light
chain in a quantitative PCR assay using probes specific for the junction of an engineered
human rearranged VK1-39JK5 light chain region (VK1-39JK5 Junction Probe) and the
human Vx1-3 9 gene segment (Vx1-39 Probe) in a mouse homozygous for a replacement
of the endogenous VK and JK gene segments with human V and JK gene segments (HK),
a wild type mouse (WT), and a mouse heterozygous for an engineered human rearranged
VK1-39JK5 light chain region (VK1-39JK5 HET). Signals are normalized to expression of
mouse Cx. N.D.: not detected.
[00132]      FIG. 23B shows the relative mRNA expression (y-axis) of a Vx1-39-derived light
chain in a quantitative PCR assay using probes specific for the junction of an engineered
human rearranged Vx1-39JK5 light chain region (Vx1-39Jx5 Junction Probe) and the
human VO1-    39 gene segment (Vx1-39 Probe) in a mouse homozygous for a replacement
of the endogenous VK and JK gene segments with human Vx and JK gene segments (HK),
a wild type mouse (WT), and a mouse homozygous for an engineered human rearranged
VK1-39JK5 light chain region (VK1-39JK5 HO). Signals are normalized to expression of
mouse Cx.
[00133]      FIG. 23C shows the relative mRNA expression (y-axis) of a Vx3-20-derived light
chain in a quantitative PCR assay using probes specific for the junction of an engineered
human rearranged Vx3-20JK1 light chain region (VK3-20JK1 Junction Probe) and the
human VK3 - 2 0 gene segment (VK3-20 Probe) in a mouse homozygous for a replacement
of the endogenous Vx and Jx gene segments with human VK and Jx gene segments (HK),
a wild type mouse (WT), and a mouse heterozygous (HET) and homozygous (HO) for an
engineered human rearranged Vx3-20JK1 light chain region. Signals are normalized to
expression of mouse Cx.
[00134]      FIG. 24A shows IgM (left) and IgG (right) titer in wild type (WT; N=2) and mice
homozygous for an engineered human rearranged VK1-39JK5 light chain region (VK1
39Jx5 HO; N=2) immunized with P-galatosidase.
[00135]      FIG. 24B shows total immunoglobulin (IgM, IgG, IgA) titer in wild type (WT;
N=5) and mice homozygous for an engineered human rearranged VK3-20JK1 light chain
region (VK3-20JK1 HO; N=5) immunized with p-galatosidase.
                                             26

                                    DETAILED DESCRIPTION
[00136]      The term "antibody", as used herein, includes immunoglobulin molecules
comprising four polypeptide chains, two heavy (H) chains and two light (L) chains inter
connected by disulfide bonds. Each heavy chain comprises a heavy chain variable               (VH)
region and a heavy chain constant region       (CH).  The heavy chain constant region
comprises three domains,      CH1 , CH2 and  CH3 .   Each light chain comprises a light chain
variable (VL) region and a light chain constant region (CL). The VH and VL regions can be
further subdivided into regions of hypervariability, termed complementarity determining
regions (CDR), interspersed with regions that are more conserved, termed framework
regions (FR). Each      VH and VL comprises three CDRs and four FRs, arranged from amino
terminus to carboxy-terminus in the following order: FR1, CDR1, FR2, CDR2, FR3, CDR3,
FR4 (heavy chain CDRs may be abbreviated as HCDR1, HCDR2 and HCDR3; light chain
CDRs may be abbreviated as LCDR1, LCDR2 and LCDR3. The term "high affinity"
antibody refers to an antibody that has a K0 with respect to its target epitope about of 10-9
M or lower (e.g., about 1 x 10-9 M, 1 x 101 M, 1 x 1011 M, or about 1 x        1012  M). In one
embodiment,     KD is measured by surface plasmon resonance, e.g., BIACORE            TM; in another
embodiment,     KD is measured by ELISA.
 [00137]     The phrase "bispecific antibody" includes an antibody capable of selectively
binding two or more epitopes. Bispecific antibodies generally comprise two nonidentical
 heavy chains, with each heavy chain specifically binding a different epitope-either on two
different molecules (e.g., different epitopes on two different immunogens) or on the same
 molecule (e.g., different epitopes on the same immunogen). If a bispecific antibody is
 capable of selectively binding two different epitopes (a first epitope and a second epitope),
the affinity of the first heavy chain for the first epitope will generally be at least one to two
 or three or four or more orders of magnitude lower than the affinity of the first heavy chain
for the second epitope, and vice versa. Epitopes specifically bound by the bispecific
 antibody can be on the same or a different target (e.g., on the same or a different protein).
 Bispecific antibodies can be made, for example, by combining heavy chains that recognize
 different epitopes of the same immunogen. For example, nucleic acid sequences encoding
 heavy chain variable sequences that recognize different epitopes of the same immunogen
 can be fused to nucleic acid sequences encoding the same or different heavy chain
 constant regions, and such sequences can be expressed in a cell that expresses an
 immunoglobulin light chain. A typical bispecific antibody has two heavy chains each
 having three heavy chain CDRs, followed by (N-terminal to C-terminal) a CH1 domain, a
 hinge, a CH2 domain, and a CH3 domain, and an immunoglobulin light chain that either
 does not confer epitope-binding specificity but that can associate with each heavy chain, or
 that can associate with each heavy chain and that can bind one or more of the epitopes
                                                   27

bound by the heavy chain epitope-binding regions, or that can associate with each heavy
chain and enable binding or one or both of the heavy chains to one or both epitopes.
[00138]      The term "cell" includes any cell that is suitable for expressing a recombinant
nucleic acid sequence. Cells include those of prokaryotes and eukaryotes (single-cell or
multiple-cell), bacterial cells (e.g., strains of E. coli, Bacillus spp., Streptomyces spp., etc.),
mycobacteria cells, fungal cells, yeast cells (e.g., S. cerevisiae, S. pombe, P. pastoris, P.
methanolica, etc.), plant cells, insect cells (e.g., SF-9, SF-21, baculovirus-infected insect
cells, Trichoplusia ni, etc.), non-human animal cells, human cells, or cell fusions such as,
for example, hybridomas or quadromas. In some embodiments, the cell is a human,
monkey, ape, hamster, rat, or mouse cell. In some embodiments, the cell is eukaryotic and
is selected from the following cells: CHO (e.g., CHO K1, DXB-1 1 CHO, Veggie-CHO),
COS (e.g., COS-7), retinal cell, Vero, CV1, kidney (e.g., HEK293, 293 EBNA, MSR 293,
MDCK, HaK, BHK), HeLa, HepG2, W138, MRC 5, Colo205, HB 8065, HL-60, (e.g.,
BHK21), Jurkat, Daudi, A431 (epidermal), CV-1, U937, 3T3, L cell, C127 cell, SP2/0, NS-0,
MMT 060562, Sertoli cell, BRL 3A cell, HT1080 cell, myeloma cell, tumor cell, and a cell
line derived from an aforementioned cell. In some embodiments, the cell comprises one or
more viral genes, e.g., a retinal cell that expresses a viral gene (e.g., a PER.C6 TM cell).
[00139]      The phrase "complementarity determining region," or the term "CDR," includes
an amino acid sequence encoded by a nucleic acid sequence of an organism's
immunoglobulin genes that normally (i.e., in a wild type animal) appears between two
framework regions in a variable region of a light or a heavy chain of an immunoglobulin
molecule (e.g., an antibody or a T cell receptor). A CDR can be encoded by, for example,
a germline sequence or a rearranged or unrearranged sequence, and, for example, by a
naive or a mature B cell or a T cell. A CDR can be somatically mutated (e.g., vary from a
sequence encoded in an animal's germline), humanized, and/or modified with amino acid
substitutions, additions, or deletions. In some circumstances (e.g., for a CDR3), CDRs can
be encoded by two or more sequences (e.g., germline sequences) that are not contiguous
(e.g., in an unrearranged nucleic acid sequence) but are contiguous in a B cell nucleic acid
sequence, e.g., as the result of splicing or connecting the sequences (e.g., V-D-J
recombination to form a heavy chain CDR3).
[00140]      The term "conservative," when used to describe a conservative amino acid
substitution, includes substitution of an amino acid residue by another amino acid residue
having a side chain R group with similar chemical properties (e.g., charge or
hydrophobicity). In general, a conservative amino acid substitution will not substantially
change the functional properties of interest of a protein, for example, the ability of a
variable region to specifically bind a target epitope with a desired affinity. Examples of
groups of amino acids that have side chains with similar chemical properties include
                                                  28

aliphatic side chains such as glycine, alanine, valine, leucine, and isoleucine; aliphatic
hydroxyl side chains such as serine and threonine; amide-containing side chains such as
asparagine and glutamine; aromatic side chains such as phenylalanine, tyrosine, and
tryptophan; basic side chains such as lysine, arginine, and histidine; acidic side chains
such as aspartic acid and glutamic acid; and, sulfur-containing side chains such as
cysteine and methionine. Conservative amino acids substitution groups include, for
example, valine/leucine/isoleucine, phenylalanine/tyrosine, lysine/arginine, alanine/valine,
glutamate/aspartate, and asparagine/glutamine. In some embodiments, a conservative
amino acid substitution can be substitution of any native residue in a protein with alanine,
as used in, for example, alanine scanning mutagenesis. In some embodiments, a
conservative substitution is made that has a positive value in the PAM250 log-likelihood
matrix disclosed in Gonnet et al. (1992) Exhaustive Matching of the Entire Protein
Sequence Database, Science 256:1443-45, hereby incorporated by reference. In some
embodiments, the substitution is a moderately conservative substitution wherein the
substitution has a nonnegative value in the PAM250 log-likelihood matrix.
[00141]      In some embodiments, residue positions in an immunoglobulin light chain or
heavy chain differ by one or more conservative amino acid substitutions. In some
embodiments, residue positions in an immunoglobulin light chain or functional fragment
thereof (e.g., a fragment that allows expression and secretion from, e.g., a B cell) are not
identical to a light chain whose amino acid sequence is listed herein, but differs by one or
more conservative amino acid substitutions.
[00142]      The phrase "epitope-binding protein" includes a protein having at least one
CDR and that is capable of selectively recognizing an epitope, e.g., is capable of binding
an epitope with a KD that is at about one micromolar or lower (e.g., a   KD that is about 1 x
10-6 M, 1 x 10-7 M, 1 x 10-9 M, 1 x 10~9 M, 1 x 10-10 M, 1 x 10-" M, or about 1 x 1012 M).
Therapeutic epitope-binding proteins (e.g., therapeutic antibodies) frequently require a KD
that is in the nanomolar or the picomolar range.
[00143]      The phrase "functional fragment" includes fragments of epitope-binding proteins
that can be expressed, secreted, and specifically bind to an epitope with a KD in the
micromolar, nanomolar, or picomolar range. Specific recognition includes having a       KD that
is at least in the micromolar range, the nanomolar range, or the picomolar range.
[00144]      The term "germline" includes reference to an immunoglobulin nucleic acid
sequence in a non-somatically mutated cell, e.g., a non-somatically mutated B cell or pre-B
cell or hematopoietic cell.
[00145]      The phrase "heavy chain," or "immunoglobulin heavy chain" includes an
immunoglobulin heavy chain constant region sequence from any organism. Heavy chain
variable domains include three heavy chain CDRs and four FR regions, unless otherwise
                                               29

specified. Fragments of heavy chains include CDRs, CDRs and FRs, and combinations
thereof. A typical heavy chain has, following the variable domain (from N-terminal to C
terminal), a CH1 domain, a hinge, a CH2 domain, and a CH3 domain. A functional fragment
of a heavy chain includes a fragment that is capable of specifically recognizing an epitope
(e.g., recognizing the epitope with a KD in the micromolar, nanomolar, or picomolar range),
that is capable of expressing and secreting from a cell, and that comprises at least one
CDR.
[00146]      The term "identity" when used in connection with sequence, includes identity as
determined by a number of different algorithms known in the art that can be used to
measure nucleotide and/or amino acid sequence identity. In some embodiments described
herein, identities are determined using a ClustalW v. 1.83 (slow) alignment employing an
open gap penalty of 10.0, an extend gap penalty of 0.1, and using a Gonnet similarity
matrix (MacVector TM 10.0.2, MacVector Inc., 2008). The length of the sequences
compared with respect to identity of sequences will depend upon the particular sequences,
but in the case of a light chain constant domain, the length should contain sequence of
sufficient length to fold into a light chain constant domain that is capable of self-association
to form a canonical light chain constant domain, e.g., capable of forming two beta sheets
comprising beta strands and capable of interacting with at least one CH1 domain of a
human or a mouse. In the case of a CH1 domain, the length of sequence should contain
sequence of sufficient length to fold into a COH1 domain that is capable of forming two beta
sheets comprising beta strands and capable of interacting with at least one light chain
constant domain of a mouse or a human.
[00147]      The phrase "immunoglobulin molecule" includes two immunoglobulin heavy
chains and two immunoglobulin light chains. The heavy chains may be identical or
different, and the light chains may be identical or different.
[00148]      The phrase "light chain" includes an immunoglobulin light chain sequence from
any organism, and unless otherwise specified includes human K and X light chains and a
VpreB, as well as surrogate light chains. Light chain variable (VL) domains typically include
three light chain CDRs and four framework (FR) regions, unless otherwise specified.
Generally, a full-length light chain includes, from amino terminus to carboxyl terminus, a VL
domain that includes FR1-CDR1-FR2-CDR2-FR3-CDR3-FR4, and a light chain constant
domain. Light chains include those, e.g., that do not selectively bind either a first or a
second epitope selectively bound by the epitope-binding protein in which they appear.
Light chains also include those that bind and recognize, or assist the heavy chain with
binding and recognizing, one or more epitopes selectively bound by the epitope-binding
protein in which they appear.
                                                 30

[00149]     Universal light chains, or common light chains, refer to light chains made in
mice as described herein, wherein the mice are highly restricted in the selection of gene
segments available for making a light chain variable domain. As a result, such mice make
a light chain derived from, in one embodiment, no more than one or two unrearranged light
chain V segments and no more than one or two unrearranged light chain J segments (e.g.,
one V and one J, two V's and one J, one V and two J's, two V's and two J's). In one
embodiment, no more than one or two rearranged light chain V/J sequences, e.g., a
rearranged human VK1-39JK5 sequence or a rearranged human VK3-20JK1 sequence. In
various embodiments universal light chains include somatically mutated (e.g., affinity
matured) versions.
[00150]     The phrase "somatically mutated" includes reference to a nucleic acid sequence
from a B cell that has undergone class-switching, wherein the nucleic acid sequence of an
immunoglobulin variable region (e.g., a heavy chain variable domain or including a heavy
chain CDR or FR sequence) in the class-switched B cell is not identical to the nucleic acid
sequence in the B cell prior to class-switching, such as, for example, a difference in a CDR
or framework nucleic acid sequence between a B cell that has not undergone class
switching and a B cell that has undergone class-switching. "Somatically mutated" includes
reference to nucleic acid sequences from affinity-matured B cells that are not identical to
corresponding immunoglobulin variable region sequences in B cells that are not affinity
matured (i.e., sequences in the genome of germline cells). The phrase "somatically
mutated" also includes reference to an immunoglobulin variable region nucleic acid
sequence from a B cell after exposure of the B cell to an epitope of interest, wherein the
nucleic acid sequence differs from the corresponding nucleic acid sequence prior to
exposure of the B cell to the epitope of interest. The phrase "somatically mutated" refers to
sequences from antibodies that have been generated in an animal, e.g., a mouse having
human immunoglobulin variable region nucleic acid sequences, in response to an
immunogen challenge, and that result from the selection processes inherently operative in
such an animal.
[00151]     The term "unrearranged," with reference to a nucleic acid sequence, includes
nucleic acid sequences that exist in the germline of an animal cell.
[00152]     The phrase "variable domain" includes an amino acid sequence of an
immunoglobulin light or heavy chain (modified as desired) that comprises the following
amino acid regions, in sequence from N-terminal to C-terminal (unless otherwise
indicated): FR1, CDR1, FR2, CDR2, FR3, CDR3, FR4.
                        Mice with Humanized Immunoglobulin Loci
                                               31

[00153]      The mouse as a genetic model has been greatly enhanced by transgenic and
knockout technologies, which have allowed for the study of the effects of the directed over
expression or deletion of specific genes. Despite all of its advantages, the mouse still
presents genetic obstacles that render it an imperfect model for human diseases and an
imperfect platform to test human therapeutics or make them. First, although about 99% of
human genes have a mouse homolog (Waterston, R.H., et. al. (2002). Initial sequencing
and comparative analysis of the mouse genome. Nature 420, 520-562.), potential
therapeutics often fail to cross-react, or cross-react inadequately, with mouse orthologs of
the intended human targets. To obviate this problem, selected target genes can be
"humanized," that is, the mouse gene can be eliminated and replaced by the corresponding
human orthologous gene sequence (e.g., US 6,586,251, US 6,596,541 and US 7,105,348,
incorporated herein by reference). Initially, efforts to humanize mouse genes by a
"knockout-plus-transgenic humanization" strategy entailed crossing a mouse carrying a
deletion (i.e., knockout) of the endogenous gene with a mouse carrying a randomly
integrated human transgene (see, e.g., Bril, W.S., et al. (2006). Tolerance to factor Vill in a
transgenic mouse expressing human factor VIll cDNA carrying an Arg(593) to Cys
substitution. Thromb Haemost 95, 341-347; Homanics, G.E., et al. (2006). Production and
characterization of murine models of classic and intermediate maple syrup urine disease.
BMC Med Genet 7, 33; Jamsai, D., et al. (2006). A humanized BAC transgenic/knockout
mouse model for HbE/beta-thalassemia. Genomics 88(3):309-15; Pan, Q., et al. (2006).
Different role for mouse and human CD3delta/epsilon heterodimer in preT cell receptor
(preTCR) function: human CD3delta/epsilon heterodimer restores the defective preTCR
function in CD3gamma- and CD3gammadelta-deficient mice. Mol Immunol 43, 1741-1750).
But those efforts were hampered by size limitations; conventional knockout technologies
were not sufficient to directly replace large mouse genes with their large human genomic
counterparts. A straightforward approach of direct homologous replacement, in which an
endogenous mouse gene is directly replaced by the human counterpart gene at the same
 precise genetic location of the mouse gene (i.e., at the endogenous mouse locus), is rarely
attempted because of technical difficulties. Until now, efforts at direct replacement
 involved elaborate and burdensome procedures, thus limiting the length of genetic material
that could be handled and the precision with which it could be manipulated.
 [00154]     Exogenously introduced human immunoglobulin transgenes rearrange in
 precursor B-cells in mice (Alt, F.W., Blackwell, T.K., and Yancopoulos, G.D. (1985).
 Immunoglobulin genes in transgenic mice. Trends Genet 1, 231-236). This finding was
 exploited by engineering mice using the knockout-plus-transgenic approach to express
 human antibodies (Green, L.L. et al. (1994). Antigen-specific human monoclonal antibodies
from mice engineered with human Ig heavy and light chain YACs. Nat Genet 7, 13-21;
                                                32

Lonberg, N. (2005). Human antibodies from transgenic animals. Nat Biotechnol 23, 1117
1125; Lonberg, N., et al. (1994). Antigen-specific human antibodies from mice comprising
four distinct genetic modifications. Nature 368, 856-859; Jakobovits, A., et al. (2007). From
XenoMouse technology to panitumumab, the first fully human antibody product from
transgenic mice. Nat Biotechnol 25, 1134-1143). The endogenous mouse immunoglobulin
heavy chain and K light chain loci were inactivated in these mice by targeted deletion of
small but critical portions of each endogenous locus, followed by introducing human
immunoglobulin gene loci as randomly integrated large transgenes, as described above, or
minichromosomes (Tomizuka, K., et al. (2000). Double trans-chromosomic mice:
maintenance of two individual human chromosome fragments containing Ig heavy and
kappa loci and expression of fully human antibodies. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 97, 722
727). Such mice represented an important advance in genetic engineering; fully human
monoclonal antibodies isolated from them yielded promising therapeutic potential for
treating a variety of human diseases (Gibson, T.B., et al. (2006). Randomized phase III trial
results of panitumumab, a fully human anti-epidermal growth factor receptor monoclonal
antibody, in metastatic colorectal cancer. Clin Colorectal Cancer 6, 29-31; Jakobovits et al.,
2007; Kim, Y.H., et al. (2007). Clinical efficacy of zanolimumab (HuMax-CD4): two Phase 11
studies in refractory cutaneous T-cell lymphoma. Blood 109(11):4655-62; Lonberg, 2005;
Maker, A.V., et al. (2005). Tumor regression and autoimmunity in patients treated with
cytotoxic T lymphocyte-associated antigen 4 blockade and interleukin 2: a phase 1/11 study.
Ann Surg Oncol 12, 1005-1016; McClung, M.R., et al. (2006). Denosumab in
postmenopausal women with low bone mineral density. N Engl J Med 354, 821-831). But,
as discussed above, these mice exhibit compromised B cell development and immune
deficiencies when compared to wild type mice. Such problems potentially limit the ability of
the mice to support a vigorous humoral response and, consequently, generate fully human
antibodies against some antigens. The deficiencies may be due to: (1) inefficient
functionality due to the random introduction of the human immunoglobulin transgenes and
resulting incorrect expression due to a lack of upstream and downstream control elements
(Garrett, F.E., et al. (2005). Chromatin architecture near a potential 3' end of the igh locus
involves modular regulation of histone modifications during B-Cell development and in vivo
occupancy at CTCF sites. Mol Cell Biol 25, 1511-1525; Manis, J.P., et al. (2003).
Elucidation of a downstream boundary of the 3' IgH regulatory region. Mol Immunol 39,
753-760; Pawlitzky, I., et al. (2006). Identification of a candidate regulatory element within
the 5' flanking region of the mouse Igh locus defined by pro-B cell-specific hypersensitivity
associated with binding of PU.1, Pax5, and E2A. J Immunol 176, 6839-6851); (2) inefficient
interspecies interactions between human constant domains and mouse components of the
 B-cell receptor signaling complex on the cell surface, which may impair signaling
                                                 33

processes required for normal maturation, proliferation, and survival of B cells (Hombach,
J., et al. (1990). Molecular components of the B-cell antigen receptor complex of the IgM
class. Nature 343, 760-762); and (3) inefficient interspecies interactions between soluble
human immunoglobulins and mouse Fc receptors that might reduce affinity selection (Rao,
S.P., et al. (2002). Differential expression of the inhibitory IgG Fc receptor FcgammaRllB
on germinal center cells: implications for selection of high-affinity B cells. J Immunol 169,
1859-1868) and immunoglobulin serum concentrations (Brambell, F.W., et al. (1964). A
Theoretical Model of Gamma-Globulin Catabolism. Nature 203, 1352-1354; Junghans,
R.P., and Anderson, C.L. (1996). The protection receptor for IgG catabolism is the beta2
microglobulin-containing neonatal intestinal transport receptor. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A
93, 5512-5516; Rao et al., 2002; Hjelm, F., et al. (2006). Antibody-mediated regulation of
the immune response. Scand J Immunol 64, 177-184; Nimmerjahn, F., and Ravetch, J.V.
(2007). Fc-receptors as regulators of immunity. Adv Immunol 96, 179-204). These
deficiencies can be corrected by in situ humanization of only the variable regions of the
mouse immunoglobulin loci within their natural locations at the endogenous heavy and light
chain loci. This would effectively result in mice that make reverse chimeric (i.e., human V:
mouse C) antibodies that would be capable of normal interactions and selection with the
mouse environment based on retaining mouse constant regions. Further, such reverse
chimeric antibodies are readily reformatted into fully human antibodies for therapeutic
purposes.
[00155]       A method for a large in situ genetic replacement of the mouse germline
immunoglobulin variable genes with human germline immunoglobulin variable genes while
maintaining the ability of the mice to generate offspring is described. Specifically, the
precise replacement of six megabases of both the mouse heavy chain and K light chain
immunoglobulin variable gene loci with their human counterparts while leaving the mouse
constant regions intact is described. As a result, mice have been created that have a
 precise replacement of their entire germline immunoglobulin variable repertoire with
 equivalent human germline immunoglobulin variable sequences, while maintaining mouse
 constant regions. The human variable regions are linked to mouse constant regions to
form chimeric human-mouse immunoglobulin loci that rearrange and express at
 physiologically appropriate levels. The antibodies expressed are "reverse chimeras," i.e.,
 they comprise human variable region sequences and mouse constant region sequences.
 These mice having humanized immunoglobulin variable regions that express antibodies
 having human variable regions and mouse constant regions are called VELCOIMMUNE@
 humanized mice.
 [00156]      VELOCIMMUNE@ humanized mice exhibit a fully functional humoral immune
 system that is essentially indistinguishable from that of wild-type mice. They display
                                                 34

normal cell populations at all stages of B cell development. They exhibit normal lymphoid
organ morphology. Antibody sequences of VELOCIMMUNE@ humanized mice exhibit
normal variable segment rearrangement and normal somatic hypermutation. Antibody
populations in these mice reflect isotype distributions that result from normal class
switching (e.g., normal isotype cis-switching). Immunizing VELOCIMMUNE@ humanized
mice results in robust humoral responses that generate a large diversity of antibodies
having human immunoglobulin variable domains suitable as therapeutic candidates. This
platform provides a plentiful source of affinity-matured human immunoglobulin variable
region sequences for making pharmaceutically acceptable antibodies and other antigen
binding proteins.
[00157]      It is the precise replacement of mouse immunoglobulin variable sequences with
human immunoglobulin variable sequences that allows for making VELOCIMMUNE@
humanized mice. Yet even a precise replacement of endogenous mouse immunoglobulin
sequences at heavy and light chain loci with equivalent human immunoglobulin sequences,
by sequential recombineering of very large spans of human immunoglobulin sequences,
may present certain challenges due to divergent evolution of the immunoglobulin loci
between mouse and man. For example, intergenic sequences interspersed within the
immunoglobulin loci are not identical between mice and humans and, in some
circumstances, may not be functionally equivalent. Differences between mice and humans
in their immunoglobulin loci can still result in abnormalities in humanized mice, particularly
when humanizing or manipulating certain portions of endogenous mouse immunoglobulin
heavy chain loci. Some modifications at mouse immunoglobulin heavy chain loci are
deleterious. Deleterious modifications can include, for example, loss of the ability of the
modified mice to mate and produce offspring.
[00158]      A precise, large-scale, in situ replacement of six megabases of the variable
regions of the mouse heavy and light chain immunoglobulin loci       (VH-DH-JH and VK-JK) with
the corresponding 1.4 megabases human genomic sequences was performed, while
leaving the flanking mouse sequences intact and functional within the hybrid loci, including
all mouse constant chain genes and locus transcriptional control regions (Figure 1).
 Specifically, the human    VH, DH, JH, VK and Jx gene sequences were introduced through
 stepwise insertion of 13 chimeric BAC targeting vectors bearing overlapping fragments of
the human germline variable loci into mouse ES cells using VELOCIGENE genetic
 engineering technology (see, e.g., US Pat. No. 6,586,251 and Valenzuela, D.M., et al.
 (2003). High-throughput engineering of the mouse genome coupled with high-resolution
 expression analysis. Nat Biotechnol 21, 652-659).
                                                 35

[00159]      Humanization of the mouse immunoglobulin genes represents the largest
genetic modification to the mouse genome to date. While previous efforts with randomly
integrated human immunoglobulin transgenes have met with some success (discussed
above), direct replacement of the mouse immunoglobulin genes with their human
counterparts dramatically increases the efficiency with which fully-human antibodies can be
efficiently generated in otherwise normal mice. Further, such mice exhibit a dramatically
increased diversity of fully-human antibodies that can be obtained after immunization with
virtually any antigen, as compared with mice bearing disabled endogenous loci and fully
human antibody transgenes. Multiple versions of replaced, humanized loci exhibit
completely normal levels of mature and immature B cells, in contrast to mice with randomly
integrated human transgenes, which exhibit significantly reduced B cell populations at
various stages of differentiation. While efforts to increase the number of human gene
segments in human transgenic mice have reduced such defects, the expanded
immunoglobulin repertoires have not altogether corrected reductions in B cell populations
as compared to wild-type mice.
[00160]      Notwithstanding the near wild-type humoral immune function observed in mice
with replaced immunoglobulin loci, there are other challenges encountered when
employing a direct replacement of the immunoglobulin that is not encountered in some
approaches that employ randomly integrated transgenes. Differences in the genetic
composition of the immunoglobulin loci between mice and humans has lead to the
discovery of sequences beneficial for the propagation of mice with replaced
immunoglobulin gene segments. Specifically, mouse ADAM genes located within the
endogenous immunoglobulin locus are optimally present in mice with replaced
 immunoglobulin loci, due to their role in fertility.
                                                  36

                     Genomic Location and Function of Mouse ADAM6
[00161]      Male mice that lack the ability to express any functional ADAM6 protein exhibit
a severe defect in the ability of the mice to mate and to generate offspring. The mice lack
the ability to express a functional ADAM6 protein by virtue of a replacement of all or
substantially all mouse immunoglobulin variable region gene segments with human
variable region gene segments. The loss of ADAM6 function results because the ADAM6
locus is located within a region of the endogenous mouse immunoglobulin heavy chain
variable region gene locus, proximal to the 3' end of the     VH gene segment locus that is
upstream of the    DH gene segments. In order to breed mice that are homozygous for a
replacement of all or substantially all endogenous mouse heavy chain variable gene
segments with human heavy chain variable gene segments, it is generally a cumbersome
approach to set up males and females that are each homozygous for the replacement and
await a productive mating. Successful litters are relatively rare, and average litter size is
very low. Instead, males heterozygous for the replacement have been employed to mate
with females homozygous for the replacement to generate progeny that are heterozygous
for the replacement, then breed a homozygous mouse therefrom. The inventors have
determined that the likely cause of the loss in fertility in the male mice is the absence in
homozygous male mice of a functional ADAM6 protein.
 [00162]      The ADAM6 protein is a member of the ADAM family of proteins, where ADAM
is an acronym for A Disintegrin And Metalloprotease. The ADAM family of proteins is large
and diverse, with diverse functions. Some members of the ADAM family are implicated in
spermatogenesis and fertilization. For example, ADAM2 encodes a subunit of the protein
fertilin, which is implicated in sperm-egg interactions. ADAM3, or cyritestin, appears
 necessary for sperm binding to the zona pellucida. The absence of either ADAM2 or
ADAM3 results in infertility. It has been postulated that ADAM2, ADAM3, and ADAM6 form
 a complex on the surface of mouse sperm cells.
 [00163]      The human ADAM6 gene, normally found between human             VH gene segments
VH1-2 and VH6-1, appears to be a pseudogene (Figure 12). In mice, there are two ADAM6
 genes-ADAM6a and ADAM6b-that are found in an intergenic region between mouse                 VH
 and   DH gene segments, and in the mouse the a and b genes are oriented in a
 transcriptional orientation opposite to that of the transcription orientation of the surrounding
 immunoglobulin gene segments (Figure 11). In mice, a functional ADAM6 locus is
 apparently required for normal fertilization. A functional ADAM6 locus or sequence, then,
 refers to an ADAM6 locus or sequence that can complement, or rescue, the drastically
 reduced fertilization exhibited in male mice with missing or damaged endogenous ADAM6
 loci.
                                                 37

[00164]      The position of the intergenic sequence in mice that encodes ADAM6a and
ADAM6b renders the intergenic sequence susceptible to modification when modifying an
endogenous mouse heavy chain. When           VH  gene segments are deleted or replaced, or
when    DH gene segments are deleted or replaced, there is a high probability that a resulting
mouse will exhibit a severe deficit in fertility. In order to compensate for the deficit, the
mouse is modified to include a nucleotide sequence that encodes a protein that will
complement the loss in ADAM6 activity due to a modification of the endogenous mouse
ADAM6 locus. In various embodiments, the complementing nucleotide sequence is one
that encodes a mouse ADAM6a, a mouse ADAM6b, or a homolog or ortholog or functional
fragment thereof that rescues the fertility deficit.
[00165]      The nucleotide sequence that rescues fertility can be placed at any suitable
position. It can be placed in the intergenic region, or in any suitable position in the genome
(i.e., ectopically). In one embodiment, the nucleotide sequence can be introduced into a
transgene that randomly integrates into the mouse genome. In one embodiment, the
sequence can be maintained episomally, that is, on a separate nucleic acid rather than on
a mouse chromosome. Suitable positions include positions that are transcriptionally
permissive or active, e.g., a ROSA26 locus.
[00166]      The term "ectopic" is intended to include a displacement, or a placement at a
position that is not normally encountered in nature (e.g., placement of a nucleic acid
sequence at a position that is not the same position as the nucleic acid sequence is found
in a wild-type mouse). The term in various embodiments is used in the sense of its object
being out of its normal, or proper, position. For example, the phrase "an ectopic nucleotide
sequence encoding ..." refers to a nucleotide sequence that appears at a position at which
it is not normally encountered in the mouse. For example, in the case of an ectopic
nucleotide sequence encoding a mouse ADAM6 protein (or an ortholog or homolog or
fragment thereof that provides the same or similar fertility benefit on male mice), the
sequence can be placed at a different position in the mouse's genome than is normally
found in a wild-type mouse. A functional homolog or ortholog of mouse ADAM6 is a
sequence that confers a rescue of fertility loss (e.g., loss of the ability of a male mouse to
generate offspring by mating) that is observed in an ADAM6# mouse. Functional
homologs or orthologs include proteins that have at least about 89% identity or more, e.g.,
up to 99% identity, to the amino acid sequence of ADAM6a and/or to the amino acid
sequence of ADAM6b, and that can complement, or rescue ability to successfully mate, of
a mouse that has a genotype that includes a deletion or knockout of ADAM6a and/or
ADAM6b.
[00167]      The ectopic position can be anywhere (e.g., as with random insertion of a
transgene containing a mouse ADAM6 sequence), or can be, e.g., at a position that
                                                  38

approximates (but is not precisely the same as) its location in a wild-type mouse (e.g., in a
modified endogenous mouse immunoglobulin locus, but either upstream or downstream of
its natural position, e.g., within a modified immunoglobulin locus but between different gene
segments, or at a different position in a mouse V-D intergenic sequence). One example of
an ectopic placement is placement within a humanized immunoglobulin heavy chain locus.
For example, a mouse comprising a replacement of one or more endogenous             VH  gene
segments with human       VH gene segments, wherein the replacement removes an
endogenous ADAM6 sequence, can be engineered to have a mouse ADAM6 sequence
located within sequence that contains the human        VH gene segments. The resulting
modification would generate an (ectopic) mouse ADAM6 sequence within a human gene
sequence, and the (ectopic) placement of the mouse ADAM6 sequence within the human
gene sequence can approximate the position of the human ADAM6 pseudogene (i.e.,
between two V segments) or can approximate the position of the mouse ADAM6 sequence
(i.e., within the V-D intergenic region).
[00168]       In various aspects, mice that comprise deletions or replacements of the
endogenous heavy chain variable region locus or portions thereof can be made that
contain an ectopic nucleotide sequence that encodes a protein that confers similar fertility
benefits to mouse ADAM6 (e.g., an ortholog or a homolog or a fragment thereof that is
functional in a male mouse). The ectopic nucleotide sequence can include a nucleotide
sequence that encodes a protein that is an ADAM6 homolog or ortholog (or fragment
thereof) of a different mouse strain or a different species, e.g., a different rodent species,
and that confers a benefit in fertility, e.g., increased number of litters over a specified time
period, and/or increased number of pups per litter, and/or the ability of a sperm cell of a
male mouse to traverse through a mouse oviduct to fertilize a mouse egg.
[00169]       In one embodiment, the ADAM6 is a homolog or ortholog that is at least 89% to
99% identical to a mouse ADAM6 protein (e.g., at least 89% to 99% identical to mouse
ADAM6a or mouse ADAM6b). In one embodiment, the ectopic nucleotide sequence
encodes one or more proteins independently selected from a protein at least 89% identical
to mouse ADAM6a, a protein at least 89% identical to mouse ADAM6b, and a combination
thereof. In one embodiment, the homolog or ortholog is a rat, hamster, mouse, or guine
pig protein that is or is modified to be about 89% or more identical to mouse ADAM6a
and/or mouse ADAM6b. In one embodiment, the homolog or ortholog is 90%, 91%, 92%,
93%, 94%, 95%, 96%, 97%, 98%, or 99% identical to a mouse ADAM6a and/or mouse
ADAM6b.
                       Ectopic ADAM6 in Humanized Heavy Chain Mice
                                                  39

[00170]        Mice that make human antibodies have been available for some time now.
Although they represent an important advance in the development of human therapeutic
antibodies, these mice display a number of significant abnormalities that limit their
usefulness. For example, they display compromised B cell development. The
compromised development may be due to a variety of differences between the transgenic
mice and wild-type mice.
[00171]        Human antibodies might not optimally interact with mouse pre B cell or B cell
receptors on the surface of mouse cells that signal for maturation, proliferation, or survival
during clonal selection. Fully human antibodies might not optimally interact with a mouse
Fc receptor system; mice express Fc receptors that do not display a one-to-one
correspondence with human Fc receptors. Finally, various mice that make fully human
antibodies do not include all genuine mouse sequences, e.g., downstream enhancer
elements and other locus control elements, which may be required for wild-type B cell
development.
[00172]        Mice that make fully human antibodies generally comprise endogenous
immunoglobulin loci that are disabled in some way, and human transgenes that comprise
variable and constant immunoglobulin gene segments are introduced into a random
location in the mouse genome. As long as the endogenous locus is sufficiently disabled so
as not to rearrange gene segments to form a functional immunoglobulin gene, the goal of
making fully human antibodies in such a mouse can be achieved-albeit with compromised
B cell development.
[00173]       Although compelled to make fully human antibodies from the human transgene
locus, generating human antibodies in a mouse is apparently an unfavored process. In
some mice, the process is so unfavored as to result in formation of chimeric human
variable/mouse constant heavy chains (but not light chains) through the mechanism of
trans-switching. By this mechanism, transcripts that encode fully human antibodies
undergo isotype switching in trans from the human isotype to a mouse isotype. The
process is in trans, because the fully human transgene is located apart from the
endogenous locus that retains an undamaged copy of a mouse heavy chain constant
region gene. Although in such mice trans-switching is readily apparent the phenomenon is
still insufficient to rescue B cell development, which remains frankly impaired. In any
event, trans-switched antibodies made in such mice retain fully human light chains, since
the phenomenon of trans-switching apparently does not occur with respect to light chains;
trans-switching presumably relies on switch sequences in endogenous loci used (albeit
differently) in normal isotype switching in cis. Thus, even when mice engineered to make
fully human antibodies select a trans-switching mechanism to make antibodies with mouse
constant regions, the strategy is still insufficient to rescue normal B cell development.
                                                 40

[00174]      A primary concern in making antibody-based human therapeutics is making a
sufficiently large diversity of human immunoglobulin variable region sequences to identify
useful variable domains that specifically recognize particular epitopes and bind them with a
desirable affinity, usually-but not always-with high affinity. Prior to the development of
VELOCIMMUNE@ humanized mice, there was no indication that mice expressing human
variable regions with mouse constant regions would exhibit any significant differences from
mice that made human antibodies from a transgene. That supposition, however, was
incorrect.
[00175]      VELOCIMMUNE@ humanized mice, which contain a precise replacement of
mouse immunoglobulin variable regions with human immunoglobulin variable regions at
the endogenous mouse loci, display a surprising and remarkable similarity to wild-type
mice with respect to B cell development. In a surprising and stunning development,
VELOCIMMUNE@ humanized mice displayed an essentially normal, wild-type response to
immunization that differed only in one significant respect from wild-type mice-the variable
regions generated in response to immunization are fully human.
[00176]      VELOCIMMUNE@ humanized mice contain a precise, large-scale replacement
of germline variable regions of mouse immunoglobulin heavy chain (IgH) and
immunoglobulin light chain (e.g.,    x light chain, Igx) with corresponding human
immunoglobulin variable regions, at the endogenous loci. In total, about six megabases of
mouse loci are replaced with about 1.4 megabases of human genomic sequence. This
precise replacement results in a mouse with hybrid immunoglobulin loci that make heavy
and light chains that have a human variable regions and a mouse constant region. The
precise replacement of mouse       VH-DH-JH   and Vx-Jx segments leave flanking mouse
sequences intact and functional at the hybrid immunoglobulin loci. The humoral immune
system of the mouse functions like that of a wild-type mouse. B cell development is
unhindered in any significant respect and a rich diversity of human variable regions is
generated in the mouse upon antigen challenge.
[00177]      VELOCIMMUNE@ humanized mice are possible because immunoglobulin gene
segments for heavy and      K light chains rearrange similarly in humans and mice, which is not
to say that their loci are the same or even nearly so-clearly they are not. However, the
loci are similar enough that humanization of the heavy chain variable gene locus can be
accomplished by replacing about 3 million base pairs of contiguous mouse sequence that
contains all the  VH, DH, and   JH gene segments with about 1 million bases of contiguous
human genomic sequence covering basically the equivalent sequence from a human
immunoglobulin locus.
                                                  41

[00178]      In some embodiments, further replacement of certain mouse constant region
gene sequences with human gene sequences (e.g., replacement of mouse CH1 sequence
with human CH1 sequence, and replacement of mouse CL sequence with human CL
sequence) results in mice with hybrid immunoglobulin loci that make antibodies that have
human variable regions and partly human constant regions, suitable for, e.g., making fully
human antibody fragments, e.g., fully human Fab's. Mice with hybrid immunoglobulin loci
exhibit normal variable gene segment rearrangement, normal somatic hypermutation, and
normal class switching. These mice exhibit a humoral immune system that is
indistinguishable from wild type mice, and display normal cell populations at all stages of B
cell development and normal lymphoid organ structures-even where the mice lack a full
repertoire of human variable region gene segments. Immunizing these mice results in
robust humoral responses that display a wide diversity of variable gene segment usage.
[00179]      The precise replacement of mouse germline variable region gene segments
allows for making mice that have partly human immunoglobulin loci. Because the partly
human immunoglobulin loci rearrange, hypermutate, and class switch normally, the partly
human immunoglobulin loci generate antibodies in a mouse that comprise human variable
regions. Nucleotide sequences that encode the variable regions can be identified and
cloned, then fused (e.g., in an in vitro system) with any sequences of choice, e.g., any
immunoglobulin isotype suitable for a particular use, resulting in an antibody or antigen
binding protein derived wholly from human sequences.
[00180]      Large-scale humanization by recombineering methods were used to modify
mouse embryonic stem (ES) cells to precisely replace up to 3 megabases of the mouse
heavy chain immunoglobulin locus that included essentially all of the mouse     VH, DH, and JH
gene segments with equivalent human gene segments with up to a 1 megabase human
genomic sequence containing some or essentially all human VH, DH, and       JH gene
segments. Up to a 0.5 megabase segment of the human genome comprising one of two
 repeats encoding essentially all human VK and JK gene segments was used to replace a 3
 megabase segment of the mouse immunoglobulin K light chain locus containing essentially
 all of the mouse Vx and JK gene segments.
 [00181]      Mice with such replaced immunoglobulin loci can comprise a disruption or
 deletion of the endogenous mouse ADAM6 locus, which is normally found between the 3'
 most   VH gene segment and the 5'-most DH gene segment at the mouse immunoglobulin
 heavy chain locus. Disruption in this region can lead to reduction or elimination of
 functionality of the endogenous mouse ADAM6 locus. If the 3-most      VH  gene segments of
 the human heavy chain repertoire are used in a replacement, an intergenic region
 containing a pseudogene that appears to be a human ADAM6 pseudogene is present
                                               42

between these VH gene segments, i.e., between human VH1-2 and VH1-6. However, male
mice that comprise this human intergenic sequence exhibit little or no fertility.
[00182]      Mice are described that comprise the replaced loci as described above, and
that also comprise an ectopic nucleic acid sequence encoding a mouse ADAM6, where the
mice exhibit essentially normal fertility. In one embodiment, the ectopic nucleic acid
sequence is SEQ ID NO:3, placed between human VH1-2 and VH1-6 at the modified
endogenous mouse heavy chain locus. The direction of transcription of the ADAM6 genes
of SEQ ID NO:3 are opposite with respect to the direction of transcription of the
surrounding human VH gene segments. Although examples herein show rescue of fertility
by placing the ectopic sequence between the indicated human VH gene segments, skilled
persons will recognize that placement of the ectopic sequence at any suitable
transcriptionally-permissive locus in the mouse genome (or even extrachromosomally) will
be expected to similarly rescue fertility in a male mouse.
[00183]      The phenomenon of complementing a mouse that lacks a functional ADAM6
locus with an ectopic sequence that comprises a mouse ADAM6 gene or ortholog or
homolog or functional fragment thereof is a general method that is applicable to rescuing
any mice with nonfunctional or minimally functional endogenous ADAM6 loci. Thus, a
great many mice that comprise an ADAM6-disrupting modification of the immunoglobulin
heavy chain locus can be rescued with the compositions and methods of the invention.
Accordingly, the invention comprises mice with a wide variety of modifications of
immunoglobulin heavy chain loci that compromise endogenous ADAM6 function. Some
 (non-limiting) examples are provided in this description. In addition to the
VELOCIMMUNE@ humanized mice described, the compositions and methods related to
ADAM6 can be used in a great many applications, e.g., when modifying a heavy chain
 locus in a wide variety of ways.
 [00184]     In one aspect, a mouse is provided that comprises an ectopic ADAM6
 sequence that encodes a functional ADAM6 protein (or ortholog or homolog or functional
 fragment thereof), a replacement of all or substantially all mouse VH gene segments with
 one or more human VH gene segments, a replacement of all or substantially all mouse DH
 gene segments and     JH gene segments with human DH and human       JH gene segments;
 wherein the mouse lacks a CH1 and/or hinge region. In one embodiment, the mouse
 makes a single variable domain binding protein that is a dimer of immunoglobulin chains
 selected from: (a) human VH   -  mouse CH1 - mouse CH2 - mouse CH3 ; (b) human VH
 mouse hinge - mouse CH2 - mouse CH3 ; and, (c) human VH - mouse CH2 - mouse CH3 .
 [00185]     In one aspect, the nucleotide sequence that rescues fertility is placed within a
 human immunoglobulin heavy chain variable region sequence (e.g., between human VH1-          2
 and VH1-6 gene segments) in a mouse that has a replacement of all or substantially all
                                                43

mouse immunoglobulin heavy chain variable gene segments (mVH's, mDH'S, and mJH'S)
with one or more human immunoglobulin heavy chain variable gene segments (hVH'S,
hDH's, and hJH's), and the mouse further comprises a replacement of all or substantially all
mouse immunoglobulin K light chain variable gene segments (mVK's, mJK's) with one or
more human immunoglobulin K light chain variable gene segments (hVK's and hJK's). In
one embodiment, the nucleotide sequence is placed between a human VH1-2 gene
segment and a human VH1-6 gene segment in a VELOCIMMUNE@ humanized mouse (US
6,596,541 and US 7,105,348, incorporated herein by reference). In one embodiment, the
VELOCIMMUNE@ humanized mouse so modified comprises a replacement with all or
substantially all human immunoglobulin heavy chain variable gene segments (all hVH'S,
hDH's, and hJH's) and all or substantially all human immunoglobulin K light chain variable
gene segments (hVK's and hJK's).
[00186]      In one aspect, a functional mouse ADAM6 locus (or ortholog or homolog or
functional fragment thereof) can be placed in the midst of human     VH gene segments that
replace endogenous mouse       VH  gene segments. In one embodiment, all or substantially all
mouse    VH gene segments are removed and replaced with one or more human         VH gene
segments, and the mouse ADAM6 locus is placed immediately adjacent to the 3' end of the
human    VH gene segments, or between two human      VH  gene segments. In a specific
embodiment, the mouse ADAM6 locus is placed between two          VH  gene segments near the
3' terminus of the inserted human     VH gene segments. In a specific embodiment, the
replacement includes human       VH  gene segments VH1- 2 and VH6-1, and the mouse ADAM6
locus is placed downstream of the VH1-2 gene segment and upstream of the VH6-1 gene
segment. In a specific embodiment, the arrangement of human        VH  gene segments is then
the following (from upstream to downstream with respect to direction of transcription of the
                                            2 - mouse ADAM6 locus - human VH6-1. In a
 human VH gene segments): human VH1-
specific embodiment, the ADAM6 pseudogene between human VH1-2 and human VH6-1 is
 replaced with the mouse ADAM6 locus. In one embodiment, the orientation of one or more
 of mouse ADAM6a and mouse ADAM6b of the mouse ADAM6 locus is opposite with
 respect to direction of transcription as compared with the orientation of the human VH gene
 segments. Alternatively, the mouse ADAM6 locus can be placed in the intergenic region
 between the 3'-most human      VH  gene segment and the 5'-most  DH  gene segment. This can
 be the case whether the 5'-most DH segment is mouse or human.
 [00187]     Similarly, a mouse modified with one or more human VL gene segments (e.g.,
VK or Vk segments) replacing all or substantially all endogenous mouse VH gene segments
 can be modified so as to either maintain the endogenous mouse ADAM6 locus, as
 described above, e.g., by employing a targeting vector having a downstream homology
                                                44

arm that includes a mouse ADAM6 locus or functional fragment thereof, or to replace a
damaged mouse ADAM6 locus with an ectopic sequence positioned between two human
VL gene segments or between the human VL gene segments and a          DH gene segment
(whether human or mouse, e.g., VX + m/hDH), or a J gene segment (whether human or
mouse, e.g., Vxc   + JH).  In one embodiment, the replacement includes two or more human
VL gene segments, and the mouse ADAM6 locus or functional fragment thereof is placed
between the two 3'-most VL gene segments. In a specific embodiment, the arrangement of
human VL gene segments is then the following (from upstream to downstream with respect
to direction of transcription of the human gene segments): human VL3'-1 - mouse ADAM6
locus - human VL3 '. In one embodiment, the orientation of one or more of mouse
ADAM6a and mouse ADAM6b of the mouse ADAM6 locus is opposite with respect to
direction of transcription as compared with the orientation of the human VL gene segments.
Alternatively, the mouse ADAM6 locus can be placed in the intergenic region between the
3'-most human VL gene segment and the 5'-most        DH  gene segment. This can be the case
whether the 5'-most    DH   segment is mouse or human.
 [00188]     In one aspect, a mouse is provided with a replacement of one or more
endogenous mouse       VH   gene segments, and that comprises at least one endogenous
 mouse   DH gene segment. In such a mouse, the modification of the endogenous mouse        VH
gene segments can comprise a modification of one or more of the 3'-most      VH  gene
 segments, but not the 5'-most     DH gene segment, where care is taken so that the
 modification of the one or more 3'-most   VH  gene segments does not disrupt or render the
 endogenous mouse ADAM6 locus nonfunctional. For example, in one embodiment the
 mouse comprises a replacement of all or substantially all endogenous mouse      VH gene
 segments with one or more human       VH gene segments, and the mouse comprises one or
 more endogenous      DH  gene segments and a functional endogenous mouse ADAM6 locus.
 [00189]     In another embodiment, the mouse comprises the modification of endogenous
 mouse 3'-most    VH  gene segments, and a modification of one or more endogenous mouse
 DH gene segments, and the modification is carried out so as to maintain the integrity of the
 endogenous mouse ADAM6 locus to the extent that the endogenous ADAM6 locus
 remains functional. In one example, such a modification is done in two steps: (1)
 replacing the 3'-most endogenous mouse       VH  gene segments with one or more human   VH
 gene segments employing a targeting vector with an upstream homology arm and a
 downstream homology arm wherein the downstream homology arm includes all or a
 portion of a functional mouse ADAM6 locus; (2) then replacing and endogenous mouse        DH
 gene segment with a targeting vector having an upstream homology arm that includes a all
 or a functional portion of a mouse ADAM6 locus.
                                                 45

[00190]      In various aspects, employing mice that contain an ectopic sequence that
encodes a mouse ADAM6 protein or an ortholog or homolog or functional homolog thereof
are useful where modifications disrupt the function of endogenous mouse ADAM6. The
probability of disrupting endogenous mouse ADAM6 function is high when making
modifications to mouse immunoglobulin loci, in particular when modifying mouse
immunoglobulin heavy chain variable regions and surrounding sequences. Therefore,
such mice provide particular benefit when making mice with immunoglobulin heavy chain
loci that are deleted in whole or in part, are humanized in whole or in part, or are replaced
(e.g., with Vx or V sequences) in whole or in part. Methods for making the genetic
modifications described for the mice described below are known to those skilled in the art.
[00191]      Mice containing an ectopic sequence encoding a mouse ADAM6 protein, or a
substantially identical or similar protein that confers the fertility benefits of a mouse ADAM6
protein, are particularly useful in conjunction with modifications to a mouse immunoglobulin
heavy chain variable region gene locus that disrupt or delete the endogenous mouse
ADAM6 sequence. Although primarily described in connection with mice that express
antibodies with human variable regions and mouse constant regions, such mice are useful
 in connection with any genetic modifications that disrupt the endogenous mouse ADAM6
 gene. Persons of skill will recognize that this encompasses a wide variety of genetically
 modified mice that contain modifications of the mouse immunoglobulin heavy chain
variable region gene locus. These include, for example, mice with a deletion or a
 replacement of all or a portion of the mouse immunoglobulin heavy chain gene segments,
 regardless of other modifications. Non-limiting examples are described below.
 [00192]      In some aspects, genetically modified mice are provided that comprise an
 ectopic mouse, rodent, or other ADAM6 gene (or ortholog or homolog or fragment)
 functional in a mouse, and one or more human immunoglobulin variable and/or constant
  region gene segments.
  [00193]     In one aspect, a mouse is provided that comprises an ectopic ADAM6
  sequence that encodes a functional ADAM6 protein, a replacement of all or substantially all
  mouse   VH gene segments with one or more human       VH  gene segments; a replacement of
  all or substantially all mouse DH gene segments with one or more human          DH gene
  segments; and a replacement of all or substantially all mouse       JH gene segments with one
  or more human    JH  gene segments.
  [00194]     In one embodiment, the mouse further comprises a replacement of a mouse
  CH1 nucleotide sequence with a human CH1 nucleotide sequence. In one embodiment, the
  mouse further comprises a replacement of a mouse hinge nucleotide sequence with a
  human hinge nucleotide sequence. In one embodiment, the mouse further comprises a
  replacement of an immunoglobulin light chain variable locus (VL and JL) with a human
                                                 46

 immunoglobulin light chain variable locus. In one embodiment, the mouse further
 comprises a replacement of a mouse immunoglobulin light chain constant region
 nucleotide sequence with a human immunoglobulin light chain constant region nucleotide
sequence. In a specific embodiment, the VL, JL, and CL are immunoglobulin K light chain
sequences. In a specific embodiment, the mouse comprises a mouse CH2 and a mouse
CH3  immunoglobulin constant region sequence fused with a human hinge and a human
CH1  sequence, such that the mouse immunoglobulin loci rearrange to form a gene that
encodes a binding protein comprising (a) a heavy chain that has a human variable region,
a human CH1 region, a human hinge region, and a mouse CH2 and a mouse CH3 region;
and (b) a gene that encodes an immunoglobulin light chain that comprises a human
variable domain and a human constant region.
[00195]     In one aspect, a mouse is provided that comprises an ectopic ADAM6
sequence that encodes a functional ADAM6 protein, a replacement of all or substantially all
mouse   VH gene segments with one or more human VL gene segments, and optionally a
replacement of all or substantially all  DH gene segments and/or JH gene segments with one
or more human     DH gene segments and/or human     JH gene segments, or optionally a
replacement of all or substantially all DH  gene segments and JH  gene segments with one or
more human JL gene segments.
[00196]     In one embodiment, the mouse comprises a replacement of all or substantially
all mouse  VH,  DH, and  JH gene segments with one or more VL, one or more DH, and one or
more J gene segments (e.g., JK or JR), wherein the gene segments are operably linked to
an endogenous mouse hinge region, wherein the mouse forms a rearranged
immunoglobulin chain gene that contains, from 5' to 3' in the direction of transcription,
human VL - human or mouse        DH - human or mouse J - mouse hinge - mouse CH2
mouse CH3    . In one embodiment, the J region is a human JK region. In one embodiment,
the J region is a human    JH region. In one embodiment, the J region is a human JR region.
In one embodiment, the human VL region is selected from a human VX region and a
human VK region.
[00197]     In specific embodiments, the mouse expresses a single variable domain
antibody having a mouse or human constant region and a variable region derived from a
human Vx, a human DH and a human JK; a human VK, a human DH, and a human              JH;  a
human VX, a human DH, and a human JX; a human VX, a human DH, and a human              JH; a
human VK, a human DH, and a human JX; a human VX, a human DH, and a human JK. In
specific embodiment, recombination recognition sequences are modified so as to allow for
productive rearrangements to occur between recited V, D, and J gene segments or
between recited V and J gene segments.
                                               47

[00198]     In one aspect, a mouse is provided that comprises an ectopic ADAM6
sequence that encodes a functional ADAM6 protein (or ortholog or homolog or functional
fragment thereof), a replacement of all or substantially all mouse VH gene segments with
one or more human VL gene segments, a replacement of all or substantially all mouse DH
gene segment and     JH  gene segments with human JL gene segments; wherein the mouse
lacks a CH1 and/or hinge region.
[00199]     In one embodiment, the mouse lacks a sequence encoding a CH1 domain. In
one embodiment, the mouse lacks a sequence encoding a hinge region. In one
embodiment, the mouse lacks a sequence encoding a CH1 domain and a hinge region.
[00200]     In a specific embodiment, the mouse expresses a binding protein that
comprises a human immunoglobulin light chain variable domain (Qor        i) fused to a mouse
CH2  domain that is attached to a mouse CH3 domain.
[00201]     In one aspect, a mouse is provided that comprises an ectopic ADAM6
sequence that encodes a functional ADAM6 protein (or ortholog or homolog or functional
fragment thereof), a replacement of all or substantially all mouse VH gene segments with
one or more human VL gene segments, a replacement of all or substantially all mouse DH
and  JH gene segments with human JL gene segments.
[00202]     In one embodiment, the mouse comprises a deletion of an immunoglobulin
heavy chain constant region gene sequence encoding a CH 1 region, a hinge region, a CH 1
and a hinge region, or a CH1 region and a hinge region and a CH2 region.
[00203]     In one embodiment, the mouse makes a single variable domain binding protein
comprising a homodimer selected from the following: (a) human VL - mouse CH1 - mouse
CH2  - mouse CH3 ; (b) human VL - mouse hinge - mouse CH2 - mouse CH3 ; (c) human VL
- mouse CH2 - mouse CH3
[00204]     In one aspect, a mouse is provided with a disabled endogenous heavy chain
immunoglobulin locus, comprising a disabled or deleted endogenous mouse ADAM6 locus,
wherein the mouse comprises a nucleic acid sequence that expresses a human or mouse
or human/mouse or other chimeric antibody. In one embodiment, the nucleic acid
sequence is present on a transgene integrated that is randomly integrated into the mouse
genome. In one embodiment, the nucleic acid sequence is on an episome (e.g., a
chromosome) not found in a wild-type mouse.
                             Common, or Universal, Light Chain
[00205]     Prior efforts to make useful multispecific epitope-binding proteins, e.g.,
bispecific antibodies, have been hindered by variety of problems that frequently share a
common paradigm: in vitro selection or manipulation of sequences to rationally engineer,
or to engineer through trial-and-error, a suitable format for pairing a heterodimeric
                                               48

bispecific human immunoglobulin. Unfortunately, most if not all of the in vitro engineering
approaches provide largely ad hoc fixes that are suitable, if at all, for individual molecules.
On the other hand, in vivo methods for employing complex organisms to select appropriate
pairings that are capable of leading to human therapeutics have not been realized.
[00206]      Generally, native mouse sequences are frequently not a good source for human
therapeutic sequences. For at least that reason, generating mouse heavy chain
immunoglobulin variable regions that pair with a common human light chain is of limited
practical utility. More in vitro engineering efforts would be expended in a trial-and-error
process to try to humanize the mouse heavy chain variable sequences while hoping to
retain epitope specificity and affinity while maintaining the ability to couple with the
common human light chain, with uncertain outcome. At the end of such a process, the
final product may maintain some of the specificity and affinity, and associate with the
common light chain, but ultimately immunogenicity in a human would likely remain a
profound risk.
[00207]     Therefore, a suitable mouse for making human therapeutics would include a
suitably large repertoire of human heavy chain variable region gene segments in place of
endogenous mouse heavy chain variable region gene segments. The human heavy chain
variable region gene segments should be able to rearrange and recombine with an
endogenous mouse heavy chain constant domain to form a reverse chimeric heavy chain
(i.e., a heavy chain comprising a human variable domain and a mouse constant region).
The heavy chain should be capable of class switching and somatic hypermutation so that a
suitably large repertoire of heavy chain variable domains are available for the mouse to
select one that can associate with the limited repertoire of human light chain variable
regions.
[00208]     A mouse that selects a common light chain for a plurality of heavy chains has a
practical utility. In various embodiments, antibodies that express in a mouse that can only
express a common light chain will have heavy chains that can associate and express with
an identical or substantially identical light chain. This is particularly useful in making
bispecific antibodies. For example, such a mouse can be immunized with a first
immunogen to generate a B cell that expresses an antibody that specifically binds a first
epitope. The mouse (or a mouse genetically the same) can be immunized with a second
immunogen to generate a B cell that expresses an antibody that specifically binds the
second epitope. Variable heavy regions can be cloned from the B cells and expresses with
the same heavy chain constant region, and the same light chain, and expressed in a cell to
make a bispecific antibody, wherein the light chain component of the bispecific antibody
has been selected by a mouse to associate and express with the light chain component.
                                                 49

[00209]      The inventors have engineered a mouse for generating immunoglobulin light
chains that will suitably pair with a rather diverse family of heavy chains, including heavy
chains whose variable regions depart from germline sequences, e.g., affinity matured or
somatically mutated variable regions. In various embodiments, the mouse is devised to
pair human light chain variable domains with human heavy chain variable domains that
comprise somatic mutations, thus enabling a route to high affinity binding proteins suitable
for use as human therapeutics.
[00210]      The genetically engineered mouse, through the long and complex process of
antibody selection within an organism, makes biologically appropriate choices in pairing a
diverse collection of human heavy chain variable domains with a limited number of human
light chain options. In order to achieve this, the mouse is engineered to present a limited
number of human light chain variable domain options in conjunction with a wide diversity of
human heavy chain variable domain options. Upon challenge with an antigen, the mouse
maximizes the number of solutions in its repertoire to develop an antibody to the antigen,
limited largely or solely by the number or light chain options in its repertoire. In various
embodiments, this includes allowing the mouse to achieve suitable and compatible somatic
mutations of the light chain variable domain that will nonetheless be compatible with a
relatively large variety of human heavy chain variable domains, including in particular
somatically mutated human heavy chain variable domains.
[00211]      To achieve a limited repertoire of light chain options, the mouse is engineered
to render nonfunctional or substantially nonfunctional its ability to make, or rearrange, a
native mouse light chain variable domain. This can be achieved, e.g., by deleting the
mouse's light chain variable region gene segments. The endogenous mouse locus can
then be modified by an exogenous suitable human light chain variable region gene
segment of choice, operably linked to the endogenous mouse light chain constant domain,
in a manner such that the exogenous human variable region gene segments can combine
with the endogenous mouse light chain constant region gene and form a rearranged
reverse chimeric light chain gene (human variable, mouse constant). In various
embodiments, the light chain variable region is capable of being somatically mutated. In
various embodiments, to maximize ability of the light chain variable region to acquire
somatic mutations, the appropriate enhancer(s) is retained in the mouse. For example, in
modifying a mouse x light chain locus to replace endogenous mouse K light chain gene
segments with human K light chain gene segments, the mouse K intronic enhancer and
mouse K 3' enhancer are functionally maintained, or undisrupted.
[00212]      A genetically engineered mouse is provided that expresses a limited repertoire
of reverse chimeric (human variable, mouse constant) light chains associated with a
                                                 50

diversity of reverse chimeric (human variable, mouse constant) heavy chains. In various
embodiments, the endogenous mouse K light chain gene segments are deleted and
replaced with a single (or two) rearranged human light chain region, operably linked to the
endogenous mouse Cx gene. In embodiments for maximizing somatic hypermutation of
the rearranged human light chain region, the mouse      K intronic enhancer and the mouse    K
3' enhancer are maintained. In various embodiments, the mouse also comprises a
nonfunctional X light chain locus, or a deletion thereof or a deletion that renders the locus
unable to make a X light chain.
[00213]       A genetically engineered mouse is provided that, in various embodiments,
comprises a light chain variable region locus lacking endogenous mouse light chain VL and
JL gene segments and comprising a rearranged human light chain variable region, in one
embodiment a rearranged human VL/JL sequence, operably linked to a mouse constant
region, wherein the locus is capable of undergoing somatic hypermutation, and wherein the
locus expresses a light chain comprising the human VL/JL sequence linked to a mouse
constant region. Thus, in various embodiments, the locus comprises a mouse K 3'
enhancer, which is correlated with a normal, or wild type, level of somatic hypermutation.
[00214]       The genetically engineered mouse in various embodiments when immunized
with an antigen of interest generates B cells that exhibit a diversity of rearrangements of
human immunoglobulin heavy chain variable regions that express and function with one or
with two rearranged light chains, including embodiments where the one or two light chains
comprise human light chain variable regions that comprise, e.g., 1 to 5 somatic mutations.
In various embodiments, the human light chains so expressed are capable of associating
and expressing with any human immunoglobulin heavy chain variable region expressed in
the mouse.
                 Epitope-binding Proteins That Bind More Than One Epitope
 [00215]       The compositions and methods of described herein can be used to make
 binding proteins that bind more than one epitope with high affinity, e.g., bispecific
 antibodies. Advantages of the invention include the ability to select suitably high binding
 (e.g., affinity matured) heavy chain immunoglobulin chains each of which will associate
with a single light chain.
 [00216]       Synthesis and expression of bispecific binding proteins has been problematic,
 in part due to issues associated with identifying a suitable light chain that can associate
 and express with two different heavy chains, and in part due to isolation issues. The
 methods and compositions described herein allow for a genetically modified mouse to
 select, through otherwise natural processes, a suitable light chain that can associate and
                                                51

express with more than one heavy chain, including heavy chains that are somatically
mutated (e.g., affinity matured). Human VL and     VH sequences from suitable B cells of
immunized mice as described herein that express affinity matured antibodies having
reverse chimeric heavy chains (i.e., human variable and mouse constant) can be identified
and cloned in frame in an expression vector with a suitable human constant region gene
sequence (e.g., a human IgG1). Two such constructs can be prepared, wherein each
construct encodes a human heavy chain variable domain that binds a different epitope.
One of the human VLs (e.g., human VK1-39JK5 or human VK3-20JK1), in germline
sequence or from a B cell wherein the sequence has been somatically mutated, can be
fused in frame to a suitable human constant region gene (e.g., a human        K constant gene).
These three fully-human heavy and light constructs can be placed in a suitable cell for
expression. The cell will express two major species: a homodimeric heavy chain with the
identical light chain, and a heterodimeric heavy chain with the identical light chain. To
allow for a facile separation of these major species, one of the heavy chains is modified to
omit a Protein A-binding determinant, resulting in a differential affinity of a homodimeric
binding protein from a heterodimeric binding protein. Compositions and methods that
address this issue are described in USSN 12/832,838, filed 25 June 2010, entitled "Readily
Isolated Bispecific Antibodies with Native Immunoglobulin Format," published as US
2010/0331527A1, hereby incorporated by reference.
[00217]      In one aspect, an epitope-binding protein as described herein is provided,
wherein human VL and      VH sequences are derived from mice described herein that have
been immunized with an antigen comprising an epitope of interest.
 [00218]     In one embodiment, an epitope-binding protein is provided that comprises a first
and a second polypeptide, the first polypeptide comprising, from N-terminal to C-terminal, a
first epitope-binding region that selectively binds a first epitope, followed by a constant
 region that comprises a first CH 3 region of a human IgG selected from IgG1, IgG2, IgG4,
 and a combination thereof; and, a second polypeptide comprising, from N-terminal to C
terminal, a second epitope-binding region that selectively binds a second epitope, followed
 by a constant region that comprises a second     CH3  region of a human IgG selected from
 IgG1, IgG2, IgG4, and a combination thereof, wherein the second CH3 region comprises a
 modification that reduces or eliminates binding of the second     CH3  domain to protein A.
 [00219]      In one embodiment, the second    CH3  region comprises an H95R modification
 (by IMGT exon numbering; H435R by EU numbering). In another embodiment, the second
 CH3   region further comprises a Y96F modification (IMGT; Y436F by EU).
                                                52

[00220]      In one embodiment, the second       CH3  region is from a modified human IgG1, and
further comprises a modification selected from the group consisting of D16E, L18M, N44S,
K52N, V57M, and V821 (IMGT; D356E, L358M, N384S, K392N, V397M, and V4221 by EU).
[00221]      In one embodiment, the second       CH3  region is from a modified human IgG2, and
further comprises a modification selected from the group consisting of N44S, K52N, and
V821 (IMGT; N384S, K392N, and V4221 by EU).
[00222]      In one embodiment, the second       CH3  region is from a modified human IgG4, and
further comprises a modification selected from the group consisting of Q15R, N44S, K52N,
V57M, R69K, E79Q, and V821 (IMGT; Q355R, N384S, K392N, V397M, R409K, E419Q,
and V4221 by EU).
[00223]      One method for making an epitope-binding protein that binds more than one
epitope is to immunize a first mouse in accordance with the invention with an antigen that
comprises a first epitope of interest, wherein the mouse comprises an endogenous
immunoglobulin light chain variable region locus that does not contain an endogenous
mouse VL that is capable of rearranging and forming a light chain, wherein at the
endogenous mouse immunglobulin light chain variable region locus is a single rearranged
human VL region operably linked to the mouse endogenous light chain constant region
gene, and the rearranged human VL region is selected from a human Vx1-39JK5 and a
 human VK3-20JK1, and the endogenous mouse             VH gene segments have been replaced in
whole or in part with human    VH  gene segments, such that immunoglobulin heavy chains
 made by the mouse are solely or substantially heavy chains that comprise human variable
domains and mouse constant domains. When immunized, such a mouse will make a
 reverse chimeric antibody, comprising only one of two human light chain variable domains
 (e.g., one of human VK1-39JK5 or human VK3-20JK1). Once a B cell is identified that
 encodes a VH that binds the epitope of interest, the nucleotide sequence of the     VH (and,
 optionally, the VL) can be retrieved (e.g., by PCR) and cloned into an expression construct
 in frame with a suitable human immunoglobulin constant domain. This process can be
 repeated to identify a second   VH domain that binds a second epitope, and a second      VH
 gene sequence can be retrieved and cloned into an expression vector in frame to a second
 suitable immunoglobulin constant domain. The first and the second immunoglobulin
 constant domains can the same or different isotype, and one of the immunoglobulin
 constant domains (but not the other) can be modified as described herein or in US
 2010/0331527A1, and epitope-binding protein can be expressed in a suitable cell and
 isolated based on its differential affinity for Protein A as compared to a homodimeric
 epitope-binding protein, e.g., as described in US 2010/0331527A1.
                                                  53

[00224]      In one embodiment, a method for making a bispecific epitope-binding protein is
provided, comprising identifying a first affinity-matured (e.g., comprising one or more
somatic hypermutations) human       VH nucleotide sequence (VH1) from a mouse as described
herein, identifying a second affinity-matured (e.g., comprising one or more somatic
hypermutations) human      VH nucleotide sequence    (VH2 ) from a mouse as described herein,
cloning VH1 in frame with a human heavy chain lacking a Protein A-determinant
modification as described in US 2010/0331527A1 for form heavy chain 1 (HC1), cloning
VH
    2
      in frame with a human heavy chain comprising a Protein A-determinant as described
in US 2010/0331527A1 to form heavy chain 2 (HC2), introducing an expression vector
comprising HC1 and the same or a different expression vector comprising HC2 into a cell,
wherein the cell also expresses a human immunoglobulin light chain that comprises a
human VK1-39/human Jx5 or a human Vx3-20/human Jx1 fused to a human light chain
constant domain, allowing the cell to express a bispecific epitope-binding protein
                                                                                2
comprising a    VH domain encoded by VH1 and a      VH domain encoded by     VH , and isolating
the bispecific epitope-binding protein based on its differential ability to bind Protein A as
compared with a monospecific homodimeric epitope-binding protein. In a specific
embodiment, HC1 is an IgG1, and HC2 is an IgG1 that comprises the modification H95R
(IMGT; H435R by EU) and further comprises the modification Y96F (IMGT; Y436F by EU).
In one embodiment, the VH domain encoded by VH1, the           VH domain encoded by    VH2 , or
both, are somatically mutated.
                 Human    VH Genes That Express with a Common Human VL
 [00225]     A variety of human variable regions from affinity-matured antibodies raised
 against four different antigens were expressed with either their cognate light chain, or at
 least one of a human light chain selected from human VK1-39JK5, human VK3-20JK1, or
 human VpreBJk5 (see Example 10). For antibodies to each of the antigens, somatically
 mutated high affinity heavy chains from different gene families paired successfully with
 rearranged human germline VK1-39Jx5 and VK3-20JK1 regions and were secreted from
 cells expressing the heavy and light chains. For Vx1-39JK5 and VK3-20Jx1, VH domains
 derived from the following human    VH gene families expressed favorably: 1-2, 1-8, 1-24, 2
 5, 3-7, 3-9, 3-11, 3-13, 3-15, 3-20, 3-23, 3-30, 3-33, 3-48,4-31,4-39, 4-59, 5-51, and 6-1.
 Thus, a mouse that is engineered to express a limited repertoire of human VL domains
 from one or both of VK1-39JK5 and VK3-20JK1 will generate a diverse population of
 somatically mutated human     VH domains from a VH locus modified to replace mouse       VH
 gene segments with human      VH  gene segments.
                                                 54

[00226]       Mice genetically engineered to express reverse chimeric (human variable,
mouse constant) immunoglobulin heavy chains associated with a single rearranged light
chain (e.g., a VK1-39/J or a Vx3-20/J), when immunized with an antigen of interest,
generated B cells that comprised a diversity of human VH rearrangements and expressed a
diversity of high-affinity antigen-specific antibodies with diverse properties with respect to
their ability to block binding of the antigen to its ligand, and with respect to their ability to
bind variants of the antigen (see Examples 14 through 15).
[00227]       Thus, the mice and methods described herein are useful in making and
selecting human immunoglobulin heavy chain variable domains, including somatically
mutated human heavy chain variable domains, that result from a diversity of
rearrangements, that exhibit a wide variety of affinities (including exhibiting a KD of about a
nanomolar or less), a wide variety of specificities (including binding to different epitopes of
the same antigen), and that associate and express with the same or substantially the same
human immunoglobulin light chain variable region.
[00228]       In one aspect, a first mouse comprising a humanized heavy chain variable
region locus is bred with a second mouse comprising a nucleic acid sequence encoding a
common, or universal, light chain locus as described herein. In one embodiment, the first
or the second mouse comprises an ectopic nucleic acid sequence encoding a mouse
ADAM6 or ortholog or homolog or functional fragment thereof. Progeny are bred to obtain
mice homozygous for a humanized heavy chain locus, and homozygous for the universal
light chain locus. In one embodiment, the first mouse or the second mouse comprises a
 modification of an endogenous mouse light chain locus to render the endogenous mouse
 light chain locus nonfunctional (e.g., a deletion or a knockout of, e.g., a X and/or K
endogenous locus). In one embodiment, the first mouse comprises a replacement of all or
substantially all functinoal endogenous mouse V, D, and J gene segments with one or
 more unrearranged human V, D, and J gene segments (e.g., all or substantially all
functional human V, D, and J gene segments); and the mouse comprises a replacement of
 all or substantially all functional light chain V and J gene segments with no more than one
 or no more than two rearranged light chain V/J sequences. In one embodiment the first
 mouse further comprises an ectopic nucleic acid sequence that encodes a mouse ADAM6
 or ortholog or homolog or functional fragment thereof. In one embodiment, the ectopic
 nucleic acid sequence is at a humanized immunoglobulin heavy chain locus.
 [00229]      In one embodiment, mice that comprise the ectopic sequence and that are
 homozygous for the universal light chain locus and for the humanized heavy chain locus
 are immunized with an antigen of interest to generate antibodies that comprise a plurality
 of somtatically mutated human variable domains that associate and express with a
                                                   55

 universal light chain. In one embodiment, human heavy chain variable domain nucleic acid
sequences identified in the mouse are employed in an expression system to make a fully
 human antibody comprising the human heavy chain variable domain and a light chain
comprising a universal light chain sequence of the mouse.
 [00230]     The following examples are provided so as to describe to those of ordinary skill
in the art how to make and use methods and compositions of the invention, and are not
intended to limit the scope of what the inventors regard as their invention. Efforts have
been made to ensure accuracy with respect to numbers used (e.g., amounts, temperature,
etc.) but some experimental errors and deviations should be accounted for. Unless
indicated otherwise, parts are parts by weight, molecular weight is average molecular
weight, temperature is indicated in Celsius, and pressure is at or near atmospheric.
                                          EXAMPLES
                                           Example I
                       Humanization of Mouse Immunoglobulin Genes
[00231]      Human and mouse bacterial artificial chromsomes (BACs) were used to
engineer 13 different BAC targeting vectors (BACvecs) for humanization of the mouse
immunoglobulin heavy chain and K light chain loci. Tables 1 and 2 set forth detailed
descriptions of the steps performed for the construction of all BACvecs employed for the
humanization of the mouse immunoglobulin heavy chain and K light chain loci,
respectively.
[00232]      Identification of human and mouse BACs.
[00233]      Mouse BACs that span the 5' and 3' ends of the immunoglobulin heavy chain
and K light chain loci were identified by hybridization of filters spotted with BAC library or by
PCR screening mouse BAC library DNA pools. Filters were hybridized under standard
conditions using probes that corresponded to the regions of interest. Library pools were
screened by PCR using unique primer pairs that flank the targeted region of interest.
Additional PCR using the same primers was performed to deconvolute a given well and
isolate the corresponding BAC of interest. Both BAC filters and library pools were
generated from 129 SvJ mouse ES cells (Incyte Genomics/Invitrogen). Human BACs that
cover the entire immunoglobulin heavy chain and K light chain loci were identified either by
hybridization of filters spotted with BAC library (Caltech B, C, or D libraries & RPCI-1 1
library, Research Genetics/Invitrogen) through screening human BAC library pools
(Caltech library, Invitrogen) by a PCR-based method or by using a BAC end sequence
database (Caltech D library, TIGR).
                                                56

[00234]      Construction of BACvecs (Tables I and 2).
[00235]      Bacterial homologous recombination (BHR) was performed as described
(Valenzuela et al., 2003; Zhang, Y., et al. (1998). A new logic for DNA engineering using
recombination in Escherichia coli. Nat Genet 20, 123-128). In most cases, linear
fragments were generated by ligating PCR-derived homology boxes to cloned cassettes
followed by gel isolation of ligation products and electroporation into BHR-competent
bacteria harboring the target BAC. After selection on appropriate antibiotic petri dishes,
correctly recombined BACs were identified by PCR across both novel junctions followed by
restriction analysis on pulsed-field gels (Schwartz, D.C., and Cantor, C.R. (1984)
Separation of yeast chromosome-sized DNAs by pulsed field gradient gel electrophoresis.
Cell 37, 67-75) and spot-checking by PCR using primers distributed across the human
sequences.
[00236]      A 3hVH BACvec was constructed using three sequential BHR steps for the initial
step of humanization of the immunoglobulin heavy chain locus (FIG. 4A and Table 1). In
the first step (Step 1), a cassette was introduced into a human parental BAC upstream
from the human VH1-     3 gene segment that contains a region of homology to the mouse
immunoglobulin heavy chain locus (HB1), a gene that confers kanamycin resistance in
bacteria and G418 resistance in animals cells (kanR) and a site-specific recombination site
(e.g., loxP). In the second step (Step 2), a second cassette was introduced just
downstream from the last     JH segment that contains a second region of homology to the
mouse immunoglobulin heavy chain locus (HB2) and a gene that confers resistance in
bacteria to spectinomycin (specR). This second step included deleting human
immunoglobulin heavy chain locus sequences downstream from JH6 and the BAC vector
chloramphenicol resistance gene (cmR). In the third step (Step 3), the doubly modified
human BAC (B1) was then linearized using 1-Ceul sites that had been added during the
first two steps and integrated into a mouse BAC (B2) by BHR through the two regions of
homology (HB1 and HB2). The drug selections for first (cm/kan), second (spec/kan) and
third (cm/kan) steps were designed to be specific for the desired products. Modified BAC
clones were analyzed by pulse-filed gel electrophoresis (PFGE) after digestion with
restriction enzymes to determine appropriate construction (FIG. 4B).
[00237]      In a similar fashion, 12 additional BACvecs were engineered for humanization
of the heavy chain and K light chain loci. In some instances, BAC ligation was performed
in lieu of BHR to conjoin two large BACs through introduction of rare restriction sites into
both parental BACvecs by BHR along with careful placement of selectable markers. This
allowed for the survival of the desired ligation product upon selection with specific drug
marker combinations. Recombinant BACs obtained by ligation after digestion with rare
                                                 57

restriction enzymes were identified and screened in a similar fashion to those obtained by
BHR (as described above).
                                             58

                                       Table I
BACvec Step Description                                                       Process
       1    Insert upstream mouse homology box into human proximal            BHR
            BAC CTD-2572o2
3hVH   2    Insert downstream mouse homology box into human proximal          BHR
            BAC CTD-2572o2
       3    Insert 3hVH/27hDH/9hJH into mouse proximal BAC CT7-302a07         BHR
            to create 3hVH BACvec
DC     1    Insert cassette at distal end of mouse IgH locus using mouse      BHR
            BAC CT7-253i20
       1    Insert specR marker at downstream end of 3hVH insertion           BHR
            using human BAC CTD-2572o2
       2    Insert I-Ceul and Not sites flanking puroR at upstream end of     BHR
            3hVH insertion
       3    Insert Not site at downstream end of Re12-408p02 BAC (=1 0 kb     BHR
            downstream of VH2-5)
       4    Insert I-Ceul site at upstream end of Rel2-408p02 BAC (=23        BHR
            kb upstream of VHI-18)
       5    Ligate 184kb fragment from step 4 into 153kb vector from step     Ligation
18hVH       2
       6    Trim human homology from CTD-2572o2 BAC deleting =85kb            BHR
            and leaving 65kb homology to 3hVH
       7    Insert cassette and Not site at distal end of mouse IgH locus in  BHR
            CT7-253i20 BAC
       8    Subclone mouse distal homology arm for insertion upstream         Ligation
            from human BACs
       9    Insert 20 kb mouse arm upstream of Rel2-408p02                    BHR
       10   Swap selection cassette from hygR to neoR to create 18hVH         BHR
            BACvec
       1     Insert 1-Ceul and PI-Scel sites flanking hygR into distal end of BHR
            human BAC CTD-2534n10
       2     Insert CmR at proximal end of CTD-2534n10 BAC to allow for       BHR
            selection for ligation to RP11-72n10 BAC
       3     Insert PI-Scel site into RP11-72n10 BAC for ligation to CTD-     BHR
            2534n10 BAC
       4     Insert I-Ceul and Asci sites flanking puroR at distal end of     BHR
39hVH        RP11-72n10 BAC
       5     Ligate 161kb fragment from construct of step 4 into construct of Ligation
             step 2 replacing hygR
       6     Insert neoR and Ascl site at proximal   end of mouse distal      BHR
             homology arm using CT7-253i20 BAC
       7     Insert specR and I-Ceul site at distal end of mouse distal       BHR
             homology arm
        8    Ligate mouse distal homology arm onto human insert from step     Ligation
                                          59

        5
      9 Swap selection cassette from neo to hyg using UbCp and pA         BHR
        as homolgy boxes to create 39hVH BACvec
      1 Insert specR at proximal end of human CTD-3074b5 BAC              BHR
      2 Insert Ascl site at distal end of human CTD-3074b5 BAC            BHR
      3 Insert hygR and Asci site at proximal end of mouse distal         BHR
53hVH   homology arm using CT7-253i20 BAC
      4 Ligate mouse distal homology arm onto construct from step 2       Ligation
      5 Swap selection cassette from hyg to neo using UbCp and pA         BHR
        as homolgy boxes to create 53hVH BACvec
      1 Insert PI-Scel and I-Ceul sites flanking spec at distal end of    BHR
        human CTD-2195p5 BAC
      2 Insert I-Ceul site at proximal end of RP11-926p12 BAC for         BHR
        ligation to CTD-2195p5 BAC
7OhVH 3 Insert PI-Scel and Ascl sites at distal end of RP1 1-926p12       BHR
        BAC for ligation of mouse arm
      4 Ligate mouse distal homology arm onto construct from step 3       Ligation
        Ligate mouse distal homology arm and higH fragment from
      5 RP11-926p12 BAC onto CTD-2195p5 BAC to create 70 hVH              Ligation
        BACvec
      1  Insert I-Ceul and Asci sites flanking hygR at distal end of CTD- BHR
        2313e3 BAC
8OhVH 2  Ligate mouse dista homology arm onto
                                                  human CTD-2313e3        Ligation
         BAC from step 1 to create 8OhVH BACvec
                                       60

                                        Table 2
BACvec  Step Description                                                      Process
IgK-PC  1    Insert IoxP site within mouse J-C intron using CT7-254m04        BHR
             BAC
IgK-DC  1    Insert IoxP site at distal end of mouse IgK locus using CT7-     BHR
       I-D
        1    302g12 BAC                                                       BHR
        1    Insert PI-Scel site =400 bp downstream from hJK5 in CTD-         BHR
             2366j 12 BAC
        2    Insert I-Ceul and Ascl sites flanking hygR at distal end of CTD- BHR
             2366j12 BAC
        3    Insert I-Ceul and PI-Scel sites flanking puroR =xxbp             BHR
             downstream from mJKx using CT7-254m04 BAC
6hVK    4    Insert hIgVK/JK upstream from mouse EnhK/CK using construct      Ligation
             from step 3
        5    Replace cmR in construct of step 4 with specR                    BHR
        6    Insert Neo selection cassette at distal end of mouse IgK locus   BHR
             using CT7-302g12 BAC
        7    Ligate mouse distal homology arm upstream of human insert in     Ligation
             construct of step 6 to create 6hVK BACvec
        1    Insert NeoR at distal end of RP1 1-1061 b1 3 BAC                 BHR
        2    Replace cmR in construct of step 1 with specR                    BHR
 16hVK  3    Insert Hyg selection cassette at distal end of mouse igK locus   BHR
             using CT7-302g12 BAC
        4    Ligate mouse distal homology arm upstream of human insert        Ligation
             from construct of step 2 to create 16hVK BACvec
        1    Insert HygR at distal end of RP1 1-99g6 BAC                      BHR
        2    Replace cmR in construct of step 1 with specR                    BHR
30hVK   3    Insert Neo selection cassette at distal end of mouse IgK locus   BHR
             using CT7-302g12 BAC
        4     Ligate mouse distal homology arm upstream of human insert       Ligation
             from construct of step 2 to create 30hVK BACvec
        1     Insert NeoR at distal end of higH locus in CTD-2559d6 BAC       BHR
                                                                              BHR
 40hVx  2     Replace cmR in construct of step 1 with specR
        3     Ligate mouse distal homology arm upstream of hIgH locus in      Ligation
              construct of step 2 to create 40hVK BACvec
                                           61

[00238]     Modification of embryonic stem (ES) cells and generation of mice.
[00239]     ES cell (F1 H4) targeting was performed using the VELOCIGENE@ genetic
engineering method as described (Valenzuela et al., 2003). Derivation of mice from
modified ES cells by either blastocyst (Valenzuela et al., 2003) or 8-cell injection
(Poueymirou et a/., 2007) was as described. Targeted ES cells and mice were confirmed
by screening DNA from ES cells or mice with unique sets of probes and primers in a PCR
based assay (e.g., FIG. 3A, 3B and 3C). All mouse studies were overseen and approved
by Regeneron's Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee (IACUC).
[00240]     Karyotype Analysis and Fluorescent in situ Hybridization (FISH).
[00241]     Karyotype Analysis was performed by Coriell Cell Repositories (Coriell Institute
for Medical Research, Camden, NJ). FISH was performed on targeted ES cells as
described (Valenzuela et a/., 2003). Probes corresponding to either mouse BAC DNA or
human BAC DNA were labeled by nick translation (Invitrogen) with the fluorescently
labeled dUTP nucleotides spectrum orange or spectrum green (Vysis).
[00242]     Immunoglobulin Heavy Chain Variable Gene Locus.
[00243]     Humanization of the variable region of the heavy chain locus was achieved in
nine sequential steps by the direct replacement of about three million base pairs (Mb) of
contiguous mouse genomic sequence containing all       VH, DH and JH gene segments with
about one Mb of contiguous human genomic sequence containing the equivalent human
gene segments (FIG. 1A and Table 1) using VELOCIGENE@ genetic engineering
technology (see, e.g., US Pat. No. 6,586,251 and Valenzuela et at., 2003).
[00244]     The intron between    JH gene segments and constant region genes (the J-C
intron) contains a transcriptional enhancer (Neuberger, M.S. (1983) Expression and
regulation of immunoglobulin heavy chain gene transfected into lymphoid cells. EMBO J 2,
 1373-1378) followed by a region of simple repeats required for recombination during
isotype switching (Kataoka, T. et at. (1980) Rearrangement of immunoglobulin gamma 1
chain gene and mechanism for heavy-chain class switch. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 77,
 919-923). The junction between human       VH-DH-JH region and the mouse    CH region (the
 proximal junction) was chosen to maintain the mouse heavy chain intronic enhancer and
 switch domain in order preserve both efficient expression and class switching of the
 humanized heavy chain locus within the mouse. The exact nucleotide position of this and
 subsequent junctions in all the replacements was possible by use of the VELOCIGENE@
 genetic engineering method (supra), which employed bacterial homologous recombination
 driven by synthesized oligonucleotides. Thus, the proximal junction was placed about 200
 bp downstream from the last    JH gene segment and the distal junction was placed several
 hundred upstream of the most 5'     VH gene segment of the human locus and about 9 kb
 downstream from the mouse      VH1-86   gene segment, also known as J558.55. The mouse
                                                62

VH1-  86 (J558.55) gene segment is the most distal heavy chain variable gene segment,
reported to be a pseudogene in C57BL/6 mice, but potentially active, albeit with a poor
RSS sequence, in the targeted 129 allele. The distal end of the mouse heavy chain locus
reportedly may contain control elements that regulate locus expression and/or
rearrangement (Pawlitzky et al., 2006).
[00245]      A first insertion of human immunoglobulin DNA sequence into the mouse was
achieved using 144 kb of the proximal end of the human heavy chain locus containing 3
VH, all 27 DH  and 9 JH human gene segments inserted into the proximal end of the mouse
IgH locus, with a concomitant 16.6 kb deletion of mouse genomic sequence, using about
75 kb of mouse homology arms (Step A, FIG. 2A; Tables 1 and 3, 3hVH). This large 144kb
insertion and accompanying 16.6 kb deletion was performed in a single step (Step A) that
occurred with a frequency of 0.2% (Table 3). Correctly targeted ES cells were scored by a
loss-of-native-allele (LONA) assay (Valenzuela et al., 2003) using probes within and
flanking the deleted mouse sequence and within the inserted human sequence, and the
integrity of the large human insert was verified using multiple probes spanning the entire
insertion (FIG. 3A, 3B and 3C). Because many rounds of sequential ES cell targeting were
anticipated, targeted ES cell clones at this, and all subsequent, steps were subjected to
karyotypic analysis (supra) and only those clones showing normal karyotypes in at least 17
of 20 spreads were utilized for subsequent steps.
 [00246]     Targeted ES cells from Step A were re-targeted with a BACvec that produced a
 19 kb deletion at the distal end of the heavy chain locus (Step B, FIG. 2A). The Step B
 BACvec contained a hygromycin resistance gene (hyg) in contrast to the neomycin
 resistance gene (neo) contained on the BACvec of Step A. The resistance genes from the
two BACvecs were designed such that, upon successful targeting to the same
 chromosome, approximately three Mb of the mouse heavy chain variable gene locus
 containing all of the mouse    VH  gene segments other than VH1 -86 and all of the DH gene
 segments other than DQ52, as well as the two resistance genes, were flanked by loxP
 sites; DQ52 and all of the mouse     JH chain gene segments were deleted in Step A. ES cell
 clones doubly targeted on the same chromosome were identified by driving the 3hVH
 proximal cassette to homozygosity in high G418 (Mortensen, R.M. et al. (1992) Production
 of homozygous mutant ES cells with a single targeting construct. Mol Cell Biol 12:2391
 2395) and following the fate of the distal hyg cassette. Mouse segments up to four Mb in
 size, having been modified in a manner to be flanked by loxP sites, have been successfully
 deleted in ES cells by transient expression of CRE recombinase with high efficiencies (up
 to =11%) even in the absence of drug selection (Zheng, B., et al. (2000). Engineering
 mouse chromosomes with Cre-loxP: range, efficiency, and somatic applications. Mol Cell
 Biol 20:648-655). In a similar manner, the inventors achieved a three Mb deletion in 8% of
                                                 63

ES cell clones following transient Cre expression (Step C, FIG. 2A; Table 3). The deletion
was scored by the LONA assay using probes at either end of the deleted mouse sequence,
as well as the loss of neo and hyg and the appearance of a PCR product across the
deletion point containing the sole remaining loxP site. Further, the deletion was confirmed
by fluorescence in situ hybridization (data not shown).
[00247]     The remainder of the human heavy chain variable region was added to the
3hVH allele in a series of 5 steps using the VELOCIGENE@ genetic engineering method
(Steps E-H, FIG. 2B), with each step involving precise insertion of up to 210 kb of human
gene sequences. For each step, the proximal end of each new BACvec was designed to
overlap the most distal human sequences of the previous step and the distal end of each
new BACvec contained the same distal region of mouse homology as used in Step A. The
BACvecs of steps D, F and H contained neo selection cassettes, whereas those of steps E
and G contained hyg selection cassettes, thus selections were alternated between G418
and hygromycin. Targeting in Step D was assayed by the loss of the unique PCR product
across the distal loxP site of 3hVH Hybrid Allele. Targeting for Steps E through I was
assayed by loss of the previous selection cassette. In the final step (Step I, FIG. 2B), the
neo selection cassette, flanked by Frt sites (McLeod, M. et al. (1986) Identification of the
crossover site during FLP-mediated recombination in the Saccharomyces cerevisiae
plasmid 2 microns circle. Mol Cell Biol 6, 3357-3367), was removed by transient FLPe
expression (Buchholz, F. et al. (1998) Improved properties of FLP recombinase evolved by
cycling mutagenesis. Nat Biotechnol 16, 657-662). The human sequences of the BACvecs
for Steps D, E and G were derived from two parental human BACs each, whereas those
from Steps F and H were from single BACs. Retention of human sequences was
confirmed at every step using multiple probes spanning the inserted human sequences (as
described above, e.g. FIG. 3A, 3B and 3C). Only those clones with normal karyotype and
 germline potential were carried forward in each step. ES cells from the final step were still
 able to contribute to the germline after nine sequential manipulations (Table 3). Mice
 homozygous for each of the heavy chain alleles were viable, appeared healthy and
 demonstrated an essentially wild-type humoral immune system (see Example 3).
                                                64

                                            Table 3
       Hybrid        Human       Targeting     Targeting       %      Total   Functional
       Allele      sequence      construct     efficiency    usage      VH        VH
        3hVH          144 kb       240 kb         0.2%          5        3         3
      3hVH/DC         144 kb       110 kb         0.1%          5        3         3
     3hVH-CRE         144 kb          -            8%           5        3         3
       18hVH         340 kb        272 kb         0.1%         25       18        12
       39hVH         550 kb        282 kb         0.2%         60       39        25
       53hVH         655 kb        186 kb         0.4%         65       53        29
       70hVH          850 kb       238 kb         0.5%         90       70        39
       8OhVH          940 kb       124 kb         0.2%         100      80        43
    8OhVHdNeo         940 kb           -          2.6%         100      80        43
[00248]     Immunoglobulin ic Light Chain Variable Gene Locus.
[00249]     The K light chain variable region was humanized in eight sequential steps by the
direct replacement of about three Mb of mouse sequence containing all VK and JK gene
segments with about 0.5 Mb of human sequence containing the proximal human VK and JK
gene segments in a manner similar to that of the heavy chain (FIG. 1B; Tables 2 and 4).
[00250]     The variable region of the human K light chain locus contains two nearly
identical 400 kb repeats separated by a 800 kb spacer (Weichhold, G.M. et aL (1993) The
human immunoglobulin kappa locus consists of two copies that are organized in opposite
polarity, Genomics 16:503-511). Because the repeats are so similar, nearly all of the locus
diversity can be reproduced in mice by using the proximal repeat. Further, a natural
human allele of the K light chain locus missing the distal repeat has been reported
(Schaible, G. et al. (1993) The immunoglobulin kappa locus: polymorphism and haplotypes
of Caucasoid and non-Caucasoid individuals, Hum Genet 91:261-267). About three Mb of
mouse K light chain variable gene sequence were replaced with about 0.5 Mb of human K
light chain variable gene sequence to effectively replace all of the mouse VK and Jx gene
segments with the proximal human Vx and all of the human JK gene segments (FIG. 2C
and 2D; Tables 2 and 4). In contrast to the method described in Example 1 for the heavy
chain locus, the entire mouse VK gene region, containing all Vx and Jx gene segments,
was deleted in a three-step process before any human sequence was added. First, a neo
 cassette was introduced at the proximal end of the variable region (Step A, FIG. 2C). Next,
 a hyg cassette was inserted at the distal end of the x locus (Step B, FIG. 2C). LoxP sites
 were again situated within each selection cassette such that Cre treatment induced
                                               65

deletion of the remaining 3 Mb of the mouse Vx region along with both resistance genes
(Step C, FIG. 2C).
[00251]      A human genomic fragment of about 480 kb in size containing the entire
immunoglobulin K light chain variable region was inserted in four sequential steps (FIG. 2D;
Tables 2 and 4), with up to 150 kb of human immunoglobulin K light chain sequence
inserted in a single step, using methods similar to those employed for the heavy chain (see
Example 1). The final hygromycin resistance gene was removed by transient FLPe
expression. As with the heavy chain, targeted ES cell clones were evaluated for integrity
of the entire human insert, normal karyotype and germ-line potential after every step. Mice
homozygous for each of the K light chain chain alleles were generated and found to be
healthy and of normal appearance.
                                            Table 4
       Hybrid        Human        Targeting     Targeting         %      Total  Functional
        Allele     sequence       construct     efficiency     usage      V-c      VK
       IgK-PC            0          132 kb         1.1%            -
     IgK-PC/DC           0           90 kb         0.4%            -
      IgK-CRE            0             -            1%             -       -
        6hVK          110 kb        122 kb         0.3%           14       6         4
        16hVK        240 kb         203 kb         0.4%           47      16        11
       30hVK         390 kb         193 kb         0.1%           70      30        18
       40hVK         480 kb         185 kb         0.2%          100      40        25
    40hVKdHyg        480 kb            -           0.7%          100      40        25
                                           Example il
                           Generation of Fully Humanized Mice by
               Combination of Multiple Humanized Immunoglobulin Alleles
[00252]      At several points, ES cells bearing a portion of the human immunoglobulin
heavy chain or K light chain variable repertoires as described in Example 1 were
microinjected and the resulting mice bred to create multiple versions of VELOCIMMUNE@
humanized mice with progressively larger fractions of the human germline immunoglobulin
repertoires (Table 5; FIG. 5A and 5B). VELOCIMMUNE@ 1 (V1) humanized mice possess
18 human    VH  gene segments and all of the human    DH  and  JH  gene segments combined
with 16 human VK gene segments and all the human JK gene segments.
VELOCIMMUNE@ 2 (V2) humanized mice and VELOCIMMUNE@ (V3) humanized mice
have increased variable repertoires bearing a total of 39 VH and 30 VK, and 80    VH and 40
                                               66

Vx, respectively. Since the genomic regions encoding the mouse     VH, DH  and JH gene
segments, and VK and Jx gene segments, have been completely replaced, antibodies
produced by any version of VELOCIMMUNE@ humanized mice contain human variable
regions linked to mouse constant regions. The mouse X light chain loci remain intact in all
versions of the VELOCIMMUNE@ humanized mice and serve as a comparator for
efficiency of expression of the various VELOCIMMUNE@ humanized K light chain loci.
[00253]        Mice doubly homozygous for both immunoglobulin heavy chain and K light chain
humanizations were generated from a subset of the alleles described in Example 1. All
genotypes observed during the course of breeding to generate the doubly homozygous
mice occurred in roughly Mendelian proportions. Male progeny homozygous for each of
the human heavy chain alleles showed reduced fertility. Reduced fertility resulted from
loss of mouse ADAM6 activity. The mouse heavy chain variable gene locus contains two
embedded functional ADAM6 genes (ADAM6a and ADAM6b). During humanization of the
mouse heavy chain variable gene locus, the inserted human genomic sequence contained
an ADAM6 pseudogene. Mouse ADAM6 may be required for fertility, and thus lack of
mouse ADAM6 genes in humanized heavy chain variable gene loci might lead to reduced
fertility in these mice notwithstanding the presence of the human pseudogene. Examples
7-9 describe the precise replacement of deleted mouse ADAM6 genes back into a
humanized heavy chain variable gene locus, and restoration of a wild-type level of fertility
in mice with a humanized heavy chain immunoglobulin locus.
                                             Table 5
             Version of              Heavy Chain                   K Light Chain
        VELOCIMMUNE@           Human                5' VH     Human               5'Vi
               Mouse              VH      Allele    gene        VK      Allele    gene
                 V1               18      18hVH    VH1-18       16      16hVK   Vx1-16
                 V2               39      39hVH    VH4-39       30      30hVK   Vx 2 -2 9
                 V3               80      80hVH    VH3-74       40     40hVK    Vx 2-4 0
                                                67

                                           Example III
        Lymphocyte Populations in Mice with Humanized Immunoglobulin Genes
[00254]      Mature B cell populations in the three different versions of VELOCIMMUNE@
mice were evaluated by flow cytometry.
[00255]      Briefly, cell suspensions from bone marrow, spleen and thymus were made
using standard methods. Cells were resuspended at 5x10 5 cells/mL in BD Pharmingen
FACS staining buffer, blocked with anti-mouse CD16/32 (BD Pharmingen), stained with the
                                                                  TM all according to the
appropriate cocktail of antibodies and fixed with BD CYTOFIX
manufacturer's instructions. Final cell pellets were resuspended in 0.5 mL staining buffer
                                           TM
and analyzed using BD FACSCALIBUR             and BD CELLQUEST PROT W software. All
antibodies (BD Pharmingen) were prepared in a mass dilution/cocktail and added to a final
concentration of 0.5 mg/105 cells. Antibody cocktails for bone marrow (A-D) staining were
as follows: A: anti-mouse IgMb-FITC, anti-mouse IgMa-PE, anti-mouse CD45R(B220)-APC;
B: anti-mouse CD43(S7)-PE, anti-mouse CD45R(B220)-APC; C: anti-mouse CD24(HSA)
PE; anti-mouse CD45R(B220)-APC; D: anti-mouse BP-1-PE, anti-mouse CD45R(B220)
APC. Antibody cocktails for spleen and inguinal lymph node (E-H) staining were as
follows: E: anti-mouse IgMb-FITC, anti-mouse IgM"-PE, anti-mouse CD45R(B220)-APC; F:
anti-mouse Ig, kl,     2, k3 Light Chain-FITC, anti mouse IgK Light Chain-PE, anti-mouse
CD45R(B220)-APC; G: anti-mouse Ly6G/C-FITC, anti-mouse CD49b(DX5)-PE, anti
mouse CD1 1b-APC; H: anti-mouse CD4(L3T4)-FITC, anti-mouse CD45R(B220)-PE, anti
mouse CD8a-APC. Results are shown in FIG. 6.
[00256]       Lymphocytes isolated from spleen or lymph node of homozygous
VELOCIMMUNE@ humanized mice were stained for surface expression of the markers
B220 and IgM and analyzed using flow cytometry (FIG. 6). The sizes of the B220* IgM*
mature B cell populations in all versions of VELOCIMMUNE@ humanized mice tested were
virtually identical to those of wild type mice, regardless of the number of VH gene segments
they contained. In addition, mice containing homozygous hybrid humanized
immunoglobulin heavy chain loci, even those with only 3 VH gene segments but normal
mouse immunoglobulin K light chain loci or mice containing homozygous hybrid humanized
K light chain loci with normal mouse immunoglobulin heavy chain loci, also had normal
numbers of B220* IgM* cells in their peripheral compartments (not shown). These results
indicate that chimeric loci with human variable gene segments and mouse constant regions
can fully populate the mature B cell compartment. Further, the number of variable gene
segments at either the heavy chain or K light chain loci, and thus the theoretical diversity of
the antibody repertoire, does not correlate with the ability to generate wild type populations
of mature B cells. In contrast, mice with randomly integrated fully-human immunoglobulin
                                                 68

transgenes and inactivated mouse immunoglobulin loci have reduced numbers of B cells in
these compartments, with the severity of the deficit depending on the number of variable
gene segments included in the transgene (Green, L.L., and Jakobovits, A. (1998)
Regulation of B cell development by variable gene complexity in mice reconstituted with
human immunoglobulin yeast artificial chromosomes, J Exp Med 188:483-495). This
demonstrates that the "in situ genetic humanization" strategy results in a fundamentally
different functional outcome than the randomly integrated transgenes achieved in the
"knockout-plus-transgenic" approach.
[00257]       Allelic Exclusion and Locus Choice.
[00258]       The ability to maintain allelic exclusion was examined in mice heterozygous for
different versions of the humanized immunoglobulin heavy chain locus.
[00259]       The humanization of the immunoglobulin loci was carried out in an F1 ES line
(F1H4 (Valenzuela et al., 2003)), derived from 129S6/SvEvTac and C57BL/6NTac
heterozygous embryos. The human heavy chain germline variable gene sequences are
targeted to the 129S6 allele, which carries the IgMa haplotype, whereas the unmodified
mouse C576BL/6N allele bears the IgMb haplotype. These allelic forms of IgM can be
distinguished by flow cytometry using antibodies specific to the polymorphisms found in the
 IgMa or IgMb alleles. As shown in FIG. 6 (bottom row), the B cells identified in mice
 heterozygous for each version of the humanized heavy chain locus only express a single
allele, either IgMa (the humanized allele) or IgMb (the wild type allele). This demonstrates
that the mechanisms involved in allelic exclusion are intact in VELOCIMMUNE@
 humanized mice. In addition, the relative number of B cells positive for the humanized
 allele (IgMa) is roughly proportional to the number of VH gene segments present. The
 humanized immunoglobulin locus is expressed in approximately 30% of the B cells in
VELOCIMMUNE@ 1 humanized heterozygote mice, which have 18 human VH gene
 segments, and in 50% of the B cells in VELOCIMMUNE@ 2 and 3 (not shown) humanized
 heterozygote mice, with 39 and 80 human         VH  gene segments, respectively. Notably, the
 ratio of cells expressing the humanized versus wild type mouse allele (0.5 for
 VELOCIMMUNE@ 1 humanized mice and 0.9 for VELOCIMMUNE@ 2 humanized mice) is
 greater than the ratio of the number of variable gene segments contained in the humanized
 versus wild type loci (0.2 for VELOCIMMUNE@ 1 humanized mice and 0.4 for
 VELOCIMMUNE@ 2 humanized mice). This may indicate that the probability of allele
 choice is intermediate between a random choice of one or the other chromosome and a
 random choice of any particular V segment RSS. Further, there may be a fraction of B
 cells, but not all, in which one allele becomes accessible for recombination, completes the
 process and shuts down recombination before the other allele becomes accessible. In
 addition, the even distribution of cells that have surface IgM (sIgM) derived from either the
                                                   69

hybrid humanized heavy chain locus or the wild type mouse heavy chain locus is evidence
that the hybrid locus is operating at a normal level. In contrast, randomly integrated human
immunoglobulin transgenes compete poorly with wild type mouse immunoglobulin loci
(Bruggemann, M., et al. (1989) A repertoire of monoclonal antibodies with human heavy
chains from transgenic mice. PNAS 86, 6709-6713; Green et al. (1994); Tuaillon, N. et al.
(1993) Human immunoglobulin heavy-chain minilocus recombination in transgenic mice:
gene-segment use in mu and gamma transcripts, Proc Natl Acad Sci USA 90:3720-3724).
This further demonstrates the immunoglobulins produced by VELOCIMMUNE@ humanized
mice are functionally different than those produced by randomly integrated transgenes in
mice made by "knockout-plus-transgenic" approaches.
[00260]      Polymorphisms of the CK regions are not available in 129S6 or C57BL/6N to
examine allelic exclusion of humanized versus non-humanized K light chain loci. However,
VELOCIMMUNE@ humanized mice all possess wild type mouse X light chain loci,
therefore, it is possible to observe whether rearrangement and expression of humanized K
light chain loci can prevent mouse X light chain expression. The ratio of the number of
cells expressing the humanized K light chain relative to the number of cells expressing
 mouse X light chain was relatively unchanged in VELOCIMMUNE@ humanized mice
compared with wild type mice, regardless of the number of human VK gene segments
 inserted at the K light chain locus (FIG. 6, third row from top). In addition there was no
 increase in the number of double positive (Kplus X) cells, indicating that productive
 recombination at the hybrid K light chain loci results in appropriate suppression of
 recombination of the mouse X light chain loci. In contrast, mice containing randomly
 integrated K light chain transgenes with inactivated mouse K light chain loci-but wild type
 mouse X light chain loci-exhibit dramatically increased     X/K ratios (Jakobovits, 1998),
 implying that the introduced K light chain transgenes do not function well in such mice.
 This further demonstrates the different functional outcome observed in immunoglobulins
 made by VELOCIMMUNE@ humanized mice as compared to those made by "knockout
 plus-transgenic" mice.
                                                  70

[00261]      B cell Development.
[00262]      Because the mature B cell populations in VELOCIMMUNE@ humanized mice
resemble those of wild type mice (described above), it is possible that defects in early B
cell differentiation are compensated for by the expansion of mature B cell populations. The
various stages of B cell differentiation were examined by analysis of B cell populations
using flow cytometry. Table 6 sets forth the ratio of the fraction of cells in each B cell
lineage defined by FACs, using specific cell surface markers, in VELOCIMMUNE@
humanized mice compared to wild type littermates.
[00263]      Early B cell development occurs in the bone marrow, and different stages of B
cell differentiation are characterized by changes in the types and amounts of cell surface
marker expression. These differences in surface expression correlate with the molecular
changes occurring at the immunoglobulin loci inside the cell. The pro-B to pre-B cell
transition requires the successful rearrangement and expression of functional heavy chain
protein, while transition from the pre-B to mature B stage is governed by the correct
rearrangement and expression of a K or X light chain. Thus, inefficient transition between
stages of B cell differentiation can be detected by changes in the relative populations of B
cells at a given stage.
                                               Table 6
                                          Bone Marrow                           Spleen
            Version of         pro-B    pre-B    Immature   Mature      Emerging      Mature
         VELOCIMMUNE@                                              -i    B220h!
                Mice          CD43     CD24        B220      B220'         IgM        B220hi
                              B220'     B220'*      IgM*      IgM               .      IgM+
                 V1             1.1      1.0         0.9       1.0          1.1         1.0
                 V2             1.0      1.0         1.0       1.0          1.0         1.0
                 V3             1.0      1.0         1.1       1.0          1.0         1.1
 [00264]     No major defects were observed in B cell differentiation in any of the
 VELOCIMMUNE@ humanized mice. The introduction of human heavy chain gene
 segments does not appear to affect the pro-B to pre-B transition, and introduction of
 human K light chain gene segments does not affect the pre-B to B transition in
 VELOCIMMUNE@ humanized mice. This demonstrates that "reverse chimeric"
 immunoglobulin molecules possessing human variable regions and mouse constants
 function normally in the context of B cell signaling and co-receptor molecules leading to
 appropriate B cell differentiation in a mouse environment. In contrast, the balance between
 the different populations during B cell differentiation are perturbed to varying extents in
                                                  71

mice that contain randomly integrated immunoglobulin transgenes and inactivated
endogenous heavy chain or K light chain loci (Green and Jakobovits (1998)).
                                          Example IV
              Variable Gene Repertoire in Humanized Immunoglobulin Mice
[00265]      Usage of human variable gene segments in the humanized antibody repertoire
of VELOCIMMUNE@ humanized mice was analyzed by reverse transcriptase-polymerase
chain reaction (RT-PCR) of human variable regions from multiple sources including
splenocytes and hybridoma cells. Variable region sequence, gene segment usage,
somatic hypermutation, and junctional diversity of rearranged variable region gene
segments were determined.
[00266]      Briefly, total RNA was extracted from 1 x 107 -2 x 107 splenocytes or about 104
                                                                         TM Mini
105  hybridoma cells using TRIZOL TM (Invitrogen) or Qiagen RNEASY               Kit (Qiagen)
                                                                                       TM III
and primed with mouse constant region specific primers using the SUPERSCRIPT
One-Step RT-PCR system (Invitrogen). Reactions were carried out with 2-5 pL of RNA
from each sample using the aforementioned 3' constant specific primers paired with pooled
leader primers for each family of human variable regions for both the heavy chain and K
light chain, separately. Volumes of reagents and primers, and RT-PCR/PCR conditions
were performed according to the manufacturer's instructions. Primers sequences were
based upon multiple sources (Wang, X. and Stollar, B.D. (2000) Human immunoglobulin
variable region gene analysis by single cell RT-PCR, J Immunol Methods 244:217-225; Ig
 primer sets, Novagen). Where appropriate, nested secondary PCR reactions were carried
out with pooled family-specific framework primers and the same mouse 3' immunoglobulin
constant-specific primer used in the primary reaction. Aliquots (5 pL) from each reaction
were analyzed by agarose electrophoresis and reaction products were purified from
 agarose using a MONTAGETM Gel Extraction Kit (Millipore). Purified products were cloned
 using the TOPO TM TA Cloning System (Invitrogen) and transformed into DH10P E.coli cells
 by electroporation. Individual clones were selected from each transformation reaction and
 grown in 2 mL LB broth cultures with antibiotic selection overnight at 37 0 C. Plasmid DNA
 was purified from bacterial cultures by a kit-based approach (Qiagen).
                                                72

[00267]      Immunoglobulin Variable Gene Usage.
[00268]      Plasmid DNA of both heavy chain and ic light chain clones were sequenced with
either T7 or M13 reverse primers on the ABI 3100 Genetic Analyzer (Applied Biosystems).
Raw sequence data were imported into SEQUENCHER            TM
                                                              (v4.5, Gene Codes). Each
sequence was assembled into contigs and aligned to human immunoglobulin sequences
using IMGT V-Quest (Brochet, X. et al. (2008) IMGT/V-QUEST: the highly customized and
integrated system for IG and TR standardized V-J and V-D-J sequence analysis. Nucleic
Acids Res 36:W503-508) search function to identify human VH, DH, JH and VK, JK segment
usage. Sequences were compared to germline sequences for somatic hypermutation and
recombination junction analysis.
[00269]      Mice were generated from ES cells containing the initial heavy chain
modification (3hVH-CRE Hybrid Allele, bottom of FIG. 2A) by RAG complementation (Chen,
J. et al. (1993) RAG-2-deficient blastocyst complementation: an assay of gene function in
lymphocyte development, Proc Natl Acad Sci USA 90:4528-4532), and cDNA was
prepared from splenocyte RNA. The cDNA was amplified using primer sets (described
above) specific for the predicted chimeric heavy chain mRNA that would arise by V(D)J
recombination within the inserted human gene segments and subsequent splicing to either
 mouse IgM or IgG constant domains. Sequences derived from these cDNA clones (not
shown) demonstrated that proper V(D)J recombination had occurred within the human
variable gene sequences, that the rearranged human V(D)J gene segments were properly
spliced in-frame to mouse constant domains and that class-switch recombination had
 occurred. Further sequence analysis of mRNA products of subsequent hybrid
 immunoglobulin loci was performed.
 [00270]      In a similar experiment, B cells from non-immunized wild type and
VELOCIMMUNE@ humanized mice were separated by flow cytometry based upon surface
 expression of B220 and igM or IgG. The B220* IgM* or surface IgG* (sIgG*) cells were
 pooled and VH and VK sequences were obtained following RT-PCR amplification and
 cloning (described above). Representative gene usage in a set of RT-PCR amplified
 cDNAs from unimmunized VELOCIMMUNE@ 1 humanized mice (Table 7) and
 VELOCIMMUNE@ 3 humanized mice (Table 8) was recorded (*defective RSS; tmissing or
 pseudogene).
                                                  73

                    Table 7
  VH  Observed  DH    Observed  Vr, Observed
 1-18    3      1-1        1   1-16    2
1-17P    0     2-2         2   3-15    1
3-16*    0     3-3         4   1-12    5
 3-15    13    4-4         0   3-11    1
 3-13    9     5-5         0    1-9    5
 3-11    6     5-18        4    1-8    2
  3-9    8     6-6         5   3-7*    0
  1-8    6      1-7        7    1-6    5
  3-7    2      2-8        0    1-5    8
  2-5    2      3-9        4    5-2    6
  1-3     0    3-10        2    4-1    8
  1-2    11    4-11        1
  6-1     5    5-12        1    Jx  Observed
               6-13        3     1     12
   JH Observed 1-14        0     2     10
    1     2    2-15        0     3     5
    2     1    3-16        1     4     10
    3     8    4-17        0     5     0
    4    33    6-19        2
    5     5    1-20        2
    6    16    2-21        1
               3-22        0
               4-23        2
               5-24         1
               6-25         1
               1-26        6
               7-27        10
                       74

                    Table 8
  VH  Observed  DH    Observed  VK   Observed
7-81t     0     1-1        7   2-40      1
3-74t     0     2-2        8   1-39     34
 3-73     1     3-3        9   1-37      2
 3-72     2     4-4        4   1-33     35
 2-70     2     5-5        6   2-30      8
 1-69     3    5-18        6   2-29      2
 3-66     1     6-6       29   2-28      7
 3-64     1     1-7       30   1-27      5
 4-61     1     2-8        4   2-24      7
 4-59    10     3-9        8   6-21*     3
 1-58     0    3-10       10   3-20     10
 3-53     0    4-11        4   1-17     13
 5-51     5    5-12        5   1-16     10
 3-49     2    6-13       17   3-15     13
 3-48     7    1-14        2   1-12     13
 1-46     1    2-15        3   3-11     13
 1-45     0    3-16        4     1-9    11
 3-43    10    4-17        3     1-8     1
 4-39    4     6-19        8    3-7*     0
3-38*     0    1-20        3     1-6     6
3-35*     0    2-21        1     1-5     7
 4-34     8    3-22        5    5-2      0
 3-33    14    4-23        2    4-1     21
 4-31     4    5-24        2
 3-30    13    6-25        2     JK  Observed
 4-28     0    1-26       17      1     50
 2-26     0    7-27        7      2     37
 1-24     3                       3     28
 3-23    18      JH   Observed    4     64
 3-21     0       1        2      5     22
 3-20     0       2        8
 1-18     4       3       26
1-17P     1       4       95
3-16*     0       5       11
 3-15    13       6       58
 3-13     6
 3-11     5
                      75

                3-9         31
                1-8          7
                3-7          11
                2-5          1
                1-3          0
                1-2          6
                6-1          9
[00271]     As shown in Tables 7 and 8, nearly all of the functional human VH, DH,   JH, Vi
and Jic gene segments are utilized. Of the functional variable gene segments described
but not detected in the VELOCIMMUNE@ humanized mice of this experiment, several have
been reported to possess defective recombination signal sequences (RSS) and, thus,
would not be expected to be expressed (Feeney, A.J. (2000) Factors that influence
formation of B cell repertoire. Immunol Res 21:195-202). Analysis of several other sets of
immunoglobulin sequences from various VELOCIMMUNE@ humanized mice, isolated from
both naive and immunized repertoires, has shown usage of these gene segments, albeit at
lower frequencies (data not shown). Aggregate gene usage data has shown that all
functional human VH, DH,   JH, Vi, and JK gene segments contained in VELOCIMMUNE@
humanized mice have been observed in various naive and immunized repertoires (data not
shown). Although the human VH7-81 gene segment has been identified in the analysis of
human heavy chain locus sequences (Matsuda, F. et al. (1998) The complete nucleotide
sequence of the human immunoglobulin heavy chain variable region locus, J Exp Med
188:2151-2162), it is not present in the VELOCIMMUNE@ humanized mice as confirmed
by re-sequencing of the entire VELOCIMMUNE@ 3 humanized mouse genome.
[00272]     Sequences of heavy and light chains of antibodies are known to show
exceptional variability, especially in short polypeptide segments within the rearranged
variable domain. These regions, known as hypervariable regions or complementary
determining regions (CDRs) create the binding site for antigen in the structure of the
antibody molecule. The intervening polypeptide sequences are called framework regions
(FRs). There are three CDRs (CDR1, CDR2, CDR3) and 4 FRs (FR1, FR2, FR3, FR4) in
both heavy and light chains. One CDR, CDR3, is unique in that this CDR is created by
recombination of both the VH, DH and     JH and Vi and JK gene segments and generates a
significant amount of repertoire diversity before antigen is encountered. This joining is
imprecise due to both nucleotide deletions via exonuclease activity and non-template
encoded additions via terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase (TdT) and, thus, allows for
novel sequences to result from the recombination process. Although FRs can show
substantial somatic mutation due to the high mutability of the variable region as a whole,
                                                76

variability is not, however, distributed evenly across the variable region. CDRs are
concentrated and localized regions of high variability in the surface of the antibody
molecule that allow for antigen binding. Heavy chain and light chain sequences of selected
antibodies from VELOCIMMUNE@ humanized mice around the CDR3 junction
demonstrating junctional diversity are shown in FIG. 7A and 7B, respectively.
[00273]      As shown in FIG. 7A, non-template encoded nucleotide additions (N-additions)
are observed at both the    VH-DH   and DH-JH  joint in antibodies from VELOCIMMUNE@
humanized mice, indicating proper function of TdT with the human segments. The
endpoints of the    VH, DH and JH  segments relative to their germline counterparts indicate
that exonuclease activity has also occurred. Unlike the heavy chain locus, the human K
light chain rearrangements exhibit little or no TdT additions at CDR3, which is formed by
the recombination of the VK and JK segments (FIG. 7B). This is expected due to the lack
of TdT expression in mice during light chain rearrangements at the pre-B to B cell
transition. The diversity observed in the CDR3 of rearranged human VK regions is
introduced predominantly through exonuclease activity during the recombination event.
[00274]       Somatic hypermutation.
[00275]      Additional diversity is added to the variable regions of rearranged
immunoglobulin genes during the germinal center reaction by a process termed somatic
hypermutation. B cells expressing somatically mutated variable regions compete with
other B cells for access to antigen presented by the follicular dendritic cells. Those B cells
with higher affinity for the antigen will further expand and undergo class switching before
exiting to the periphery. Thus, B cells expressing switched isotypes typically have
encountered antigen and undergone germinal center reactions and will have increased
numbers of mutations relative to naive B cells. Further, variable region sequences from
predominantly naive sIgM* B cells would be expected to have relatively fewer mutations
than variable sequences from sIgG* B cells which have undergone antigen selection.
[00276]       Sequences from random     VH  or VK clones from sIgM* or sIgG* B cells from non
immunized VELOCIMMUNE@ humanized mice or sIgG* B cells from immunized mice were
compared with their germline variable gene segments and changes relative to the germline
sequence annotated. The resulting nucleotide sequences were translated in silico and
mutations leading to amino acid changes also annotated. The data were collated from all
the variable regions and the percent change at a given position was calculated (FIG. 8).
[00277]      As shown in FIG. 8, human heavy chain variable regions derived from sigG* B
cells from non-immunized VELOCIMMUNE@ humanized mice exhibit many more
nucleotides relative to sIgM* B cells from the same splenocyte pools, and heavy chain
variable regions derived from immunized mice exhibit even more changes. The number of
                                                  77

changes is increased in the complementarity-determining regions (CDRs) relative to the
framework regions, indicating antigen selection. The corresponding amino acid sequences
from the human heavy chain variable regions also exhibit significantly higher numbers of
mutations in IgG vs IgM and even more in immunized IgG. These mutations again appear
to be more frequent in the CDRs compared with the framework sequences, suggesting that
the antibodies were antigen-selected in vivo. A similar increase in the number the
nucleotide and amino acid mutations are seen in the Vx sequences derived from igG* B
cells from immunized mice.
[00278]     The gene usage and somatic hypermutation observed in VELOCIMMUNE@
humanized mice demonstrate that essentially all gene segments present are capable of
rearrangement to form fully functionally reverse chimeric antibodies in these mice. Further,
VELOCIMMUNE@ humanized mouse derived antibodies fully participate within the mouse
immune system to undergo affinity selection and maturation to create fully mature human
antibodies that can effectively neutralize their target antigen. VELOCIMMUNE@
humanized mice are able to mount robust immune responses to multiple classes of
antigens that result in usage of a wide range of human antibodies that are both high affinity
and suitable for therapeutic use (data not shown).
                                           Example V
                   Analysis of Lymphoid Structure and Serum Isotypes
[00279]     The gross structures of spleen, inguinal lymph nodes, Peyer's patches and
thymus of tissue samples from wild type or VELOCIMMUNE@ humanized mice stained
with H&E were examined by light microscopy. The levels of immunoglobulin isotypes in
serum collected from wild-type and VELOCIMMUNE@ humanized mice were analyzed
using LUMINEX    TM technology.
[00280]     Lymphoid Organ Structure.
[00281]     The structure and function of the lymphoid tissues are in part dependent upon
the proper development of hematopoietic cells. A defect in B cell development or function
may be exhibited as an alteration in the structure of the lymphoid tissues. Upon analysis of
stained tissue sections, no significant difference in appearance of secondary lymphoid
organs between wild type and VELOCIMMUNE@ humanized mice was identified (data not
shown).
[00282]     Serum Immunoglobulin Levels.
[00283]     The level of expression of each isotype is similar in wild type and
VELOCIMMUNE@ humanized mice (FIG. 9A, 9B and 9C). This demonstrates that
humanization of the variable gene segments had no apparent adverse effect upon class
                                                78

switching or immunoglobulin expression and secretion and therefore apparently maintain
all the endogenous mouse sequences necessary for these functions.
                                           Example VI
      Immunization and Antibody Production in Humanized Immunoglobulin Mice
[00284]      Different versions of VELOCIMMUNE@ humanized mice were immunized with
antigen to examine the humoral response to foreign antigen challenge.
[00285]      Immunization and Hybridoma Development.
[00286]      VELOCIMMUNE@ humanized and wild-type mice can be immunized with an
antigen in the form of protein, DNA, a combination of DNA and protein, or cells expressing
the antigen. Animals are typically boosted every three weeks for a total of two to three
times. Following each antigen boost, serum samples from each animal are collected and
analyzed for antigen-specific antibody responses by serum titer determination. Prior to
fusion, mice received a final pre-fusion boost of 5 pg protein or DNA, as desired, via intra
peritoneal and/or intravenous injections. Splenocytes are harvested and fused to Ag8.653
myeloma cells in an electrofusion chamber according to the manufacture's suggested
protocol (Cyto Pulse Sciences Inc., Glen Burnie, MD). Ten days after culture, hybridomas
are screened for antigen specificity using an ELISA assay (Harlow, E. and Lane, D. (1988)
Antibodies: A Laboratory Manual. Cold Spring Harbor Press, New York). Alternatively,
antigen specific B cells are isolated directly from immunized VELOCIMMUNE@ humanized
mice and screened using standard techniques, including those described here, to obtain
human antibodies specific for an antigen of interest.
[00287]      Serum Titer Determination.
[00288]      To monitor animal anti-antigen serum response, serum samples are collected
about 10 days after each boost and the titers are determined using antigen specific ELISA.
Briefly, Nunc MAXISORPTM 96 well plates are coated with 2 pg/mL antigen overnight at 40
C and blocked with bovine serum albumin (Sigma, St. Louis, MO). Serum samples in a
serial 3 fold dilutions are allowed to bind to the plates for one hour at room temperature.
The plates are then washed with PBS containing 0.05% Tween-20 and the bound IgG are
detected using HRP-conjugated goat anti-mouse Fc (Jackson Immuno Research
Laboratories, Inc., West Grove, PA) for total IgG titer, or biotin-labeled isotype specific or
light chain specific polyclonal antibodies (SouthernBiotech Inc.) for isotype specific titers,
respectively. For biotin-labeled antibodies, following plate wash, HRP-conjugated
streptavidin (Pierce, Rockford, IL) is added. All plates are developed using colorimetric
substrates such as BD OPTEIATM (BD Biosciences Pharmingen, San Diego, CA). After
the reaction is stopped with 1 M phosphoric acid, optical absorptions at 450 nm are
                                                 79

recorded and the data are analyzed using PRISMTM software from Graph Pad. Dilutions
required to obtain two-fold of background signal are defined as titer.
[00289]      In one experiment, VELOCIMMUNE@ humanized mice were immunized with
human interleukin-6 receptor (hlL-6R). A representative set of serum titers for
VELOCIMMUNE@ and wild type mice immunized with hIL-6R is shown in FIG. 10A and
1OB.
[00290]      VELOCIMMUNE@ humanized and wild-type mice mounted strong responses
towards the IL-6R with similar titer ranges (FIG. 1OA). Several mice from the
VELOCIMMUNE@ humanized and wild-type cohorts reached a maximal response after a
single antigen boost. These results indicate that the immune response strength and
kinetics to this antigen were similar in the VELOCIMMUNE@ humanized and wild type
mice. These antigen-specific antibody responses were further analyzed to examine the
particular isotypes of the antigen-specific antibodies found in the sera. Both
VELOCIMMUNE@ humanized and wild type groups predominantly elicited an IgG1
response (FIG. 10B), suggesting that class switching during the humoral response is
similar in mice of each type.
[00291]      Affinity Determination of Antibody Binding to Antigen in Solution.
[00292]      An ELISA-based solution competition assay is typically designed to determine
antibody-binding affinity to the antigen.
[00293]      Briefly, antibodies in conditioned medium are premixed with serial dilutions of
antigen protein ranging from 0 to 10 mg/mL. The solutions of the antibody and antigen
mixture are then incubated for two to four hours at room temperature to reach binding
equilibria. The amounts of free antibody in the mixtures are then measured using a
quantitative sandwich ELISA. Ninety-six well MAXISORBTM plates (VWR, West Chester,
PA) are coated with 1 pg/mL antigen protein in PBS solution overnight at 40C followed by
BSA nonspecific blocking. The antibody-antigen mixture solutions are then transferred to
these plates followed by one-hour incubation. The plates are then washed with washing
buffer and the plate-bound antibodies were detected with an HRP-conjugated goat anti
mouse IgG polyclonal antibody reagent (Jackson Immuno Research Lab) and developed
using colorimetric substrates such as BD OPTEIA TM (BD Biosciences Pharmingen, San
Diego, CA). After the reaction is stopped with 1 M phosphoric acid, optical absorptions at
450 nm are recorded and the data are analyzed using PRISM TM software from Graph Pad.
The dependency of the signals on the concentrations of antigen in solution are analyzed
with a 4 parameter fit analysis and reported as IC50 , the antigen concentration required to
achieve 50% reduction of the signal from the antibody samples without the presence of
antigen in solution.
                                                80

[00294]      In one experiment, VELOCIMMUNE@ humanized mice were immunized with
hlL-6R (as described above). FIG. 11A and 11 B show a representative set of affinity
measurements for anti-hIL6R antibodies from VELOCIMMUNE@ humanized and wild-type
mice.
[00295]      After immunized mice receive a third antigen boost, serum titers are determined
by ELISA. Splenocytes are isolated from selected wild type and VELOCIMMUNE@
humanized mouse cohorts and fused with Ag8.653 myeloma cells to form hybridomas and
grown under selection (as described above). Out of a total of 671 anti-IL-6R hybridomas
produced, 236 were found to express antigen-specific antibodies. Media harvested from
antigen positive wells was used to determine the antibody affinity of binding to antigen
using a solution competition ELISA. Antibodies derived from VELOCIMMUNE@
humanized mice exhibit a wide range of affinity in binding to antigen in solution (FIG. 11 A).
Furthermore, 49 out of 236 anti-IL-6R hybridomas were found to block IL-6 from binding to
the receptor in an in vitro bioassay (data not shown). Further, these 49 anti-IL-6R blocking
antibodies exhibited a range of high solution affinities similar to that of blocking antibodies
derived from the parallel immunization of wild type mice (FIG. 11 B).
                                            Example VII
                       Construction of a Mouse ADAM6 Targeting Vector
 [00296]     A targeting vector for insertion of mouse ADAM6a and ADAM6b genes into a
 humanized heavy chain locus was constructed using VELOCIGENE@ genetic engineering
technology (supra) to modify a Bacterial Artificial Chromosome (BAC) 929d24 obtained
from Dr. Fred Alt (Havard University). 929d24 BAC DNA was engineered to contain
 genomic fragments containing the mouse ADAM6a and ADAM6b genes and a hygromycin
 cassette for targeted deletion of a human ADAM6 pseudogene (hADAM64) located
 between human VH1-      2 and VH6 -1 gene segments of a humanized heavy chain locus (FIG.
 12).
 [00297]      First, a genomic fragment containing the mouse ADAM6b gene, -800 bp of
 upstream (5') sequence and -4800 bp of downstream (3') sequence was subcloned from
 the 929d24 BAC clone. A second genomic fragment containing the mouse ADAM6a gene,
 -300 bp of upstream (5') sequence and -3400 bp of downstream (3') sequence, was
 separately subcloned from the 929d24 BAC clone. The two genomic fragments containing
 the mouse ADAM6b and ADAM6a genes were ligated to a hygromycin cassette flanked by
 Frt recombination sites to create the targeting vector (Mouse ADAM6 Targeting Vector,
  Figure 20; SEQ ID NO:3). Different restriction enzyme sites were engineered onto the 5'
 end of the targeting vector following the mouse ADAM6b gene and onto the 3' end
                                                 81

following the mouse ADAM6a gene (bottom of FIG. 12) for ligation into the humanized
heavy chain locus.
[00298]      A separate modification was made to a BAC clone containing a replacement of
the mouse heavy chain locus with the human heavy chain locus, including the human
ADAM6 pseudogene located between the human VH1-2 and VH6 -1 gene segments of the
humanized locus for the subsequent ligation of the mouse ADAM6 targeting vector (FIG.
13).
[00299]      Briefly, a neomycin cassette flanked by loxP recombination sites was
engineered to contain homology arms containing human genomic sequence at positions 3'
of the human VH1-     2 gene segment (5' with respect to hADAM6Y) and 5' of human VH6 -1
gene segment (3' with respect to hADAM6Y; see middle of FIG. 13). The location of the
insertion site of this targeting construct was about 1.3 kb 5' and -350 bp 3' of the human
ADAM6 pseudogene. The targeting construct also included the same restriction sites as
the mouse ADAM6 targeting vector to allow for subsequent BAC ligation between the
 modified BAC clone containing the deletion of the human ADAM6 pseudogene and the
 mouse ADAM6 targeting vector.
 [00300]     Following digestion of BAC DNA derived from both constructs, the genomic
fragments were ligated together to construct an engineered BAC clone containing a
 humanized heavy chain locus containing an ectopically placed genomic sequence
 comprising mouse ADAM6a and ADAM6b nucleotide sequences. The final targeting
 construct for the deletion of a human ADAM6 gene within a humanized heavy chain locus
 and insertion of mouse ADAM6a and ADAM6b sequences in ES cells contained, from 5' to
 3', a 5' genomic fragment containing -13 kb of human genomic sequence 3' of the human
VH1-  2  gene segment, -800 bp of mouse genomic sequence downstream of the mouse
 ADAM6b gene, the mouse ADAM6b gene, -4800 bp of genomic sequence upstream of the
 mouse ADAM6b gene, a 5' Frt site, a hygromycin cassette, a 3' Frt site, -300 bp of mouse
 genomic sequence downstream of the mouse ADAM6a gene, the mouse ADAM6a gene,
 -3400 bp of mouse genomic sequence upstream of the mouse ADAM6a gene, and a 3'
 genomic fragment containing -30 kb of human genomic sequence 5' of the human VH6-1
 gene segment (bottom of FIG. 13).
 [00301]     The engineered BAC clone (described above) was used to electroporate mouse
 ES cells that contained a humanized heavy chain locus to created modified ES cells
 comprising a mouse genomic sequence ectopically placed that comprises mouse ADAM6a
 and ADAM6b sequences within a humanized heavy chain locus. Positive ES cells
 containing the ectopic mouse genomic fragment within the humanized heavy chain locus
 were identified by a quantitative PCR assay using TAQMAN T M probes (Lie, Y.S. and
  Petropoulos, C.J. (1998) Advances in quantitative PCR technology: 5'nuclease assays.
                                                82

Curr Opin Biotechnol 9(1):43-48). The upstream and downstream regions outside of the
modified portion of the humanized heavy chain locus were confirmed by PCR using
primers and probes located within the modified region to confirm the presence of the
ectopic mouse genomic sequence within the humanized heavy chain locus as well as the
hygromycin cassette. The nucleotide sequence across the upstream insertion point
included the following, which indicates human heavy chain genomic sequence upstream of
the insertion point and an I-Ceu I restriction site (contained within the parentheses below)
linked contiguously to mouse genomic sequence present at the insertion point:
(CCAGCTTCAT TAGTAATCGT TCATCTGTGG TAAAAAGGCA GGATTTGAAG
CGATGGAAGA TGGGAGTACG GGGCGTTGGA AGACAAAGTG CCACACAGCG
CAGCCTTCGT CTAGACCCCC GGGCTAACTA TAACGGTCCT AAGGTAGCGA G)
GGGATGACAG ATTCTCTGTT CAGTGCACTC AGGGTCTGCC TCCACGAGAA
TCACCATGCC CTTTCTCAAG ACTGTGTTCT GTGCAGTGCC CTGTCAGTGG (SEQ ID
NO:4). The nucleotide sequence across the downstream insertion point at the 3' end of
the targeted region included the following, which indicates mouse genomic sequence and a
PI-Sce I restriction site (contained within the parentheses below) linked contiguously with
human heavy chain genomic sequence downstream of the insertion point:
(AGGGGTCGAG GGGGAATTTT ACAAAGAACA AAGAAGCGGG CATCTGCTGA
CATGAGGGCC GAAGTCAGGC TCCAGGCAGC GGGAGCTCCA CCGCGGTGGC
GCCATTTCAT TACCTCTTTC TCCGCACCCG ACATAGATAAAGCTT) ATCCCCCACC
AAGCAAATCC CCCTACCTGG GGCCGAGCTT CCCGTATGTG GGAAAATGAA
TCCCTGAGGT CGATTGCTGC ATGCAATGAA ATTCAACTAG (SEQ ID NO:5).
 [00302]     Targeted ES cells described above were used as donor ES cells and introduced
 into an 8-cell stage mouse embryo by the VELOCIMOUSE@ mouse engineering method
 (see, e.g., US Pat. Nos. 7,6598,442, 7,576,259, 7,294,754). Mice bearing a humanized
 heavy chain locus containing an ectopic mouse genomic sequence comprising mouse
ADAM6a and ADAM6b sequences were identified by genotyping using a modification of
 allele assay (Valenzuela et al., 2003) that detected the presence of the mouse ADAM6a
 and ADAM6b genes within the humanized heavy chain locus.
 [00303]     Mice bearing a humanized heavy chain locus that contains mouse ADAM6a
 and ADAM6b genes are bred to a FLPe deletor mouse strain (see, e.g., Rodriguez, C.I. et
 al. (2000) High-efficiency deleter mice show that FLPe is an alternative to Cre-loxP.
 Nature Genetics 25:139-140) in order to remove any FRTed hygromycin cassette
 introduced by the targeting vector that is not removed, e.g., at the ES cell stage or in the
 embryo. Optionally, the hygromycin cassette is retained in the mice.
 [00304]     Pups are genotyped and a pup heterozygous for a humanized heavy chain
 locus containing an ectopic mouse genomic fragment that comprises mouse ADAM6a and
                                                83

ADAM6b sequences is selected for characterizing mouse ADAM6 gene expression and
fertility.
                                          Example Vill
                          Characterization of ADAM6 Rescue Mice
[00305]     Flow Cytometry.
[00306]     Three mice at age 25 weeks homozygous for human heavy and human K light
chain variable gene loci (H/ic) and three mice at age 18-20 weeks homozygous for human
heavy and human K light chain having the ectopic mouse genomic fragment encoding the
mouse ADAM6a and ADAM6b genes within both alleles of the human heavy chain locus
(H/x-A6) were sacrificed for identification and analysis of lymphocyte cell populations by
FACs on the BD LSR 11System (BD Bioscience). Lymphocytes were gated for specific cell
lineages and analyzed for progression through various stages of B cell development.
Tissues collected from the animals included blood, spleen and bone marrow. Blood was
collected into BD microtainer tubes with EDTA (BD Biosciences). Bone marrow was
collected from femurs by flushing with complete RPMI medium supplemented with fetal calf
serum, sodium pyruvate, HEPES, 2-mercaptoethanol, non-essential amino acids, and
gentamycin. Red blood cells from blood, spleen and bone marrow preparations were lysed
with an ammonium chloride-based lysis buffer (e.g., ACK lysis buffer), followed by washing
with complete RPMI medium.
 [00307]    For staining of cell populations, 1 x 106 cells from the various tissue sources
were incubated with anti-mouse CD16/CD32 (2.4G2, BD Biosciences) on ice for 10
 minutes, followed by labeling with one or a combination of the following antibody cocktails
 for 30 min on ice.
 [00308]     Bone marrow: anti-mouse FITC-CD43 (1B1 1, BioLegend), PE-ckit (2B8,
 BioLegend), PeCy7-IgM (11/41, eBioscience), PerCP-Cy5.5-IgD (11-26c.2a, BioLegend),
 APC-eFluor780-B220 (RA3-6B2, eBioscience), A700-CD19 (1D3, BD Biosciences).
 [00309]     Peripheral blood and spleen: anti-mouse FITC-K (187.1, BD Biosciences), PE-X
 (RML-42, BioLegend), PeCy7-IgM (11/41, eBioscience), PerCP-Cy5.5-IgD (11-26c.2a,
 BioLegend), APC-CD3 (145-2C11, BD), A700-CD19 (1D3, BD), APC-eFluor780-B220
 (RA3-6B2, eBioscience). Following incubation with the labeled antibodies, cells were
 washed and fixed in 2% formaldehyde. Data acquisition was performed on an LSRII flow
 cytometer and analyzed with FlowJo. Results from a representative H/K and H/K-A6
 mouse are shown in FIGs. 14-18.
  [00310]    The results demonstrate that B cells of H/ic-A6 mice progress through the
 stages of B cell development in a similar fashion to H/ic mice in the bone marrow and
                                                84

peripheral compartments, and show normal patterns of maturation once they enter the
periphery. H/K-A6 mice demonstrated an increased CD43ntCD19+ cell population as
compared to H/K mice (FIG. 16B). This may indicate an accelerated IgM expression from
the humanized heavy chain locus containing an ectopic mouse genomic fragment
comprising the mouse ADAM6a and ADAM6b sequences in H/K-A6 mice. In the periphery,
B and T cell populations of H/K-A6 mice appear normal and similar to H/K mice.
[00311]       Testis Morphology and Sperm Characterization.
[00312]       To determine if infertility in mice having humanized immunoglobulin heavy chain
variable loci is due to testis and/or sperm production defects, testis morphology and sperm
content of the epididymis was examined.
[00313]       Briefly, testes from two groups of five mice per group (Group 1: mice
homozygous for human heavy and            K light chain variable gene loci, mADAM6*; Group 2:
mice heterozygous for human heavy chain variable gene loci and homozygous for K light
chain variable gene loci, mADAM6''-) were dissected with the epididymis intact and
weighed. The specimens were then fixed, embedded in paraffin, sectioned and stained
with hematoxylin and eosin (HE) stain. Testis sections (2 testes per mouse, for a total of
20) were examined for defects in morphology and evidence of sperm production, while
 epididymis sections were examined for presence of sperm.
 [00314]      In this experiment, no differences in testis weight or morphology was observed
 between mADAM6# mice and mADAM6*' mice. Sperm was observed in all genotypes,
 both in the testes and the epididymis. These results establish that the absence of mouse
ADAM6a and ADAM6b genes does not lead to detectable changes in testis morphology,
 and that sperm is produced in mice in the presence and absence of these two genes.
 Defects in fertility of male ADAM6# mice are therefore not likely to be due to low sperm
 production.
 [00315]      Sperm Motility and Migration.
 [00316]      Mice that lack other ADAM gene family members are infertile due to defects in
 sperm motility or migration. Sperm migration is defined as the ability of sperm to pass from
 the uterus into the oviduct, and is normally necessary for fertilization in mice. To determine
 if the deletion of mouse ADAM6a and ADAM6b affects this process, sperm migration was
 evaluated in mADAM6-mice. Sperm motility was also examined.
 [00317]      Briefly, sperm was obtained from testes of (1) mice heterozygous for human
 heavy chain variable gene loci and homozygous for human K light chain variable gene locui
 (ADAM6*'); (2) mice homozyogous for human heavy chain variable gene loci and
 homozygous for human K light chain variable gene loci (ADAM6*); (3) mice homozygous
 for human heavy chain variable gene loci and homozygous for wild-type          K light chain
                                                     85

(ADAM6-'-mK); and, (4) wild-type C57 BL/6 mice (WT). No significant abnormalities were
observed in sperm count or overall sperm motility by inspection. For all mice, cumulus
dispersal was observed, indicating that each sperm sample was able to penetrate the
cumulus cells and bind the zona pellucida in vitro. These results establish that ADAM6
mice have sperm that are capable of penetrating the cumulus and binding the zona
pellucida.
[00318]      Fertilization of mouse ova in vitro (IVF) was done using sperm from mice as
described above. A slightly lower number of cleaved embryos were present for ADAM6#
the day following IVF, as well as a reduced number of sperm bound to the eggs. These
results establish that sperm from ADAM6# mice, once exposed to an ovum, are capable of
penetrating the cumulus and binding the zona pellucida.
[00319]      In another experiment, the ability of sperm from ADAM6~'- mice to migrate from
the uterus and through the oviduct was determined in a sperm migration assay.
[00320]      Briefly, a first group of five superovulated female mice were set up with five
ADAM6- males. A second group of five superovulated female mice were set up with five
ADAM6*'- males. The mating pairs were observed for copulation, and five to six hours
post-copulation the uterus and attached oviduct from all females were removed and
flushed for analysis. Flush solutions were checked for eggs to verify ovulation and obtain a
sperm count. Sperm migration was evaluated in two different ways. First, both oviducts
were removed from the uterus, flushed with saline, and any sperm identified were counted.
The presence of eggs was also noted as evidence of ovulation. Second, oviducts were left
attached to the uterus and both tissues were fixed, embedded in paraffin, sectioned and
stained (as described above). Sections were examined for presence of sperm, in both the
uterus and in both oviducts.
[00321]      For the five females mated with the five ADAM6- males, very little sperm was
found in the flush solution from the oviduct. Flush solutions from oviducts of the five
females mated with the five ADAM6*'- males exhibited a sperm level about 25- to 30-fold
higher (avg, n = 10 oviducts) than present in flush solutions from the oviducts of the five
females mated with the five ADAM6# males.
[00322]      Histological sections of uterus and oviduct were prepared. The sections were
examined for sperm presence in the uterus and the oviduct (the colliculus tubarius).
Inspection of histological sections of oviduct and uterus revealed that for female mice
mated with ADAM6- mice, sperm was found in the uterus but not in the oviduct. Further,
sections from females mated with ADAM6- mice revealed that sperm was not found at the
uterotubal junction (UTJ). In sections from females mated with ADAM6*'- mice, sperm was
identified in the UTJ and in the oviduct.
                                                  86

 [00323]      These results establish that mice lacking ADAM6a and ADAM6b genes make
sperm that exhibit an in vivo migration defect. In all cases, sperm was observed within the
 uterus, indicating that copulation and sperm release apparently occur as normal, but little
to no sperm was observed within the oviducts after copulation as measured either by
sperm count or histological observation. These results establish that mice lacking
ADAM6a and ADAM6b genes produce sperm that exhibit an inability to migrate from the
 uterus to the oviduct. This defect apparently leads to infertility because sperm are unable
to cross the uterine-tubule junction into the oviduct, where eggs are fertilized. Taken
together, all of these results converge to the support the hypothesis that mouse ADAM6
genes help direct sperm with normal motility to migrate out of the uterus, through the
 uterotubal junction and the oviduct, and thus approach an egg to achieve the fertilization
event. The mechanism by which ADAM6 achieves this may be directly by action of the
ADAM6 proteins, or through coordinate expression with other proteins, e.g., other ADAM
 proteins, in the sperm cell, as described below.
 [00324]     ADAM Gene Family Expression.
 [00325]     A complex of ADAM proteins are known to be present as a complex on the
surface of maturing sperm. Mice lacking other ADAM gene family members lose this
complex as sperm mature, and exhibit a reduction of multiple ADAM proteins in mature
sperm. To determine if a lack of ADAM6a and ADAM6b genes affects other ADAM
 proteins in a similar manner, Western blots of protein extracts from testis (immature sperm)
and epididymis (maturing sperm) were analyzed to determine the expression levels of
other ADAM gene family members.
 [00326]      In this experiment, protein extracts were analyzed from four ADAM6-'- and four
ADAM6+' mice. The results showed that expression of ADAM2 and ADAM3 were not
affected in testis extracts. However, both ADAM2 and ADAM3 were dramatically reduced
in epididymis extracts. This demonstrates that the absence of ADAM6a and ADAM6b in
sperm of ADAM6~' mice may have a direct affect on the expression and perhaps function
of other ADAM proteins as sperm matures (e.g., ADAM2 and ADAM3). This suggests that
ADAM6a and ADAM6b are part of an ADAM protein complex on the surface of sperm,
which might be critical for proper sperm migration.
                                             Example IX
             Human Heavy Chain Variable Gene Usage in ADAM6 Rescue Mice
 [00327]      Selected human heavy chain variable gene usage was determined for mice
 homozygous for human heavy and        K  light chain variable gene loci either lacking mouse
ADAM6a and ADAM6b genes (mADAM6~'~) or containing an ectopic genomic fragment
                                                  87

encoding for mouse ADAM6a and ADAM6b genes (ADAM6*'*; see Example 1) by a
quantitative PCR assay using TAQMAN TM probes (as described above).
[00328]     Briefly, CD19* B cells were purified from the spleens of mADAM6-1- and
ADAM6*'* mice using mouse CD19 Microbeads (Miltenyi Biotec) and total RNA was
purified using the RNEASY   TM Mini kit (Qiagen). Genomic RNA was removed using a
RNase-free DNase on-column treatment (Qiagen). About 200 ng mRNA was reverse
transcribed into cDNA using the First Stand cDNA Synthesis kit (Invitrogen) and then
amplified with the TAQMAN T M Universal PCR Master Mix (Applied Biosystems) using the
ABI 7900 Sequence Detection System (Applied Biosystems). Relative expression of each
gene was normalized to the mouse K Constant (mCK). Table 9 sets forth the
sense/antisense/TAQMANTM MGB probe combinations used in this experiment.
                                               88

                                             Table 9
       Human VH        Sequence (5'-3')                                    SEQ ID NOs:
                       Sense: CAGGTACAGCTGCAGCAGTCA                               6
      VH6 -1           Anti-sense: GGAGATGGCACAGGTGAGTGA                          7
                       Probe: TCCAGGACTGGTGAAGC                                   8
                       Sense: TAGTCCCAGTGATGAGAAAGAGAT                            9
      VH1-  2          Anti-sense: GAGAACACAGAAGTGGATGAGATC                       10
                       Probe: TGAGTCCAGTCCAGGGA                                   11
                       Sense: AAAAATTGAGTGTGAATGGATAAGAGTG                        12
      VH3 - 2 3        Anti-sense: AACCCTGGTCAGAAACTGCCA                          13
                       Probe: AGAGAAACAGTGGATACGT                                 14
                       Sense: AACTACGCACAGAAGTTCCAGG                              15
      VH 1-69          Anti-sense: GCTCGTGGATTTGTCCGC                             16
                       Probe: CAGAGTCACGATTACC                                    17
                       Sense: TGAGCAGCACCCTCACGTT                                 18
       mCK             Anti-sense: GTGGCCTCACAGGTATAGCTGTT                        19
                       Probe: ACCAAGGACGAGTATGAA                                  20
[00329]       In this experiment, expression of all four human VH genes was observed in the
samples analyzed. Further, the expression levels were comparable between mADAM6
and ADAM6*'* mice. These results demonstrate that human         VH  genes that were both distal
to the modification site (VH3-23 and VH1-   69) and proximal to the modification site (VH1- 2
and VH6 -1) were all able to recombine to form a functionally expressed human heavy
chain. These results demonstrate that the ectopic genomic fragment comprising mouse
ADAM6a and ADAM6b sequences inserted into a human heavy chain genomic sequence
did not affect V(D)J recombination of human heavy chain gene segments within the locus,
and these mice are able to recombine human heavy chain gene segments in normal
fashion to produce functional heavy chain immunoglobulin proteins.
                                           Example X
                     Identification of Human Heavy Chain Variable Regions
           That Associate with Selected Human Light Chain Variable Regions
[00330]       An in vitro expression system was constructed to determine if a single
rearranged human germline light chain could be co-expressed with human heavy chains
from antigen-specific human antibodies.
[00331]       Methods for generating human antibodies in genetically modified mice are
known (see e.g., US 6,596,541, Regeneron Pharmaceuticals, VELOCIMMUNE@
humanized mouse). The VELOCIMMUNE@ humanized mouse technology involves
generation of a genetically modified mouse having a genome comprising human heavy and
light chain variable regions operably linked to endogenous mouse constant region loci such
                                                89

that the mouse produces an antibody comprising a human variable region and a mouse
constant region in response to antigenic stimulation. The DNA encoding the variable
regions of the heavy and light chains of the antibodies produced from a VELOCIMMUNE@
humanized mouse are fully human. Initially, high affinity chimeric antibodies are isolated
having a human variable region and a mouse constant region. As described below, the
antibodies are characterized and selected for desirable characteristics, including affinity,
selectivity, epitope, etc. The mouse constant regions are replaced with a desired human
constant region to generate a fully human antibody containing a non-lgM isotype, for
example, wild type or modified IgG1, IgG2, IgG3 or IgG4. While the constant region
selected may vary according to specific use, high affinity antigen-binding and target
specificity characteristics reside in the variable region.
 [00332]      A VELOCIMMUNE@ humanized mouse was immunized with a growth factor
that promotes angiogenesis (Antigen C) and antigen-specific human antibodies were
 isolated and sequenced for V gene usage using standard techniques recognized in the art.
 Selected antibodies were cloned onto human heavy and light chain constant regions and
69 heavy chains were selected for pairing with one of three human light chains: (1) the
 cognate K light chain linked to a human K constant region, (2) a rearranged human
 germline VK1-39JK5 linked to a human K constant region, or (3) a rearranged human
 germline VK3-20JK1 linked to a human K constant region. Each heavy chain and light
 chain pair were co-transfected in CHO-K1 cells using standard techniques. Presence of
 antibody in the supernatant was detected by anti-human IgG in an ELISA assay. Antibody
 titer (ng/ml) was determined for each heavy chain/light chain pair and titers with the
 different rearranged germline light chains were compared to the titers obtained with the
 parental antibody molecule (i.e., heavy chain paired with cognate light chain) and percent
 of native titer was calculated (Table 10).  VH: Heavy chain variable gene. ND: no
 expression detected under current experimental conditions.
                                                 90

                              Table 10
              Antibody Titer (ng/mL)       Percent of Native Titer
 VH
      Cognate LC    VKI-39JK5    VK3-20JK1 VKI-39JK5   VK3-20JK1
3-15      63            23           11       36.2         17.5
 1-2     103            53           ND       51.1
3-23      83            60           23       72.0         27.5
3-33      15            77           ND      499.4
4-31      22            69           17      309.4         76.7
 3-7      53            35           28       65.2         53.1
   -      22            32           19      148.8         89.3
1-24       3             13          ND      455.2
3-33       1            47           ND     5266.7
3-33      58             37          ND       63.1
   -     110            67           18       60.6         16.5
3-23     127            123          21       96.5         16.3
3-33      28             16           2       57.7          7.1
3-23      32             50          38      157.1        119.4
   -      18             45           18     254.3        101.7
 3-9       1             30          23     2508.3       1900.0
3-11      12             26           6      225.9         48.3
 1-8      16            ND            13        -          81.8
3-33      54             81           10     150.7         19.1
   -      34              9          ND       25.9
3-20       7             14           54     203.0        809.0
3-33      19             38          ND      200.5
3-11      48            ND           203        -         423.6
           11            23            8     212.7         74.5
3-33      168           138          182      82.0        108.2
3-20      117            67          100      57.5         86.1
3-23      86             61          132      70.7        154.1
3-33      20             12           33      60.9        165.3
4-31      69             92           52      133.8        75.0
3-23      87             78           62      89.5         71.2
  1-2      31            82           51     263.0        164.6
3-23       53            93          151      175.4       285.4
           11             8           17       75.7       151.4
 3-33     114            36           27      31.6         23.4
 3-15      73            39           44       53.7        59.6
                                  91

       3-33              1            34             16             5600.0     2683.3
        3-9             58           112             57              192.9      97.6
       3-33             67            20            105               30.1      157.0
       3-33             34            21             24               62.7       70.4
       3-20             10            49             91             478.4       888.2
       3-33             66            32             25              48.6        38.2
       3-23             17            59             56              342.7      329.8
          -             58           108             19              184.4       32.9
          -             68            54             20               79.4       29.9
       3-33             42            35             32               83.3       75.4
          -             29            19             13               67.1      43.9
         3-9            24            34             29              137.3      118.4
      3-30/33           17            33              7              195.2      43.1
         3-7            25            70             74              284.6      301.6
        3-33            87           127             ND              145.1
         6-1            28            56             ND              201.8
        3-33            56            39             20               69.9       36.1
        3-33             10           53              1              520.6        6.9
        3-33            20            67             10              337.2       52.3
        3-33             11           36             18              316.8      158.4
        3-23             12           42             32              356.8      272.9
        3-33            66            95             15              143.6       22.5
        3-15            55            68             ND              123.1
          -             32            68              3              210.9       10.6
         1-8            28            48             ND              170.9
        3-33            124           192            21              154.3       17.0
        3-33              0           113            ND            56550.0
        3-33             10           157              1            1505.8       12.5
        3-33              6           86              15            1385.5      243.5
        3-23             70           115            22              163.5       31.0
         3-7             71           117            21              164.6       29.6
        3-33             82           100            47              122.7       57.1
         3-7            124           161            41              130.0       33.5
[00333]      In a similar experiment, VELOCIMMUNE@ humanized mice were immunized
with several different antigens and selected heavy chains of antigen specific human
antibodies were tested for their ability to pair with different rearranged human germline light
chains (as described above). The antigens used in this experiment included an enzyme
involved in cholesterol homeostasis (Antigen A), a serum hormone involved in regulating
glucose homeostasis (Antigen B), a growth factor that promotes angiogenesis (Antigen C)
                                                 92

and a cell-surface receptor (Antigen D). Antigen specific antibodies were isolated from
mice of each immunization group and the heavy chain and light chain variable regions
were cloned and sequenced. From the sequence of the heavy and light chains, V gene
usage was determined and selected heavy chains were paired with either their cognate
light chain or a rearranged human germline Vx1-39Jx5 region. Each heavy/light chain pair
was co-transfected in CHO-K1 cells and the presence of antibody in the supernatant was
detected by anti-human IgG in an ELISA assay. Antibody titer (pg/ml) was determined for
each heavy chain/light chain pairing and titers with the different rearranged human
germline light chains were compared to the titers obtained with the parental antibody
molecule (i.e., heavy chain paired with cognate light chain) and percent of native titer was
calculated (Table 11). VH: Heavy chain variable gene. Vx: x light chain variable gene.
ND: no expression detected under current experimental conditions.
                                          Table 11
                                                    Titer (pg/ml)
                                                                               Percent of
     Antigen    Antibody     VH    VK                                VH +     Native   Titer
                                         VH Alone     VH +VK                  Native3Tite
                                                                 VK1-39JK5
                320         1-18  2-30       0.3        3.1           2.0          66
                321         2-5   2-28       0.4        0.4           1.9         448
                334         2-5   2-28       0.4        2.7           2.0          73
     A          313         3-13  3-15       0.5        0.7           4.5         670
                316         3-23  4-1        0.3        0.2           4.1        2174
                315         3-30  4-1        0.3        0.2           3.2         1327
                318         4-59  1-17       0.3        4.6           4.0           86
                257         3-13  1-5        0.4        3.1           3.2          104
                283         3-13  1-5        0.4        5.4           3.7          69
                637         3-13  1-5        0.4        4.3           3.0           70
                638         3-13  1-5        0.4        4.1           3.3           82
     B          624         3-23  1-17       0.3        5.0           3.9           79
                284         3-30  1-17       0.3        4.6           3.4           75
                653         3-33   1-17      0.3        4.3           0.3            7
                268         4-34   1-27      0.3         5.5          3.8           69
                633         4-34   1-27      0.6         6.9          3.0           44
                730         3-7    1-5       0.3         1.1          2.8          249
                728         3-7    1-5       0.3         2.0          3.2          157
     C          691         3-9   3-20       0.3         2.8          3.1          109
                749         3-33  3-15       0.3         3.8          2.3           62
                750         3-33   1-16      0.3         3.0          2.8           92
                                               93

                724         3-33  1-17      0.3        2.3          3.4           151
                706         3-33  1-16      0.3        3.6          3.0            84
                744          1-18 1-12      0.4        5.1           3.0           59
                696         3-11  1-16      0.4        3.0          2.9            97
                685         3-13  3-20      0.3        0.5           3.4          734
                732         3-15  1-17      0.3        4.5           3.2           72
                694         3-15  1-5       0.4        5.2           2.9           55
                743          3-23 1-12      0.3        3.2           0.3           10
                742          3-23 2-28      0.4        4.2           3.1           74
                693          3-23 1-12      0.5        4.2          4.0            94
                136          3-23 2-28      0.4        5.0           2.7           55
                155          3-30 1-16      0.4        1.0           2.2          221
                163          3-30 1-16      0.3        0.6           3.0          506
                171          3-30 1-16      0.3        1.0           2.8          295
                145          3-43  1-5      0.4        4.4           2.9           65
                49           3-48 3-11      0.3        1.7           2.6          155
    D
                51           3-48  1-39     0.1         1.9          0.1            4
                159          3-7  6-21      0.4        3.9           3.6           92
                169          3-7  6-21      0.3         1.3          3.1          235
                134          3-9   1-5       0.4       5.0           2.9           58
                141          4-31  1-33     2.4        4.2           2.6           63
                142          4-31  1-33      0.4       4.2           2.8           67
[00334]     The results obtained from these experiments demonstrate that somatically
mutated, high affinity heavy chains from different gene families are able to pair with
rearranged human germline VK1-39JK5 and VK3-20JK1 regions and be secreted from the
cell as a normal antibody molecule. As shown in Table 10, antibody titer was increased for
about 61% (42 of 69) heavy chains when paired with the rearranged human Vx1-39JK5
light chain and about 29% (20 of 69) heavy chains when paired with the rearranged human
VK3-20JK1    light chain as compared to the cognate light chain of the parental antibody. For
about 20% (14 of 69) of the heavy chains, both rearranged human germline light chains
conferred an increase in expression as compared to the cognate light chain of the parental
antibody. As shown in Table 11, the rearranged human germline VK1-39JK5 region
conferred an increase in expression of several heavy chains specific for a range of different
classes of antigens as compared to the cognate light chain for the parental antibodies.
Antibody titer was increased by more than two-fold for about 35% (15/43) of the heavy
chains as compared to the cognate light chain of the parental antibodies. For two heavy
chains (315 and 316), the increase was greater than ten-fold as compared to the parental
antibody. Within all the heavy chains that showed increase expression relative to the
                                               94

                                                              3
cognate light chain of the parental antibody, family three (VH ) heavy chains are over
represented in comparison to other heavy chain variable region gene families. This
demonstrates a favorable relationship of human      VH3 heavy chains to pair with rearranged
human germline VO1-39Jx5 and VK3-20JK1 light chains.
                                           Example XI
             Generation of a Rearranged Human Germline Light Chain Locus
[00335]      Various rearranged human germline light chain targeting vectors were made
using VELOCIGENE@ genetic engineering technology (see, e.g., US Pat. No. 6,586,251
and Valenzuela et al. (2003) High-throughput engineering of the mouse genome coupled
with high-resolution expression analysis, Nature Biotech. 21(6):652-659) to modify mouse
genomic Bacterial Artificial Chromosome (BAC) clones 302g12 and 254m04 (Invitrogen).
Using these two BAC clones, genomic constructs were engineered to contain a single
rearranged human germline light chain region and inserted into an endogenous < light
chain locus that was previously modified to delete the endogenous K variable and joining
gene segments.
[00336]      Construction of Rearranged Human Germline Light Chain Targeting
Vectors.
[00337]      Three different rearranged human germline light chain regions were made using
standard molecular biology techniques recognized in the art. The human variable gene
segments used for constructing these three regions included rearranged human VK1
39JK5 sequence, a rearranged human VK3-20JK1 sequence and a rearranged human
VpreBJ15 sequence.
 [00338]     A DNA segment containing exon 1 (encoding the leader peptide) and intron 1 of
the mouse VK3-7 gene was made by de novo DNA synthesis (Integrated DNA
Technologies). Part of the 5' untranslated region up to a naturally occurring BIpI restriction
 enzyme site was included. Exons of human Vx1-39 and VK3-20 genes were PCR
 amplified from human genomic BAC libraries. The forward primers had a 5' extension
 containing the splice acceptor site of intron 1 of the mouse V<3-7 gene. The reverse
 primer used for PCR of the human VO1-39 sequence included an extension encoding
 human JK5, whereas the reverse primer used for PCR of the human VK3-20 sequence
 included an extension encoding human JK1. The human VpreBJX5 sequence was made
 by de novo DNA synthesis (Integrated DNA Technologies). A portion of the human JK-CK
 intron including the splice donor site was PCR amplified from plasmid pBS-296-HA1 8
 PIScel. The forward PCR primer included an extension encoding part of either a human
                                                95

Jx5, J1, or Jk5 sequence. The reverse primer included a PI-Scel site, which was
previously engineered into the intron.
[00339]      The mouse VK3-7 exon1/intron 1, human variable light chain exons, and human
JK-CK intron fragments were sewn together by overlap extension PCR, digested with Blpl
and PI-Scel, and ligated into plasmid pBS-296-HA18-PIScel, which contained the promoter
from the human VK3-15 variable gene segment. A loxed hygromycin cassette within
plasmid pBS-296-HA1 8-PIScel was replaced with a FRTed hygromycin cassette flanked
by Notl and Asci sites. The Notl/PI-Scel fragment of this plasmid was ligated into modified
mouse BAC 254m04, which contained part of the mouse Jc-Cc intron, the mouse CK exon,
and about 75 kb of genomic sequence downstream of the mouse K locus which provided a
3' homology arm for homologous recombination in mouse ES cells. The Not1/Ascl
fragment of this BAC was then ligated into modified mouse BAC 302g12, which contained
a FRTed neomycin cassette and about 23 kb of genomic sequence upstream of the
endogenous K locus for homologous recombination in mouse ES cells.
[00340]      Rearranged Human Germline Vi1 -39Jx5 Targeting Vector (FIG. 19).
[00341]      Restriction enzyme sites were introduced at the 5' and 3' ends of an engineered
light chain insert for cloning into a targeting vector: an Asci site at the 5' end and a PI-Scel
site at the 3' end. Within the 5' AscI site and the 3' PI-Scel site the targeting construct from
5' to 3' included a 5' homology arm containing sequence 5' to the endogenous mouse K
 light chain locus obtained from mouse BAC clone 302g12, a FRTed neomycin resistance
gene, a genomic sequence including the human VK3-15 promoter, a leader sequence of
the mouse VK3-7 variable gene segment, a intron sequence of the mouse VK3 - 7 variable
 gene segment, an open reading frame of a rearranged human germline VKl-39JK5 region,
 a genomic sequence containing a portion of the human JK-CK intron, and a 3' homology
 arm containing sequence 3' of the endogenous mouse Ji5 gene segment obtained from
 mouse BAC clone 254m04 (Figure 19, middle). Genes and/or sequences upstream of the
 endogenous mouse K light chain locus and downstream of the most 3' J gene segment
 (e.g., the endogenous 3' enhancer) were unmodified by the targeting construct (see Figure
 19). The sequence of the engineered human VK1-39JK5 locus is shown in SEQ ID NO:59.
 [00342]      Targeted insertion of the rearranged human germline VK1-39JK5 region into
 BAC DNA was confirmed by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) using primers located at
 sequences within the rearranged human germline light chain region. Briefly, the intron
 sequence 3' to the mouse VK3-7 leader sequence was confirmed with primers ULC-m1 F
 (AGGTGAGGGT ACAGATAAGT GTTATGAG; SEQ ID NO:60) and ULC-m1 R
 (TGACAAATGC CCTAATTATA GTGATCA; SEQ ID NO:61). The open reading frame of
                                                 96

the rearranged human germline VK1-39JK5 region was confirmed with primers 1633-h2F
(GGGCAAGTCA GAGCATTAGC A; SEQ ID NO:62) and 1633-h2R (TGCAAACTGG
ATGCAGCATA G; SEQ ID NO:63). The neomycin cassette was confirmed with primers
neoF (ggtggagagg ctattcggc; SEQ ID NO:64) and neoR (gaacacggcg gcatcag; SEQ ID
NO:65). Targeted BAC DNA was then used to electroporate mouse ES cells to created
modified ES cells for generating chimeric mice that express a rearranged human germline
VK1-39JK5 region.
                                                                  TM
[00343]      Positive ES cell clones were confirmed by Taqman        screening and karyotyping
using probes specific for the engineered VK1-39JK5 light chain region inserted into the
endogenous locus. Briefly, probe neoP (TGGGCACAAC AGACAATCGG CTG; SEQ ID
NO:66) which binds within the neomycin marker gene, probe ULC-m1 P (CCATTATGAT
GCTCCATGCC TCTCTGTTC; SEQ ID NO:67) which binds within the intron sequence 3'
to the mouse VK3-7 leader sequence, and probe 1633h2P (ATCAGCAGAA
ACCAGGGAAA GCCCCT; SEQ ID NO:68) which binds within the rearranged human
germline VK1-39JK5 open reading frame. Positive ES cell clones were then used to
implant female mice to give rise to a litter of pups expressing the germline VK1-39JK5 light
chain region.
[00344]      Alternatively, ES cells bearing the rearranged human germline VK1-39JK5 light
chain region are transfected with a constuct that expresses FLP in order to remove the
FRTed neomycin cassette introduced by the targeting construct. Optionally, the neomycin
cassette is removed by breeding to mice that express FLP recombinase (e.g., US
6,774,279). Optionally, the neomycin cassette is retained in the mice.
 [00345]     Rearranged Human Germline VK3-2OJicl Targeting Vector (FIG. 20).
 [00346]     In a similar fashion, an engineered light chain locus expressing a rearranged
 human germline VK3-20JK1 region was made using a targeting construct including, from 5'
to 3', a 5' homology arm containing sequence 5' to the endogenous mouse K light chain
 locus obtained from mouse BAC clone 302g12, a FRTed neomycin resistance gene, a
 genomic sequence including the human VK3-15 promoter, a leader sequence of the mouse
VK3-7 variable gene segment, an intron sequence of the mouse VK3-7 variable gene
 segment, an open reading frame of a rearranged human germline VK3-20JK1 region, a
 genomic sequence containing a portion of the human JK-CK intron, and a 3' homology arm
 containing sequence 3' of the endogenous mouse JK5 gene segment obtained from mouse
 BAC clone 254m04 (Figure 20, middle). The sequence of the engineered human VK3
 20JK1 locus is shown in SEQ ID NO:69.
                                                 97

[00347]      Targeted insertion of the rearranged human germline VK3-20JK1 region into
BAC DNA was confirmed by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) using primers located at
sequences within the rearranged human germline VK3-20JK1 light chain region. Briefly,
the intron sequence 3' to the mouse VK3 - 7 leader sequence was confirmed with primers
ULC-m1F (SEQ ID NO:60) and ULC-m1R (SEQ ID NO:61). The open reading frame of the
rearranged human germline VK3-20JK1 region was confirmed with primers 1635-h2F
(TCCAGGCACC CTGTCTTTG; SEQ ID NO:70) and 1635-h2R (AAGTAGCTGC
TGCTAACACT CTGACT; SEQ ID NO:71). The neomycin cassette was confirmed with
primers neoF (SEQ ID NO:64) and neoR (SEQ ID NO:65). Targeted BAC DNA was then
used to electroporate mouse ES cells to created modified ES cells for generating chimeric
mice that express the rearranged human germline VK3-20JK1 light chain.
[00348]      Positive ES cell clones were confirmed by Taqman T M screening and karyotyping
using probes specific for the engineered VK3-20JK1 light chain region inserted into the
endogenous K light chain locus. Briefly, probe neoP (SEQ ID NO:66) which binds within
the neomycin marker gene, probe ULC-m1 P (SEQ ID NO:67) which binds within the
mouse VK3-7 leader sequence, and probe 1635h2P (AAAGAGCCAC CCTCTCCTGC
AGGG; SEQ ID NO:72) which binds within the human VK3-20JK1 open reading frame.
Positive ES cell clones were then used to implant female mice. A litter of pups expressing
the human germline VK3-20JK1 light chain region.
[00349]      Alternatively, ES cells bearing human germline VK3-20JK1 light chain region
can be transfected with a constuct that expresses FLP in oder to remove the FRTed
 neomycin cassette introduced by the targeting consruct. Optionally, the neomycin cassette
 may be removed by breeding to mice that express FLP recombinase (e.g., US 6,774,279).
 Optionally, the neomycin cassette is retained in the mice.
 [00350]     Rearranged Human Germline VpreBJI5 Targeting Vector (FIG. 21).
 [00351]     In a similar fashion, an engineered light chain locus expressing a rearranged
 human germline VpreBJ15 region was made using a targeting construct including, from 5'
to 3', a 5' homology arm containing sequence 5' to the endogenous mouse K light chain
 locus obtained from mouse BAC clone 302g12, a FRTed neomycin resistance gene, an
 genomic sequence including the human VK3-15 promoter, a leader sequence of the mouse
 VK3 -7 variable gene segment, an intron sequence of the mouse VK3 - 7 variable gene
 segment, an open reading frame of a rearranged human germline VpreBJX5 region, a
 genomic sequence containing a portion of the human JK-CK intron, and a 3' homology arm
 containing sequence 3' of the endogenous mouse JK5 gene segment obtained from mouse
                                                98

BAC clone 254m04 (Figure 21, middle). The sequence of the engineered human VpreBJl5
locus is shown in SEQ ID NO:73.
[00352]      Targeted insertion of the rearranged human germline VpreBJX5 region into BAC
DNA was confirmed by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) using primers located at
sequences within the rearranged human germline VpreBJX5 region light chain region.
Briefly, the intron sequence 3' to the mouse VK3-7 leader sequence was confirmed with
primers ULC-m1F (SEQ ID NO:60 and ULC-m1R (SEQ ID NO:61). The open reading
frame of the rearranged human germline VpreBJX5 region was confirmed with primers
1616-h1F (TGTCCTCGGC CCTTGGA; SEQ ID NO:74) and 1616-h1R (CCGATGTCAT
GGTCGTTCCT; SEQ ID NO:75). The neomycin cassette was confirmed with primers
neoF (SEQ ID NO:64) and neoR (SEQ ID NO:65). Targeted BAC DNA was then used to
electroporate mouse ES cells to created modified ES cells for generating chimeric mice
that express the rearranged human germline VpreBJX5 light chain.
[00353]      Positive ES cell clones are confirmed by Taqman T M screening and karyotyping
using probes specific for the engineered VpreBJX5 light chain region inserted into the
endogenous     K  light chain locus. Briefly, probe neoP (SEQ ID NO:66) which binds within
the neomycin marker gene, probe ULC-miP (SEQ ID NO:67) which binds within the
mouse IgVK3-7 leader sequence, and probe 1616h1P (ACAATCCGCC TCACCTGCAC
CCT; SEQ ID NO:76) which binds within the human VpreBJX5 open reading frame.
Positive ES cell clones are then used to implant female mice to give rise to a litter of pups
expressing a germline light chain region.
 [00354]     Alternatively, ES cells bearing the rearranged human germline VpreBJI5 light
 chain region are transfected with a construct that expresses FLP in order to remove the
 FRTed neomycin cassette introduced by the targeting consruct. Optionally, the neomycin
 cassette is removed by breeding to mice that express FLP recombinase (e.g., US
6,774,279). Optionally, the neomycin cassette is retained in the mice.
                                             Example X11
           Generation of Mice expressing a single rearranged human light chain
 [00355]     Targeted ES cells described above were used as donor ES cells and introduced
 into an 8-cell stage mouse embryo by the VELOCIMOUSE@ method (see, e.g., US Pat.
 No. 7,294,754 and Poueymirou et al. (2007) F generation mice that are essentially fully
 derived from the donor gene-targeted ES cells allowing immediate phenotypic analyses,
 Nature Biotech. 25(1):91-99. VELOCIMICE@ independently bearing an engineered human
 germline VK1-39JK5 light chain region, a VK3-20JK1 light chain region or a VpreBJX5 light
 chain region are identified by genotyping using a modification of allele assay (Valenzuela
                                                  99

et al., supra) that detects the presence of the unique rearranged human germline light
chain region.
[00356]      Pups are genotyped and a pup heterozygous or homozygous for the unique
rearranged human germline light chain region are selected for characterizing expression of
the rearranged human germline light chain region.
[00357]      Flow Cytometry.
[00358]      Expression of the rearranged human light chain region in the normal antibody
repertoire of common light chain mice was validated by analysis of immunoglobulin K and k
expression in splenocytes and peripheral blood of common light chain mice. Cell
suspensions from harvested spleens and peripheral blood of wild type (n=5), VK1-39JK5
common light chain heterozygote (n=3), Vx1-39JK5 common light chain homozygote (n=3),
VK3-20JK1 common light chain heterozygote (n=2), and VK3-20JK1 common light chain
homozygote (n=2) mice were made using standard methods and stained with CD19*, Igl*
and Igk* using fluorescently labeled antibodies (BD Pharmigen).
[00359]      Briefly, 1x10 6 cells were incubated with anti-mouse CD16/CD32 (clone 2.4G2,
BD Pharmigen) on ice for 10 minutes, followed by labeling with the following antibody
cocktail for 30 minutes on ice: APC conjugated anti-mouse CD1 9 (clone 1D3, BD
Pharmigen), PerCP-Cy5.5 conjugated anti-mouse CD3 (clone 17A2, BioLegend), FITC
conjugated anti-mouse Igx (clone 187.1, BD Pharmigen), PE conjugated anti-mouse Igk
(clone RML-42, BioLegend). Following staining, cells were washed and fixed in 2%
formaldehyde. Data acquisition was performed on an LSRII flow cytometer and analyzed
with FIowJo T M. Gating: total B cells (CD19'CD3-), Igk' B cells (Igklgl~CD19'CD3-), Igl* B
cells (IgK-Igl*CD19*CD3-).     Data gathered from blood and splenocyte samples
demonstrated similar results. Table 12 sets forth the percent positive CD19* B cells from
 peripheral blood of one representative mouse from each group that are Igl*, Igk*, or
 lgl~lgk*. Percent of CD1 9* B cells in peripheral blood from wild type (WT) and mice
 homozygous for either the Vl -39JK5 or VK3-20JK1 common light chain are shown in FIG.
22.
                                             Table 12
                                                     CD19* B cells
                              Mouse Genotype      IgI+ Igk+ IgIIgk+
                              wild type           4.8    93     0.53
                              Vx11-39Jx5          1.4    93      2.6
                              VK3-20JK1           4.2    88       6
                                                100

[00360]      Common Light Chain Expression.
[00361]      Expression of each common light chain (VK1-39JK5 and VK3-20JK1) was
analyzed in heterozygous and homozygous mice using a quantitative PCR assay (e.g.
Taqman").
[00362]      Briefly, CD19+ B cells were purified from the spleens of wild type, mice
homozygous for a replacement of the mouse heavy chain and          K  light chain variable region
loci with corresponding human heavy chain and       K light chain variable region loci (HK), as
well as mice homozygous and heterozygous for each rearranged human light chain region
(VK1-39JK5 or VK3-20JK1) using mouse CD19 Microbeads (Miltenyi Biotec) according to
manufacturer's specifications. Total RNA was purified from CD1 9+ B cells using RNeasyTM
Mini kit (Qiagen) according to the manufacturer's specifications and genomic RNA was
removed using a RNase-free DNase on-column treatment (Qiagen). 200 ng mRNA was
reverse-transcribed into cDNA using the First Stand cDNA Synthesis kit (Invitrogen) and
                                                       TM
the resulting cDNA was amplified with the Taqman          Universal PCR Master Mix (Applied
Biosystems). All reactions were performed using the ABI 7900 Sequence Detection
System (Applied Biosystems) using primers and Taqman T M MGB probes spanning (1) the
VK-JK   junction for both common light chains, (2) the   VK  gene alone (i.e. Vl -39 and VK3
20), and (3) the mouse Cx region. Table 13 sets forth the sequences of the primers and
probes employed for this assay. Relative expression was normalized to expression of the
mouse Cx region. Results are shown in FIG. 23A, 23B and 23C.
                                           Table 13
  Region                  Primer/Probe Description (5'-3')                         SEQ ID NOs:
                          (sense) AGCAGTCTGC AACCTGAAGA TTT                              77
 VK1-39JK5 Junction       (anti-sense) GTTTAATCTC CAGTCGTGTC CCTT                        78
                          (probe) CCTCCGATCA CCTTC                                       79
                          (sense) AAACCAGGGA AAGCCCCTAA                                  80
 VK1-39                   (anti-sense) ATGGGACCCC ACTTTGCA                               81
                          (probe) CTCCTGATCT ATGCTGCAT                                   82
                          (sense) CAGCAGACTG GAGCCTGAAG A                                83
 VK3-20JK1 Junction       (anti-sense) TGATTTCCAC CTTGGTCCCT T                           84
                          (probe) TAGCTCACCT TGGACGTT                                    85
                          (sense) CTCCTCATCT ATGGTGCATC CA                               86
 VK3-20                   (anti-sense) GACCCACTGC CACTGAACCT                             87
                          (probe) CCACTGGCAT CCC                                         88
                          (sense) TGAGCAGCAC CCTCACGTT                                   89
  Mouse CK                (anti-sense) GTGGCCTCAC AGGTATAGCT GTT                         90
                          (probe) ACCAAGGACG AGTATGAA                                    91
                                                101

[00363]     Antigen Specific Common Light Chain Antibodies.
[00364]     Common light chain mice bearing either a VK1-39JK5 or VK3-20JK1 common
light chain at the endogenous mouse K light chain locus were immunized with      p
galactosidase and antibody titer was measured.
[00365]     Briefly, P-galactosidase (Sigma) was emulsified in TITERMAX TM adjuvant
(Sigma), as per the manufacturer's instructions. Wild type (n=7), VO1-39JK5 common light
chain homozgyotes (n=2) and VK3-20JK1 common light chain homozygotes (n=5) were
                                                                                  TM.
immunized by subcutaneous injection with 100 pg p-galactosidase/TITERMAX              Mice
were boosted by subcutaneous injection two times, 3 weeks apart, with 50 pg p
galactosidase/TITERMAX      TM. After the second boost, blood was collected from
anaesthetized mice using a retro-orbital bleed into serum separator tubes (BD
Biosciences) as per the manufacturer's instructions. To measure anti-p-galactosidase IgM
or IgG antibodies, ELISA plates (Nunc) were coated with 1 pg/mL p-galactosidase
overnight at 40 C. Excess antigen was washed off before blocking with PBS with 1% BSA
for one hour at room temperature. Serial dilutions of serum were added to the plates and
incubated for one hour at room temperature before washing. Plates were then incubated
with HRP conjugated anti-IgM (Southern Biotech) or anti-IgG (Southern Biotech) for one
hour at room temperature. Following another wash, plates were developed with TMB
substrate (BD Biosciences). Reactions were stopped with 1N sulfuric acid and OD450 was
read using a Victor X5 Plate Reader (Perkin Elmer). Data was analyzed with
GRAPHPADTM Prism and signal was calculated as the dilution of serum that is two times
above background. Results are shown in FIG. 24A and 24B.
[00366]     As shown in this Example, the ratio of </k B cells in both the splenic and
peripheral compartments of VK1-39JK5 and VK3-20JK1 common light chain mice
demonstrated a near wild type pattern (Table 12 and FIG. 22). VpreBJk5 common light
chain mice, however, demonstrated fewer peripheral B cells, of which about 1-2% express
the engineered human light chain region (data not shown). The expression levels of the
VK1-39JK5 and VK3-20JK1 rearranged human light chain regions from the endogenous K
light chain locus were elevated in comparison to an endogenous K light chain locus
containing a complete replacement of mouse VK and JK gene segments with human VK
and JK gene segments (FIG. 23A, 23B and 23C). The expression levels of the VpreBJk5
 rearranged human light chain region demonstrated similar high expression from the
endogenous K light chain locus in both heterozygous and homozygous mice (data not
 shown). This demonstrates that in direct competition with the mouse k, K, or both
 endogenous light chain loci, a single rearranged human VL/JL sequence can yield better
                                              102

than wild type level expression from the endogenous k light chain locus and give rise to
normal splenic and blood B cell frequency. Further, the presence of an engineered K light
chain locus having either a human VK1-39JK5 or human VK3-20JK1 sequence was well
tolerated by the mice and appear to function in wild type fashion by representing a
substantial portion of the light chain repertoire in the humoral component of the immune
response (FIG 24A and 24B).
                                           Example XIll
     Breeding of Mice Expressing a Single Rearranged Human Germline Light Chain
 [00367]     This Example describes several other genetically modified mouse strains that
can be bred to any one of the common light chain mice described herein to create multiple
genetically modified mouse strains harboring multiple genetically modified immunoglobulin
 loci.
 [00368]      Endogenous IgX Knockout (KO).
 [00369]     To optimize the usage of the engineered light chain locus, mice bearing one of
 the rearranged human germline light chain regions are bred to another mouse containing a
 deletion in the endogenous X light chain locus. In this manner, the progeny obtained will
 express, as their only light chain, the rearranged human germline light chain region as
 described in Example 11.     Breeding is performed by standard techniques recognized in the
 art and, alternatively, by a commercial breeder (e.g., The Jackson Laboratory). Mouse
 strains bearing an engineered light chain locus and a deletion of the endogenous X light
 chain locus are screened for presence of the unique light chain region and absence of
 endogenous mouse X light chains.
 [00370]      Humanized Endogenous Heavy Chain Locus.
 [00371]      Mice bearing an engineered human germline light chain locus are bred with
 mice that contain a replacement of the endogenous mouse heavy chain variable gene
 locus with the human heavy chain variable gene locus (see US 6,596,541; the
 VELOCIMMUNE@ humanized mouse, Regeneron Pharmaceuticals, Inc.). The
 VELOCIMMUNE@ humanized mouse comprises a genome comprising human heavy chain
 variable regions operably linked to endogenous mouse constant region loci such that the
  mouse produces antibodies comprising a human heavy chain variable region and a mouse
  heavy chain constant region in response to antigenic stimulation. The DNA encoding the
 variable regions of the heavy chains of the antibodies is isolated and operably linked to
  DNA encoding the human heavy chain constant regions. The DNA is then expressed in a
  cell capable of expressing the fully human heavy chain of the antibody.
                                                103

[00372]    Mice bearing a replacement of the endogenous mouse      VH  locus with the human
VH locus and a single rearranged human germline VL region at the endogenous K light
chain locus are obtained. Reverse chimeric antibodies containing somatically mutated
heavy chains (human   VH and mouse   CH) with a single human light chain (human VL and
mouse CL) are obtained upon immunization with an antigen of interest.    VH and VL
nucleotide sequences of B cells expressing the antibodies are identified and fully human
antibodies are made by fusion the VH  and VL nucleotide sequences to human     CH  and CL
nucleotide sequences in a suitable expression system.
                                             104

                                             Example XIV
                        Generation of Antibodies from Mice Expressing
      Human Heavy Chains and a Rearranged Human Germline Light Chain Region
[00373]     After breeding mice that contain the engineered human light chain region to
various desired strains containing modifications and deletions of other endogenous Ig loci
(as described in Example 12), selected mice can be immunized with an antigen of interest.
[00374]      Generally, a VELOCIMMUNE@ humanized mouse containing one of the single
rearranged human germline light chain regions is challenged with an antigen, and
lymphatic cells (such as B-cells) are recovered from serum of the animals. The lymphatic
cells are fused with a myeloma cell line to prepare immortal hybridoma cell lines, and such
hybridoma cell lines are screened and selected to identify hybridoma cell lines that produce
antibodies containing human heavy chain variables and a rearranged human germline light
chains which are specific to the antigen used for immunization. DNA encoding the variable
regions of the heavy chains and the light chain are isolated and linked to desirable isotypic
constant regions of the heavy chain and light chain. Due to the presence of the
endogenous mouse sequences and any additional cis-acting elements present in the
endogenous locus, the single light chain of each antibody may be somatically mutated.
This adds additional diversity to the antigen-specific repertoire comprising a single light
chain and diverse heavy chain sequences. The resulting cloned antibody sequences are
subsequently expressed in a cell, such as a CHO cell. Alternatively, DNA encoding the
antigen-specific chimeric antibodies or the variable domains of the light and heavy chains
are identified directly from antigen-specific lymphocytes.
[00375]      Initially, high affinity chimeric antibodies are isolated having a human variable
region and a mouse constant region. As described above, the antibodies are
characterized and selected for desirable characteristics, including affinity, selectivity,
epitope, etc. The mouse constant regions are replaced with a desired human constant
 region to generate the fully human antibody containing a somatically mutated human heavy
chain and a single light chain derived from a rearranged human germline light chain region
 of the invention. Suitable human constant regions include, for example wild type or
 modified IgG1 or IgG4.
 [00376]     Separate cohorts of VELOCIMMUNE@ humanized mice containing a
 replacement of the endogenous mouse heavy chain locus with human               VH, DH, and  JH gene
 segments and a replacement of the endogenous mouse             K light chain locus with either the
 engineered germline VK1-39JK5 human light chain region or the engineered germline VK3
 20JK1 human light chain region (described above) were immunized with a human cell
 surface receptor protein (Antigen E). Antigen E is administered directly onto the hind
                                                   105

footpad of mice with six consecutive injections every 3-4 days. Two to three micrograms of
Antigen E are mixed with 10 pg of CpG oligonucleotide (Cat # tirl-modn - ODN1 826
oligonucleotide; InVivogen, San Diego, CA) and 25 pg of Adju-Phos (Aluminum phosphate
gel adjuvant, Cat# H-71639-250; Brenntag Biosector, Frederikssund, Denmark) prior to
injection. A total of six injections are given prior to the final antigen recall, which is given 3
5 days prior to sacrifice. Bleeds after the 4th and 6th injection are collected and the
antibody immune response is monitored by a standard antigen-specific immunoassay.
[00377]       When a desired immune response is achieved splenocytes are harvested and
fused with mouse myeloma cells to preserve their viability and form hybridoma cell lines.
The hybridoma cell lines are screened and selected to identify cell lines that produce
Antigen E-specific common light chain antibodies. Using this technique several anti
Antigen E-specific common light chain antibodies (i.e., antibodies possessing human
 heavy chain variable domains, the same human light chain variable domain, and mouse
constant domains) are obtained.
 [00378]      Alternatively, anti-Antigen E common light chain antibodies are isolated directly
from antigen-positive B cells without fusion to myeloma cells, as described in U.S.
 2007/0280945A1, herein specifically incorporated by reference in its entirety. Using this
 method, several fully human anti-Antigen E common light chain antibodies (i.e., antibodies
 possessing human heavy chain variable domains, either an engineered human VK1-39JK5
 light chain or an engineered human VK3-20JK1 light chain region, and human constant
 domains) were obtained.
 [00379]      The biological properties of the exemplary anti-Antigen E common light chain
 antibodies generated in accordance with the methods of this Example are described in
 detail below.
                                            Example XV
                              Heavy Chain Gene Segment Usage in
                      Antigen-Specific Common Light Chain Antibodies
 [00380]      To analyze the structure of the human anti-Antigen E common light chain
 antibodies produced, nucleic acids encoding heavy chain antibody variable regions were
 cloned and sequenced. From the nucleic acid sequences and predicted amino acid
 sequences of the antibodies, gene usage was identified for the heavy chain variable region
  (HCVR) of selected common light chain antibodies obtained from immunized
 VELOCIMMUNE@ humanized mice containing either the engineered human VK1-39JK5
  light chain or engineered human VK3-20JK1 light chain region. Results are shown in
 Tables 14 and 15, which demonstrate that mice according to the invention generate
                                                106

antigen-specific common light chain antibodies from a variety of human heavy chain gene
segments, due to a variety of rearrangements, when employing either a mouse that
expresses a light chain from only a human VK1-39- or a human VK3-20-derived light chain.
Human   VH gene segments of the 2, 3, 4, and 5 families rearranged with a variety of human
DH segments and human      JH  segments to yield antigen-specific antibodies.
                                           Table 14
                                         VK1 -39JK5
                              Common Light Chain Antibodies
                                HCVR                                HCVR
            Antibody        VH     DH   JH       Antibody    VH       DH      JH
                2952       2-5     6-6   1         6030     3-30     6-6       5
                5978       2-5     6-6   1         6032     3-30     6-6       5
                5981       2-5    3-22   1         2985     3-30    6-13      4
                6027      3-13     6-6   5         2997     3-30    6-13       4
                3022      3-23    3-10   4         3011     3-30    6-13       4
                3028      3-23     3-3   4         3047     3-30    6-13       4
                5999      3-23     6-6   4         5982     3-30     6-13      4
                6009      3-23     2-8   4         6002     3-30     6-13      4
                6011      3-23    7-27   4         6003     3-30     6-13      4
                5980      3-30     1-1   4         6012     3-30     6-13      4
                3014       3-30    1-7   4         6013     3-30     6-13      4
                3015       3-30    1-7   4         6014     3-30     6-13      4
                3023       3-30    1-7   4         6015     3-30     6-13      4
                3024       3-30    1-7   4         6016     3-30     6-13      4
                3032       3-30    1-7   4         6017     3-30     6-13      4
                6024       3-30    1-7   4         6020     3-30     6-13      4
                6025       3-30    1-7   4         6034     3-30     6-13      4
                6031       3-30    1-7   4         2948     3-30     7-27      4
                6007       3-30    3-3   4         2987     3-30     7-27      4
                2982       3-30   3-22   5         2996     3-30     7-27      4
                6001       3-30   3-22   5         3005     3-30     7-27      4
                6005       3-30   3-22   5         3012     3-30     7-27      4
                6035       3-30    5-5   2         3020     3-30     7-27      4
                3013       3-30   5-12   4         3021      3-30    7-27      4
                3042       3-30   5-12   4         3025      3-30    7-27      4
                2955       3-30    6-6   1         3030      3-30    7-27      4
                3043       3-30    6-6   3         3036      3-30    7-27      4
                3018       3-30    6-6   4         5997      3-30    7-27      4
                                               107

               2949        3-30     6-6     5        6033     3-30    7-27      4
               2950        3-30     6-6     5        3004     3-30    7-27      5
               2954        3-30     6-6     5        6028     3-30    7-27      6
               2978        3-30     6-6     5        3010     4-59    3-16      3
               3016        3-30     6-6     5        3019     4-59    3-16      3
               3017        3-30     6-6     5        6018     4-59    3-16      3
               3033        3-30     6-6     5        6026     4-59    3-16      3
               3041        3-30     6-6     5        6029     4-59    3-16      3
               5979        3-30     6-6     5        6036     4-59    3-16      3
               5998        3-30     6-6     5        6037     4-59    3-16      3
               6004        3-30     6-6     5        2964     4-59    3-22      3
               6010        3-30     6-6     5        3027     4-59    3-16      4
               6019        3-30     6-6     5        3046     5-51     5-5      3
               6021        3-30     6-6     5        6000     1-69    6-13      4
               6022        3-30     6-6     5        6006     1-69     6-6      5
               6023        3-30     6-6     5        6008     1-69    6-13      4
                                              Table 15
                                             VK3-20JK1
                               Common Light Chain Antibodies
                                    HCVR                             HCVR
                Antibody        VH      DH    JH     Antibody    VH      DH   JH
                5989           3-30   3-3     3      5992       4-39    1-26  3
                5994           3-33   1-7     4      2975       5-51    6-13  5
                5985           3-33   2-15    4      2972       5-51    3-16  6
                5987           3-33   2-15    4      5986       5-51    3-16  6
                5995           3-33   2-15    4      5993       5-51    3-16  6
                2968           4-39    1-26   3      5996       5-51    3-16  6
                5988           4-39    1-26   3      5984       3-53    1-1   4
                5990           4-39    1-26   3
                                            Example XVI
                             Determination of Blocking Ability of
       Antigen-Specific Common Light Chain Antibodies by LUMINEX TM Assay
[00381]    Ninety-eight human common light chain antibodies raised against Antigen E
were tested for their ability to block binding of Antigen E's natural ligand (Ligand Y) to
Antigen E in a bead-based assay.
                                                 108

[00382]      The extracellular domain (ECD) of Antigen E was conjugated to two myc
epitope tags and a 6X histidine tag (Antigen E-mmH) and amine-coupled to carboxylated
microspheres at a concentration of 20 pg/mL in MES buffer. The mixture was incubated
for two hours at room temperature followed by bead deactivation with 1M Tris pH 8.0
followed by washing in PBS with 0.05% (v/v) Tween-20. The beads were then blocked
with PBS (Irvine Scientific, Santa Ana, CA) containing 2% (w/v) BSA (Sigma-Aldrich Corp.,
St. Louis, MO). In a 96-well filter plate, supernatants containing Antigen E-specific
common light chain antibodies, were diluted 1:15 in buffer. A negative control containing a
mock supernatant with the same media components as for the antibody supernatant was
prepared. Antigen E-labeled beads were added to the supernatants and incubated
overnight at 40C. Biotinylated-Ligand Y protein was added to a final concentration of 0.06
nM and incubated for two hours at room temperature. Detection of biotinylated-Ligand Y
bound to Antigen E-myc-myc-6His labeled beads was determined with R-Phycoerythrin
conjugated to Streptavidin (Moss Inc, Pasadena, MD) followed by measurement in a
LUMINEXTM flow cytometry-based analyzer. Background Mean Fluorescence Intensity
(MFI) of a sample without Ligand Y was subtracted from all samples. Percent blocking
was calculated by division of the background-subtracted MFI of each sample by the
adjusted negative control value, multiplying by 100 and subtracting the resulting value from
 100.
 [00383]      In a similar experiment, the same 98 human common light chain antibodies
 raised against Antigen E were tested for their ability to block binding of Antigen E to Ligand
Y-labeled beads.
 [00384]      Briefly, Ligand Y was amine-coupled to carboxylated microspheres at a
 concentration of 20 pg/mL diluted in MES buffer. The mixture and incubated two hours at
 room temperature followed by deactivation of beads with 1 M Tris pH 8 then washing in
 PBS with 0.05% (v/v) Tween-20. The beads were then blocked with PBS (Irvine Scientific,
 Santa Ana, CA) containing 2% (w/v) BSA (Sigma-Aldrich Corp., St. Louis, MO). In a 96
well filter plate, supernatants containing Antigen E-specific common light chain antibodies
 were diluted 1:15 in buffer. A negative control containing a mock supernatant with the
 same media components as for the antibody supernatant was prepared. A biotinylated
 Antigen E-mmH was added to a final concentration of 0.42 nM and incubated overnight at
 4*C. Ligand Y-labeled beads were then added to the antibody/Antigen E mixture and
 incubated for two hours at room temperature. Detection of biotinylated-Antigen E-mmH
 bound to Ligand Y-beads was determined with R-Phycoerythrin conjugated to Streptavidin
 (Moss Inc, Pasadena, MD) followed by measurement in a LUMINEXTM flow cytometry
 based analyzer. Background Mean Fluorescence Intensity (MFI) of a sample without
 Antigen E was subtracted from all samples. Percent blocking was calculated by division of
                                               109

the background-subtracted MFI of each sample by the adjusted negative control value,
multiplying by 100 and subtracting the resulting value from 100.
[00385]     Tables 16 and 17 show the percent blocking for all 98 anti-Antigen E common
                                                 TM assays. ND: not determined under
light chain antibodies tested in both LUMINEX
current experimental conditions.
                                            Table 16
                                          V1 -39JK5
                              Common Light Chain Antibodies
              Antibody            % Blocking of              % Blocking of
                       Y Antigen E-Labeled Beads         Antigen E In Solution
                  2948                 81.1                       47.8
                2948G                  38.6                        ND
                  2949                 97.6                       78.8
                2949G                  97.1                       73.7
                  2950                 96.2                       81.9
                2950G                  89.8                       31.4
                  2952                 96.1                       74.3
                2952G                  93.5                       39.9
                  2954                 93.7                       70.1
                2954G                  91.7                       30.1
                  2955                 75.8                       30.0
                2955G                  71.8                        ND
                  2964                 92.1                       31.4
                2964G                  94.6                       43.0
                  2978                 98.0                       95.1
                 2978G                 13.9                       94.1
                  2982                 92.8                       78.5
                 2982G                 41.9                       52.4
                  2985                 39.5                       31.2
                 2985G                  2.0                        5.0
                  2987                 81.7                       67.8
                 2987G                 26.6                       29.3
                  2996                 87.3                       55.3
                 2996G                 95.9                       38.4
                  2997                 93.4                       70.6
                 2997G                  9.7                        7.5
                  3004                 79.0                       48.4
                 3004G                 60.3                       40.7
                                               110

 3005  97.4      93.5
3005G  77.5      75.6
 3010  98.0      82.6
3010G  97.9      81.0
 3011  87.4      42.8
3011G  83.5      41.7
 3012  91.0      60.8
3012G  52.4      16.8
 3013  80.3      65.8
3013G  17.5      15.4
 3014  63.4      20.7
3014G  74.4      28.5
 3015  89.1      55.7
3015G  58.8      17.3
  3016 97.1      81.6
3016G  93.1      66.4
  3017 94.8      70.2
3017G  87.9      40.8
  3018 85.4      54.0
3018G  26.1       12.7
  3019 99.3      92.4
3019G  99.3      88.1
  3020  96.7      90.3
3020G  85.2      41.5
  3021 74.5      26.1
3021G  81.1       27.4
  3022 65.2       17.6
3022G  67.2        9.1
  3023  71.4      28.5
 3023G  73.8      29.7
  3024  73.9      32.6
 3024G  89.0      10.0
  3025  70.7      15.6
 3025G  76.7      24.3
  3027  96.2      61.6
 3027G  98.6      75.3
  3028  92.4      29.0
 3028G  87.3      28.8
  3030   6.0      10.6
 3030G  41.3      14.2
             111

 3032 76.5     31.4
3032G 17.7     11.0
 3033 98.2     86.1
3033G 93.6     64.0
 3036 74.7     32.7
3036G 90.1     51.2
 3041 95.3     75.9
3041G 92.4     51.6
 3042 88.1     73.3
3042G 60.9     25.2
 3043 90.8     65.8
3043G 92.8     60.3
           112

                                            Table 17
                                          VK3-20JK1
                               Common Light Chain Antibodies
                                  % Blocking of             % Blocking of
               Antibody     Antigen E-Labeled Beads      Antigen E In Solution
                   2968                97.1                      73.3
                 2968G                 67.1                      14.6
                   2969                51.7                      20.3
                 2969G                 37.2                      16.5
                   2970                92.2                      34.2
                 2970G                 92.7                      27.2
                   2971                23.4                      11.6
                 2971G                 18.8                      18.9
                   2972                67.1                      38.8
                 2972G                 64.5                      39.2
                   2973                77.7                      27.0
                 2973G                 51.1                      20.7
                   2974                57.8                      12.4
                 2974G                 69.9                      17.6
                   2975                49.4                      18.2
                  2975G                32.0                      19.5
                   2976                 1.0                       1.0
                  2976G                50.4                      20.4
                                  TM experiment described above, 80 common light chain
[00386]      In the first LUMINEX
antibodies containing the VK1-39JK5 engineered light chain were tested for their ability to
block Ligand Y binding to Antigen E-labeled beads. Of these 80 common light chain
antibodies, 68 demonstrated >50% blocking, while 12 demonstrated <50% blocking (6 at
25-50% blocking and 6 at <25% blocking). For the 18 common light chain antibodies
containing the VK3-20JK1 engineered light chain, 12 demonstrated >50% blocking, while 6
demonstrated <50% blocking (3 at 25-50% blocking and 3 at <25% blocking) of Ligand Y
binding to Antigen E-labeled beads.
[00387]      In the second LUMINEXTM experiment described above, the same 80 common
light chain antibodies containing the VK1-39JK5 engineered light chain were tested for their
ability to block binding of Antigen E to Ligand Y-labeled beads. Of these 80 common light
chain antibodies, 36 demonstrated >50% blocking, while 44 demonstrated <50% blocking
(27 at 25-50% blocking and 17 at <25% blocking). For the 18 common light chain
                                               113

antibodies containing the VK3-20JK1 engineered light chain, 1 demonstrated >50%
blocking, while 17 demonstrated <50% blocking (5 at 25-50% blocking and 12 at <25%
blocking) of Antigen E binding to Ligand Y-labeled beads.
[00388]      The data of Tables 16 and 17 establish that the rearrangements described in
Tables 14 and 15 generated anti-Antigen E-specific common light chain antibodies that
blocked binding of Ligand Y to its cognate receptor Antigen E with varying degrees of
efficacy, which is consistent with the anti-Antigen E common light chain antibodies of
Tables 14 and 15 comprising antibodies with overlapping and non-overlapping epitope
specificity with respect to Antigen E.
                                         Example XVII
                             Determination of Blocking Ability of
                Antigen-Specific Common Light Chain Antibodies by ELISA
[00389]       Human common light chain antibodies raised against Antigen E were tested for
their ability to block Antigen E binding to a Ligand Y-coated surface in an ELISA assay.
[00390]       Ligand Y was coated onto 96-well plates at a concentration of 2 pg/mL diluted
in PBS and incubated overnight followed by washing four times in PBS with 0.05% Tween
20. The plate was then blocked with PBS (Irvine Scientific, Santa Ana, CA) containing
0.5% (w/v) BSA (Sigma-Aldrich Corp., St. Louis, MO) for one hour at room temperature. In
a separate plate, supernatants containing anti-Antigen E common light chain antibodies
were diluted 1:10 in buffer. A mock supernatant with the same components of the
antibodies was used as a negative control. Antigen E-mmH (described above) was added
to a final concentration of 0.150 nM and incubated for one hour at room temperature. The
antibody/Antigen E-mmH mixture was then added to the plate containing Ligand Y and
incubated for one hour at room temperature. Detection of Antigen E-mmH bound to Ligand
Y was determined with Horse-Radish Peroxidase (HRP) conjugated to anti-Penta-His
antibody (Qiagen, Valencia, CA) and developed by standard colorimetric response using
tetramethylbenzidine (TMB) substrate (BD Biosciences, San Jose, CA) neutralized by
sulfuric acid. Absorbance was read at OD450 for 0.1 sec. Background absorbance of a
sample without Antigen E was subtracted from all samples. Percent blocking was
calculated by division of the background-subtracted MFI of each sample by the adjusted
 negative control value, multiplying by 100 and subtracting the resulting value from 100.
 [00391]      Tables 18 and 19 show the percent blocking for all 98 anti-Antigen E common
 light chain antibodies tested in the ELISA assay. ND: not determined under current
experimental conditions.
                                             Table 18
                                                114

                           Vi -39JK5
                Common Light Chain Antibodies
             % Blocking of         Antibody     % Blocking of
Antibody
         Antigen E In Solution              Antigen E In Solution
  2948           21.8                3015           23.7
 2948G           22.9               3015G            10.2
  2949           79.5                3016           78.1
 2949G           71.5               3016G           37.4
  2950           80.4                3017           61.6
 2950G           30.9               3017G           25.2
  2952           66.9                3018           40.6
 2952G           47.3               3018G            14.5
  2954           55.9                3019           94.6
 2954G           44.7               3019G           92.3
  2955            12.1               3020           80.8
 2955G           25.6               3020G             ND
  2964            34.8               3021             7.6
 2964G           47.7               3021G           20.7
  2978            90.0               3022             2.4
 2978G            90.2              3022G            15.0
  2982            59.0               3023             9.1
 2982G            20.4              3023G            19.2
   2985           10.5               3024             7.5
 2985G             ND               3024G            15.2
   2987           31.4               3025             ND
 2987G             ND               3025G            13.9
   2996           29.3               3027            61.4
 2996G             ND               3027G            82.7
   2997           48.7               3028            40.3
 2997G             ND               3028G            12.3
   3004           16.7               3030             ND
 3004G             3.5              3030G             9.5
   3005           87.2               3032             ND
 3005G            54.3              3032G            13.1
   3010           74.5               3033            77.1
 3010G            84.6              3033G            32.9
   3011           19.4                3036           17.6
  3011G            ND               3036G            24.6
   3012           45.0                3041           59.3
                               115

           3012G                12.6                3041G               30.7
            3013                39.0                 3042               39.9
           3013G                 9.6                3042G               16.1
            3014                 5.2                 3043               57.4
           3014G                17.1                3043G               46.1
                                           Table 19
                                          VK3-20JK1
                              Common Light Chain Antibodies
         Antibody          % Blocking of          Antibody     A      Blocking of
                       Antigen E In Solution                   Antigen E In Solution
            2968                68.9                2972G               35.7
           2968G                15.2                 2973               20.7
            2969                10.1                2973G               23.1
           2969G                23.6                 2974                ND
            2970                34.3                2974G               22.0
           2970G                41.3                 2975                8.7
            2971                 6.3                2975G               19.2
           2971G                27.1                 2976                4.6
            2972                 9.6                2976G               26.7
[00392]     As described in this Example, of the 80 common light chain antibodies
containing the VK1 -39JK5 engineered light chain tested for their ability to block Antigen E
binding to a Ligand Y-coated surface, 22 demonstrated >50% blocking, while 58
demonstrated <50% blocking (20 at 25-50% blocking and 38 at <25% blocking). For the
18 common light chain antibodies containing the VK3-20JK1 engineered light chain, one
demonstrated >50% blocking, while 17 demonstrated <50% blocking (5 at 25-50% blocking
and 12 at <25% blocking) of Antigen E binding to a Ligand Y-coated surface.
[00393]      These results are also consistent with the Antigen E-specific common light
chain antibody pool comprising antibodies with overlapping and non-overlapping epitope
specificity with respect to Antigen E.
                                        Example XVIII
                            BIACORE Tm Affinity Determination for
                      Antigen-Specific Common Light Chain Antibodies
 [00394]     Equilibrium dissociation constants (KD) for selected antibody supernatants were
determined by SPR (Surface Plasmon Resonance) using a BlAcoreTM T100 instrument
                                              116

(GE Healthcare). All data was obtained using HBS-EP (10mM HEPES, 150mM NaCl,
0.3mM EDTA, 0.05% Surfactant P20, pH 7.4) as both the running and sample buffers, at
250C. Antibodies were captured from crude supernatant samples on a CM5 sensor chip
surface previously derivatized with a high density of anti-human Fc antibodies using
standard amine coupling chemistry. During the capture step, supernatants were injected
across the anti-human Fc surface at a flow rate of 3 pL/min, for a total of 3 minutes. The
capture step was followed by an injection of either running buffer or analyte at a
concentration of 100 nM for 2 minutes at a flow rate of 35 pL/min. Dissociation of antigen
from the captured antibody was monitored for 6 minutes. The captured antibody was
removed by a brief injection of 10 mM glycine, pH 1.5. All sensorgrams were double
referenced by subtracting sensorgrams from buffer injections from the analyte
sensorgrams, thereby removing artifacts caused by dissociation of the antibody from the
capture surface. Binding data for each antibody was fit to a 1:1 binding model with mass
transport using BIACORET m T 00 Evaluation software v2.1. Results are shown in Tables
20 and 21.
                                             117

                              Table 20
                             VK1-39JK5
              Common Light Chain Antibodies
         100 nM Antigen E                     100 nM Antigen E
Antibody                             AntibodyKD(M     T, 2 m)
         KD  (nM) T 1 / 2 (min)              KD (nM)  T1/2 (min)
  2948     8.83          28            3015    29.1        11
 2948G     95.0            1          3015G    65.9        0
  2949     3.57           18            3016   4.99        17
 2949G     6.37            9          3016G    18.9        4
  2950     4.91           17            3017   9.83        8
 2950G     13.6            5          3017G    55.4        2
  2952     6.25            7            3018   11.3       36
 2952G     7.16            4          3018G    32.5        3
  2954     2.37           24            3019   1.54        59
 2954G     5.30            9          3019G    2.29       42
  2955     14.4            6            3020   5.41        39
 2955G     12.0            4          3020G    41.9        6
  2964     14.8            6            3021   50.1         6
 2964G     13.0            9          3021G    26.8        4
  2978     1.91           49            3022   25.7        17
 2978G     1.80           58          3022G    20.8        12
  2982     6.41           19            3023    263         9
 2982G     16.3            9          3023G     103         5
  2985     64.4            9            3024   58.8         7
 2985G     2.44            8           3024G   7.09        10
  2987     21.0           11            3025   35.2         6
 2987G     37.6            4           3025G   42.5         8
  2996     10.8            9            3027   7.15         6
 2996G     24.0            2           3027G   4.24        18
  2997     7.75           19            3028    6.89       37
 2997G      151            1           3028G    7.23       22
  3004     46.5           14            3030    46.2        7
 3004G     1.93           91           3030G    128         3
  3005     2.35          108            3032    53.2        9
 3005G     6.96           27           3032G    13.0        1
  3010     4.13           26            3033    4.61       17
 3010G     2.10           49           3033G    12.0        5
   3011    59.1            5            3036    284        12
                                 118

               3011G        41.7          5           3036G     18.2           10
                3012        9.71         20            3041     6.90           12
               3012G        89.9          2           3041G     22.9            2
                3013        20.2         20            3042     9.46           34
               3013G        13.2          4           3042G     85.5            3
                3014        213           4            3043     9.26           29
               3014G        36.8          3           3043G     13.1           22
                                              Table 21
                                             VK3-20JK1
                               Common Light Chain Antibodies
                          100 nM Antigen E                     100 nM Antigen E
                         K    (nM)   T/2  (min)      Antibody  KD (nM)    T1 /2 (min)
                2968        5.50          8            2973      5.35          39
               2968G        305           0           2973G      11.0          44
                2969        34.9          2            2974      256            0
               2969G         181          1           2974G      138            0
               2970G        12.3          3            2975      38.0           2
               2971G        32.8         22           2975G      134             1
                2972        6.02          13           2976      6.73           10
               2972G        74.6         26           2976G      656            8
[00395]      The binding affinities of common light chain antibodies comprising the
rearrangements shown in Tables 14 and 15 vary, with nearly all exhibiting a KD in the
nanomolar range. The affinity data is consistent with the common light chain antibodies
resulting from the combinatorial association of rearranged variable domains described in
Tables 14 and 15 being high-affinity, clonally selected, and somatically mutated. Coupled
with data previously shown, the common light chain antibodies described in Tables 14 and
15 comprise a collection of diverse, high-affinity antibodies that exhibit specificity for one or
more epitopes on Antigen E.
                                            Example XIX
                           Determination of Binding Specificities of
         Antigen-Specific Common Light Chain Antibodies by LUMINEX TM Assay
[00396]       Selected anti-Antigen E common light chain antibodies were tested for their
ability to bind to the ECD of Antigen E and Antigen E ECD variants, including the
cynomolgous monkey ortholog (Mf Antigen E), which differs from the human protein in
                                                 119

approximately 10% of its amino acid residues; a deletion mutant of Antigen E lacking the
last 10 amino acids from the C-terminal end of the ECD (Antigen E-ACT); and two mutants
containing an alanine substitution at suspected locations of interaction with Ligand Y
(Antigen E-Alal and AntigenE-Ala2). The Antigen E proteins were produced in CHO cells
and each contained a myc-myc-His C-terminal tag.
[00397]       For the binding studies, Antigen E ECD protein or variant protein (described
above) from 1 mL of culture medium was captured by incubation for 2 hr at room
temperature with 1 x 106 microsphere (Luminex TM) beads covalently coated with an anti
myc monoclonal antibody (MAb 9E10, hybridoma cell line CRL-1 729TM; ATCC, Manassas,
VA). The beads were then washed with PBS before use. Supernatants containing anti
Antigen E common light chain antibodies were diluted 1:4 in buffer and added to 96-well
filter plates. A mock supernatant with no antibody was used as negative control. The
beads containing the captured Antigen E proteins were then added to the antibody
samples (3000 beads per well) and incubated overnight at 4*C. The following day, the
sample beads were washed and the bound common light chain antibody was detected with
a R-phycoerythrin-conjugated anti-human IgG antibody. The fluorescence intensity of the
 beads (approximately 100 beads counted for each antibody sample binding to each
Antigen E protein) was measured with a LuminexTM flow cytometry-based analyzer, and
the median fluorescence intensity (MFI) for at least 100 counted beads per bead/antibody
 interaction was recorded. Results are shown in Tables 22 and 23.
                                                120

                             Table 22
             VKi-39JK5 Common Light Chain Antibodies
                      Mean Fluorescence Intensity (MFI)
Antibody Antigen E-  Antigen E-  Antigen E-  Antigen    Mf Antigen E
           ECD          ACT         Alal      E-AIa2
  2948     1503        2746         4953       3579         1648
 2948G      537         662         2581       2150          863
  2949     3706        4345         8169       5678         5142
 2949G     3403        3318         7918       5826         5514
  2950     3296        4292         7756       5171         4749
 2950G     2521        2408         7532       5079         3455
  2952     3384         1619         1269        168         911
 2952G     3358         1001          108        55          244
  2954     2808         3815        7114       5039         3396
 2954G     2643        2711         7620       5406         3499
  2955      1310        2472        4738       3765         1637
 2955G      1324        1802        4910       3755         1623
  2964     5108         1125        4185        346           44
 2964G     4999          729        4646        534           91
  2978     6986         2800        14542      10674        8049
 2978G     5464         3295        11652      8026         6452
  2982     4955         2388        13200      9490         6772
 2982G      3222        2013         8672       6509        4949
  2985      1358         832         4986       3892        1669
 2985G        43          43          128        244         116
  2987      3117        1674         7646       5944        2546
 2987G      3068        1537         9202       6004        4744
  2996      4666        1917        12875       9046        6459
 2996G      2752        1736         8742       6150        4873
  2997      5164        2159        12167       8361        5922
 2997G       658         356         3392       2325        1020
  3004      2794        1397         8542       6268        3083
 3004G      2753        1508         8267       5808        4345
  3005      5683        2221        12900       9864        5868
 3005G      4344        2732        10669       7125        5880
  3010      4829        1617         2642       3887          44
 3010G      3685        1097         2540       3022          51
  3011      2859        2015         7855       5513        3863
 3011G      2005        1072         6194       4041        3181
                                121

 3012  3233  2221      8543  5637  3307
3012G   968   378      3115  2261  1198
 3013  2343  1791      6715  4810  2528
3013G   327   144      1333  1225   370
 3014  1225  1089      5436  3621  1718
3014G  1585   851      5178  3705  2411
 3015  3202  2068      8262  5554  3796
3015G  1243   531      4246  2643  1611
 3016  4220  2543      8920  5999  5666
3016G  2519  1277      6344  4288  4091
 3017  3545  2553      8700  5547  5098
3017G  1972  1081      5763  3825  3038
 3018  2339  1971      6140  4515  2293
3018G   254   118       978  1020   345
 3019  5235  1882      7108  4249    54
3019G  4090  1270      4769  3474   214
 3020  3883  3107      8591  6602  4420
3020G  2165  1209      6489  4295  2912
 3021  1961  1472      6872  4641  2742
3021G  2091  1005      6430  3988  2935
 3022  2418   793      7523  2679    36
3022G  2189   831      6182  3051   132
 3023  1692  1411      5788  3898  2054
3023G  1770   825      5702  3677  2648
  3024 1819   1467     6179  4557  2450
3024G   100    87       268   433   131
  3025 1853   1233     6413  4337  2581
3025G  1782   791       5773  3871 2717
  3027 4131   1018       582  2510   22
3027G  3492    814      1933  2596   42
  3028 4361   2545      9884  5639  975
3028G  2835   1398      7124  3885  597
  3030  463    277      1266  1130  391
3030G   943    302      3420  2570 1186
  3032 2083   1496      6594  4402 2405
3032G   295    106       814   902  292
  3033 4409   2774      8971  6331 5825
3033G  2499   1234      6745  4174 4210
  3036  1755  1362      6137  4041 1987
 3036G  2313  1073      6387  4243 3173
                   122

 3041 3674 2655     8629 5837 4082
3041G 2519 1265     6468 4274 3320
 3042 2653 2137     7277 5124 3325
3042G 1117 463      4205 2762 1519
 3043 3036 2128     7607 5532 3366
3043G 2293 1319     6573 4403 3228
                123

                                                 Table 23
                            VK3-20JK1 Common Light Chain Antibodies
                                        Mean Fluorescence Intensity (MFI)
     Antibody        Antigen E-       Antigen E-     Antigen E-      Antigen E-      Mf Antigen E
                        ECD               ACT            Alal             AIa2
        2968            6559              3454           14662            3388              29
       2968G            2149               375           9109              129              22
        2969            2014              1857           7509             5671            3021
       2969G            1347               610           6133             4942            2513
        2970            5518              1324           14214             607              32
       2970G            4683               599           12321             506              31
        2971             501               490           2506             2017             754
       2971G             578               265           2457             2062             724
        2972            2164              2158           8408             6409            3166
       2972G             1730              992           6364             4602            2146
        2973            3527              1148            3967              44              84
       2973G             1294              276            1603              28              44
        2974             1766              722            8821             241              19
       2974G            2036               228            8172             135              26
        2975             1990             1476            8669            6134            2468
       2975G             890               315            4194            3987            1376
        2976              147              140             996            1079             181
       2976G             1365              460            6024            3929            1625
[00400]       The anti-Antigen E common light chain antibody supernatants exhibited high
specific binding to the beads linked to Antigen E-ECD. For these beads, the negative
control mock supernatant resulted in negligible signal (<10 MFI) when combined with the
Antigen E-ECD bead sample, whereas the supernatants containing anti-Antigen E
common light chain antibodies exhibited strong binding signal (average MFI of 2627 for 98
antibody supernatants; MFI > 500 for 91/98 antibody samples).
[00401]       As a measure of the ability of the selected anti-Antigen E common light chain
antibodies to identify different epitopes on the ECD of Antigen E, the relative binding of the
antibodies to the variants were determined. All four Antigen E variants were captured to
the anti-myc LUMINEXTM beads as described above for the native Antigen E-ECD binding
studies, and the relative binding ratios (MFlvariant/MFIAntigen    E-ECD)  were determined. For 98
tested common light chain antibody supernatants shown in Tables 21 and 22, the average
 ratios (MFlvariant/MFIAntigen E-ECD) differed for each variant, likely reflecting different capture
amounts of proteins on the beads (average ratios of 0.61, 2.9, 2.0, and 1.0 for Antigen E
                                                     124

ACT, Antigen E-Alal, Antigen E-Ala2, and Mf Antigen E, respectively). For each protein
variant, the binding for a subset of the 98 tested common light chain antibodies showed
greatly reduced binding, indicating sensitivity to the mutation that characterized a given
variant. For example, 19 of the common light chain antibody samples bound to the Mf
Antigen E with MFivariant/MFIAnigen E-ECD of <8%. Since many in this group include high or
moderately high affinity antibodies (5 with KD < 5nM, 15 with KD < 50 nM), it is likely that
the lower signal for this group results from sensitivity to the sequence (epitope) differences
between native Antigen E-ECD and a given variant rather than from lower affinities.
[00402]     These data establish that the common light chain antibodies described in
Tables 14 and 15 represent a diverse group of Antigen-E-specific common light chain
antibodies that specifically recognize more than one epitope on Antigen E.
                                                125

                                   AMENDED CLAIMS
       received by the International Bureau on 22 January 2013 (22.01.13)
1.      A mouse comprising in its germline:
        (a) a humanized immunoglobulin heavy chain variable locus comprising at
least one unrearranged human V, at least one unrearranged human D, and at least
one unrearranged human J segment operably linked to a heavy chain constant
region gene;
        (b) a humanized immunoglobulin light chain variable locus comprising no
more than one, or no more than two, rearranged human light chain V/J sequences
operably linked to a light chain constant region gene; and,
        (c) an ectopic nucleic acid sequence encoding a mouse ADAM6 protein; or
ortholog or homolog or fragment thereof, which is functional in a male mouse.
2.      The mouse according to claim 1, wherein the nucleic acid sequence encoding
the mouse ADAM6 protein, or ortholog or homolog or fragment thereof that is
functional in a male mouse, is at a locus other than the immunoglobulin heavy chain
variable locus.
3.      The mouse according to claim 1, wherein the heavy chain constant region
gene is a mouse gene.
4.      The mouse according to claim 1, wherein the light chain constant region gene
                f'-i
is a mouse gene.
5.      A mouse comprising a humanized heavy chain immunoglobulin variable locus
and a humanized light chain immunoglobulin variable locus, wherein the mouse
expresses a single light chain, and wherein the mouse comprises an ectopic nucleic
acid sequence encoding an ADAMO gene functional in a male mouse.
6.      The mouse of claim 5, wherein the humanized heavy chain immunoglobulin
locus is operably linked to an endogenous mouse heavy chain constant region gene,
7.      The mouse of claim 5, wherein the single light chain is encoded from an
immunoglobulin light chain variable gene locus that encodes no more than one light
                                          126

chain V gene segment and a light chain J gene segment, operably linked to a light
chain constant gene.
8.     The mouse of claim 5, wherein the single light chain is derived from an
immunoglobulin light chain variable gene locus in the germline of the mouse that
encodes no morg than one rearranged light chain V/J gene segment in the gerrnline,
operably linked to a light chain constant gene.
9.     The mouse of claim 5, wherein the ectopic nucleic acid sequence encodes a
mouse ADAM6 protein, or encodes a fragment of a mouse ADAM6 protein that is
functional in a male mouse.
10.    The mouse of claim 5, wherein the ectopic nucleic acid sequence is at a
position that is not within an endogenous immunoglobulin heavy chain locus.
11.    A genetically modified mouse that expresses a plurality of different IgG heavy
chains each c6 tihprising a human variable domain, wherein each of the plurality of
different IgG heavy chains are associated with a light chain sequence encoding a
human immunoglobulin light chain variable domain that is derived from a single
human immunoglobulin V gene segment, wherein the mouse comprises an ectopic
nucleic acid sequence encoding an ADAM6 protein that is functional in a male
mouse.
 12.    The mouse of claim 11, wherein the mouse expresses an ADAM6 protein or
fragment thereof that is functional in a male mouse, and wherein the ADAM6 protein
or fragment thereof is expressed from the ectopic nucleic acid sequence.
 13.    A mouse cell comprising:
        a humanized heavy chain immunoglobulin variable gene locus operably linked
to a heavy chain constant gene;
        a humanized light chain immunoglobulin locus that comprises no more than
one, or no more than two, light chain V gene segments operably linked to a light
 chain constant gene; and,
                                           127

        an ectopic nucleic acid sequence encoding an ADAM6 protein or fragment
thereof, wherein the ADAM6 protein or fragment thereof is functional in a male
mouse.
14.     The mouse cell of claim 13, wherein the ectopic nucleic acid sequence
encodes a mouse ADAM6 protein.
15.     The mouse of claim 13, wherein the heavy chain constant gene is a non
human heavy chain constant gene.
16.     The mouse of claim 13, wherein the light chain constant gene is a non-human
light chain constant gene.
17.     The mouse of claim 13, wherein the no more than one, or no more that two,
light chain V gene segments are present in a rearranged V/J gene segment.
 18.     A mouse B cell that expresses a chimeric immunoglobulin heavy chain
comprising an immunoglobulin heavy chain variable domain derived from a human
heavy chain V gene segment; and a light chain derived from
        (a) a rearranged human Vi1-39/J sequence,
        (b) a rearranged human VK3-20/J sequence, or
        (c) a combination thereof;
        wherein the heavy chain variable domain is fused to a constant region and the
light chain variable domain is fused to constant region, and wherein the B cell
comprises an ectopic ADAM6 nucleic acid sequence.
 19.    The mouse B cell of claim 18, wherein the constant domain fused to the
heavy chain variable domain comprises a mouse constant region.
20.     The mouse B cell of claim 18, wherein the constant region fused to the light
chain variable domain is selected from a mouse constant region and a human
constant regioY..r
                                          128

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
