                                      ABSTRACT
       The present invention relates to the use of tissue non-specific alkaline
phosphatase (TNAP) as a marker for identifying and/or isolating adult multipotential
cells. The present invention also relates to cell populations enriched by methods of the
present invention and therapeutic uses of these cells.

                                                1
     Isolation of adult multipotential cells by tissue non-specific alkaline phosphatase
   This is a divisional of AU <removed-apn> the entire contents of which are incorporated
   herein by reference.
 5
   Field of the Invention
   The present invention relates to the use of tissue non-specific alkaline phosphatase
   (TNAP) as a marker for identifying and/or isolating adult multipotential cells.        The
10 present invention also relates to cell populations enriched by methods of the present
   invention and therapeutic uses of these cells.
   Background of the Invention
15 Enrichmentof adult multipotentialcells
   Numerous studies support the concept that the non-haemopoietic cells of the bone
   marrow (BM), which include fibroblasts, adipocytes, chondroblasts, smooth muscle
   cells, osteoblasts and other cellular elements of bone, are derived from a population of
20 multipotential bone marrow mesenchymal precursor cells (MPC), residing somewhere
   in the bone marrow spaces and the surrounding connective tissue (Bianco et al., 2001;
   Gronthos and Simmons, 1996; Owen and Friedenstein, 1988; Prockop, 1997). These
   MPC are thought to give rise not only to more cells which are phenotypically and
   functionally identical (a process of self-renewal), but also differentiated, lineage
25 committed mesenchymal progeny. Due to the lack of well defined markers, little is
   known of the precise developmentally regulated changes in phenotype and patterns of
   gene expression, which occur during the differentiation and maturation of human MPC
   into lineage-committed progeny. Studies examining the process of osteogenesis have
   identified one such early marker, the transcription factor CBFA1, which enables the
30 identification of MPC which have made a commitment to the osteogenic cell lineage
   (Ducy et al., 1997). However, markers such as CBFA1, can not be used to isolate and
   manipulate living cells within a heterogeneous cell population. This represents a major
   limitation, and is further compounded by a paucity of monoclonal antibodies (mAb)
   which are able to identify cell surface antigens which are peculiar to or restricted to the
35 MPC compartment.

                                           1A
To date, the STRO-1 monoclonal antibody represents the only reagent which
demonstrates immunoreactivity with all colony forming MPC (CFU-F: colony-forming
units-fibroblasts) from aspirates of human marrow whilst lacking reactivity with

                                                 2
   haemopoietic stem cells (Dennis et al., 2002; Gronthos et al., 2003; Simmons and
   Torok-Storb, 1991).
   Our studies have shown that ex vivo expanded human MPC quickly differentiate in the
 5 presence of serum, and begin expressing many of the markers associated with
   commitment to the osteogenic and other cell lineages (Gronthos et al., 2003). The mAb
   STRO-1 which identifies all MPC (CFU-F) in vivo, is down regulated following ex vivo
   culture of MPC. Importantly, a small proportion of cultured cells continue to express
   STRO-1     following    ex   vivo  expansion    and these   cells  are  characteristic  of
10 undifferentiated MPC (Gronthos et al., 1999; Stewart et al., 1999).
   Alkaline Phosphatases
   Alkaline phosphatases (AP, EC 3.1.3.1) belong to a ubiquitous family of dimeric
15 metalloenzymes which catalyse the hydrolysis of phosphomonoesters under alkaline
   conditions with release of inorganic phosphate (McComb et al., 1979).             One can
   distinguish between four isoenzymes in humans: i) placenta-specific AP, ii) germ cell
   specific (placental) AP, iii) intestinal AP and iv) the tissue non-specific AP (TNAP)
   (Harris, 1990). The production of TNAP is strongest in the liver (LAP), kidney (KAP)
20 and bones (BAP) (Moss, 1992) and is the most frequent AP isoform in serum (Mulivor,
   et al., 1985). The differences between LAP, KAP and BAP are due to different
   posttranslational O-glycosylation patterns (Miura, et al., 1994) which also results in
   different specific activities (Nosjean et al., 1997) although their amino acid sequences
   are essentially identical (Weiss et al., 1988).   Furthermore Nosjean et al. (1997) have
25 shown that the N-glycosylation of tns-AP is essential for its enzymatic activity.
   Consequently tissue non-specific AP is a mixture of different glycosylated APs.
   The gene for human TNAP was cloned in 1986 (Weiss, et al., 1986). It codes for a
   protein consisting of 524 amino acids with a 17 amino acid long N-terminal signal
30 sequence and a C-terminal GPI anchor sequence with which the protein is anchored in
   vivo to the outside of the plasma membrane (Hooper, 1997).              Expression of a
   recombinant, biologically active TNAP enzyme in eukaryotic cells such as COS-1
   (Fukushi, et al., 1998) and insect cells infected with baculovirus (Oda, et al., 1999) has
   been reported.
35

                                               3
   Although discovered more than seven decades ago, the exact function of the TNAP
   molecule in bone and bone marrow tissue is unclear. Several biological roles for
   TNAP in mammals have been proposed and include: hydrolysis of phosphate esters to
   supply the nonphosphate moiety; transferase action for the synthesis of phosphate
 5 esters; regulation of inorganic phosphate metabolism; maintenance of steady-state
   levels of phophoryl-metabolites; acts as a phosphoprotein phosphatase (Whyte, 1994).
   B/L/K-TNAP may also have a specific role in skeletal mineralization by hydrolyzing
   an inhibitor of calcification such as inorganic pyrophosphate, which in high
   concentrations can inhibit the growth of hydroxyapatite crystals (De Broe and Moss,
10 1992; Moss, 1992; Whyte, 1994). Alternatively, it has been suggested that TNAP could
   be a plasma membrane transporter for inorganic phosphate, an extracellular calcium ion
   binding protein that stimulates calcium phosphate precipitation and orients mineral
   deposition in osteoid.
15 TNAP is known to be a marker of osteoblast differentiation. To our knowledge,
   however, there have been no previous reports of cell surface expression of TNAP by
   immature multipotential cells.
   Summary of the Invention
20
   We have recently generated a novel mAb (designated STRO-3) that identifies and
   isolates adult multipotential cells from unfractionated marrow and has the capacity to
   subdivide the STRO-1 population both in vivo and in vitro. We have determined that
   STRO-3 binds to tissue non-specific alkaline phosphatase (TNAP). Our results also
25 show that STRO-3 only reacts with a minor proportion of cells contained within adult
   bone marrow aspirates, and does not react with CD34 positive haemopoietic stem cells
   in human adult bone marrow aspirates. This indicates for the first time that TNAP is a
   marker that can be used for single reagent enrichment of adult multipotential cells from
   various tissue sources.
30
   Accordingly, the present invention relates to the use of TNAP as a marker for the
   identification and/or enrichment of adult multipotential cells.
   The present invention also provides a method of enriching for adult multipotential cells,
35 the method comprising preparing a cell sample from a tissue source and enriching for
   cells that express the TNAP marker.

                                                  4
   In one example the method of enriching for adult multipotential cells comprises
           contacting the cell sample with a TNAP binding agent under conditions that
   allows binding of TNAP to the TNAP binding agent; and
 5         separating cells bound to the TNAP binding agent.
   The present invention also provides a method for identifying the presence of an adult
   multipotential cell in a cell sample, the method comprising identifying cells in the
   sample that express the TNAP marker.
10
   In one example the method for identifying the presence of adult multipotential cells in a
   cell sample comprises
           contacting the cell sample with a TNAP binding agent under conditions suitable
   for binding of TNAP to the TNAP binding agent; and
15         detecting the presence of the TNAP binding agent bound to cells in the sample,
   wherein the presence of adult multipotential cells is indicated by cells that bind to the
   TNAP binding agent.
   It will be appreciated that in the context of the present invention, the cell sample may
20 be derived from any tissue source suspected of containing adult multipotential cells.
   For example, the tissue source may be adipose tissue, teeth, dental pulp, skin, liver,
   kidney, heart, retina, brain, hair follicles, intestine, lung, spleen, lymph node, thymus,
   ovary, pancreas, bone, ligament, bone marrow, tendon or skeletal muscle.              In a
   preferred embodiment, the tissue source is bone marrow.
25
   The preferred source of cells is human, however, it is expected that the invention is also
   applicable to other animals, including agricultural animals such as cows, sheep, pigs
   and the like, domestic animals such as dogs and cats, laboratory animals such as mice,
   rats, hamsters and rabbits or animals that are be used for sport such as horses.
30
   The method may also include the harvesting of a source of the multipotential cells
   before the first enrichment step. This may involve, for example, surgically removing
   tissue from a subject and separating the cells of the tissue to form a single cell
   suspension. This separation may be achieved by physical or enzymatic means. In one
35 example of the invention this step involves harvesting bone marrow cells using known
   techniques.

                                                  5
   The TNAP binding agent used in the methods of the present invention can be any
   polypeptide or compound identified as having binding affinity to TNAP. For example,
   the TNAP binding agent may be an antibody or collagen, preferably collagen type I.
 5
   The TNAP binding agent can bind to any one or more of the LAP, KAP or BAP
   isoforms of TNAP. In one preferred embodiment, however, the TNAP binding agent
   binds to BAP.       In another preferred embodiment, the TNAP binding agent binds
   specifically to BAP.
10
   By "binds specifically to BAP" we mean that the TNAP binding agent is capable of
   being bound to BAP in a selective fashion in the presence of excess quantities of other
   materials such as KAP and LAP, and tightly enough (i.e. with high enough affinity)
   that it provides a useful tool for selective enrichment of cells expressing BAP.
15
   In a preferred embodiment, the TNAP binding agent is an anti-TNAP antibody
   (naturally occurring or recombinant, from any source). The anti-TNAP antibody can
   be a polyclonal or monoclonal antibody. In a preferred embodiment, the anti-TNAP
   antibody is monoclonal antibody.
20
   Examples of suitable anti-TNAP monoclonal antibodies for use in the present invention
   include B4-78, 50 and B4-50 (Developmental Studies Hybridoma Bank, University of
   Iowa); ab17973 and ab17989 (Abcam Ltd, Cambridge, UK); and the anti-TNAP mAbs
   referred to in Magnusson et al. (2002).
25
   In a particularly preferred embodiment of the present invention, the anti-TNAP
   monoclonal antibody is a STRO-3 antibody produced by the hybridoma cell line
   deposited with ATCC on 19 December 2005 under the provisions of the Budapest
   Treaty under deposit accession number PTA-7282, or a mAb that binds to the same
30 epitope on TNAP as the STRO-3 antibody.
   The method of enriching for adult multipotential cells according to the present
   invention may be based on the presence of the TNAP marker alone. In other words, the
   method of enrichment may involve a single reagent (i.e. a TNAP binding agent).
35

                                                 6
   It will be understood, however, that the invention is not limited to the enrichment of
   cells by their expression of only TNAP, and in some circumstances it may be preferred
   to enrich for adult multipotential cells based on the expression of TNAP in combination
   two, three or more additional markers. Accordingly, the method of enriching for adult
 5 multipotential cells may also be based on the additional presence of one or more
   markers selected from the group consisting of, LFA-3, THY-1, VCAM-1, ICAM-1,
   PECAM-1, P-selectin, L-selectin, CD49a/CD49b/CD29, CD49c/CD29, CD49d/CD29,
   CD29, CD18, CD61, integrin beta, 6-19, thrombomodulin, CD10, CD13, SCF, PDGF
   R, EGF-R, IGF1-R, NGF-R, FGF-R, Leptin-R, (STRO-2 = Leptin-R), RANKL, STRO
10 1 (preferably STRO-1 r) and CD146 or any combination of these markers.
   For example, the method may include the step of making a first partially enriched pool
   of cells by enriching for the expression of a first adult multipotential cell specific
   marker, followed by a step of enriching for expression of TNAP from the partially
15 enriched pool of cells. In another example, the method may include an initial
   enrichment step based on selection of cells expressing TNAP, followed by a step which
   involves enriching for a different adult multipotential cell marker. In yet another
   example, the method involves simultaneously selecting for cells that express TNAP and
   one or more additional adult multipotential cell specific markers.
20
   It will be understood that recognition of cells carrying TNAP that forms the basis of the
   separation can be effected by a number of different methods, however, all of these
   methods rely at some point upon binding of cells to the TNAP binding agent followed
   by separation of those cells that exhibit binding, being either high level binding, or low
25 level binding or no binding. The most convenient binding agents are antibodies or
   antibody based molecules, preferably being monoclonal antibodies or based on
   monoclonal antibodies because of the specificity of these latter agents.
   The TNAP binding agents may be attached to a solid support to allow for a crude
30 separation. The separation techniques preferably maximise the retention of viability of
   the fraction to be collected. Various techniques of different efficacy may be employed
   to obtain relatively crude separations. The particular technique employed will depend
   upon efficiency of separation, associated cytotoxicity, ease and speed of performance,
   and necessity for sophisticated equipment and/or technical skill. Procedures for
35 separation may include, but are not limited to, magnetic separation, using antibody
   coated magnetic beads, affinity chromatography and "panning" with antibody attached

                                                  7
   to a solid matrix. Techniques providing accurate separation include but are not limited
   to MACS, Dynal magnetic bead selection and FACS.
   In one example of the invention, the TNAP binding agent is labelled.            In another
 5 example, the separation of cells bound to the TNAP binding agent is carried out by a
   mechanical cell sorter.
   In a further example of the invention the TNAP binding agent is coupled to a
   fluorescent labelling compound. In this case the separation of cells bound to the TNAP
10 binding agent is preferably carried out using a fluorescence-activated cell sorter
   (FACS).
   In a further example of the invention, the TNAP binding agent is linked to a solid
   particle. Preferably, the solid particle is a magnetic particle. In this embodiment of the
15 invention, the separation of cells bound to the TNAP binding agent is preferably carried
   out by separating the particulate phase from the liquid phase. In a further preferred
   embodiment of the invention, prior to the separation step the cell sample is contacted
   with an antibody directed against the TNAP binding agent linked to a solid particle, and
   wherein the separation of cells bound to the TNAP binding agent is carried out by
20 separating the particulate phase from the liquid phase.
   In a further example of the invention the cells of the cell sample are adherent cells
   cultivated on a solid support, and removal of unbound TNAP binding agents is carried
   out by rinsing.
25
   A further example of the invention, the cells of the cell sample are cultivated in
   suspension, and removal of unbound TNAP binding agents is carried out by
   centrifuging the cell sample and separating off the resulting supernatant.
30 In a further example, the cell sample is subjected to a further cell sorting procedure to
   enrich or diminish the cell population in cells expressing at least one further
   multipotential cell marker. The multipotential cell marker may one or more markers
   selected from the group consisting of LFA-3, THY-1, VCAM-1, ICAM-1, PECAM-1,
   P-selectin, L-selectin, CD49a/CD49b/CD29, CD49c/CD29, CD49d/CD29, CD29,
35 CD18, CD61, integrin beta, 6-19, thrombomodulin, CD1O, CD13, SCF, PDGF-R, EGF-

                                                 8
   R, IGF1-R, NGF-R, FGF-R, Leptin-R, (STRO-2 = Leptin-R), RANKL, STRO-1
   (preferably STRO-l ri) and CD146 or any combination of these markers.
   The present invention also provides an enriched population of adult multipotential cells
 5 as obtained by a method according to the present invention.
   The present invention also provides an enriched population of TNAP+ adult
   multipotential cells.
10 In a preferred embodiment of the present invention, at least 1%, 2%, 3%, 4%, 5%,
   10%, 15%, 20%, 30%, 40%, 50%, 60%, 70%, 80%, 90% or 95% of the total enriched
   cell population are adult multipotential cells that have the phenotype TNAP+.
   In an embodiment, culturing the enriched population of the invention results in a higher
15 proportion of cells that are STRO+ when compared to cells selected using STRO-1 as a
   marker and cultured under the same conditions. Preferably, such culturing is for about
   4 or about 6 passages. Preferably, the cells were obtained from the bone marrow.
   In another embodiment, the enriched population of the invention comprises about 79%
20 to about 99%, more preferably about 84% to about 94%, and even more preferably
   about 89%, cells which are CD45+.
   Preferably, the enriched population of adult multipotential cells were obtained by a
   method according to the present invention.
25
   The present invention also provides an expanded cell population obtained by culturing
   an enriched population of adult multipotential cells according to the invention.
   In one embodiment, the enriched cell population of the invention, or an expanded cell
30 population of the invention, comprises at least some cells which are genetically
   modified.
   The present invention also provides a method of generating a tissue specific committed
   cell population, the method comprising
35         culturing a population of adult multipotential cells of the present invention in the
   presence of one or more stimulatory factors, and

                                                  9
           subjecting said cultured population to conditions biasing differentiation of the
   adult multipotential cells to a specific tissue type.
   In one embodiment of this method of the invention the tissue type is selected from the
 5 group consisting of cardiac muscle, vascular tissue, bone tissue, cartilage tissue, fat
   tissue, neural tissue, smooth muscle and endothelial tissue.
   The invention will also be understood to encompass a composition comprising enriched
   adult multipotential cells of the present invention and/or an expanded cell population of
10 the invention.
   In a preferred embodiment, the composition further comprises a stimulatory factor.
   Such a composition is likely to be beneficial therapeutically and thus will be prepared
   in a pharmaceutically acceptable form.
15
   The level of the stimulatory factor(s) present in the composition may be determined
   empirically but in most cases is likely to be in the order of nanograms or tens of
   nanograms per millilitre.
20 The stimulatory factor used in a method of the invention, and/or present in a
   composition of the invention, can be any suitable factor capable of promoting cell
   division and/or differentiation. Such factors are well known in the art and include, but
   are not limited to, la,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3 (1,25D), platelet derived growth factor
   (PDGF), tumor necrosis factor u (TNF- a), interleukin -11P (IL- 1P) and stromal derived
25 factor la (SDF-la).
   In another embodiment the composition further comprises a factor to bias
   differentiation of the adult multipotential cells of the present invention to one specific
   tissue type. Preferably, the tissue type is selected from the group consisting of cardiac
30 muscle, vascular tissue, bone tissue, cartilage tissue, fat tissue, neural tissue, smooth
   muscle and endothelial tissue
   Conditions that bias differentiation of the adult multipotential cells of the present
   invention to bone precursor cells or bone may involve, for example, culturing in
35 aMEM supplemented with 10% FCS, 100 ptM L-ascorbate-2-phosphate,
   dexamethasone 10-7 M and 3 mM inorganic phosphate. These conditions have been

                                                10
   shown to induce human bone marrow stromal cells to develop a mineralized bone
   matrix in vitro (Gronthos et al., 1994).
   Suitable conditions for differentiating the adult multipotential cells of the present
 5 invention into osteoblasts may involve cultivating the cells in the presence of type I
   collagen, fibrinogen, fibrin, polyglycolic acid, polylactic acid, osteocalcin, or
   osteonectin. In one particular example, the cells are cultivated in the presence of type I
   collagen, fibrinogen, and fibrin. In an alternative example, the cells are cultivated in
   the presence of type I collagen, fibrinogen, fibrin, osteocalcin, and osteonectin. In the
10 context of this method, type I collagen, fibrinogen, fibrin, polyglycolic acid, polylactic
   acid, osteocalcin, or osteonectin may be used alone or in the presence of a growth
   factor. It will be understood that any combination of the compounds listed above in
   this paragraph is contemplated by the present invention.
15 In a further embodiment, a composition of the invention further comprises a fibrin glue.
   The present invention also provides a method for generating or repairing tissue in a
   subject, the method comprising administering to the subject an enriched or expanded
   cell population of the present invention.
20
   The present invention also provides a method for generating or repairing tissue in a
   subject, the method comprising administering to the subject a composition of the
   present invention.
25 The enriched or expanded cell population of multipotential cells obtained according to
   the present invention may be used, for example, in the formation and repair of bones,
   and as such a combination of multipotential cells as well as a suitable support may be
   introduced into a site requiring bone formation. Thus, for example, skeletal defects
   caused by bone injury or the removal of sections of bone infected with tumour may be
30 repaired by implanting cultured or expanded adult multipotential cells contained in
   calcium phosphate ceramic vehicles into the defect site. For appropriate methods and
   techniques see Caplan et al. in US patent 5,226,914 and US patent 5,837,539, both of
   which use cruder preparations of stem cells when compared to the present invention.
35 In addition, the enriched cell population or composition may be used to assist in
   anchoring prosthetic devices. Thus, the surface of a prosthetic device such as those

                                                 11
   used in hip, knee and shoulder replacement, may be coated with the enriched
   multipotential cells prior to implantation. The multipotential cells may then
   differentiate into osteogenic cells to thereby speed up the process of bony ingrowth and
   incorporation of the prosthetic device (see Caplan et al. in US patent 5,226,914 and US
 5 patent 5,837,539).
   The enriched cell population or composition might also be used in gene therapy so that,
   for example, an enriched population may have exogenous nucleic acid transformed into
   it and then such a population may be introduced into the body of the patient to treat a
10 disease or condition. Alternatively it might be used for the release of therapeutics. For
   appropriate techniques we refer to US patent 5,591,625 by Gerson et al. which uses
   cruder preparations of stem cells when compared to the present invention.
   Alternatively the enriched population or composition may be used to augment bone
15 marrow transplantation, wherein the composition containing enriched adult
   multipotential cells can be injected into a patient undergoing marrow transplantation
   prior to the introduction of the whole marrow. In this way the rate of haemopoiesis
   may be increased, particularly following radiation or chemotherapy. The composition
   might also encompass a mixture of multipotential cells and haemopoietic cells which
20 may be useful in radiotherapy or chemotherapy.
   Also provided is the use of an enriched or expanded cell population of the present
   invention for the manufacture of a medicament for generating or repairing tissue in a
   subject.
25
   Also provides is the use of a composition of the present invention for the manufacture
   of a medicament for generating or repairing tissue in a subject.
   The present invention also provides an isolated cell which has been obtained by a
30 method of the invention, or a progeny cell thereof, wherein the cell is genetically
   modified.
   In a preferred embodiment, the cell is genetically modified to express a heterologous
   protein. The heterologous protein may be any protein of interest. For example, the
35 heterologous protein may be a stimulatory factor such as la,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3

                                                12
   (1,25D), platelet derived growth factor (PDGF), tumor necrosis factor a (TNF- ax),
   interleukin -I P (IL-1P) and stromal derived factor la (SDF-l a).
   In another example, the heterologous protein is a bioactive factor which accelerates
 5 differentiation of the adult multipotential cell to specific tissue types. The bioactive
   factor may be, for example, a synthetic glucocorticoid, such as dexamethasone, or a
   bone morphogenic protein, such as BMP-2, BMP-3, BMP-4, BMP-6 or BMP-7.
   The present invention also provides a [STRO-3] hybridoma cell line deposited with
10 ATCC on 19 December 2005 under the provisions of the Budapest Treaty under
   deposit accession number PTA-7282.
   The present invention also provides a STRO-3 antibody produced by the hybridoma
   cell line deposited with ATCC on 19 December 2005 under the provisions of the
15 Budapest Treaty under deposit accession number PTA-7282.
   The present invention also provides an isolated antibody which binds to the same
   epitope on multipotential cells as the STRO-3 antibody produced by the hybridoma cell
   line deposited with ATCC on 19 December 2005 under the provisions of the Budapest
20 Treaty under deposit accession number PTA-7282.
   The present invention also provides a composition comprising an antibody of the
   invention. Preferably, the composition further comprises one or more suitable carriers.
25 Also provided is a kit comprising an enriched cell population of the invention, an
   expanded cell population of the invention, a composition of the invention, an isolated
   cell of the invention, a hybridoma of the invention and/or an antibody of the invention.
   Throughout this specification the word "comprise", or variations such as "comprises" or
30 "comprising", will be understood to imply the inclusion of a stated element, integer or
   step, or group of elements, integers or steps, but not the exclusion of any other element,
   integer or step, or group of elements, integers or steps.
   The various features and embodiments of the present invention, referred to in
35 individual sections above apply, as appropriate, to other sections, mutatis mutandis.

                                                13
   Consequently features specified in one section may be combined with features
   specified in other sections, as appropriate.
   Brief Description of the Figures
 5
   Figure 1. Flow Cytometric Analysis of STRO-3-Selected BAF-3 Cells
   Progressive enrichment of BAF-3 expressing the STRO-3 surface Ag. BAF-3 cells
   selectively isolated by the magnetic bead/mAb capture and enrichment procedure were
   immunolabeled with the STRO-3 mAb and analyzed by flow cytometry after one (A),
10 two (B), and three (C ) rounds of selection. Magnetic bead selection and enrichment
   were carried out until homogeneity of Ag expression was achieved.
   Figure 2. PCR recovery of proviral cDNA inserts from genomic DNA isolated from
   BAF-3 cells expressing STRO-3 surface Ag
15 Long range PCR was used to recover the cDNA inserts from genomic DNA (arrow)
   isolated from the BAF-3 cells expressing the STRO-3 cell surface Ag. The PCR
   primers used were complementary to the sequences adjacent to the multi-cloning site in
   the retroviral vector. Amplification was performed as detailed in Methods, after which
   the PCR products were separated on a 1.0 % agarose gel and visualised by ethidium
20 bromide staining.
   Figure 3. FASTA Alignment Analysis of STRO-3 antigen derived PCR Products
   Following partial sequence analysis, the resultant nucleotide sequence was compared
   with sequences submitted to the combined Genbank/EMBL database via standard
25 "FASTA alignment analysis", and revealed 100% homology with the BLK isoform of
   ALP complementary DNA sequence (Genbank accession # H37944).
   Figure 4. STRO-3 mAb recognise the BLK isoform of ALP in BAF-3 Transfectants
   A 1.7 kb BamHI-XhoI restriction fragment of the BLK-ALP cDNA (harbouring both
30 the entire coding sequence and the 5' and 3' non-coding regions) was subcloned into
   the pRUF.neo vector and subsequently introduced into BAF-3 cells by retroviral
   transduction (refer to Materials and Methods). The resultant G418-resistant cell
   population, was stained by indirect immunofluorescence and analysed by flow
   cytometry. Data are displayed as single-parameter fluorescence (FITC) histograms of 1
35 x 104 light-scatter gated events, collected as list mode data IgG1 control (thin black
   line); (A) mAb STRO-3; (B) mAb B4-78; (C) mAb B4-50 and (d) mAb 8B6.

                                               14
   Figure 5. STRO-3 mAb Identifies an Enzymatically Active Form of ALP
   Cytospin preparations of untransfected (A) and STRO-3 positive (B) BAF-3 cells were
   prepared on glass slides then fixed with 70% ethanol. The slides were then incubated
 5 with alkaline phosphatase substrate using the Sigma Alkaline Phosphatase Substrate
   Kit (AMO100) as recommended by the manufacturer. The results showed that BAF-3
   cells expressing STRO-3 (B) contained the active form of alkaline phosphatase enzyme
   (purple/red colour). The cells were counter stained with Haematoxylin (blue).
10 Figure 6. ALP specific PCR
   RT-PCR was employed to identify the alkaline phosphatase isoform encoded by the
   cDNA using total RNA isolated from BAF-3 cells expressing the STRO-3 cell surface
   Ag as described in the methods. The PCR primers used identified sequences specific to
   either the (L) liver (216 bp) or (B) bone (215 bp) alkaline phosphatase isoforms as
15 previously described by Sato and colleagues (1994) (Sato et al., 1994). Following PCR
   amplification the products were run on a 1.5% agarose gel and stained with ethidium
   bromide. The results indicated that the STRO-3 antigen expressing BAF-3 cells only
   expressed transcripts corresponding to the bone-specific (B) alkaline phosphatase
   isoform.
20
   Figure 7. The Expression of STRO-3 Antigen in Human Bone Tissue
   The immunoreactivity of STRO-3 mAb was also assessed in sections of developing
   bone marrow using immunohistochemistry as described in the methods. Five micron
   sections of paraffin-embedded, 55 day old human limb, was stained with STRO-3
25 mAb, as described in the methods. While expression of the STRO-3 antigen (TNAP)
   was evident in the mesenchymal cells of the bone marrow spaces (BM), perivascular
   regions (PV) and at the interface of the growth plate region, no staining was observed
   in the periosteum (P) or cartilage (C).
30 Figure 8. Clonogenic cells are Exclusively Restricted to the STRO-3 mAb Positive
   Fraction of Human BM
   A single cell suspensions of unfractionated BM (Pre) and MACS selected TNAP
   positive (TNAP+) and TNAP negative (TNAP-) human BM were plated into regular
   growth medium (Gronthos et al., 2003) to assess the incidence of adherent colony
35 forming cells in each cell fraction. Following 12 days of culture, colonies (aggregates
   of 50 cells or more) were stained and scored as described in Methods. The bar graph

                                              15
   depicts the number of clonogenic colonies per 105 cells plated for each cell fraction
   averaged from two separate experiments.         Our data demonstrate that CFU-F are
   exclusively restricted to the TNAP positive fraction of BM.
 5 Figure 9.    Co-expression of TNAP and the Mesenchymal Precursor Cell Marker,
   STRO-1 by Adult Human BMMNC
   Dual-color immunofluorescence and flow cytometry was performed by incubation of
   STRO-1 MACS-selected BMMNC and indirectly labelled with a goat anti-murine IgM
   antibody coupled to FITC (x axis), and STRO-3 mAb (murine IgGI) indirectly labelled
10 with a goat anti-murine IgG coupled to PE (y axis). The dot plot histogram represents
   5 x 104 events collected as listmode data. The vertical and horizontal lines were set to
   the reactivity levels of <1.0% mean fluorescence obtained with the isotype-matched
   control antibodies, 1B5 (IgG) and 1A6.12 (IgM) treated under the same conditions.
   The results demonstrate that a minor population of STRO-1 bright cells co-expressed
15 TNAP (upper right quadrant) while the remaining STRO-1+ cells failed to react with
   the STRO-3 mAb. Cells isolated by FACS from all four quadrants were subsequently
   assayed for the incidence of CFU-F (Table 2).
   Figure 10.    Coexpression of CD45, CD34, 3G%, CC9 and STRO-1 with TNAP by
20 STRO-3 mAb enriched cells
   Figure 11.    STRO-3 mAb selected cells maintain high levels of STRO-1 expression
   following multiple passages
25 Figure 12.     STRO-1 expression in bone marrow derived cells selected using an
   antibody that binds thereto
   Figure 13. Early (P2) and late (P5) passage phenotypic characteristics of STRO-3 mAb
   selected, culture expanded multipotential cells
30 STRO-3 selected adult multipotential cells (P1) are a population with a surface
   phenotype characterised by high levels of CC9, STRO-1            and STRO-3 antigen
   expression.    Following 5 passages in culture the cell population (P5) demonstrates
   significant retention of STRO-1 expression.
35 Figure 14. Differentiation of STRO-3 mAb selected cells into adipocytes

                                                  16
   Two lots of STRO-3 mAb selected cells , 2242A and 2070C, were assayed for
   differentiative capacity. The graphs depict the average relative fluorescence units (Avg
   RFU) for cells induced with Adipogenic Induction Medium versus control uninduced
   cells.
 5
   Figure 15. Differentiation of STRO-3 mAb selected cells into osteocytes
   A standard curve was generated by taking the OD 550nm of samples having known
   calcium concentrations. Two lots of STRO-3 mAb selected cells, 2242A and 2070C,
   were induced with Osteogenesis Induction Medium. Cell extracts of induced and
10 uninduced cells were prepared and measured at OD 550nm.
   Figure 16. Differentiation of STRO-3 mAb selected cells into functional osteoblasts
   A - STRO-3 mAb selected adult multipotential cells were cultured for three weeks in
   aMEM supplemented with 10% FCS, 100 pM L-ascorbate-2-phosphate,
15 dexamethasone 10-7 M and 3 mM inorganic phosphate and stained for mineral deposits
   with Alizarin Red. B - Oil Red 0 stained cells following culture of STRO-3 mAb
   selected     adult     multipotential    cells    in   the     presence of 0.5       mM
   methylisobutylmethylxanthine, 0.5 [M hydrocortisone, and 60 tM indomethacin. C
   Cell cultures treated with 10 ng/ml TGF-P3 and stained with Alcian Blue to identify
20 proteoglycan synthesis. D - Histological examination of culture expanded STRO-3
   mAb selected adult multipotential cells following implantation.
   Figure 17. Rate of spinal fusion following administration of culture expanded STRO-3
   mAb selected cells
25
   Figure 18.     Robust spinal fusion in culture expanded STRO-3 mAb selected cells
   treated sheep
   Figure 19.    STRO-3 mAb selected culture expanded allogeneic adult multipotential
30 cells in an ovine transpedicular screw fixation model
   Figure 20. Dose-dependent bone growth by allogeneic culture expanded STRO-3 mAb
   selected cells in critical-sized sheep segmental tibial defect
35 Figure 21. Greater rate of union in culture expanded STRO-3 mAb selected cells
   treated groups with critical sized segmental tibial defect

                                               17
   Figure 22. Culture expanded STRO-3 mAb selected cells significantly improve cardiac
   function 2 weeks following rat myocardial infarction
 5 Figure 23. Effects of allogenic sheep culture expanded STRO-3 selected cells (passage
   5) directly injected into sheep heats immediately after acute ligation of both diagonal
   and coronary arteries
   A - % reduction in ejection fraction, B - % change in diastolic volume, and C - %
   change in systolic volume of sheep.
10
   Figure 24.   Increased cell survival when delivered in fibrin glue compared to saline
   solution
   Detailed Description of the Preferred Embodiments
15
   Micro-organism Deposit Details
   The hybridoma which produces the monoclonal antibody designated STRO-3 was
   deposited on 19 December 2005 with American Type Culture Collection (ATCC)
20 under accession number PTA-7282.
   This deposit was made under the provisions of the Budapest Treaty on the International
   Recognition of the Deposit of Microorganisms for the Purpose of Patent Procedure and
   the Regulations thereunder. This assures maintenance of viable cultures for 30 years
25 from the date of deposit. The organisms will be made available by ATCC under the
   terms of the Budapest Treaty which assures permanent and unrestricted availability of
   the progeny of the culture to the public upon issuance of the pertinent patent.
   The assignee of the present application has agreed that if the culture deposit should die
30 or be lost or destroyed when cultivated under suitable conditions, it will be promptly
   replaced on notification with a viable specimen of the same culture. Availability of a
   deposited strain is not to be construed as a license to practice the invention in
   contravention of the rights granted under the authority of any government in
   accordance with its patent laws.
35

                                               18
   General Techniques
   Unless specifically defined otherwise, all technical and scientific terms used herein
   shall be taken to have the same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary
 5 skill in the art (e.g., in cell culture, molecular genetics, immunology,
   immunohistochemistry, protein chemistry, and biochemistry).
   Unless otherwise indicated, the recombinant protein, cell culture, and immunological
   techniques utilized in the present invention are standard procedures, well known to
10 those skilled in the art. Such techniques are described and explained throughout the
   literature in sources such as, J. Perbal, A Practical Guide to Molecular Cloning, John
   Wiley and Sons (1984), J. Sambrook et al., Molecular Cloning: A Laboratory Manual,
   Cold Spring Harbour Laboratory Press (1989), T.A. Brown (editor), Essential
   Molecular Biology: A Practical Approach, Volumes 1 and 2, IRL Press (1991), D.M.
15 Glover and B.D. Hames (editors), DNA Cloning: A Practical Approach, Volumes 1-4,
   IRL Press (1995 and 1996), and F.M. Ausubel et al. (editors), Current Protocols in
   Molecular Biology, Greene Pub. Associates and Wiley-Interscience (1988, including
   all updates until present), Ed Harlow and David Lane (editors) Antibodies: A
   Laboratory Manual, Cold Spring Harbour Laboratory, (1988), and J.E. Coligan et al.
20 (editors) Current Protocols in Immunology, John Wiley & Sons (including all updates
   until present).
   Adult multipotential cells
25 By "adult multipotential cells" we mean cells derived from adult tissue which are
   capable of giving rise to any of several mature cell types. As used herein, this phrase
   encompasses adult stem cells and progenitor cells, such as mesenchymal precursor cells
   (MPC) and multipotential progeny of these cells.
30 Mesenchymal precursor cells (MPCs) are cells found in bone marrow, blood, dermis,
   and periosteum; and are capable of differentiating into specific types of mesenchymal
   or connective tissues including adipose, osseous, cartilaginous, elastic, muscular, and
   fibrous connective tissues. The specific lineage-commitment and differentiation
   pathway which these cells enter depends upon various influences from mechanical
35 influences and/or endogenous bioactive factors, such as growth factors, cytokines,
   and/or local microenvironmental conditions established by host tissues. Mesenchymal

                                                19
   precursor cells are defined as cells which are not terminally differentiated; which can
   divide without limit; and divide to yield daughter cells that are either stem cells or are
   progenitor cells which in time will irreversibly differentiate to yield a phenotypic cell.
   MPCs are non-hematopoietic progenitor cells that are capable of forming large number
 5 of multipotential cells.
   The terms 'enriched', 'enrichment' or variations thereof are used herein to describe a
   population of cells in which the proportion of one particular cell type or the proportion
   of a number of particular cell types is increased when compared with the untreated
10 population.
   In a preferred embodiment of the present invention, at least 1%, 2%, 3%, 4%, 5%,
   10%, 15%, 20%, 30%, 40%, 50%, 60%, 70%, 80%, 90% or 95% of the total enriched
   cell population are adult multipotential cells that have the phenotype TNAP+.
15
   In a particularly preferred embodiment, TNAP+ cells of the invention are able to bind
   the STRO-3 antibody produced by the hybridoma cell line deposited with ATCC on 19
   December 2005 under the provisions of the Budapest Treaty under deposit accession
   number PTA-7282.
20
   In one embodiment, the enriched population of the invention comprises about 79% to
   about 99%, more preferably about 84% to about 94%, and even more preferably about
   89.2%, cells which are CD45+.
25 In another embodiment, the enriched population of the invention comprises less than
   about 2%, more preferably less than about 1%, cells that are CD34+. In another
   embodiment, the enriched population comprises no cells that are CD34+.
   In another embodiment, the enriched population of the invention comprises less than
30 about 6 %, more preferably less than about 3.5%, cells that are CC9+.
   In a further embodiment, the enriched population of the invention comprises about 23%
   to about 3%, more preferably about 8% to about 18%, and even more preferably about
   13.2%, cells which are 3G5+.
35

                                                20
   In yet a further embodiment, the enriched population of the invention comprises about
   12% to about 3%, more preferably about 10% to about 6%, and even more preferably
   about 7.8%, cells which are STRO-1+.
 5 In a further embodiment, an enriched cell population of the invention has not been
   cultured in vitro.
   Furthermore, in a preferred embodiment, the enriched cell population of the invention
   is capable of giving rise to clonogenic CFU-F.
10
   In an embodiment, culturing the enriched population of the invention results in a higher
   proportion of cells that are STRO+ when compared to cells selected using STRO-1 as a
   marker and cultured under the same conditions. Preferably, such culturing is for about
   4 or about 6 passages. Preferably, the cells were obtained from the bone marrow.
15
   In a further embodiment, culturing the enriched population of the invention results in
   an increase in the number of progeny cells that are STRO+ when compared to the
   starting cell population, for example, after 2, 4 or 6 passages. In comparison, culturing
   STRO-1 enriched cells results in a decreased number of progeny cells that are STRO+
20 when compared to the starting (STRO-1 selected) cell population, for example, after 4
   or 6 passages.
   In another embodiment, the enriched cell population is homogenous for TNAP+ cells.
25 The present invention also relates to progeny cells (also referred to herein as expanded
   cells) which are produced from the in vitro culture of adult multipotential cells of the
   invention. Expanded cells of the invention may a have a wide variety of phenotypes
   depending on the culture conditions (including the number and/or type of stimulatory
   factors in the culture medium), the number of passages and the like.
30
   In one embodiment, such expanded cells (at least after 5 passages) can be TNAP-,
   CC9*, HLA class I+, HLA class IF, CD14-, CD19-, CD3-, CD11a-c-, CD31, CD86
   and/or CD80 . However, it is possible that under different culturing conditions to those
   described herein that the expression of different markers may vary. Also, whilst cells
35 of these phenotypes may predominate in the expended cell population it does not mean
   that there is a minor proportion of the cells do not have this phenotype(s) (for example,

                                                  21
   a small percentage of the expanded cells may be CC9-). In one preferred embodiment,
   expanded cells of the invention still have the capacity to differentiate into different cell
   types.
 5 In one embodiment, an expended cell population of the invention comprises cells
   wherein at least 25%, more preferably at least 50%, of the cells are CC9+.
   In another embodiment, an expended cell population of the invention comprises cells
   wherein at least 40%, more preferably at least 45%, of the cells are STRO-1+.
10
   In a further embodiment, culturing the enriched population of the invention results in
   adult multipotential cells that may also express markers selected from the group
   consisting of LFA-3, THY-1, VCAM-1, ICAM-1, PECAM-1, P-selectin, L-selectin,
   CD49a/CD49b/CD29, CD49c/CD29, CD49d/CD29, CD29, CD 18, CD61, integrin beta,
15 6-19, thrombomodulin, CD10, CD13, SCF, PDGF-R, EGF-R, IGF1-R, NGF-R, FGF
   R, Leptin-R, (STRO-2         =   Leptin-R), RANKL, STRO-briht and CD146 or any
   combination of these markers.
   It is preferred that a significant proportion of the adult multipotential cells are capable
20 of differentiation into at least two committed cell types. Non-limiting examples of the
   lineages to which the adult multipotential cells may be committed include bone
   precursor cells; hepatocyte progenitors, which are pluripotent for bile duct epithelial
   cells and hepatocytes; neural restricted cells, which can generate glial cell precursors
   that progress to oligodendrocytes and astrocytes; neuronal precursors that progress to
25 neurons; precursors for cardiac muscle and cardiomyocytes, glucose-responsive insulin
   secreting pancreatic beta cell lines. Other lineages include, but are not limited to,
   odontoblasts, dentin-producing cells and chondrocytes, and precursor cells of the
   following: retinal pigment epithelial cells, fibroblasts, skin cells such as keratinocytes,
   dendritic cells, hair follicle cells, renal duct epithelial cells, smooth and skeletal muscle
30 cells, testicular progenitors, vascular endothelial cells, tendon, ligament, cartilage,
   adipocyte, fibroblast, marrow stroma, cardiac muscle, smooth muscle, skeletal muscle,
   pericyte, vascular, epithelial, glial, neuronal, astrocyte and oligodendrocyte cells. In a
   preferred embodiment, the adult multipotential cells are at least capable of being
   cultured, in vivo or in vitro, to produce adipocytes, osteocytes and/or chondrocytes.
35

                                                   22
   In another embodiment, "adult multipotential cells" of the invention are not capable of
   giving rise, upon culturing, to hematopoietic cells.
   The term "adult" is used in its broadest sense to include a postnatal subject.                In a
 5 preferred embodiment, the term "adult" refers to a subject that is postpubertal.               The
   term, "adult" as used herein can also include cord blood taken from a female. The term
   "adult" does not include cells obtained from an embryo and/fetus. Thus, the "adult
   multipotential cells" of the invention may also be considered as "non-embryonic
   multipotential cells".
10
   When we refer to a cell as being "positive" for a given marker it may be either a low (lo
   or dim) or a high (bright, bri) expresser of that marker depending on the degree to
   which the marker is present on the cell surface, where the terms relate to intensity of
   fluorescence or other colour used in the colour sorting process of the cells. The
15 distinction of lo (or dim or dull) and bri will be understood in the context of the marker
   used on a particular cell population being sorted. When we refer herein to a cell as
   being "negative" for a given marker, it does not mean that the marker is not expressed
   at all by that cell. It means that the marker is expressed at a relatively very low level by
   that cell, and that it generates a very low signal when detectably labelled.
20
   The term "bright", when used herein, refers to a marker on a cell surface that generates
   a relatively high signal when detectably labelled. Whilst not wishing to be limited by
   theory, it is proposed that "bright" cells express more of the target marker protein (for
   example the antigen recognised by STRO-1) than other cells in the sample. For
25 instance, STRO-1     ri cells produce a greater fluorescent signal, when labelled with a
   FITC-conjugated STRO-1 antibody as determined by FACS analysis, than non-bright
   cells (STRO-1 ut/im). Preferably, "bright" cells constitute at least about 0.10% of the
   most brightly labelled bone marrow mononuclear cells contained in the starting sample.
   In other embodiments, "bright" cells constitute at least about 0.10%, at least about 0.5%,
30 at least about 1%, at least about 1.5%, or at least about 2%, of the most brightly
   labelled bone marrow mononuclear cells contained in the starting sample. In a
   preferred embodiment, STRO-              cells have 2 log magnitude higher expression of
                                            bright
   STRO-1 surface expression. This is calculated relative to "background", namely cells
   that are STRO-1.      By comparison, STRO-l1im and/or STRO-         intermediate cells have less
35 than 2 log magnitude higher expression of STRO-1 surface expression, typically about
   1 log or less than "background".

                                             23
   Tissue non-specific alkaline phosphatase (TNAP)
   When used herein the term "TNAP" is intended to encompass all isoforms of the
 5 protein. For example, the term encompasses the liver isoform (LAP), the bone isoform
   (BAP) and the kidney isoform (KAP). In a preferred embodiment, the TNAP is BAP.
   In a particularly preferred embodiment, TNAP as used herein refers to a molecule
   which can bind the STRO-3 antibody produced by the hybridoma cell line deposited
   with ATCC on 19 December 2005 under the provisions of the Budapest Treaty under
10 deposit accession number PTA-7282.
   In the context of the present invention, the TNAP is preferably human TNAP.          For
   example, the TNAP may be human TNAP comprising the amino acid sequence shown
   in SEQ ID NO:1.
15
   However, it will be understood that the term "TNAP" is not limited to the human
   sequence but also includes homologous sequences obtained from any source, for
   example homologues, particularly orthologues (i.e. homologues obtained from species
   other than humans), allelic variants, as well as fragments and synthetic peptides or
20 derivatives thereof as discussed below.
   A number of TNAP orthologues are already known and include mouse TNAP (SEQ ID
   NO:2) and rat TNAP (SEQ ID NO:3).
25 In a preferred embodiment of the present invention, a homologous sequence is an
   amino acid sequence which is at least 70, 80 or 90% identical, preferably at least 95 or
   98% identical at the amino acid level over at least 20, preferably 50 or 100 amino acids
   with a sequence as shown SEQ ID NO:1, SEQ ID NO:2 or SEQ ID NO:3.
30 Although homology can also be considered in the art in terms of similarity (i.e. amino
   acid residues having similar chemical properties/functions), in the context of the
   present invention it is preferred to express homology in terms of sequence identity.
   The % identity of a polypeptide is determined by FASTA (Pearson and Lipman, 1988)
   analysis (GCG program) using the default settings and a query sequence of at least 50
35 amino acids in length, and whereby the FASTA analysis aligns the two sequences over
   a region of at least 50 amino acids. More preferably, the FASTA analysis aligns the

                                                 24
   two sequences over a region of at least 100 amino acids. More preferably, the FASTA
   analysis aligns the two sequences over a region of at least 250 amino acids. Even more
   preferably, the FASTA analysis aligns the two sequences over a region of at least 350
   amino acids.
 5
   The terms "variant" or "derivative" in relation to the amino acid sequences of the
   present invention and/or for use in the present invention includes any substitution of,
   variation of, modification of, replacement of, deletion of or addition of one (or more)
   amino acids from or to the sequence providing the resultant amino acid sequence
10 preferably has at least 25 to 50% of the biological activity as a naturally occurring
   TNAP more preferably at least substantially the same activity. The relevant biological
   activity includes the ability of the variant or derivative to bind to natural TNAP ligands.
   In general, preferably less than 20%, 10% or 5% of the amino acid residues of a variant
15 or derivative are altered as compared with the corresponding region of the naturally
   occurring TNAP, the percentage typically being lower the shorter the amino acid
   sequence e.g. less than 5% for amino acid sequences of 20 amino acids or less.
   The term "TNAP" also encompasses fragments of the above mentioned full-length
20 polypeptides and variants thereof, including fragments of the sequences set out in the
   sequence listing herein.     Preferred fragments include those that include an epitope.
   Suitable fragments will be at least about 6 or 7 amino acids in length, e.g. at least 10,
   12, 15 or 20 amino acids in length. They may also be less than 200, 100 or 50 amino
   acids in length. Polypeptide fragments of the polypeptides depicted in the sequence
25 listings and allelic and species variants thereof may contain one or more (e.g. 2, 3, 5, or
   10) substitutions, deletions or insertions, including conserved substitutions. Where
   substitutions, deletion and/or insertions have been made, for example by means of
   recombinant technology, preferably less than 20%, 10% or 5% of the amino acid
   residues depicted in the sequence listings are altered.
30
   In an embodiment, the term TNAP does not encompass placental AP.
   TNAP Binding Agents
35 When used herein, the phrase "TNAP binding agent" refers to a moiety that recognises
   and/or binds to TNAP.

                                                25
   Preferred TNAP binding agents are polypeptides or compounds identified as having
   binding affinity to TNAP.      For example, TNAP has been characterised as having a
   collagen binding loop (Mornet et al., 2001). Accordingly, the TNAP agent may be
 5 collagen, preferably type I collagen.
   Particularly preferred TNAP binding agents are anti-TNAP antibodies (naturally
   occurring or recombinant, from any source).
10 The term "antibody" as used in this invention includes intact molecules as well as
   fragments thereof, such as Fab, F(ab')2, and Fv which are capable of binding the
   epitopic determinant. These antibody fragments retain some ability to selectively bind
   with its antigen or receptor and are defined as follows:
15 (1)     Fab, the fragment which contains a monovalent antigen-binding fragment of an
   antibody molecule can be produced by digestion of whole antibody with the enzyme
   papain to yield an intact light chain and a portion of one heavy chain;
   (2)     Fab', the fragment of an antibody molecule can be obtained by treating whole
20 antibody with pepsin, followed by reduction, to yield an intact light chain and a portion
   of the heavy chain; two Fab' fragments are obtained per antibody molecule;
   (3)     (Fab')2, the fragment of the antibody that can be obtained by treating whole
   antibody with the enzyme pepsin without subsequent reduction; F(ab)2 is a dimer of
25 two Fab' fragments held together by two disulfide bonds;
   (4)     Fv, defined as a genetically engineered fragment containing the variable region
   of the light chain and the variable region of the heavy chain expressed as two chains;
   and
30
   (5)     Single chain antibody ("SCA"), defined as a genetically engineered molecule
   containing the variable region of the light chain, the variable region of the heavy chain,
   linked by a suitable polypeptide linker as a genetically fused single chain molecule.

                                               26
   Methods of making these fragments are known in the art. (See for example, Harlow and
   Lane, Antibodies: A Laboratory Manual, Cold Spring Harbour Laboratory, New York
   (1988), incorporated herein by reference).
 5 Antibodies of the present invention can be prepared using cells expressing TNAP, full
   length TNAP or fragments thereof as the immunizing antigen.           A peptide used to
   immunize an animal can be derived from translated cDNA or chemical synthesis and is
   purified and conjugated to a carrier protein, if desired. Such commonly used carriers
   which are chemically coupled to the peptide include keyhole limpet hemocyanin
10 (KLH), thyroglobulin, bovine serum albumin (BSA), and tetanus toxoid. The coupled
   peptide may then be used to immunize the animal (e.g., a mouse or a rabbit).
   If desired, polyclonal antibodies can be further purified, for example, by binding to and
   elution from a matrix to which the peptide to which the antibodies were raised is
15 bound. Those of skill in the art will know of various techniques common in the
   immunology arts for purification and/or concentration of polyclonal antibodies, as well
   as monoclonal antibodies (See for example, Coligan, et al., Unit 9, Current Protocols in
   Immunology, Wiley Interscience, 1991, incorporated by reference).
20 Monoclonal antibodies may be prepared using any technique which provides for the
   production of antibody molecules by continuous cell lines in culture, such as, for
   example, the hybridoma technique, the human B-cell hybridoma technique, and the
   EBV-hybridoma technique (Kohler et al., 1975; Kozbor et al., 1985; Cote et al., 1983;
   Cole et al., 1984).
25
   Methods known in the art also allow antibodies exhibiting binding for TNAP to be
   identified and isolated from antibody expression libraries.
   Antibodies with an epitopic specificity which is the same as or similar to that of mAb
30 STRO-3 can be identified by their ability to compete with that particular mAb for
   binding to TNAP (e.g. to cells bearing TNAP, such as MPCs, or to isolated TNAP
   protein or fragments thereof). Using receptor chimeras (Rucker et al., 1996) or other
   techniques known to those skilled in the art, the binding site of STRO-3 mAb may be
   mapped.
35

                                                27
   It is also possible to determine, without undue experimentation, if a monoclonal
   antibody has the same specificity as STRO-3 mAb by ascertaining whether the former
   prevents the latter from binding to TNAP.       If the monoclonal antibody being tested
   competes with STRO-3 mAb, as shown by a decrease in binding by STRO-3 mAb,
 5 then the two monoclonal antibodies bind to the same, or a closely related, epitope.
   Still another way to determine whether a monoclonal antibody has the specificity of
   STRO-3 mAb is to pre-incubate the monoclonal antibody being tested with TNAP, and
   then add STRO-3 mAb to determine if STRO-3 mAb is inhibited in its ability to bind to
10 TNAP.      If the binding of STRO-3 mAb is inhibited then, in all likelihood, the
   monoclonal antibody being tested has the same, or functionally equivalent, epitopic
   specificity as STRO-3 mAb.
   Monoclonal antibodies useful in the present invention can be engineered so as to
15 change the isotype of the antibody. For example, an IgG2A isotype can be engineered
   as an IgGI, IgG2B, or other isotypes.
   It will be appreciated that a TNAP binding agent such as an antibody of the invention
   may be conjugated to a compound that is useful, for example, in cell separation,
20 therapeutic or diagnostic applications. In one example, an antibody of the invention is
   conjugated to a label. The label may be any entity the presence of which can be readily
   detected. For example, the label may be a direct label, such as those described in detail
   in May et al., U.S. Pat. No. 5,656,503. Direct labels are entities which, in their natural
   state, are readily visible either to the naked eye, or with the aid of an optical filter
25 and/or applied stimulation, e.g. UV light to promote fluorescence.      Examples include
   radioactive, chemiluminescent, electroactive (such as redox labels), and fluorescent
   compounds.      Direct particulate labels, such as dye sols, metallic sols (e.g. gold) and
   coloured latex particles, are also very suitable and are, along with fluorescent
   compounds, preferred.       Of these options, coloured latex particles and fluorescent
30 compounds are most preferred. Concentration of the label into a small zone or volume
   should give rise to a readily detectable signal, e.g. a strongly coloured area. Indirect
   labels, such as enzymes, e.g. alkaline phosphatase and horseradish peroxidase, can also
   be used, although these usually require the addition of one or more developing reagents
   such as substrates before a visible signal can be detected.
35

                                                 28
   Conjugation of a label to a binding agent such as an antibody of the invention can be by
   covalent    or non-covalent      (including hydrophobic)       bonding, or by adsorption.
   Techniques for such conjugation are commonplace in the art and may be readily
   adapted for the particular reagents employed.
 5
   A binding agent for use in the methods of the invention, such as an antibody of the
   invention, may also be coated onto a solid support. For example, the antibody can be
   coated on a synthetic plastics material, magnetic particle, microtitre assay plate,
   microarray chip, latex bead, filter comprising a cellulosic or synthetic polymeric
10 material, glass or plastic slide, dipstick, capillary fill device and the like.
   A binding agent for use in the methods of the invention, such as an antibody of the
   invention, may also be incorporated into a device for cell separation. For example, the
   device may be an automated cell selection device based on MACS technology. Such a
15 device enables large scale magnetic cell selection in a closed and sterile system. For
   example, the device may comprise an integrated computer, a magnetic separation unit,
   a peristaltic pump and various pinch valves. The integrated computer preferably
   controls all components of the instrument and directs the system to perform procedures
   in a standard sequence. The magnetic separation unit preferably includes a movable
20 permanent magnet and a holder for the selection column. The peristaltic pump
   preferably controls the flow rate through the tubing set. Pinch valves can be used to
   ensure controlled flow of buffer and cell suspension. Before selection the cells are
   magnetically labeled by using an antibody of the present invention.             A single-use
   tubing set, including separation columns, may then be attached to the device and the
25 cell preparation bag, containing the labeled cells, may be connected to the tubing set.
   After starting the selection program, the system automatically applies the cell sample to
   the separation column, performs a series of washing steps depending on the program
   chosen and finally elutes the purified target cells.
30 Cell-Sorting Techniques
   The ability to recognise adult multipotential cells with TNAP binding agents, such as
   anti-TNAP antibodies, allows not only for the identification and quantification of these
   cells in tissue samples, but also for their separation and enrichment in suspension. This
35 can be achieved by a number of cell-sorting techniques by which cells are physically
   separated by reference to a property associated with the cell-antibody complex, or a

                                                29
   label attached to the antibody. This label may be a magnetic particle or a fluorescent
   molecule. The antibodies may be cross-linked such that they form aggregates of
   multiple cells, which are separable by their density. Alternatively the antibodies may
   be attached to a stationary matrix, to which the desired cells adhere.
 5
   Various methods of separating antibody-bound cells from unbound cells are known.
   For example, the antibody bound to the cell (or an anti-isotype antibody) can be
   labelled and then the cells separated by a mechanical cell sorter that detects the
   presence of the label. Fluorescence-activated cell sorters are well known in the art. In
10 one embodiment, the anti-TNAP antibody is attached to a solid support. Various solid
   supports are known to those of skill in the art, including, but not limited to, agarose
   beads, polystyrene beads, hollow fiber membranes, polymers, and plastic petri dishes.
   Cells that are bound by the antibody can be removed from the cell suspension by
   simply physically separating the solid support from the cell suspension.
15
   Super paramagnetic microparticles may be used for cell separations. For example, the
   microparticles may be coated with anti-TNAP antibodies. The antibody-tagged, super
   paramagnetic microparticles may then be incubated with a solution containing the cells
   of interest. The microparticles bind to the surfaces of the desired adult multipotential
20 cells, and these cells can then be collected in a magnetic field.
   In another example, the cell sample is allowed to physically contact, for example, a
   solid phase-linked anti-TNAP monoclonal antibody.            The solid-phase linking can
   comprise, for instance, adsorbing the antibodies to a plastic, nitrocellulose, or other
25 surface.    The antibodies can also be adsorbed on to the walls of the large pores
   (sufficiently large to permit flow-through of cells) of a hollow fiber membrane.
   Alternatively, the antibodies can be covalently linked to a surface or bead, such as
   Pharmacia Sepharose 6 MB macrobeads.              The exact conditions and duration of
   incubation for the solid phase-linked antibodies with the adult multipotential cell
30 containing suspension will depend upon several factors specific to the system
   employed. The selection of appropriate conditions, however, is well within the skill of
   the art.
   The unbound cells are then eluted or washed away with physiologic buffer after
35 allowing sufficient time for the adult multipotential cells to be bound. The unbound
   cells can be recovered and used for other purposes or discarded after appropriate testing

                                               30
   has been done to ensure that the desired separation had been achieved. The bound cells
   are then separated from the solid phase by any appropriate method, depending mainly
   upon the nature of the solid phase and the antibody. For example, bound cells can be
   eluted from a plastic petri dish by vigorous agitation. Alternatively, bound cells can be
 5 eluted by enzymatically "nicking" or digesting an enzyme-sensitive "spacer" sequence
   between the solid phase and the antibody. Spacers bound to agarose beads are
   commercially available from, for example, Pharmacia.
   The eluted, enriched fraction of cells may then be washed with a buffer by
10 centrifugation and either said enriched fraction or the unbound fraction may be
   cryopreserved in a viable state for later use according to conventional technology or
   introduced into the transplant recipient.
   Production of Genetically Modified Cells
15
   In one embodiment the present invention relates to genetically modified cells,
   particularly genetically modified adult multipotential cells of the invention. Preferably,
   the cells are genetically modified to produce a heterologous protein. Typically, the
   cells will be genetically modified such that the heterologous protein is secreted from
20 the cells. However, in an embodiment the cells can be modified to express a functional
   non-protein encoding polynucleotide such as dsRNA (typically for RNA silencing), an
   antisense oligonucleotide or a catalytic nucleic acid (such as a ribozyme or DNAzyme).
   Genetically modified cells may be cultured in the presence of at least one cytokine in
25 an amount sufficient to support growth of the modified cells. The genetically modified
   cells thus obtained may be used immediately (e.g., in transplant), cultured and
   expanded in vitro, or stored for later uses. The modified cells may be stored by
   methods well known in the art, e.g., frozen in liquid nitrogen.
30 Genetic modification as used herein encompasses any genetic modification method
   which involves introduction of an exogenous or foreign polynucleotide into an adult
   multipotential cell or modification of an endogenous gene within adult multipotential
   cell. Genetic modification includes but is not limited to transduction (viral mediated
   transfer of host DNA from a host or donor to a recipient, either in vitro or in vivo),
35 transfection (transformation of cells with isolated viral DNA genomes), liposome
   mediated transfer, electroporation, calcium phosphate transfection or coprecipitation

                                               31
   and others. Methods of transduction include direct co-culture of cells with producer
   cells (Bregni et al., 1992) or culturing with viral supernatant alone with or without
   appropriate growth factors and polycations (Xu et al., 1994).
 5 An exogenous polynucleotide is preferably introduced to a host cell in a vector. The
   vector preferably includes the necessary elements for the transcription and translation
   of the inserted coding sequence. Methods used to construct such vectors are well
   known in the art. For example, techniques for constructing suitable expression vectors
   are described in detail in Sambrook et al., Molecular Cloning: A Laboratory Manual,
10 Cold Spring Harbor Press, N.Y. (3rd Ed., 2000); and Ausubel et al., Current Protocols
   in Molecular Biology, John Wiley & Sons, Inc., New York (1999).
   Vectors may include but are not limited to viral vectors, such as retroviruses,
   adenoviruses, adeno-associated viruses, and herpes simplex viruses; cosmids; plasmid
15 vectors; synthetic vectors; and other recombination vehicles typically used in the art.
   Vectors containing both a promoter and a cloning site into which a polynucleotide can
   be operatively linked are well known in the art. Such vectors are capable of transcribing
   RNA in vitro or in vivo, and are commercially available from sources such as
   Stratagene (La Jolla, Calif.) and Promega Biotech (Madison, Wis.). Specific examples
20 include, pSG, pSV2CAT, pXtl from Stratagene; and pMSG, pSVL, pBPV and pSVK3
   from Pharmacia.
   Preferred vectors include retroviral vectors (see, Coffin et al., "Retroviruses", Chapter 9
   pp; 437-473, Cold Springs Harbor Laboratory Press, 1997). Vectors useful in the
25 invention can be produced recombinantly by procedures well known in the art. For
   example, W094/29438, W097/21824 and W097/21825 describe the construction of
   retroviral packaging plasmids and packing cell lines. Exemplary vectors include the
   pCMV mammalian expression vectors, such as pCMV6b and pCMV6c (Chiron Corp.),
   pSFFV-Neo, and pBluescript-Sk+. Non-limiting examples of useful retroviral vectors
30 are those derived from murine, avian or primate retroviruses. Common retroviral
   vectors include those based on the Moloney murine leukemia virus (MoMLV-vector).
   Other MoMLV derived vectors include, Lmily, LINGFER, MINGFR and MINT.
   Additional vectors include those based on Gibbon ape leukemia virus (GALV) and
   Moloney murine sarcoma virus (MOMSV) and spleen focus forming virus (SFFV).
35 Vectors derived from the murine stem cell virus (MESV) include MESV-MiLy.

                                                 32
   Retroviral vectors also include vectors based on lentiviruses, and non-limiting
   examples include vectors based on human immunodeficiency virus (HIV-1 and HIV-2).
   In producing retroviral vector constructs, the viral gag, pol and env sequences can be
 5 removed from the virus, creating room for insertion of foreign DNA sequences. Genes
   encoded by foreign DNA are usually expressed under the control a strong viral
   promoter in the long terminal repeat (LTR). Selection of appropriate control regulatory
   sequences is dependent on the host cell used and selection is within the skill of one in
   the art. Numerous promoters are known in addition to the promoter of the LTR. Non
10 limiting examples include the phage lambda PL promoter, the human cytomegalovirus
   (CMV) immediate early promoter; the U3 region promoter of the Moloney Murine
   Sarcoma Virus (MMSV), Rous Sacroma Virus (RSV), or Spleen Focus Forming Virus
   (SFFV); Granzyme A promoter; and the Granzyme B promoter. Additionally inducible
   or multiple control elements may be used. The selection of a suitable promoter will be
15 apparent to those skilled in the art.
   Such a construct can be packed into viral particles efficiently if the gag, pol and env
   functions are provided in trans by a packing cell line.        Therefore, when the vector
   construct is introduced into the packaging cell, the gag-pol and env proteins produced
20 by the cell, assemble with the vector RNA to produce infectious virons that are secreted
   into the culture medium.      The virus thus produced can infect and integrate into the
   DNA of the target cell, but does not produce infectious viral particles since it is lacking
   essential packaging sequences.       Most of the packing cell lines currently in use have
   been transfected with separate plasmids, each containing one of the necessary coding
25 sequences, so that multiple recombination events are necessary before a replication
   competent virus can be produced.         Alternatively the packaging cell line harbours a
   provirus.    The provirus has been crippled so that although it may produce all the
   proteins required to assemble infectious viruses, its own RNA cannot be packaged into
   virus. RNA produced from the recombinant virus is packaged instead. Therefore, the
30 virus stock released from the packaging cells contains only recombinant virus. Non
   limiting examples of retroviral packaging lines include PA12, PA317, PE501, PG13,
   PSI.CRIP, RDI 14, GP7C-tTA-G10, ProPak-A (PPA-6), and PT67. Reference is made
   to Miller et al., 1986; Miller et al., 1989; Danos et al., 1988; Pear et al., 1993; and Finer
   et al., 1994.
35

                                              33
   Other suitable vectors include adenoviral vectors (see, Frey et al., 1998; and WO
   95/27071) and adeno-associated viral vectors. These vectors are all well known in the
   art, e.g., as described in Chatterjee et al., 1996; and Stem Cell Biology and Gene
   Therapy, eds. Quesenberry et al., John Wiley & Sons, 1998; and U.S. Pat. Nos.
 5 5,693,531 and 5,691,176. The use of adenovirus-derived vectors may be advantageous
   under certain situation because they are not capable of infecting non-dividing cells.
   Unlike retroviral DNA, the adenoviral DNA is not integrated into the genome of the
   target cell. Further, the capacity to carry foreign DNA is much larger in adenoviral
   vectors than retroviral vectors. The adeno-associated viral vectors are another useful
10 delivery system. The DNA of this virus may be integrated into non-dividing cells, and
   a number of polynucleotides have been successful introduced into different cell types
   using adeno-associated viral vectors.
   In some embodiments, the construct or vector will include two or more heterologous
15 polynucleotide sequences. Preferably the additional nucleic acid sequence is a
   polynucleotide which encodes a selective marker, a structural gene, a therapeutic gene,
   or a cytokine/chemokine gene.
   A selective marker may be included in the construct or vector for the purposes of
20 monitoring successful genetic modification and for selection of cells into which DNA
   has been integrated. Non-limiting examples include drug resistance markers, such as
   G148 or hygromycin. Additionally negative selection may be used, for example
   wherein the marker is the HSV-tk gene. This gene will make the cells sensitive to
   agents such as acyclovir and gancyclovir. The NeoR (neomycin/G148 resistance) gene
25 is commonly used but any convenient marker gene may be used whose gene sequences
   are not already present in the target cell can be used. Further non-limiting examples
   include low-affinity Nerve Growth Factor (NGFR), enhanced fluorescent green protein
   (EFGP), dihydrofolate reductase gene (DHFR) the bacterial hisD gene, murine CD24
   (HSA), murine CD8a(lyt), bacterial genes which confer resistance to puromycin or
30 phleomycin, and p-glactosidase.
   The additional polynucleotide sequence(s) may be introduced into the host cell on the
   same vector or may be introduced into the host cells on a second vector. In a preferred
   embodiment, a selective marker will be included on the same vector as the
35 polynucleotide.

                                               34
   The present invention also encompasses genetically modifying the promoter region of
   an endogenous gene such that expression of the endogenous gene is up-regulated
   resulting in the increased production of the encoded protein compared to a wild type
   adult multipotential cells.
 5
   Administration of Stimulatory Factors
   Methods of the present invention may involve the use one or more stimulatory factors.
   Furthermore, compositions of the invention may comprise one or more stimulatory
10 factors.
   In one embodiment, a method of the invention may involve administering one or more
   stimulatory factors such as la,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3 (1,25D), platelet derived growth
   factor (PDGF), tumor necrosis factor a (TNF- a), interleukin -1p (IL-i ) and stromal
15 derived factor la (SDF-la) topically, systematically, or locally such as within an
   implant or device.
   In particular embodiments, a preferred range for stimulatory factors may be 0.1 nM-0. 1
   M, 0.1 nM-0.05 M, 0.05 nM-15 gM or 0.01 nM-10 gM. It is to be noted that dosage
20 values may vary with the severity of the condition to be alleviated. For any particular
   subject, specific dosage regimens may be adjusted over time according to the individual
   need and the professional judgement of the person administering or supervising the
   administration of the compositions. Dosage ranges set forth herein are exemplary only
   and do not limit the dosage ranges that may be selected by medical practitioners.
25
   The amount of stimulatory factor in the composition may vary according to factors
   such as the disease state, age, sex, and weight of the individual. Dosage regimens may
   be adjusted to provide the optimum therapeutic response. For example, a single bolus
   may be administered, several divided doses may be administered over time or the dose
30 may be proportionally reduced or increased as indicated by the exigencies of the
   therapeutic situation. It may be advantageous to formulate parenteral compositions in
   dosage unit form for ease of administration and uniformity of dosage.      "Dosage unit
   form" as used herein refers to physically discrete units suited as unitary dosages for
   subjects to be treated; each unit containing a predetermined quantity of active
35 compound calculated to produce the desired therapeutic effect in association with the
   required pharmaceutical carrier.

                                                35
   It will be appreciated that the stimulatory factor may be administered in the form of a
   composition comprising a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or excipient.
 5 As used herein "pharmaceutically acceptable carrier" or "excipient" includes any and
   all solvents, dispersion media, coatings, antibacterial and antifungal agents, isotonic
   and absorption delaying agents, and the like that are physiologically compatible. In one
   embodiment, the carrier is suitable for parenteral administration.       Alternatively, the
   carrier can be suitable for intravenous, intraperitoneal, intramuscular, sublingual or oral
10 administration. Pharmaceutically acceptable carriers include sterile aqueous solutions
   or dispersions and sterile powders for the extemporaneous preparation of sterile
   injectable  solutions   or dispersion.     The use of such media and agents for
   pharmaceutically active substances is well known in the art.        Except insofar as any
   conventional media or agent is incompatible with the active compound, use thereof in
15 the pharmaceutical compositions of the invention is contemplated. Supplementary
   active compounds can also be incorporated into the compositions.
   Pharmaceutical formulations for parenteral administration may include liposomes.
   Liposomes and emulsions are well known examples of delivery vehicles or carriers that
20 are especially useful for hydrophobic drugs. Depending on biological stability of the
   therapeutic reagent, additional strategies for protein stabilization may be employed.
   Furthermore, one may administer the drug in a targeted drug delivery system, for
   example, in a liposome coated with target-specific antibody. The liposomes will bind
   to the target protein and be taken up selectively by the cell expressing the target
25 protein.
   Therapeutic compositions typically should be sterile and stable under the conditions of
   manufacture    and storage.      The composition can be formulated as a solution,
   microemulsion,     liposome,    or other ordered structure suitable to high drug
30 concentration.   The carrier can be a solvent or dispersion medium containing, for
   example, water, ethanol, polyol (for example, glycerol, propylene glycol, and liquid
   polyethylene glycol, and the like), and suitable mixtures thereof. The proper fluidity
   can be maintained, for example, by the use of a coating such as lecithin, by the
   maintenance of the required particle size in the case of dispersion and by the use of
35 surfactants. In many cases, it will be preferable to include isotonic agents, for example,
   sugars, polyalcohols such as mannitol, sorbitol, or sodium chloride in the composition.

                                                36
   Prolonged absorption of the injectable compositions can be brought about by including
   in the composition an agent which delays absorption, for example, monostearate salts
   and gelatin. Moreover, the stimulatory factor may be administered in a time release
   formulation, for example in a composition which includes a slow release polymer. The
 5 active compounds can be prepared with carriers that will protect the compound against
   rapid release, such as a controlled release formulation, including implants and
   microencapsulated delivery systems. Biodegradable, biocompatible polymers can be
   used, such as ethylene vinyl acetate, polyanhydrides, polyglycolic acid, collagen,
   polyorthoesters, polylactic acid and polylactic, polyglycolic copolymers (PLG). Many
10 methods for the preparation of such formulations are patented or generally known to
   those skilled in the art.
   Additionally, suspensions of stimulatory factors may be prepared as appropriate oily
   suspensions for injection. Suitable lipophilic solvents or vehicles include fatty oils
15 such as sesame oil; or synthetic fatty acid esters, such as ethyl oleate or triglycerides; or
   liposomes. Suspensions to be used for injection may also contain substances which
   increase the viscosity of the suspension, such as sodium carboxymethyl cellulose,
   sorbitol, or dextran. Optionally, the suspension may also contain suitable stabilizers or
   agents which increase the solubility of the compounds to allow for the preparation of
20 highly concentrated solutions.
   Sterile injectable solutions can be prepared by incorporating the active compound in the
   required amount in an appropriate solvent with one or a combination of ingredients
   enumerated above, as required, followed by filtered sterilization.                Generally,
25 dispersions are prepared by incorporating the active compound into a sterile vehicle
   that contains a basic dispersion medium and the required other ingredients from those
   enumerated above. In the case of sterile powders for the preparation of sterile
   injectable solutions, the preferred methods of preparation are vacuum drying and
   freeze-drying which yields a powder of the active ingredient plus any additional desired
30 ingredient from a previously sterile-filtered solution thereof. In accordance with an
   alternative aspect of the invention, the stimulatory factor may be formulated with one
   or more additional compounds that enhance its solubility.
   If the compositions are to be administered by inhalation, they may be conveniently
35 delivered in the form of an aerosol spray presentation from pressurized packs or a
   nebuliser; together with the use of a suitable propellant, e.g., dichlorodifluoromethane,

                                                37
   trichlorofluoromethane, dichlorotetrafluoroethane, carbon dioxide or other suitable gas.
   In the case of a pressurized aerosol the dosage unit may be determined by providing a
   valve to deliver a metered amount. Capsules and cartridges of gelatin, for example, for
   use in an inhaler may be formulated containing a powder mix of the compound and a
 5 suitable powder base such as starch or lactose.
   Cellular compositions
   The cellular compositions of the present invention, such as those comprising adult
10 multipotential cells, are useful for the regeneration of tissue of various types, including
   bone, cartilage, tendon, ligament, muscle, skin, and other connective tissue, as well as
   nerve, cardiac, liver, lung, kidney, pancreas, brain, and other organ tissues.
   In some embodiments, the compositions of the present invention may be administered
15 in combination with an appropriate matrix, for instance, for supporting the cells and
   providing a surface for bone, cartilage, muscle, nerve, epidermis and/or other
   connective tissue growth.        The matrix may be in the form of traditional matrix
   biomaterials.     The matrix may provide slow release of cells and/or the appropriate
   environment for presentation thereof. In some embodiments, various collagenous and
20 non-collagenous proteins are expected to be upregulated and secreted from the cells.
   This phenomenon accelerates tissue regeneration by enhancing matrix deposition.
   Matrix proteins can also be expressed in the genetically engineered cells and enhance
   the engraftment and attachment of transplanted cells into the transplant area.
25 The choice of matrix material is based on biocompatibility,               biodegradability,
   mechanical properties, cosmetic appearance and interface properties. The particular
   application of the cellular based compositions will define the appropriate formulation.
   Potential matrices for the compositions may be biodegradable and chemically defined
   calcium     sulfate,   tricalcium   phosphate,   hydroxyapatite,    polylactic   acid   and
30 polyanhydrides.      Other potential materials are biodegradable and biologically well
   defined, such as bone or dermal collagen.        Further matrices are comprised of pure
   proteins   or    extracellular  matrix  components.       Other potential     matrices  are
   nonbiodegradable and chemically defined, such as sintered hydroxyapatite, bioglass,
   aluminates, or other ceramics. Matrices may be comprised of combinations of any of
35 the above mentioned types of material, such as polylactic acid and hydroxyapatite or
   collagen and tricalcium phosphate.      The bioceramics may be altered in composition,

                                                38
   such as in calcium-aluminate-phosphate and processing to alter pore size, particle size,
   particle shape, and biodegradability.
   The cellular compositions of the invention may be used to treat patients requiring the
 5 repair or replacement of cartilage or bone tissue resulting from disease or trauma or
   failure of the tissue to develop normally, or to provide a cosmetic function, such as to
   augment facial or other features of the body. Treatment may entail the use of the cells
   of the invention to produce new cartilage tissue or bone tissue. For example,
   compositions comprising undifferentiated or chondrogenic differentiation-induced
10 precursor cells may be used to treat a cartilage condition, for example, rheumatoid
   arthritis or osteoarthritis or a traumatic or surgical injury to cartilage. As another
   example, compositions comprising bone precursor cells may be used to treat bone
   conditions, including metabolic and non-metabolic bone diseases. Examples of bone
   conditions include meniscal tears, spinal fusion, spinal disc removal, spinal
15 reconstruction, bone fractures, bone/spinal deformation, osteosarcoma, myeloma, bone
   dysplasia, scoliosis, osteoporosis, periodontal disease, dental bone loss, osteomalacia,
   rickets, fibrous osteitis, renal bone dystrophy, and Paget's disease of bone.
   The cellular compositions of the invention may be administered alone or as admixtures
20 with other cells. Cells that may be administered in conjunction with the compositions
   of the present invention include, but are not limited to, other multipotent or pluripotent
   cells or chondrocytes, chondroblasts, osteocytes, osteoblasts, osteoclasts, bone lining
   cells, stem cells, or bone marrow cells. The cells of different types may be admixed
   with a composition of the invention immediately or shortly prior to administration, or
25 they may be co-cultured together for a period of time prior to administration.
   The cellular compositions of the invention may be administered with other beneficial
   drugs or biological molecules (growth factors, trophic factors). When the adult
   multipotential cells are administered with other agents, they may be administered
30 together in a single pharmaceutical composition, or in separate pharmaceutical
   compositions, simultaneously or sequentially with the other agents (either before or
   after administration of the other agents). Bioactive factors which may be co
   administered include anti-apoptotic agents (e.g., EPO, EPO mimetibody, TPO, IGF-I
   and IGF-II, HGF, caspase inhibitors); anti-inflammatory agents (e.g., p38 MAPK
35 inhibitors, TGF-beta inhibitors, statins, IL-6 and IL-1 inhibitors, PEMIROLAST,
   TRANILAST, REMICADE, SIROLIMUS, and NSAIDs (non-steroidal anti-

                                                39
   inflammatory        drugs;     e.g.,    TEPOXALIN,          TOLMETIN,        SUPROFEN);
   immunosupressive/immunomodulatory agents (e.g., calcineurin inhibitors, such as
   cyclosporine, tacrolimus; mTOR inhibitors (e.g., SIROLIMUS, EVEROLIMUS); anti
   proliferatives (e.g., azathioprine, mycophenolate mofetil); corticosteroids (e.g.,
 5 prednisolone, hydrocortisone); antibodies such as monoclonal anti-IL-2Ralpha receptor
   antibodies (e.g., basiliximab, daclizumab), polyclonal anti-T-cell antibodies (e.g., anti
   thymocyte globulin (ATG); anti-lymphocyte globulin (ALG); monoclonal anti-T cell
   antibody OKT3)); anti-thrombogenic agents (e.g., heparin, heparin derivatives,
   urokinase, PPack (dextrophenylalanine proline arginine chloromethylketone),
10 antithrombin compounds, platelet receptor antagonists, anti-thrombin antibodies, anti
   platelet receptor antibodies, aspirin, dipyridamole, protamine, hirudin, prostaglandin
   inhibitors, and platelet inhibitors); and anti-oxidants (e.g., probucol, vitamin A,
   ascorbic acid, tocopherol, coenzyme Q-10, glutathione, L-cysteine, N-acetylcysteine)
   as well as local anesthetics. As another example, the cells may be co-administered with
15 scar inhibitory factor as described in U.S. Pat. No. 5,827,735, incorporated herein by
   reference.
   In one embodiment, cellular compositions of the invention are administered as
   undifferentiated cells, i.e., as cultured in Growth Medium. Alternatively, the cellular
20 compositions may be administered following exposure in culture to conditions that
   stimulate differentiation toward a desired phenotype, for example, an osteogenic
   phenotype.
   The cellular compositions of the invention may be surgically implanted, injected,
25 delivered (e.g., by way of a catheter or syringe), or otherwise administered directly or
   indirectly to the site in need of repair or augmentation. The cells may be administered
   by way of a matrix (e.g., a three-dimensional scaffold). The cells may be administered
   with conventional pharmaceutically acceptable carriers. Routes of administration of
   the cells of the invention or compositions or components (e.g., ECM, cell lysate,
30 conditioned medium) thereof include intramuscular, ophthalmic, parenteral (including
   intravenous), intraarterial, subcutaneous, oral, and nasal administration. Particular
   routes of parenteral administration include, but are not limited to, intramuscular,
   subcutaneous, intraperitoneal, intracerebral, intraventricular, intracerebroventricular,
   intrathecal, intracistemal, intraspinal and/or peri-spinal routes of administration.
35

                                                 40
   When cells are administered in semi-solid or solid devices, surgical implantation into a
   precise location in the body is typically a suitable means of administration. Liquid or
   fluid pharmaceutical compositions, however, may be administered to a more general
   location (e.g., throughout a diffusely affected area, for example), from which they
 5 migrate to a particular location, e.g., by responding to chemical signals.
   Other embodiments encompass methods of treatment by administering pharmaceutical
   compositions comprising cellular components (e.g., cell lysates or components thereof)
   or products (e.g., extracellular matrix, trophic and other biological factors produced
10 through genetic modification).
   Dosage forms and regimes for administering cellular compositions described herein are
   developed in accordance with good medical practice, taking into account the condition
   of the individual patient, e.g., nature and extent of the condition being treated, age, sex,
15 body weight and general medical condition, and other factors known to medical
   practitioners. Thus, the effective amount of a pharmaceutical composition to be
   administered to a patient is determined by these considerations as known in the art.
   In some embodiments of the invention, it may not be necessary or desirable to
20 immunosuppress a patient prior to initiation of therapy with cellular compositions of
   the present invention.        Accordingly,     transplantation with allogeneic,    or even
   xenogeneic, adult multipotential cells may be tolerated in some instances.
   However, in other instances it may be desirable or appropriate to pharmacologically
25 immunosuppress a patient prior to initiating cell therapy. This may be accomplished
   through the use of systemic or local immunosuppressive agents, or it may be
   accomplished by delivering the cells in an encapsulated device. Adult multipotential
   cells may be encapsulated in a capsule that is permeable to nutrients and oxygen
   required by the cell and therapeutic factors the cell is yet impermeable to immune
30 humoral factors and cells. Preferably the encapsulant is hypoallergenic, is easily and
   stably situated in a target tissue, and provides added protection to the implanted
   structure. These and other means for reducing or eliminating an immune response to
   the transplanted cells are known in the art. As an alternative, adult multipotential cells
   may be genetically modified to reduce their immunogenicity.
35

                                                41
    Survival of transplanted cells in a living patient can be determined through the use of a
   variety of scanning techniques, e.g., computerized axial tomography (CAT or CT) scan,
   magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) or positron emission tomography (PET) scans.
   Determination of transplant survival can also be done post mortem by removing the
 5 target tissue, and examining it visually or through a microscope. Alternatively, cells
   can be treated with stains that are specific for cells of a specific lineage. Transplanted
   cells can also be identified by prior incorporation of tracer dyes such as rhodamine- or
   fluorescein-labeled microspheres, fast blue, bisbenzamide, ferric microparticles, or
   genetically introduced reporter gene products, such as beta-galactosidase or beta
10 glucuronidase.
   Functional integration of transplanted cells into a subject can be assessed by examining
   restoration of the function that was damaged or diseased, for example, restoration of
   joint or bone function, or augmentation of function.
15
   Cellular compositions of the invention may include one or more bioactive factors, for
   example but not limited to a growth factor, a differentiation-inducing factor, a cell
   survival factor such as caspase inhibitor, or an anti-inflammatory agent such as p38
   kinase inhibitor.
20
   Alternatively, cells to be transplanted may be genetically engineered to express such
   growth factors, antioxidants, antiapoptotic agents, or anti-inflammatory agents.
   Pharmaceutical     compositions of the invention may comprise homogeneous                  or
25 heterogeneous populations of cells, extracellular matrix or cell lysate thereof, or
   conditioned     medium      thereof     in   a    pharmaceutically     acceptable    carrier.
   Pharmaceutically acceptable carriers for the cells of the invention include organic or
   inorganic carrier substances suitable which do not deleteriously react with the cells of
   the invention or compositions or components thereof.              To the extent they are
30 biocompatible,    suitable pharmaceutically      acceptable carriers include water, salt
   solution (such as Ringer's solution), alcohols, oils, gelatins, and carbohydrates, such as
   lactose, amylose, or starch, fatty acid esters, hydroxymethylcellulose, and polyvinyl
   pyrolidine. Such preparations can be sterilized, and if desired, mixed with auxiliary
   agents such as lubricants, preservatives, stabilizers, wetting agents, emulsifiers, salts for
35 influencing osmotic pressure, buffers, and coloring. Pharmaceutical carriers suitable for

                                               42
   use in the present invention are known in the art and are described, for example, in
   Pharmaceutical Sciences (17th Ed., Mack Pub. Co., Easton, Pa.) and WO 96/05309.
   One or more other components may be added to transplanted cells, including selected
 5 extracellular matrix components, such as one or more types of collagen known in the
   art, and/or growth factors, platelet-rich plasma, and drugs. Alternatively, the cells of
   the invention may be genetically engineered to express and produce for growth factors.
   Details on genetic engineering of the cells of the invention are provided herein.
10 In a non-limiting embodiment, a formulation comprising the cells of the invention is
   prepared for administration directly to the site where the production of new tissue, such
   as bone tissue, is desired. For example, and not by way of limitation, the cells may be
   suspended in a hydrogel solution for injection. Examples of suitable hydrogels for use
   in the invention include self-assembling peptides, such as RAD16. Alternatively, the
15 hydrogel solution containing the cells may be allowed to harden, for instance in a mold,
   to form a matrix having cells dispersed therein prior to implantation. Or, once the
   matrix has hardened, the cell formations may be cultured so that the cells are
   mitotically expanded prior to implantation.        The hydrogel is an organic polymer
   (natural or synthetic) which is cross-linked via covalent, ionic, or hydrogen bonds to
20 create a three-dimensional open-lattice structure which entraps water molecules to form
   a gel.    Examples of materials which can be used to form a hydrogel include
   polysaccharides such as alginate and salts thereof, peptides, polyphosphazines, and
   polyacrylates, which are cross-linked ionically, or block polymers such as polyethylene
   oxide-polypropylene glycol block copolymers which are crosslinked by temperature or
25 pH, respectively. In some embodiments, the support for the cells is biodegradable.
   In some embodiments of the invention, the formulation comprises an in situ
   polymerizable gel, as described, for example, in U.S. Patent Application Publication
   2002/0022676; Anseth et al., 2002; and Wang et al., 2003.
30
   In some embodiments, the polymers are at least partially soluble in aqueous solutions,
   such as water, buffered salt solutions, or aqueous alcohol solutions, that have charged
   side groups, or a monovalent ionic salt thereof. Examples of polymers with acidic side
   groups that can be reacted with cations are poly(phosphazenes), poly(acrylic acids),
35 poly(methacrylic acids), copolymers of acrylic acid and methacrylic acid, poly(vinyl
   acetate), and sulfonated polymers, such as sulfonated polystyrene. Copolymers having

                                              43
   acidic side groups formed by reaction of acrylic or methacrylic acid and vinyl ether
   monomers or polymers can also be used. Examples of acidic groups are carboxylic
   acid groups, sulfonic acid groups, halogenated (preferably fluorinated) alcohol groups,
   phenolic OH groups, and acidic OH groups.
 5
   Examples of polymers with basic side groups that can be reacted with anions are
   poly(vinyl amines), poly(vinyl pyridine), poly(vinyl imidazole), and some imino
   substituted polyphosphazenes. The ammonium or quaternary salt of the polymers can
   also be formed from the backbone nitrogens or pendant imino groups. Examples of
10 basic side groups are amino and imino groups.
   Alginate can be ionically cross-linked with divalent cations, in water, at room
   temperature, to form a hydrogel matrix. Due to these mild conditions, alginate has
   been the most commonly used polymer for hybridoma cell encapsulation, as described,
15 for example, in U.S. Pat. No. 4,352,883 to Lim. In the Lim process, an aqueous
   solution containing the biological materials to be encapsulated is suspended in a
   solution of a water soluble polymer, the suspension is formed into droplets which are
   configured into discrete microcapsules by contact with multivalent cations, then the
   surface   of the microcapsules is crosslinked with polyamino           acids to form a
20 semipermeable membrane around the encapsulated materials.
   Polyphosphazenes     are  polymers    with   backbones   consisting    of nitrogen   and
   phosphorous separated by alternating single and double bonds.         Each phosphorous
   atom is covalently bonded to two side chains.
25
   The polyphosphazenes suitable for cross-linking have a majority of side chain groups
   which are acidic and capable of forming salt bridges with di- or trivalent cations.
   Examples of preferred acidic side groups are carboxylic acid groups and sulfonic acid
   groups. Hydrolytically stable polyphosphazenes are formed of monomers having
30 carboxylic acid side groups that are crosslinked by divalent or trivalent cations such as
   Ca2+ or A13+. Polymers can be synthesized that degrade by hydrolysis by incorporating
   monomers having imidazole, amino acid ester, or glycerol side groups. For example, a
   polyanionic poly[bis(carboxylatophenoxy)]phosphazene      (PCPP) can be synthesized,
   which is cross-linked with dissolved multivalent cations in aqueous media at room
35 temperature or below to form hydrogel matrices.

                                                 44
   Biodegradable polyphosphazenes have at least two differing types of side chains, acidic
   side groups capable of forming salt bridges with multivalent cations, and side groups
   that hydrolyze under in vivo conditions, e.g., imidazole groups, amino acid esters,
   glycerol and glucosyl.
 5
   Hydrolysis of the side chain results in erosion of the polymer.                 Examples of
   hydrolyzing side chains are unsubstituted and substituted imidizoles and amino acid
   esters in which the group is bonded to the phosphorous atom through an amino linkage
   (polyphosphazene polymers in which both R groups are attached in this manner are
10 known as polyaminophosphazenes). For polyimidazolephosphazenes, some of the "R"
   groups on the polyphosphazene backbone are imidazole rings, attached to phosphorous
   in the backbone through a ring nitrogen atom.           Other "R" groups can be organic
   residues that do not participate in hydrolysis, such as methyl phenoxy groups or other
   groups shown in the scientific paper of Allcock et al. (1977). Methods of synthesis of
15 the hydrogel materials, as well as methods for preparing such hydrogels, are known in
   the art.
   Other components may also be included in the formulation, including but not limited to
   any of the following: (1) buffers to provide appropriate pH and isotonicity; (2)
20 lubricants; (3) viscous materials to retain the cells at or near the site of administration,
   including, for example, alginates, agars and plant gums; and (4) other cell types that
   may produce a desired effect at the site of administration, such as, for example,
   enhancement or modification of the formation of tissue or its physicochemical
   characteristics, or as support for the viability of the cells, or inhibition of inflammation
25 or rejection. The cells may be covered by an appropriate wound covering to prevent
   cells from leaving the site. Such wound coverings are known as those of skill in the art.
   Fibrin glue
30 Fibrin glues are a class of surgical sealants which have been used in various clinical
   settings.   As the skilled address would be aware, numerous sealants are useful in
   compositions of the invention.      However, a preferred embodiment of the invention
   relates to the use of fibrin glues with cells of the invention.
35 When used herein the term "fibrin glue" refers to the insoluble matrix formed by the
   cross-linking of fibrin polymers in the presence of calcium ions. The fibrin glue may

                                                 45
   be formed from fibrinogen, or a derivative or metabolite thereof, fibrin (soluble
   monomers or polymers) and/or complexes thereof derived from biological tissue or
   fluid which forms a fibrin matrix. Alternatively, the fibrin glue may be formed from
   fibrinogen, or a derivative or metabolite thereof, or fibrin, produced by recombinant
 5 DNA technology.
   The fibrin glue may also be formed by the interaction of fibrinogen and a catalyst of
   fibrin glue formation (such as thrombin and/or Factor XIII). As will be appreciated by
   those skilled in the art, fibrinogen is proteolytically cleaved in the presence of a catalyst
10 (such as thrombin) and converted to a fibrin monomer. The fibrin monomers may then
   form polymers which may cross-link to form a fibrin glue matrix. The cross-linking of
   fibrin polymers may be enhanced by the presence of a catalyst such as Factor XIII. The
   catalyst of fibrin glue formation may be derived from blood plasma, cryoprecipitate or
   other plasma fractions containing fibrinogen or thrombin. Alternatively, the catalyst
15 may be produced by recombinant DNA technology.
   The rate at which the clot forms is dependent upon the concentration of thrombin
   mixed with fibrinogen.          Being an enzyme dependent reaction, the higher the
   temperature (up to 37C) the faster the clot formation rate. The tensile strength of the
20 clot is dependent upon the concentration of fibrinogen used.
   Use of fibrin glue and methods for its preparation and use are described by Hirsh et al.
   in U.S. Pat. No. 5,643,192. Hirsh discloses the extraction of fibrinogen and thrombin
   components from a single donor, and the combination of only these components for use
25 as a fibrin glue. Marx, U.S. Pat. No. 5,651,982, describes another preparation and
   method of use for fibrin glue. Marx provides a fibrin glue with liposomes for use as a
   topical sealant in mammals. The preparation and use of a topical fibrinogen complex
   (TFC)     for  wound      healing   is known      in  the   field.  PCT    Application   No.
   PCT/US95/15876, PCT Publication No. W096/17633, of The American Red Cross
30 discusses TFC preparations containing fibrinogen, thrombin, and calcium chloride, for
   example, at pages 16-18 of PCT Publication No. W096/17633.
   Several publications describe the use of fibrin glue for the delivery of therapeutic
   agents. For example, U.S. Patent 4,983,393 discloses a composition for use as an intra
35 vaginal insert comprising agarose, agar, saline solution glycosaminoglycans, collagen,
   fibrin and an enzyme.           Further, U.S. Patent 3,089,815 discloses an injectable

                                                46
   pharmaceutical preparation composed of fibrinogen and thrombin and U.S. Patent
   6,468,527 discloses a fibrin glue which facilitates the delivery of various biological and
   non-biological agents to specific sites within the body.
 5 Formulation of a Bone Tissue Patch
   Culture or co-cultures of cells of the invention in a pre-shaped well enables the
   manufacture of a tissue patch of pre-determined thickness and volume. The volume of
   the resulting tissue patch is dependent upon the volume of the well and upon the
10 number of adult multipotential cells in the well.       Tissue of optimal pre-determined
   volume may be prepared by routine experimentation by altering either or both of the
   aforementioned parameters.
   The cell contacting surface of the well may be coated with a molecule that discourages
15 adhesion of adult multipotential cells to the cell contacting surface. Preferred coating
   reagents     include   silicon   based     reagents    i.e.,  dichlorodimethylsilane     or
   polytetrafluoroethylene based reagents, i.e., TEFLON. Procedures for coating materials
   with silicon based reagents, specifically dichlorodimethylsilane, are well known in the
   art.   See for example, Sambrook et al. (1989) "Molecular Cloning A Laboratory
20 Manual", Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press, the disclosure of which is incorporated
   by reference herein. It is appreciated that other biocompatible reagents that prevent the
   attachment of cells to the surface of the well may be useful in the practice of the instant
   invention.
25 Alternatively, the well may be cast from a pliable or moldable biocompatible material
   that does not permit attachment of cells per se. Preferred materials that prevent such
   cell attachment include, but are not limited to, agarose, glass, untreated cell culture
   plastic and polytetrafluoroethylene, i.e., TEFLON. Untreated cell culture plastics, i.e.,
   plastics that have not been treated with or made from materials that have an
30 electrostatic charge are commercially available, and may be purchased, for example,
   from Falcon Labware, Becton-Dickinson, Lincoln Park, N.J. The aforementioned
   materials, however, are not meant to be limiting. It is appreciated that any other pliable
   or moldable biocompatible material that inherently discourages the attachment of adult
   multipotential cells may be useful in the practice of the instant invention.
35

                                                 47
   Cells of the invention in suspension may be seeded into and cultured in the pre-shaped
   well.   The cells may be induced to differentiate to a chondrogenic or osteogenic
   phenotype in culture in the well or may have been induced to differentiate prior to
   seeding in the well. The cells may be diluted by the addition of culture medium to a
 5 cell density of about 1 x 105 to 1 x 109 cells per milliliter.
   The cells may form a cohesive plug of cells.          The cohesive plug of cells may be
   removed from the well and surgically implanted into the tissue defect. It is anticipated
   that any undifferentiated cells, such as adult mulitpotential cells of invention, may
10 differentiate in situ thereby to form tissue in vivo.
   Bone defects may be identified inferentially by using computer aided tomography
   (CAT scanning); X-ray examination, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), analysis of
   synovial fluid or serum markers or by any other procedures known in the art. Defects
15 in mammals also are readily identifiable visually during arthroscopic examination or
   during open surgery of the joint. Treatment of the defects can be effected during an
   arthroscopic or open surgical procedure using the methods and compositions disclosed
   herein.
20 Accordingly, once the defect has been identified, the defect may be treated by the
   following steps of (1) surgically implanting at the pre-determined site a tissue patch
   prepared by the methodologies described herein, and (2) permitting the tissue patch to
   integrate into pre-determined site.
25 The tissue patch optimally has a size and shape such that when the patch is implanted
   into the defect, the edges of the implanted tissue contact directly the edges of the
   defect.    In addition, the tissue patch may be fixed in place during the surgical
   procedure.    This can be effected by surgically fixing the patch into the defect with
   biodegradable sutures and/or by applying a bioadhesive to the region interfacing the
30 patch and the defect.
   In some instances, damaged tissue may be surgically excised prior to the implantation
   of the patch of tissue.
35

                                                 48
   Transplantation of cells using scaffolds
   The cellular compositions of the invention or co-cultures thereof may be seeded onto or
   into a three-dimensional scaffold and implanted in vivo, where the seeded cells will
 5 proliferate on the framework and form a replacement tissue, such as bone tissue, in vivo
   in cooperation with the cells of the patient.
   For example, but not by way of limitation, the scaffold may be designed such that the
   scaffold structure: (1) supports the seeded cells without subsequent degradation; (2)
10 supports the cells from the time of seeding until the tissue transplant is remodeled by
   the host tissue; (2) allows the seeded cells to attach, proliferate, and develop into a
   tissue structure having sufficient mechanical integrity to support itself in vitro, at which
   point, the scaffold is degraded. A review of scaffold design is provided by Hutmacher
   (2001).
15
   Scaffolds of the invention can be administered in combination with any one or more
   growth factors, cells, for example stem cells, bone marrow cells, chondrocytes,
   chondroblasts, osteocytes, osteoblasts, osteoclasts, bone lining cells, or their precursors,
   drugs or other components described above that stimulate tissue formation or otherwise
20 enhance or improve the practice of the invention. The cells of the invention to be
   seeded onto the scaffolds may be genetically engineered to express growth factors or
   drugs.
   The cells of the invention can be used to produce new tissue in vitro, which can then be
25 implanted, transplanted or otherwise inserted into a site requiring tissue repair,
   replacement or augmentation in a patient.
   In a non-limiting embodiment, the cells of the invention are used to produce a three
   dimensional tissue construct in vitro, which is then implanted in vivo. As an example
30 of the production of three-dimensional tissue constructs, see U.S. Pat. No. 4,963,489,
   which is incorporated herein by reference. For example, the cells of the invention may
   be inoculated or "seeded" onto a three-dimensional framework or scaffold, and
   proliferated or grown in vitro to form a living tissue that can be implanted in vivo.
35 The cells of the invention can be grown freely in a culture vessel to sub-confluency or
   confluency, lifted from the culture and inoculated onto a three-dimensional framework.

                                                49
   Inoculation of the three-dimensional framework with a high concentration of cells, e.g.,
   approximately 106 to 5 x 107 cells per milliliter, will result in the establishment of the
   three-dimensional support in relatively shorter periods of time.
 5 Examples of scaffolds which may be used in the present invention include nonwoven
   mats, porous foams, or self assembling peptides. Nonwoven mats may, for example, be
   formed using fibers comprised of a synthetic absorbable copolymer of glycolic and
   lactic acids (PGA/PLA), sold under the tradename VICRYL (Ethicon, Inc., Somerville,
   N.J.). Foams, composed of, for example, poly(epsilon-caprolactone)/poly(glycolic
10 acid)   (PCL/PGA) copolymer, formed by processes              such as    freeze-drying, or
   lyophilized, as discussed in U.S. Pat. No. 6,355,699, are also possible scaffolds.
   Hydrogels such as self-assembling peptides (e.g., RAD16) may also be used. These
   materials are frequently used as supports for growth of tissue.
15 The three-dimensional framework may be made of ceramic materials including, but not
   limited   to: mono-,    di-, tri-, alpha-tri-,  beta-tri-, and tetra-calcium    phosphate,
   hydroxyapatite, fluoroapatites, calcium sulfates, calcium fluorides, calcium oxides,
   calcium carbonates, magnesium calcium phosphates, biologically active glasses such as
   BIOGLASS (University of Florida, Gainesville, Fla.), and mixtures thereof. There are
20 a number of suitable porous biocompatible ceramic materials currently available on the
   commercial market such as SURGIBON (Unilab Surgibone, Inc., Canada), ENDOBON
   (Merck Biomaterial France, France), CEROS (Mathys, A. G., Bettlach, Switzerland),
   and INTERPORE (Interpore, Irvine, Calif., United States), and mineralized collagen
   bone grafting products such as HEALOS (Orquest, Inc., Mountain View, Calif.) and
25 VITOSS, RHAKOSS, and CORTOSS (Orthovita, Malvern, Pa.). The framework may
   be a mixture, blend or composite of natural and/or synthetic materials. In some
   embodiments, the scaffold is in the form of a cage. In a preferred embodiment, the
   scaffold is coated with collagen.
30 According to a preferred embodiment, the framework is a felt, which can be composed
   of a multifilament yam made from a bioabsorbable material, e.g., PGA, PLA, PCL
   copolymers or blends, or hyaluronic acid. The yarn is made into a felt using standard
   textile processing techniques consisting of crimping, cutting, carding and needling.
35 In another preferred embodiment the cells of the invention are seeded onto foam
   scaffolds that may be composite structures.           In addition, the three-dimensional

                                                  50
   framework may be molded into a useful shape, such as that of the external portion of
   the ear, a bone, joint or other specific structure in the body to be repaired, replaced or
   augmented.
 5 In another preferred embodiment, the cells are seeded onto a framework comprising a
   prosthetic device for implantation into a patient, as described in U.S. Pat. No.
   6,200,606, incorporated herein by reference.           As described therein, a variety of
   clinically useful prosthetic devices have been developed for use in bone and cartilage
   grafting procedures. (see e.g. Bone Grafts and Bone Substitutions. Ed. M. B. Habal &
10 A. H. Reddi, W. B. Saunders Co., 1992).              For example, effective knee and hip
   replacement devices have been and continue to be widely used in the clinical
   environment.      Many of these devices are fabricated using a variety of inorganic
   materials having low immunogenic activity, which safely function in the body.
   Examples of synthetic materials which have been tried and proven include titanium
15 alloys, calcium phosphate, ceramic hydroxyapatite, and a variety of stainless steel and
   cobalt-chrome alloys.       These materials provide structural support and can form a
   scaffolding into which host vascularization and cell migration can occur.
   The framework may be treated prior to inoculation of the cells of the invention in order
20 to enhance cell attachment. For example, prior to inoculation with the cells of the
   invention, nylon matrices could be treated with 0.1 molar acetic acid and incubated in
   polylysine, PBS, and/or collagen to coat the nylon.         Polystyrene could be similarly
   treated using sulfuric acid.
25 In addition, the external surfaces of the three-dimensional framework may be modified
   to improve the attachment or growth of cells and differentiation of tissue, such as by
   plasma coating the framework or addition of one or more proteins (e.g., collagens,
   elastic fibers, reticular fibers), glycoproteins, glycosaminoglycans (e.g., heparin sulfate,
   chondroitin-4-sulfate,     chondroitin-6-sulfate,   dermatan  sulfate, keratin sulfate), a
30 cellular matrix, and/or other materials such as, but not limited to, gelatin, alginates,
   agar, agarose, and plant gums, among others.
   In some embodiments, the scaffold is comprised of or is treated with materials that
   render it non-thrombogenic.        These treatments and materials may also promote and
35 sustain endothelial growth, migration, and extracellular matrix deposition. Examples of
   these materials and treatments include but are not limited to natural materials such as

                                                51
   basement membrane proteins such as laminin and Type IV collagen, synthetic materials
   such as ePTFE, and segmented polyurethaneurea silicones, such as PURSPAN (The
   Polymer Technology Group, Inc., Berkeley, Calif.).         These materials can be further
   treated to render the scaffold non-thrombogenic.           Such treatments include anti
 5 thrombotic agents such as heparin, and treatments which alter the surface charge of the
   material such as plasma coating.
   In some embodiments, the surface of the scaffold is textured. For example, in some
   aspects of the invention, the scaffold is provided with a groove and ridge pattern. The
10 grooves are preferably less than about 500 microns, more preferably less than about
   100 microns, and most preferably between about 10 nanometers and 10 microns. Such
   "microgrooves" allow the cells to align and/or migrate guided by the surface grooves.
   In   some embodiments,       it is   important    to re-create   in culture    the  cellular
15 microenvironment found in vivo, such that the extent to which the cells of the invention
   are grown prior to implantation in vivo or use in vitro may vary. In addition, growth
   factors, chondrogenic differentiation inducing agents, osteogenic inducing agents, and
   angiogenic factors may be added to the culture medium prior to, during, or subsequent
   to inoculation of the cells to trigger differentiation and tissue formation by the cells or
20 progeny thereof.
   The three-dimensional framework may be modified so that the growth of cells and the
   production of tissue thereon is enhanced, or so that the risk of rejection of the implant is
   reduced. Thus, one or more biologically active compounds, including, but not limited
25 to, anti-inflammatories, immunosuppressants or growth factors, may be added to the
   framework.
30

                                               52
   Examples
   The present invention will now be described in more detail with reference to the
   following non-limiting examples.
 5
   Example 1: Generation of the mAb STRO-3
   Materials and Methods
   Human MPC Cultures
   Stromal cultures were established, essentially as described previously (Gronthos et al.,
10 2003). The use of normal bone marrow (BM) cells for these studies was approved by
   the Human Ethics Committee of the Royal Adelaide Hospital, Australia. After washing
   thrice in "HHF" (Hanks Buffered Salt Solution (HBSS) supplemented with 20mM
   HEPES and 5% FCS), the 1-5 x 107 bone marrow mononuclear cells (BMMNCs) were
   resuspended in 10 ml of alpha-modification of Eagles' medium (a-MEM: Flow
15 Laboratories, Irvine, Scotland) supplemented with Folic acid (0.01 mg/ml), myo
   inositol (0.4mg/ml) (Sigma Chemical Co. St. Louis, MO), 50mM/L 2-mercaptoethanol,
   1mM/L hydrocortisone sodium succinate (Sigma), 12.5% FCS, and 12.5% horse serum
   (CSL, Melbourne, Australia) and cultured in 25cm 2 flasks (Becton Dickinson Labware,
   Franklin Lakes, NJ). Upon development of a confluent stromal layer, the cells were
20 detached using 0.05% (w/v) trypsin-EDTA in PBS (Gibco) and replated in the same
   medium at approximately 1-2 x 104 cells per cm2 in 2 x 75 cm2 tissue culture flasks
   (Becton Dickinson Labware, Franklin Lakes, NJ).
   Results and Discussion
25 A panel of mouse monoclonal antibodies reactive with human MPC were generated
   following the fusion of splenocytes derived from mice immnunized with cultured
   human BM stromal cells. Preliminary screens were designed to identify mAbs which
   reacted with normal human bone cells (NHBC) and MPC but exhibited limited
   reactivity with the majority of BMMNC. One mAb, STRO-3, was initially selected for
30 further analysis due to its unique pattern of reactivity with different cell lines. Tertiary
   clones of the STRO-3 hybridoma were isolated by limiting dilution in 96-well plates
   and subsequently screened as described above. The distribution patterns of STRO-3
   with various stromal cell types are summarised in Table 1.             The mAb STRO-3
   exhibited reactivity to a proportion of NHBC and MPC and with only a minor
35 proportion of BMMNC.          The immunoglobulin isotype of STRO-3 from tertiary

                                               53
   hybridoma supernatants was determined to be IgG1 using an isotype detection kit
   (Roche).
   Table 1: Immunoreactivity of STRO-3 supernatants from tertiary cloned hybridomas
 5 on different cell types using in situ immunofluorecence as described in the methods.
   Cell Type                                         In Situ Immunofluoresce Staining
   Peripheral blood mononuclear cells                NS
   Bone marrow mononuclear cells                     +/- (neutrophils)
   Ex vivo expanded MPC
   Cultured normal human bone cells
   Human foreskin fibroblasts
   Human ubilical vein endothelial cells             NS
   Murine bone marrow stromal line BMS2              NS
   Human osteosarcoma cell line SAOS-2               ++
   Human osteosarcoma cell line MG63                 NS
   Human osteosarcoma cell line HOS                  ++
   (+) Low fluorescence staining on all cells
   (++) High fluorescence staining on all cells
   (NS) No fluorescence staining on cells
10 (+/-), (++/-) Fluorescence staining on a subpopulation of cells
   Example 2: Molecular Characterization of the STRO-3 Antigen
   Materials and Methods
   Expression Cloning of the cDNA Encoding STRO-3 Antigen
15 The cDNA encoding the cell surface antigen identified by the mAb STRO-3 was
   isolated from a human bone marrow stromal cell cDNA library in the retroviral vector,
   pRUFneo as described (Zannettino et al., 1996). Briefly, cDNA synthesised from
   mRNA from HBMSC cultures was cloned into the retroviral vector pRUFneo. Plasmid
   DNA from the library was used to transfect a viral packaging line (PA317). Virus
20 containing supernatant from these cells was used to infect the packing cell line kv2 ,
   which in turn was used to infect the murine factor-dependent cell line BAF-3. Infected
   cells were selected for G418 resistance, labelled with STRO-3 antibody and cells
   specifically binding the antibody were isolated by immunomagnetic bead selection

                                               54
   (Dynabead, Dynal, Oslo, Sweden). After expansion of the initially selected cells in
   culture, immunomagnetic bead selection was repeated a further two times. BAF-3 cells
   which demonstrated specific binding of STRO-3 antibody (approximately 60%) were
   purified by fluoresence-activated cell sorting (FACS) and clones isolated following
 5 culture in semi-solid media as previously (Zannettino et al., 1996). To recover proviral
   cDNA inserts corresponding to the STRO-3 antigen, the polymerase chain reaction
   (PCR) using retroviral specific primers was performed on genomic DNA prepared from
   three STRO-3-expressing BAF-3 clones, as previously described (Zannettino et al.,
   1996).
10
   Partial-Sequencing of PCR-rescued cDNA clones and Computer Analysis:
   As described previously (Zannettino et al., 1996), cDNA clones generated by PCR were
   gel purified and subcloned into the pGEM-T vector (Promega, Madison, WI) as
   recommended by the manufacturer. Double-stranded DNA was prepared by standard
15 alkaline lysis "mini-prep" method (Qiagen miniprep Kit) and 1-2 pg was used per
   sequencing reaction. Reactions were prepared using the PRISMTM Ready Reaction
   Cycle sequencing kit (Applied Biosystem, Foster City, CA), as recommended by the
   manufacturer.     Reactions analysing both cDNA strands were run on a Applied
   Biosystems 373 automated sequence analyser and 500-600 bp of 5' and 3' sequence
20 data was routinely obtained per clone. Sequence data were then analysed by accessing
   the Genbank and European Molecular Biology laboratory (EMBL) data bases at the
   National Centre for Biotechnological Information (NCBI).
   Recloning of the STRO-3 antigen cDNA clone into pRUFneo and Validation of
25 Surface Antigen Expression
   Following PCR recovery of proviral cDNA inserts from genomic DNA, unique Bam HI
   and Xho I restriction sites present in the 5' and 3' flanking regions respectively, were
   utilised to "reclone" the cDNA into the MCS of the retroviral vector pRUFneo. E. coli
   DH1OB cells were transformed and plasmid DNA isolated using Qiagen-tip 100
30 columns (Qiagen, Victoria, Australia) as recommended by the manufacturer. Stable,
   G418 resistant y2 virus-producing cell lines were produced by calcium phosphate
   transfection and used to infect BAF-3 cells by co-cultivation, as described previously
   (Zannettino et al., 1996). G418 resistant FDC-P1 cells were then analysed for antigen
   expression by indirect immunofluorescence and flow cytometry.
35

                                                55
   Reverse Transcriptase Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR) analysis.
   Total cellular RNA was prepared from clones of STRO-3 antigen BAF-3 cells using
   RNAzolB extraction method (Biotecx Lab.           Inc., Houston, TX), according to the
   manufacturer's recommendations.        RNA isolated from each subpopulation was then
 5 used as a template for cDNA synthesis, prepared using a First-strand cDNA synthesis
   kit (Pharmacia Biotech, Uppsala, Sweden).       The expression of bone and liver/kidney
   isoform of ALP transcripts was assessed by PCR amplification, using a standard
   protocol as described previously (Gronthos et al., 1999).      The alkaline phosphatase
   primer sets used in this study have been previously described (Sato et al., 1994).
10 Following amplification, each reaction mixture was analysed by 1.5% agarose gel
   electrophoresis, and visualised by ethidium bromide staining.       RNA integrity was
   assessed by the expression of GAPDH (Gronthos et al., 1999).
   Results and Discussion
15 Using a retroviral expression library strategy pioneered in our laboratory, we
   subsequently identified the gene encoding for the protein identified by the STRO-3
   mAb (Zannettino et al., 1996). Briefly, the murine cell line BAF-3, was infected with
   retroviral particles constructed from a library of cDNAs derived from cultured human
   MPC. BAF-3 clones reactive with STRO-3 were isolated by immunomagnetic bead
20 selection using sheep anti-mouse IgG magnetic beads.
   As shown in Figure 1, flow cytometric analysis of cells which were recovered
   following several rounds of bead selection were found to express the STRO-3 antigen
   at appreciable levels. Clones of STRO-3-expressing BAF-3 cells were subsequently
25 prepared by seeding the pool of immunomagnetic bead-selected cells at low density
   into semi-solid methylcellulose, as described in the methods. A randomised selection
   of BAF-3 colonies were then isolated and expanded in liquid culture supplemented
   with murine IL-3 and G418.         Selected clones demonstrating a high reactivity with
   STRO-3 were then expanded in culture, and genomic DNA prepared as described in the
30 methods.    The cDNA inserts were subsequently rescued from the provirus by long
   range PCR amplification as previously described (Zannettino et al., 1996).
   PCR amplification of a representative clone for STRO-3 is shown in Figure 2.
   Following     agarose   gel   electrophoresis   and   ethidium  bromide    staining, the
35 corresponding PCR products from three different clones were gel-purified using a
   QlAquick Gel Extraction Kit (QIAGEN Inc. Chatsworth, CA, USA) and cloned in the

                                               56
   pGEM-T vector as recommended by the manufacturer. The nucleotide sequence of the
   PCR products was derived by sequencing with the PRISMTM Ready Reaction
   DyeDeoxyTM Terminator Cycle Sequencing Kit (Applied Biosystems Inc., Foster
   City, California, USA) according to the manufacturer's specifications. Reactions were
 5 run on a Applied Biosystems 373 automated sequence analyser, and several hundred
   base pairs of nucleic acid sequence data was obtained for each clone.      The resulting
   partial-nucleotide  sequences were compared with the entries submitted to the
   Genbank/EMBL databases via standard FASTA alignment analysis.              Partial DNA
   sequences for both antigens are given (Figures 3). Comparisons with sequences in the
10 combined EMBL/Genbank database identified the STRO-3 antigen as corresponding to
   the bone/liver/kidney form of alkaline phosphatase, namely TNAP.
   Independent confirmation of the specificity of the STRO-3 mAb was subsequently
   obtained following immunofluorescence         and flow cytometric analysis of TNAP
15 expressing BAF-3 clones with the alkaline phosphatase specific antibodies, B4-78, 50
   (Developmental Studies Hybridoma Bank, University of Iowa) which recognises an
   epitope conserved between each of the bone, liver and kidney isoforms of ALP (Figure
   4).
20 In addition, the mAb B4-50 (Developmental Studies Hybridoma Bank, University of
   Iowa) which has been previously shown to be specific for the bone AP enzyme also
   displayed immunoreactivity with the TNAP transfectants.       In contrast, no detectable
   reactivity was observed following the staining of the TNAP transfectants with mAb
   8B6 (DAKO), which identifies an epitope present on only human placental AP antigen.
25 In addition, BAF-3 cells re-transfected with the TNAP-BAF-3 cDNA insert, were
   found to express an active form of alkaline phosphatase, as demonstrated by positive
   reactivity in the presence of alkaline phosphatase substrate (Figure 5). PCR analysis
   using specific primers for the bone and liver forms of alkaline phosphatase (Sato et al.,
   1994) identified the transcripts as bone-specific (Figure 6).
30
   Example 3:       Immunohistochemical Detection of TNAP by STRO-3 mAb in
   Sections of BM Trephine
   Materials and Methods
   Five micron sections of paraffin-embedded normal post-natal bone, were cut onto 3
35 aminopropyl-triethoxysilane-coated slides and endogenous peroxidase activity blocked

                                                57
   by incubation with 3% H 20 2/Methanol.          Microwave antigen retrieval was then
   performed in the presence of 1 mM EDTA, pH 8.0 buffer. The slides were allowed to
   cool to 40'C and non-specific binding blocked by incubating sections with 3% normal
   horse serum for 1 hour at RT. The slides were then incubated overnight with either an
 5 isotype-matched, non-binding control mAb (1B5, IgG1 ) or STRO-3 mAb.            Bound
   antibody was revealed using a three-step immunoperoxidase method (Gronthos et al.,
   2000; Gronthos et al., 2003) in which slides were sequentially incubated with (a)
   affinity-purified HRP-conjugated goat anti-mouse antibody (Dako, Botany, NSW,
   Australia), followed by (b) affinity-purified Horseradish peroxidase (HRP)- conjugated
10 swine anti-goat immunoglobulin (Tago, Burlingame, CA, USA) and (c) hydrogen
   peroxide as substrate and amino ethylcarbazole (AEC, Sigma, St Louis, MO) as the
   dye.   Slides were counterstained briefly with haematoxylin solution and mounted in
   Gurr Aquamount (BDH, Poole, UK).
15 Results and Discussion
   The immunoreactivity of STRO-3 mAb was assessed in sections of developing bone
   marrow derived from 55 day old human limb.           No staining was observed in the
   periosteum or in cartilage (Figure 7).      However there was a marked expression of
   TNAP in the mesenchymal cells of the bone marrow spaces, perivascular regions and at
20 the interface of the growth plate region.
   Example 4: Isolation of human bone marrow cells using STRO-3 mAb
   Bone marrow (BM) is harvested from healthy normal adult volunteers (20-35 years
   old), in accordance with procedures approved by the Institutional Ethics Committee of
25 the Royal Adelaide Hospital. Briefly, 40 ml of BM is aspirated from the posterior iliac
   crest into lithium-heparin anticoagulant-containing tubes. BMMNC are prepared by
   density gradient separation using LymphoprepTM (Nycomed Pharma, Oslo, Norway) as
   previously described (Zannettino et al., 1998). Following centrifugation at 400 x g for
   30 minutes at 4'C, the buffy layer is removed with a transfer pipette and washed three
30 times in "HHF", composed of Hank's balanced salt solution (HBSS; Life Technologies,
   Gaithersburg, MD), containing 5% fetal calf serum (FCS, CSL Limited, Victoria,
   Australia).
   TNAP+ were subsequently isolated by magnetic activated cell sorting as previously
35 described (Gronthos et al., 2003; Gronthos et al., 1995). Briefly, approximately 1-3 x
   108 BMMNC are incubated in blocking buffer, consisting of 10% (v/v) normal rabbit

                                             58
   serum in HHF for 20 minutes on ice. The cells are incubated with 200pal of a 10tg/ml
   solution of STRO-3 mAb in blocking buffer for 1 hour on ice.             The cells are
   subsequently washed twice in HHF by centrifugation at 400 x g. A 1/50 dilution of
   goat anti-mouse y-biotin (Southern Biotechnology Associates, Birmingham, UK) in
 5 HHF buffer is added and the cells incubated for 1 hour on ice. Cells are washed twice
   in MACS buffer (Ca2+ - and Mn2+ -free PBS supplemented with 1% BSA, 5 mM EDTA
   and 0.01% sodium azide) as above and resuspended in a final volume of 0.9 ml MACS
   buffer.
10 One hundred p1 streptavidin microbeads (Miltenyi Biotec; Bergisch Gladbach,
   Germany) are added to the cell suspension and incubated on ice for 15 minutes. The
   cell suspension is washed twice and resuspended in 0.5 ml of MACS buffer and
   subsequently loaded onto a mini MACS column (MS Columns, Miltenyi Biotec), and
   washed three times with 0.5 ml MACS buffer to retrieve the cells which did not bind
15 the STRO-3 mAb.       After addition of a further 1 ml MACS buffer, the column is
   removed from the magnet and the TNAP-positive cells are isolated by positive
   pressure. An aliquot of cells from each fraction can be stained with streptavidin-FITC
   and the purity assessed by flow cytometry.     STRO-3 mAb was found to identify a
   minor subpopulation of- BMMNCs (<1%).
20
   Primary cultures are established from the MACS isolated TNAP+ cells by plating in a
   MEM supplemented with 20% fetal calf serum, 2mM L-glutamine and 100pm L
   ascorbate-2-phosphate as previously described (Gronthos et al., 1995).
25 Example 5: Human bone marrow cells selected by STRO-3 mAb give rise to CFU
   F
   Materials and Methods
   Magnetic-Activated Cell Sorting (MA CS)
   To evaluate the CFU-F outgrowth potential of TNAP+ cells, MACS sorting was used
30 to separate TNAP+ and TNAP- cells from the bone marrow.           This was performed
   generally as previously described (Gronthos and Simmons, 1995; Gronthos et al., 2003)
   but using the STRO-3 mAb. In brief, approximately 1-3 x 108 normal human bone
   marrow mononuclear cells were incubated with STRO-3 supernatant, anti-IgG-biotin,
   streptavidin microbeads and finally streptavidin FITC (Caltag Laboratories,

                                              59
   Burlingame, CA) before being separated on a Mini MACS magnetic column (Miltenyi
   Biotec Inc., Auburn, CA) according to the manufacturers instructions.
   Fluorescence-Activated Cell Sorting (FA CS)
 5 CFU-F outgrowth capacity was also examined on STRO-3 selected cells sorted on the
   basis of +ve or -ve expression of STRO-1.
   This was performed as previously described (Gronthos and Simmons, 1995; Gronthos
   et al., 2003).     In brief, approximately 1-3 x 108 normal human bone marrow
10 mononuclear cells were sequentially incubated with STRO-1 supernatant, anti-IgM
   biotin, streptavidin microbeads and finally streptavidin FITC (Caltag Laboratories,
   Burlingame, CA) before being separated on a Mini MACS magnetic column (Miltenyi
   Biotec Inc., Auburn, CA) according to the manufacturers instructions.
15 The STRO-17 MACS isolated cells were labelled with streptavidin conjugated FITC
   then incubated either purified STRO-3 mAb or isotype control 1B5 (10pg/ml) for 30
   minutes on ice, washed and incubated with phycoerythrin (PE) conjugated goat anti
   mouse IgG antibody (1/50; Southern Biotechnology Associates, Birmingham, AL) for
   an additional 20 minutes on ice. Cells were sorted using a FACStarPLUS flow cytometer
20 (Becton Dickinson, Sunnyvale, CA). The STRO-1lri/STRO-3* or STRO-1lri/STRO-3
   cells were cultured in alpha-Modification of Eagle's Medium supplemented with 20%
   fetal calf serum, L-glutamine 2mM, ascorbate-2-phosphate (100tM) to initiate primary
   culture in 5% C0 2 , at 37'C humidified atmosphere.
25 Results and Discussion
   Experiments were designed to examine the potential of using STRO-3 mAb as a single
   reagent for isolating cells for CFU-F outgrowth (Figure 8). MACS isolation based on
   TNAP expression revealed that clonogenic CFU-F were only detected in the TNAP
   BMMNC fraction.
30
   Given that STRO-3 (IgGI) is a different isotype to that of STRO-1 (IgM), the ability of
   STRO-3 to identify clonogenic CFU-F was assessed by two-colour FACS analysis
   based on its co-expression with STRO-1+ cells isolated using the MACS procedure
   (Figure 9).    STRO-3 mAb demonstrated a unique binding pattern, reacting with a
35 subset of the STRO-1+ BMMNC fraction which expressed the STRO-1 antigen at high
   levels (STRO-lbright fraction), effectively isolating and enriching for the MPC

                                               60
   population (Table 2). Furthermore, the mAb STRO-3 failed to react with CD34
   positive haemopoietic stem cells in human adult bone marrow aspirates (data not
   shown).
 5 Table 2:    Enrichment of human bone marrow cells by dual-colour FACS analysis
   based on the co-expression of the cell surface markers STRO-1 and TNAP (refer to
   Figure 9). FACS sorted cells were cultured under standard clonogenic conditions in
   alpha MEM supplemented with 20% FCS. The data represents the mean number of
   day 14 colony-forming cells (CFU-F) per 105 cells plated  SE (n=3 different bone
10 marrow aspirates). These data suggest that human MPC are exclusively restricted to
   the TNAP positive fraction of BM which co-express the STRO-1 antigen brightly.
   Bone Marrow Fraction         Frequency of CFU-F/10    5 Cells   Enrichment (Fold Increase)
   Unfractionated BMMNC         11.0  2.2                          1.0
   TNAP+/STRO-lbright           4,511  185                        410
   TNAP+/STRO-1dull/int         0.0                                0.0
   Example 6: Phenotype of STRO-3 mAb selected cells before and after culture
15 expansion
   Materials and Methods
   Single color flow cytometry was performed essentially as described in Gronthos et al.
   (1999). Briefly, cultures of cells at each passage were liberated by trypsin/EDTA and
   subsequently incubated for 30 min on ice in blocking buffer. Approximately 1 x 105
20 cells were washed as described above, and resuspended in 200 pil of primary antibody
   or antibodies for 1 hr on ice. The primary antibody consisting of saturating
   concentrations of the mouse IgM monoclonal antibody STRO-1 and/or a mouse IgG
   monoclonal antibody to human CC9 and STRO-3 were used. Other antibodies used
   included mAbs that bind CD45, CD34 and 3G5.
25
   The mouse isotype IgM and IgG negative control mAbs were treated under identical
   conditions. After the cells were washed, second label(s) were added in a final volume
   of 100 tl consisting of goat anti-mouse 1gM V-chain specific-FITC (1/50 dilution) and
   either goat anti-mouse IgG y-specific-PE (1/50 dilution) or anti-rabbit Ig-specific-PE

                                              61
   (1/50 dilution) (Southern Biotechnology Associates). The cells were incubated for 45
   min on ice, washed twice and fixed in FACs FIX (PBS supplemented with 1% (v/v),
   2% (w/v) D-glucose, 0.01% sodium azide). The cells were then analysed on an
   Epics@-XL-MCL flow cytometer (Beckman Coulter, Hialeah, FL). The dot plot
 5 histogram represents 5 x 104 events collected as listmode data.
   Results and Discussion
   As can be seen in Figure 10, immunoselection of human bone marrow mononuclear
   cells using a magnetically labelled STRO-3 mAb results in isolation of a population of
10 cells characterised by high levels of TNAP and CD45 surface antigen expression
   (Figure 10), with approximately 90% of the TNAP+ cells co-expressing CD45. In
   contrast, less than 1% of the TNAP+ enriched cells isolated using the STRO3 mAb
   expressed the hematopoietic stem cell marker CD34. In addition, no more than 5% of
   the TNAP+ cells enriched using methods of the invention co-expressed any of the
15 markers previously used to isolate MPC, including STRO-1, CC9/CD146, and 3G5.
   Following culture-expansion, the TNAP+ cells enriched using methods of the invention
   demonstrated a stable phenotype that differed from the enriched and freshly-isolated
   cells, Figure 11. Culture expanded STRO-3 selected cells at both early (passage 2) and
20 late (passage 5) passages were found to express homogeneously high levels of
   CC9/CD146 and HLA class I molecules, but were uniformly negative for CD45, HLA
   class II, CD14, CD19, CD3, CD11a-c, CD31, CD86 and CD80. Strikingly, while
   TNAP surface expression as detected by STRO-3 mAb was uniformly positive in early
   culture passages (passage 2), this was negative at later culture passages (passage 5).
25
   In contrast to progressive loss of STRO-3 reactivity following culture expansion, these
   TNAP+ cells enriched by STRO-3 selection demonstrated progressive increase in
   surface expression of the STRO-1 antigen, Figures 11 and 13. By passage 2
   approximately 84% of the cells were STRO-1 positive in comparison to the IgM
30 isotype control, and approximately half (52%) expressed STRO-1 brightly (as defined
   by a 2 log magnitude higher expression of STRO-1 surface expression than STRO-1
   negative cells). By passage 5, while most of the cells remained STRO-1 positive
   (approx. 69%), a lower proportion of cells expressed STRO-1 brightly (approx. 21%).
   This indicates that initial culture of STRO-3 selected TNAP+ cells results in
35 upregulation of the STRO-1 antigen, presumably reflecting proliferation without

                                                62
   spontaneous differentiation, while ongoing culture results in downregulation of STRO
   1 antigen density from bright to intermediate expression.
   In marked contrast, immunoselection of human bone marrow mononuclear cells using a
 5 magnetically labelled STRO-1 mAb results in isolation of a population of cells
   characterised by high (approximately 50%) STRO-1 expression, and absence of CD45
   expression     (Figure 12, and WO/2004/085630).       Despite this high-level of initial
   STRO-1      expression, culture expansion of STRO-1         selected cells results in a
   progressive decrease in STRO-1 expression by passages 4 to 6. These reduced STRO
10 1 levels following culture-expansion are significantly reduced relative to both the
   starting population, and the culture-expanded TNAP+ enriched cells by STRO-3
   selection at the same passages 4 to 6 (Figure 11).
   Together, these results show that the TNAP+ enriched population by STRO-3 selection
15 is distinct from the STRO-1+ enriched population in terms of phenotypic characteristics
   both when initially freshly isolated and following culture-expansion.
   Example 7: Differentiation of TNAP+ cells - Adipogenesis
   Materials and Methods
20 Adipogenic Assay Procedure
   Preparation of Adipogenic Induction Medium: Adipogenic Induction Medium should
   be used once the cells have become 100% confluent (approximately 5-13 days).
   Prepare the medium before the cells become confluent.
   1. Decontaminate the external surfaces of the Adipogenic Induction Medium (PT
25     3102B) and the following SingleQuots* with 70% v/v ethanol or isopropanol:
            a. h-Insulin (recombinant)
            b. L-Glutamine
            c. MCGS
            d. Dexamethasone
30          e.  Indomethacin
            f.  IBMX (3-isobuty-l-methyl-xanthine)
            g. Pen/Strep
   2. Aseptically open the above SingleQuots and add the contents to the 175 ml of
       Adipogenic Induction Medium.

                                              63
   3. Rinse each SingleQuot vial with the medium.
   4. Use supplemented medium for the adipogenic induction of cells only. Store at 2'C
      to 8'C in the dark until needed.
 5 Prepare Adipogenic Maintenance Medium as follows:
   1. Decontaminate the external surfaces of the Adipogenic Maintenance Medium (PT
      3102A) and the following SingleQuots with 70% v/v ethanol or isopropanol:
           a. h-Insulin (recombinant)
           b. L-Glutamine
10         c. MCGS
           d. Pen/Strep
   2. Aseptically open the above SingleQuots and add the contents to the 175 ml of
      Adipogenic Maintenance Medium.
   3. Rinse each SingleQuot vial with the medium.
15 4. Store supplemented Adipogenic Maintenance Medium at 2'C to 8'C in the dark
      until needed.
   Adipogenesis Culture Protocol:
   1. Plate 2.1   x 104 STRO-3 mAb selected cells per cm 2 of tissue culture surface area in
20    0.2 to 0.3 ml of MSCGM per cm 2 of tissue culture surface area. For example: 2 x
       105 cells in 2 ml medium per 9.6 cm2 well of a 6 well plate. Incubate the cells at
      37'C, in a humidified atmosphere of 5% CO 2 .
   2. Feed the cells every 2-3 days by completely replacing the medium with fresh
      MSCGM until the cultures reach confluence (5-13 days).            The cells must be
25    confluent, or post confluent, for optimal Adipogenic differentiation.
   3. At 100% confluence, three cycles of induction/ maintenance will stimulate optimal
      Adipogenic differentiation.      Each cycle consists of feeding the cells with
      supplemented Adipogenesis Induction Medium and culture for 3 days (37'C, 5%
      C0  2 ) followed by 1-3 days of culture in supplemented Adipogenic Maintenance
30    Medium.       Feed non-induced control cells with only supplemented Adipogenic
      Maintenance Medium on the same schedule. Adipogenic cells are delicate and care

                                               64
       should be used to avoid disrupting the numerous lipid vacuoles in the cells. Do not
       let the cells dry out when changing medium.
   4. After 3 complete cycles of induction/ maintenance, culture the cells for 7 more days
       in supplemented Adipogenic Maintenance Medium, replacing the medium every 2
 5     3 days.
   5.  The extent of Adipogenic differentiation may be noted by microscopic observation
       of lipid vacuoles in the induced cells. To document the Adipogenic differentiation,
       cultures may be stained with AdipoRed. Non-induced cells will have few, if any,
       lipid vacuoles.
10 6. Cultures of unfixed cells may be used for assays requiring adipocytes.
   AdipoRed    m Assay for in vitro Adipogenesis
   Protocol for 6-, 12-, 24- and 48-well plates:
       1. Seed cells at 30,000/cm2 and culture and differentiate the cells as described
15          above, using appropriate volumes of cell culture media.
       2. Immediately prior to the assay, rinse each plate with PBS, and add AdipoRed,
            using the volumes in Table 3.
   Table 3: Volumes for AdipoRedT M assay.
                      Rinse          Final  volume   Volume         of
                      volume/well    of PBS/well     AdipoRed/well
       6-well         2 ml           5 ml             140 pl
       plate
       12-well        1 ml           2 ml            60 tl
       plate
       24-well        1 ml           1 ml            30 pl
       plate
       48-well        0.4 ml         0.4 ml           12 tl
       plate
       96-well        0.2 ml         0.2 ml          5 pl
       plate

                                               65
       3. After addition of the AdipoRed, the best mixing of the reagent is obtained by
           pipetting 50% of the contents of each well up and down two times (three times
           for 6-well plates). It is important to obtain a homogeneous dispersion of the
 5         blue AdipoRed reagent. Be very careful not to touch the tip of the pipette to the
           cell monolayer or remove cells from the well surface.
       4. After 10 minutes, place the plate in the fluorimeter and measure the fluorescence
           with excitation at 485 nm and emission at 572 nm. If the fluorimeter does not
           have the appropriate filters, the settings used for the common fluorophore
10         fluorescein (excitation 485 nm; emission 535) can be used.
   Results and Discussion
   Two lots of cells were assayed for differentiative capacity.    The amps of cells were
   labeled:
15
          2242A                                            2070C
          P.2o                                             P.2o
           ~30E6 cells                                      ~30E6 cells
           02NOV2005                                       08NOV2005
20
   The results are provided in Figure 14 and show that cells selected with STRO 3 mAb
   are capable of differentiating into adipocytes.
   Example 8: Differentiation of TNAP+ cells - Osteogenesis
25 Materials and Methods
   Osteogenic Assay Procedure
   Prepare Osteogenic Induction Medium as follows:
   1. Decontaminate the external surfaces of the Differentiation Basal Medium
       Osteogenic and the following SingleQuots with 70% v/v ethanol or isopropanol:
30         a. Dexamethasone
           b. L-Glutamine
           c.  Ascorbate
           d. Pen/Strep

                                               66
          e. MCGS
          f.  p-Glycerophosphate
   2. Aseptically open the above SingleQuots and add the contents to the 185 ml of
      Differentiation Basal Medium - Osteogenic.
 5 3. Rinse each SingleQuot vial with the medium.
   4. Store the supplemented Osteogenic Differentiation Medium at 2'C to 8'C in the
      dark until needed.
   Osteogenesis Culture Protocol:
10 1. Plate 3.1 x  103 STRO-3 mAb selected cells per cm 2 of tissue culture surface area in
      0.2-0.3 ml of MSCGM per cm2 tissue culture area. For example: 3 x 104 cells in 2
      ml medium per 9.6 cm2 well of a 6 well plate.
   2. Allow the cells to adhere to the culture surface for 4 to 24 hours in MSCGM at
      37'C, in a humidified atmosphere of 5% CO 2 .
15 3. Induce Osteogenesis by replacing the MSCGM with Osteogenesis Induction
      Medium.
   4. Feed the induced cells every 3-4 days for 2-3 weeks by completely replacing the
      medium with fresh Osteogenesis Induction Medium. Feed non-induced control
      cells with MSCGM on the same schedule.
20 5. Osteogenic induced cells will show changes in cell morphology, from spindle
      shaped to cuboidal shaped, as they differentiate and mineralize. Gaps may form in
      the post confluent cell layer and cells may begin to delaminate from culture surface.
      If this de-lamination is observed, proceed immediately to analysis of osteogenic
      differentiation as indicated by calcium deposition, or use the induced cells for other
25    assays requiring osteocytes.
   6. For calcium deposition assays, harvest cells by rinsing them in calcium free PBS,
      then scraping cells from the culture surface in the presence of 0.5M HCl. Assay the
      extracts from osteogenic induced cultures for calcium content and compare to
      extracts from non-induced control cells.
30

                                                67
   Calcium Deposition Assay for in vitro Osteogenesis
   Materials:
   DPBS, without calcium or magnesium - Cambrex catalog # 17-516Q
   " 0.5N HCl
 5 *  Calcium (CPC) Liquicolor kit - Stanbio Laboratory catalog # 0150-250
   *  Induced Osteogenic cultures
   *  Plate reader or spectrophotometer
   Procedure:
10 e  Aspirate all culture medium from each well of a 6-well culture plate that contains
      induced or control cells to be tested.
   *  Rinse the cells in the plate by adding 1 ml of PBS to the side of each well, being
      careful to not dislodge the cells.
   *  Aspirate off the PBS and re-rinse, as above.
15 *  Aspirate the second wash and add 0.5 ml of 0.5N HCl to each well.
   *   Scrape the cells off of the surface using a cell lifter and transfer the cells and HCl to
      a polypropylene tube (1.5 ml Eppendorf tube or any 2-5 ml polypropylene tube
      with a tight fitting cap).
   *  Add an additional 0.5 ml of 0.5N HCl to each well to recover any cells remaining in
20    the well, and transfer this to the appropriate tube.
   *   Samples may be capped tightly and stored at -20'C for one month if they are not to
      be tested immediately.
   *  Extract the calcium from the cells by shaking the tubes on an orbital shaker for 3
      24 hours at 4'C. If using frozen samples, allow extra time for samples to thaw.
25 *  Centrifuge the sample tubes at 500g for 2 minutes.
   *  Carefully collect the supernatant with extracted calcium, without disrupting the
      pellet, and transfer to a new tube.
   *  Following the instructions provided in the Stanbio Laboratory Calcium (CPC)
      Liquicolor kit, prepare a standard curve with the calcium standard and determine
30    the amount of calcium in each control and osteo-induced sample.

                                                68
   *    Sample and assay reagent volumes may be adjusted to fit microtiter plates (200 tl)
       or spectrophotometer cuvettes (2 ml).
   *    10 ptl - 100 pl of sample is used for each calcium determination. Unused sample
       extract may be re-frozen for future re-assay.
 5
   Results and Discussion
   The results are provided in Figure 15 and show that cells selected with STRO-3 mAb
   are capable of differentiating into osteocytes.
10 Example 9: Differentiation of TNAP+ cells - Chondrogenesis, Adipogenesis and
   Osteogenesis
   Chondrogenic differentiation was assessed in aggregate cultures treated with 10 ng/ml
   TGF-p3 as previously described (Gronthos et al., 2003). Alcian Blue demonstrated that
15 STRO-3 mAb selected cells are capable of producing proteoglycan (Figure 16C), and
   thus chondroctyes.
   STRO-3 mAb selected cells were also differentiated into functional osteoblasts,
   following 3 weeks culture in aMEM supplemented with 10% FCS, 100 tM L
20 ascorbate-2-phosphate, dexamethasone 10-7 M and 3 mM inorganic phosphate.
   Mineral deposits were identified by positive Alizarin Red staining (Figure 16A).
   Similarly, adipogenesis        was induced in the presence              of 0.5 mM
   methylisobutylmethylxanthine, 0.5 VM hydrocortisone, and 60 tM indomethacin as
25 previously described (Figure 16B). Oil Red 0 staining demonstrated the presence of
   lipid-laden fat cells.
   Example 10:      Transplantation of expanded human STRO-3 mAb selected cells
   induce new bone formation in vivo.
30
   Approximately 5.0x10 6 ex vivo expanded cells derived from STRO-3 mAb selected
   bone marrow cells were mixed with 40 mg of hydroxyapatite/tricalcium phosphate
   (HA/TCP) ceramic powder (Zimmer Inc, Warsaw, IN) and then transplanted
   subcutaneously into the dorsal surface of 6-week-old immunocompromised NOD/SCID

                                                69
   mice (ARC, Perth, WA, Australia) for eight weeks as previously described (Gronthos et
   al., 2003). These procedures were performed in accordance to specifications of an
   approved animal protocol (University of Adelaide Ethics Number M19/2005).
   Harvested implants were fixed in 4% paraformaldehyde, then decalcification with 10%
 5 EDTA solution before being embedding into paraffin. A representative cross section of
   a 8 week old transplant stained with H&E is shown. Histological examination
   demonstrated the presence of new bone formation (Figure 16D).
   Example 11: STRO-3 mAb selected cells are useful in bone repair
10 Materials and Methods
    Tibia Critical Sized Defect
   With the sheep in dorsal recumbency, the wool and hair was removed from above the
   left hind limb (mid femur) down to the foot. The skin over the tibia was prepared for
   aseptic surgery using alternating scrubs of povidone-iodine (Betadine) and alcohol.
15 The limb was draped for aseptic surgery. Peri operative antibiotic prophylaxis (Ancef;
    1 gm preoperatively, 1 gm mid-surgery and 1 gm following wound closure,
   intravenously) began at this point. A 6-cm skin incision extending through the
   periosteum was made over the medial diaphysis of the tibia. The periosteum and
   overlying soft tissues was bluntly elevated circumferentially. A 5-cm segmental defect
20 was created mid-diaphysis with two osteotomies using an oscillating saw under
   constant cooling with saline solution.
   The defect was repaired using a locking intermedullary nail. For insertion of the nail, a
   longitudinal incision, just medial to the midline, was made over the left knee (stifle)
25 joint with the knee in a flexed position. The joint capsule was split, the patellar tendon
   retracted laterally, and the centre of the tibial plateau dissected free of adipose tissue
   within the joint. A 6-mm entry portal was created by a drill, and the diaphysis of the
   tibia reamed with hand reamers until the nail can be inserted press-fit. If necessary, the
   distal tibial metaphysis was reamed with an 8-mm drill so the distal part of the nail
30 could be inserted manually. The nail was inserted with the use of the insertion handle
   and the driving head connected to the proximal end of the nail. Proximal and distal
   interlocking was performed with proximal and distal aiming devices.

                                               70
   Administration of Culture Expanded STRO-3 mAb Selected Cells and HA/TCP
   carrier to Sheep Tibia Critical Sized Defect
   The defect was packed with an HA/TCP carrier or HA/TCP+ STRO-3 mAb selected
   culture expanded cells and tested at varying concentrations depending on the treatment
 5 group (25M, 75M or 225M) following brief incubation in the OR setting. The soft
   tissues was then closed over the defect to ensure containment of the carrier and cells.
   Animals had plain radiographs taken lateral and cranio-caudal (AP) under general
   anaesthesia. Radiographs were taken at the following timepoints: Day 0 (surgery) and
10  1, 2, and 3 months.
   Radiographs were interpreted according to the following criteria:
   % callus bridge was the summed measure of the amount of mineralized tissue extended
   into the defect area both proximal and distal and divided it by the total defect length.
15 Fusion was characterized by a scoring system below:
   0 (no fusion);
    1 (moderate fusion);
   2 (robust interconnected fusion mass).
20 Spine Fusion Procedure
    Sheep were anesthetized and wool was removed from the dorsal lumbar region of the
   sheep and positioned in sternal recumbency on the operating table. The lumbar region
   was prepared for aseptic surgery with multiple scrubs of povidone-iodine alternated
   with isopropyl alcohol. The area was draped and local anesthesia (Lidocaine), was
25 infiltrated along dorsal approach to L4 and L5 dorsal to the spinous processes.
   Approach to the transverse processes: A 20 cm skin incision was made and the
   paraspinal muscles will be dissected off the spinous processes and laminae.         Facet
   joints and transverse processes between L3 and L4 will be exposed.
30
   Instrumentation and Spine Fusion Technique: The transverse processes of L3 and L4
   was decorticated bilaterally.    The HA/TCP graft substitute (carrier) or carrier +
   allogeneic cells or autograft was placed between the transverse processes. At this point
   in the surgery, the sheep undergo transpedicular screw fixation using screws and rods

                                                 71
   (Medtronic-Sofamor-Danek; CD-Horozon, M8 fixed screw head system). The surgical
   site was closed routinely.
   After 4 months, all sheep were humanely euthanized and immediately after removal of
 5 the connecting rods, the explanted spines subjected to CT scans and plain radiographs
   and faxitron analysis.
   Mechanical Testing of Spine
   Immediately     following    euthanasia,   intact lumbar    spines   were    harvested  and
10 immediately prepared for mechanical testing. A four vertebrae construct consisting of
   the two affected (fused) vertebrae as well as an additional vertebral level above and
   below the level of the fusion was isolated from the lumbar spine.            These isolated
   specimens were denuded of all peri-spinal soft tissues, with care taken to preserve any
   ligamentous and facet capsule architecture. Several screws were drilled into superior
15 endplate of most cephalad vertebra and the inferior endplate of the caudad vertebrae
   were coupled to metal potting fixtures, with the screw-vertebra construct secured using
   polymethylmethacrylate (PMMA).           Specimens were kept moist during the entire
   preparation and testing procedure.
20 Kinetic Analysis - Load Application and Range of Motion Determination
   The specimen was attached to a custom-designed spinal testing fixture. The testing
   fixture was coupled to a standard servohydraulic testing frame (MTS) and, using a
   system of pulleys and tensioned wires, applies pure moments to the specimen in
   flexion/extension, right and left lateral bending, and right and left axial rotation. Loads
25 were applied up to a maximum of 5 N-m. Specimens were pre-conditioned for three
   cycles and data will be collected on the fourth cycle.
   Load-dependent three-dimensional displacements were calculated using the principles
   of stereophotogrammetry.       Three non-collinear markers will be attached to both the
30 inferior and superior potting fixtures and the two levels that are involved with the
   fusion. Three high-resolution cameras (Vicon Peak, Centennial, CO, USA) were used
   to detect the light reflected by these markers, and the collected data was processed with
   custom-designed software (Spinal Flexibility Testing Software, MFLEX) to determine
   the appropriate intervertebral angles across the fusion mass.           The resulting data
35 provided both neutral zone and range of motion data across the involved levels and the
   adjacent segments for all three bending planes.

                                                 72
   StatisticalAnalysis
   Statistical significance in the aforementioned parameters between treatment groups is
   performed using a standard one-way ANOVA with Fisher's least-significant-difference
 5 PLSD post hoc test for multiple comparisons (StatView, SAS Institute Inc. Cary, NC,
   USA). p-values less than 0.05 will be considered statistically significant.
   Animals had plain radiographs taken lateral and cranio-caudal (AP) under general
   anaesthesia. Radiographs were taken at the following timepoints: Day 0 (surgery) and
10 1, 2, 3 and at 4 months.      Additionally, faxitron analysis was performed at time of
   sacrifice using mammography film.
   Radiographs were interpreted according to the following criteria:
   0 (no fusion);
15 1 (moderate fusion);
   2 (robust interconnected fusion mass).
   Results and Discussion
   Figure    17   shows   STRO-3     mAb     selected  culture   expanded  allogeneic  adult
20 multipotential cells result in significant spinal fusion following administration with an
   HA/TCP carrier in an ovine transpedicular screw fixation spine model compared to
   control alone or autograft as determined by x-ray analysis. Significant spinal fusion
   was observed as early as 3 months and continued to increase at 4 months. This effect
   did not appear to be dose dependent as even the lowest dose resulted in significant
25 spinal fusion compared to control carrier and autograft.
   Figure    18   shows   STRO-3     mAb     selected  culture   expanded  allogeneic  adult
   multipotential cells administered with an HA/TCP carrier in ovine transpedicular screw
   fixation spine model demonstrate robust spinal fusion compared to carrier controls at
30 time of sacrifice when the instrumentation has been removed and the area assessed by
   faxitron analysis using mammography film.             All doses of multipotential cells
   demonstrate density of spinal fusion comparable to autograft standard of care.
   Figure    19   shows   STRO-3     mAb     selected  culture   expanded  allogeneic  adult
35 multipotential cells administered with an HA/TCP carrier in ovine transpedicular screw
   fixation spine model demonstrate fusion that is mechanically comparable to autograft

                                                 73
   controls.   All doses of multipotential cells resulted in flexion, lateral extension and
   torsional range of motion mechanical loads characteristic of fused bone.
   Figure    20   shows    STRO-3    mAb     selected   culture     expanded    allogeneic  adult
 5 multipotential cells administered with an HA/TCP carrier in ovine critical sized 5cm
   defect tibia model resulted in early bone growth in a dose dependent manner. 225M
   cells combined with HA/TCP carrier resulted in over 60% callus bone formation as
   early as 3 months following injury.
10 Figure    21   shows    STRO-3    mAb     selected   culture     expanded    allogeneic  adult
   multipotential cells administered with an HA/TCP carrier in ovine critical sized 5cm
   defect tibia model resulted in increased union rates compared to carrier alone control.
   Only the 75M and 225M cell dose resulted in union as defined by x-ray analysis at 3
   months.
15
   These results show that expanded cells of the invention are able to enhance bone repair.
   Example 12:       STRO-3 mAb selected adult multipotential cells improve cardiac
   function
20 Materials and Methods
   Thoracotomy Procedure
   For sheep, chest and upper abdomen was clipped, prepped with soap and water and
   painted with betadine solution which is allowed to dry. The surgical fields were draped
   with sterile drapes and all persons at the operating table were fully gowned, masked,
25 gloved and capped. All thoracic operations are done through a left thoracotomy. The
                                                     rd  th      th
   smallest possible incision was used and the 3 , 4        or 5     interspace is entered. Skin
   incisions were made with scapel. Subcutaneous tissue and muscles are usually divided
   with cautery to improve hemostasis.         The pericardium was opened and the heart
   supported in a pericardial cradle. An epicardial echocardiogram was performed under
30 sterile technique. Polypropylene (#0) sutures are used to ligate the appropriate coronary
   arteries. The anteroapical infarction model has been well established previously in this
   animal model. Briefly, suture ligation of the distal 1/3 of the left anterior descending
   artery (LAD) along with ligation of the second diagonal coronary artery branch (D2)
   will uniformly create an anteroapical infarct comprising approximately 20-25% of the
35 left ventricle; this technique consistently and reliably produces injury which leads over

                                               74
   time to ventricular remodeling and congestive heart failure (CHF).         Thoracotomy
   wounds were closed with running 3-0 Vicryl suture.            Skin was closed with a
   subcuticular suture of 3-0 Vicryl. Prior to chest closure an intercostal nerve block at
   the surgical site was performed with bupivicaine (5 cc of 0.25% solution). A chest tube
 5 was placed in the left pleural space and placed on 20cm water suction drainage until the
   animal is extubated.
   Animals were fully monitored while under anesthesia during the procedure (eg. BP
   arterial line, Cardiac output- Swan-Ganz/conductance catheter). Animals are carefully
10 watched in our laboratory for several hours post extubation until fully awake and
   standing.   They are closely watched for the next 6 - 24 hours for any arrhythmias or
   signs of low cardiac output and monitored and treated for pain control, fluid retention
   or lack of appetite as needed.
15 Additional thoracotomy were performed in nude rats.        Left anteriodecending artery
   ligation was performed under general anesthesia and animals were subsequently
   injected with cells in the perinfarct region, pericardium and wounds sutured and
   animals were allowed to survive for 2 weeks at which time they were sacrificed.
20 Administration of adult multipotential cells
   For sheep in intro expanded STRO-3 mAb selected bone marrow cells or control
   Profreeze media was thawed in a 37 degree waterbatch.           The 4ml vial was then
   swabbed with alcohol and an angiocath needle syringe was then used to aspirate 1ml
   volumes and transported into 4 1ml syringes. A total of approximately 3.5mls of the
25 4mls was recovered. Each 1ml syringe was then fitted with a 27 gauge needle and
   0.2ml was injected around the perinfarct borderzone via approximately             16-20
   injections.
   For rats, 0.2ml of media containing one million cells was injected by 27 gauge needle
30 at the perinfarct border zone.
   Echocardiography
   Laparotomyfor TransdiaphragmaticQuantitativeEchocardiography
   For sheep, at approximately baseline, immediately post-infarction week four post
35 infarction each animal underwent laparotomy under full general anesthesia (isoflurane)

                                                75
   to perform transdiaphragmatic       quantatative echocardiography.      A laparotomy is
   required because it is not possible to get adequate transthoracic or transesophageal
   echocardiographic images for quantatative analysis in sheep.         These animals have
   enormous lungs that wrap around the heart entirely. The air in the lungs degrades the
 5 images substantially. During these studies hemodynamics such as blood pressure, heart
   rate and cardiac output were carefully monitored.
   Specifically, the upper abdomen was clipped, prepped with soap and water and painted
   with betadine solution which is allowed to dry.       The surgical field was draped with
10 sterile drapes and all persons at the operating table were fully gowned, masked, gloved
   and capped.      Because of overlapping lungs echocardiograms were taken from a
   subdiaphragmatic view. The initial incision was made with a scalpel in the midline and
   carried through the subcutaneous and muscular layers with a cautery. The peritoneal
   cavity was opened.      The echo probe was introduced under the diaphragm within a
15 sterile plastic bag and all studies are done under sterile conditions.    The incision is
   closed with simple interrupted 0-prolene suture through both the peritoneum and
   posterior fascia. The subcutaneous tissue was closed with 3-0 running Vicryl.        The
   skin is closed with 3-0 subcuticular Vicryl.
20 For rats, 2D echocardiography was used to measure to systolic and diastolic volume
   parameters.
   DataAnalysis
   All images were analyzed off-line.       All measurements were made at end systole,
25 identified as the frame at which LV cavity area was smallest. All plots representing
   three-dimensional    renderings   were created using Tecplot (Version         10; Amtec
   Engineering, Bellevue, Washington). Spline surface fits and Gaussian curvatures were
   calculated in Matlab. All measurements are presented as means SD. Comparisons are
   made between baseline and postinfarction using paired t tests. The image processing
30 and data analysis performed for the 2DCE data in both long and short axis has been
   described previously. Briefly, the endocardialcurvature (K) and the ventricular wall
   thickness (h) were measured in the borderzone before and 1 hour after infarction. All
   3DCE rotational cross-sectional images were analyzed as follows. Endocardial and
   epicardial contours were traced (UTHSCSA ImageTool; Department of Dental
35 Diagnostic Science, University of Texas Health Science Center, San Antonio, Texas)
   by an echocardiography technician unaware of the hypotheses of the study.

                                               76
   The endocardium and epicardium were reconstructed at end systole by tracing each in
   every individual rotational cross-section. At each endocardial and epicardial location,
   the presence or absence of myocardial perfusion was determined; thereby, perfusion
 5 status   was registered with LV geometry, allowing precise and unambiguous
   determination of borderzone myocardium. The crosssectional data were then combined
   to recreate a threedimensional representation of the LV endocardial and epicardial
   surfaces, indexed by perfusion status. The endocardial and epicardial surfaces were fit
   using a smoothing thin-plate spline (x), and the characteristics of this surface, including
10 spatially resolved Gaussian curvature, were calculated.
   Results and Discussion
   Figure 22 shows the effects of human STRO-3 mAb selected cells following 5 passages
15 directly injected into hearts of 5 rats 24 hours after acute ligation of the left anterior
   descending coronary artery. At two weeks the cells induce approximately 50% greater
   fractional area change compared with injection of control medium alone.
   Figure 23 shows the effects of allogeneic sheep STRO-3 mAb selected cells following
20 5 passages directly injected into sheep hearts immediately after acute ligation of both
   diagonal coronary arteries. At four and eight weeks the animals treated with STRO-3
   selected cells demonstrate significantly greater ejection fraction (A), and significantly
   lower diastolic (B) and systolic (C) volumes, compared with animals treated with
   control medium alone.
25
   These results show that expanded cells of the invention are able to improve cardiac
   function.
   Example 13: Use Of Human STRO3-Selected and Culture-Expanded TNAP
30 Enriched Cells In Human Patients In Need Of (1) Bone Regeneration, Or (2)
   Cardiac Functional Recovery/Increase In Blood Vessel Formation
   Materials and Methods
   Standard operating protocols of Cell Therapies Pty Ltd (affiliated with Peter
   MacCullum Institute of Cancer Research Melbourne, Australia) were used on culture
35 expanded STRO-3 mAb immunoselected TNAP+ cells from human BM, enabling their

                                                77
   subsequent in vivo use in patients in need of either bone regeneration or cardiac
   function/blood vessel formation.
   Bone Marrow Aspiration Procedure
 5 1. Bone Marrow (BM) is routinely taken from two or more sites approximately 1/2 to 1
   cm apart on the back of the iliac crest (hip bone).
   2. An injection of local anaesthetic is given in the skin over the hip to anaesthetise the
   skin area. A small cut is made in the skin and a needle is placed into the bone.
   3. 5 - 20 ml of marrow is aspirated the needle is withdrawn and reinserted through the
10 same skin incision into a different part of the bone, away from the previously aspirated
   area until 40 ml of marrow has been collected.
   4. BM is routinely aspirated into Lithium-Heparin containing tubes, although other
   anti-coagulants are acceptable. It is preferable that the marrow aspirate is processed
   within 1 hour of collection, as described below.
15
   Bone Marrow Mononuclear Preparation - Density Gradient Separation
   All techniques are performed in a Biological Safety Cabinet Class 11
   1. A 40 ml aspirate of BM will usually be received in 4 tubes (approx. 10 ml/tube).
20 2. Pool all the fractions of BM into a 50 ml tube (Falcon, Becton Dickinson) to ensure
   equal mixing. Divide BM volume into equal amounts into two 50 ml tubes. Add an
   equal volume of blocking buffer.
   3. Perform a white cell estimation using white cell fluid (WCF). Assess cell number
   (pre-processing count).
25 4. Using a 70 mm cell strainer (Falcon, Becton Dickinson), strain the diluted BM into
   two 50 ml centrifuge tubes to remove any small clots and bone fragments.
   5. Place 3 mls of Ficoll-Hypaque (Lymphoprep) solution in the bottom of ten "round
   bottom" 14 ml polystyrene tubes (Falcon, Becton Dickinson).
   6. Carefully overlay lymphoprep with 7.5 mls of BM.
30 7. Centrifuge tubes at 400 x g (1400 rpm) for 30 mins at RT. Ensure that the centrifuge
   brake is off
   8. With a sterile cannula, vacuum aspirate media until approximately _ cm above the
   leucocyte band (buffy coat). Carefully collect the mononuclear layer with a disposable
   plastic Pasteur pipette and pool into a 50ml tube.
35 9. Dilute cells to 40 ml with wash buffer and centrifuge sample at 400 x g (1400 rpm)
   for 10 mins with the break on high.

                                               78
   10. Aspirate the buffer until just above the cell pellet. Vortex the tube and add 50 ml
   HHF. Repeat step 9.
   Magnetic Activated Cell Sorting (MACS) of TNAP Positive Cells
 5 1. Prior to immunolabelling, BMMNC (approximately              1 - 2 x 108 cells) are
   resuspended in 0.5 ml blocking buffer and incubated for 30 minutes on ice to block
   possible Fc receptor-mediated binding of antibodies.
   2. Five hundred micro liters of STRO-3 mAb previously diluted to a concentration of
   10 mg/ml in blocking buffer, is added to the BMMNC and incubated for 60 minutes at
10 4f C, with occasional, gentle mixing.
   3. BMMNC are washed twice in HHF and resuspended in 0.5 ml of HHF containing
   biotinylated   goat   anti-mouse   IgG   (g-chain   specific,   Southern   Biotechnology
   Associates, Birmingham, UK) at a 1/50 dilution and incubated at 4f C for 45 minutes.
   4. The BMMNC are washed three times in MACS buffer (Ca2+ - and Mn2+ -free PBS
15 supplemented with 1% BSA in PBS, 5 mM EDTA and 0.01% sodium azide) and
   resuspended in 450 _1 of MACS buffer to which 50 _1 of streptavidin microbeads
   (Miltenyi Biotec; Bergisch Gladbach, Germany) are added (10          1 of microbeads/107
   cells in 90 _1 MACS buffer). The mixture is incubated at 4f C for 15 minutes.
   5. To monitor the purification process (optional), Strepavidin-PE conjugate (1/50)
20 (Caltag Laboratories, San Francisco, CA) is added directly to the cell suspension for an
   additional 5 minutes.
   6. After 1 wash in ice-cold MACS buffer, a small aliquot of cells (approx. 200K) is
   removed for flow cytometric analysis (pre sample). The remaining cells are then be
   placed onto the mini MACS column (column capacity of 108 cells, Miltenyi Biotec,
25 MS column). The TNAP- cells (negative fraction) are not retained within the column
   and pass through, under gravity into the effluent, whilst the TNAP+ cells remain
   attached to the magnetised matrix.
   7. Wash the column 3 times with 0.5 ml MACs buffer to remove any non-specifically
   bound TNAP- cells.
30 8. The TNAP+ cells are recovered by flushing the column with MACS buffer after
   withdrawing the column from the magnetic field. Small samples from each of the pre,
   negative and positive fractions are removed, fixed in FACS Fix (1% (v/v) formalin, 0.1
   M D-glucose, 0.02% sodium azide in PBS) and subsequently analysed by flow
   cytometry in order to assess purity and recovery.
35

                                               79
   Establishment and Ex Vivo Culture of STRO-3 mAb Selected Cells
   1. The TNAP+ enriched populations (5 x 104 per cm2) are cultured in tissue culture
   flasks   or plates containing     alpha-Modification   of Eagle's    Medium (a-MEM)
 5 supplemented with 20% foetal bovine serum, 100 mM L-ascorbate-2-phosphate, 2mM
   L-glutamine, 50 U/ml penicillin and 50 mg/ml streptomycin (CSL) at 37fC in 4% C02
   for two weeks.
   2. Primary cell populations should be passaged when the cultures achieve          8 0 -9 0 %
   confluency. Adherent cultures should be washed 1 x with serum free HBSS and the
10 cells liberated by enzymatic digestion with 2 ml of 0.5% Trypsin/EDTA solution (JRH)
   per T75 flask for 5 - 10 minutes at 37oC. Cell suspensions are pooled and re-seeded at
   0.5 - 1.0 x 104 per cm2 in at-MEM growth medium supplemented with 10% FBS.
   3. Routinely, single cell suspensions of culture expanded cells are prepared by
   trypsin/EDTA digest as described above. The cells are then diluted and washed in cold
15 HFF. Following centrifugation, the cell pellet is resuspended at a concentration of 5 x
   106 cells per ml in FBS and maintained on ice. An equal volume of freeze mix (20%
   DMSO in cold FBS) is then added gradually while gently mixing the cells to give a
   final concentration of 2.5 x 106 cells per ml in 10% DMSO/FBS. One ml aliquots are
   then distributed into 1.8 ml cryovials (NUNC) on ice, i.e. 1 ml per tube, then frozen at a
20 rate of -loC per minute using a rate control freezer. The frozen vials are then
   transferred to liquid nitrogen for long-term storage. Recovery of the frozen stocks is
   achieved by rapid thawing the cells in a 37oC water bath. The cells are then
   resuspended in cold HFF and spun at 280 x g for 10 minutes. To assess viability of the
   cells, prepare a 1:5 dilution in 0.4% trypan blue/PBS, and the number of cells
25 determined using a haemocytometer. Typically this procedure gives viabilities between
   80 - 90%.
   Quality Control of Cells Preparations
   1. BMSSC cultures are prepared by trypsin/EDTA digest then resuspended in blocking
30 buffer for 30 minutes.
   2. Final cell qualification includes: negative gram stain, negative bacterial and fungal
   culture at 14 days, negative endotoxin testing, and 70% viability by trypan-blue dye
   exclusion.
   3. Cells are characterised by immunophenotype STRO-1+, TNAP+, CD146+, CD44+,
35 CD3-,CD14-, colony forming assays (Colony Forming Units-Fibroblasts (CFU-F), and
   induced osteoblast differentiation).

                                                80
   Autologous culture-expanded cells are then couriered, on ice, to the Royal Melbourne
   Hospital, Melbourne, Australia, for implantation in patients in need of bone
   regeneration, and to the John Hunter Hospital in Newcastle, Australia, for
 5 intramyocardial implantation in patients in need of cardiac functional recovery and/or
   new blood vessel formation.
   Percutaneous NOGA-Guided Bone Marrow Cell Implantation Procedure
   The NOGA (Biosense) left ventricular electromechanical mapping system utilises
10 magnetic technology to navigate an 8fr endocardial-mapping catheter, which is
   introduced percutaneously via the right femoral artery and advanced into the left
   ventricle. The catheter is then dragged along the endocardial surface, acquiring local R
   wave electrical potentials. The electrical signals are gated to surface ECG electrodes,
   thereby providing information on regional wall motion (local linear shortening scores).
15 Areas of ischaemic but viable myocardium will be detected by NOGA as a region of
   reduced local linear shortening but preserved R wave potential. The pre-defined
   NOGA parameters of normal myocardium is areas of electrical activity > 5mV and
   local linear shortening > 12%. Infarcted myocardium will have areas of electrical
   activity < 5mV and local linear shortening <4%. Ischaemic but viable myocardium
20 will have an electrical potential of 5 mV or greater and local linear shortening scores of
   4-12%. The NOGA has been extensively validated as a tool for assessing myocardial
   viability on line in the Cardiac Catheterisation Laboratory. The Biosense Myo-Star TM
   injection catheter is similar to the mapping catheter as it has a magnetic sensor at its tip,
   which makes it locatable in space. It has a retractable needle, which can be used to
25 accurately inject the bone marrow cells into the target region. This system enables
   accurate and safe injection of the bone marrow cells into the endocardium as it makes
   contact with the endocardial surface.
   Results and Discussion
30 Implantation Of STRO3-Selected and Culture-Expanded TNAP-Enriched Cells
   In A Patient With A Non-Union Fracture Of The Femur
   A 19-year-old male presented to the Royal Melbourne Hospital with a fracture of the
   femoral shaft which had occurred 9 months earlier due to a motorcycle accident and
   had failed to heal despite surgical implantation of rods and screws. A persistent, non
35 healing 5cm defect persisted.

                                              81
   Following informed consent, the patient underwent a bone marrow aspirate, with
   STRO-3 mAb selection of the bone marrow mononuclear cells, and culture-expansion
   of these cells, as above. After approximately six weeks of culture, 200-225 million
   cells were harvested and prepared for infusion surgically.
 5
   At infusion, cells were resuspended into sterile, saline/plasmalyte to a 5-10 ml volume
   and mixed with the Artificial Synthetic Bone Matrix (HA/TCP) containing bovine
   collagen (MastergraftTM Matrix).
10 The procedure was uneventful, with no adverse events, and the defect was fully closed.
   Implantation Of STRO3-Selected and Culture-Expanded TNAP-Enriched Cells
   In Two Patients With Multiple Coronary Artery Vessel Occlusions And
   Refractory Chest Pain
15 Two males age ranges 40-65 years presented to the John Hunter Hospital with
   persistent chest pain on exertion and multivessel coronary artery occlusions, not
   amenable to medical or surgical treatment.
   Following informed consent, the patients underwent a bone marrow aspirate, with
20 STRO-3 mAb selection of the bone marrow mononuclear cells, and culture-expansion
   of these cells, as above. After approximately six weeks of culture, 100-120 million
   cells were harvested for each patient and prepared for intramyocardial infusion by
   NOGA (Biosense) cardiac catheter.
25 For each patient, NOGA catheter-guided intramyocardial injection of the cultured cells
   was performed. At each target region, 10-12 injection of 0.2m containing cells was
   performed.
   Echocardiograms were performed during and immediately after the procedure in order
30 to exclude perforation of the ventricular wall and ensuing pericardial tamponade. After
   the procedure, patients were observed for 24 hours in the Coronary Care Unit.
   Electrocardiograms and cardiac enzyme levels were tested every 8 hours during
   Coronary Care Unit observation. Echocardiograms were obtained in the first 24 hrs
   after implantation procedure.
35

                                                82
   No adverse events were observed either acutely or in the post-operative period. The
   patients have each been followed for two months. During this period, each patient has
   indicated reduced frequency and severity in episodes of chest pain and reported
   increased exertional tolerance.
 5
   These data suggest that implantation of the expanded cells has resulted in increased
   vascular blood flow to the damaged and "at risk" areas of myocardium supplied by the
   occluded coronary vessels.
10 Example 14: Increased cell survival when delivered with fibrin glue
   Materials and Methods
   Preparationof Fibrin Glue
           Fibrin Glue (Tisseal VH, Baxter) was prepared according to manufacturer
   specification.  Briefly, the vials containing the freeze-dried Sealer Protein Concentrate,
15 the Fibrinolysis Inhibitor Solution, and the thrombin were heated in a waterbath to
   37 0 C. The Fibrinolysis Inhibitor Solution was transferred into the vial containing the
   freeze-dried Sealer Protein Concentrate using the sterile reconstitution components
   provided with the DUPLOJECT Preparation and Application System. The vial was
   allowed to stand at 37 0 C for one minute then swirled briefly and vigorously with a
20 circular motion (avoiding excessive frothing) and placed into a water-bath for another
   15 minutes. The calcium chloride solution was transferred to the thrombin solution
   once warmed.
   Resuspension and Injection of Cells
25 Five million culture expanded immunoselected human MPCs in PBS were transferred
   to the diluted thrombin solution. The thrombin/cell solutions and reconstituted Sealer
   Protein solutions were then loaded into a modified DUPLOJECT Application system
   loaded with two needleless, Icc insulin syringes (Beckton Dickinson) and a 27G 5/8"
   needle (Beckton Dickinson).
30
   Forty-eight hours after LAD ligation and infarction of nude rats, the left thoracotomy
   incision was reopened and adhesions were carefully lysed. The infarct zone was
   identified and 0.3cc total volume (containing 1 million cells in 1:5 diluted fibrin glue)
   was injected in three, equal divided doses into the peri-infarct region. The incision was
35 closed in layers and the animal recovered.         Following a further forty-eight hours

                                                 83
   animals were sacrificed, cardiac tissue obtained and total DNA was extracted by
   standard methods.
   PCR of human P-globulin gene was performed on rat extracted cardiac tissue DNA to
 5 estimate human cell survival from standard curves.
   Results and Discussion
   Figure 24 shows that culture expanded MPCs of the invention demonstrate increased
   survival in tissues in vivo when delivered in fribrin glue.
10
   It will be appreciated by persons skilled in the art that numerous variations and/or
   modifications may be made to the invention as shown in the specific embodiments
   without departing from the spirit or scope of the invention as broadly described. The
15 present embodiments are, therefore, to be considered in all respects as illustrative and
   not restrictive.
   All publications discussed above are incorporated herein in their entirety.
20 Any discussion of documents, acts, materials, devices, articles or the like which has
   been included in the present specification is solely for the purpose of providing a
   context for the present invention. It is not to be taken as an admission that any or all of
   these matters form part of the prior art base or were common general knowledge in the
   field relevant to the present invention as it existed before the priority date of each claim
25 of this application.

                                                 84
   References
           Allcock et al. (1977) Synthesis of Poly[(amino acid alkyl ester)phosphazenes]
   Macromolecule 10, 824-830.
 5         Anseth et al. (2002) In situ forming degradable networks and their application in
   tissue engineering and drug delivery. J ControlRelease 78, 199-209.
           Bianco et al. (2001). Bone marrow stromal stem cells: nature, biology, and
   potential applications. Stem Cells 19, 180-92.
           Bregni et al. (1992). Human peripheral blood hematopoietic progenitors are
10 optimal targets of retroviral-mediated gene transfer. Blood 80, 1418-22.
           Chatterjee et al. (1996) Adeno-associated virus vectors for gene therapy of the
   hematopoietic system. Curr Top MicrobiolImmunol 218, 61-73.
           Cole et al. (1984) Human monoclonal antibodies. Mol. Cell Biochem. 62, 109
   20.
15         Cote et al. (1983) Generation of human monoclonal antibodies reactive with
   cellular antigens. Proc.Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 80, 2026-30.
           Danos et al. (1988) Safe and efficient generation of recombinant retroviruses
   with amphotropic and ecotropic host ranges. Proc.Natl. A cad. Sci. USA. 85, 6460-4
           De Broe et al. (1992). Introduction: recent developments in alkaline phosphatase
20 research. Clin Chem 38, 2485.
           Dennis et al. (2002). The STRO-1+ marrow cell population is multipotential.
   Cells Tissues Organs 170, 73-82.
           Ducy et al. (1997).     Osf2/Cbfal:      a transcriptional activator of osteoblast
   differentiation. Cell 89, 747-54.
25         Finer et al. (1994) kat: a high-efficiency retroviral transduction system for
   primary human T lymphocytes. Blood. 83, 43-50.
           Frey et al. (1998) High-efficiency gene transfer into ex vivo expanded human
   hematopoietic progenitors and precursor cells by adenovirus vectors. Blood 91, 2781
   92.
30         Fukushi et al. (1998).      Intracellular retention and degradation of tissue
   nonspecific alkaline phosphatase with a Gly317-->Asp substitution associated with
   lethal hypophosphatasia. Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 246, 613-8.
           Gronthos et al. (1994). The STRO-1+ fraction of adult human bone marrow
   contains the osteogenic precursors. Blood 84, 4164-73.
35         Gronthos et al. (2000). Postnatal human dental pulp stem cells (DPSCs) in vitro
   and invivo. Proc Natl Acad Sci USA 97, 13625-30.

                                               85
           Gronthos et al. (1995). The growth factor requirements of STRO-1-positive
   human bone marrow stromal precursors under serum-deprived conditions in vitro.
   Blood 85, 929-40.
           Gronthos et al. (1996). The biology and application of human bone marrow
 5 stromal cell precursors. JHematother5, 15-23.
           Gronthos et al. (1999). Differential cell surface expression of the STRO-1 and
   alkaline phosphatase antigens on discrete developmental stages in primary cultures of
   human bone cells. JBone Miner Res 14, 47-56.
           Gronthos et al. (2003). Molecular and cellular characterisation of highly purified
10 stromal stem cells derived from human bone marrow. J Cell Sci 116, 1827-35.
           Harris (1990) The human alkaline phosphatases: what we know and what we
   don't know. Clin. Chim. Acta 186, 133-50.
           Hooper (1997). Glycosyl-phosphatidylinositol anchored membrane enzymes.
   Clin. Chim. Acta 266, 3-12.
15         Hutmacher et al. (2001) Scaffold design and fabrication technologies for
   engineering tissues--state of the art and future perspectives. J Biomater Sci Polym Ed.
   12, 107-124.
           Kohler et al. (1975). Continuous cultures of fused cells secreting antibody of
   predefined specificity. Nature 256, 495-7.
20         Kozbor et al. (1985).     Specific immunoglobulin production and enhanced
   tumorigenicity following ascites growth of human hybridomas. J. Immunol. Methods
   81, 31-42.
           Magnusson et al. (2002). Monoclonal antibodies against tissue-nonspecific
   alkaline phosphatase. Report of the ISOBM TD9 workshop. Tumour Biol 23, 228-48.
25         McComb et al. (1979). Alkaline Phosphatases, Plenum Press, New York.
           Miller et al. (1986) Redesign of retrovirus packaging cell lines to avoid
   recombination leading to helper virus production. Mol Cell Biol. 6, 2895-902.
           Miller et al. (1989) Improved retroviral vectors for gene transfer and expression.
   Biotechniques. 7, 980-82, 984-86, 989-990.
30         Miura et al. (1994) Differences between the sugar moieties of liver- and bone
   type alkaline phosphatases: a re-evaluation. Ann. Clin. Biochem. 31, 25-30.
           Mornet et al. (2001). Structural evidence for a functional role of human tissue
   nonspecific alkaline phosphatase in bone mineralization. J Biol. Chem. 276, 31171-8.
           Moss (1992). Perspectives in alkaline phosphatase research. Clin Chem 38,
35 2486-92.

                                               86
           Mulivor et al. (1985). Quantitative analysis of alkaline phosphatases in serum
   and amniotic fluid: comparison of biochemical and immunologic assays. J Lab. Clin.
   Med. 105, 342-8.
           Nosjean et al. (1997). Human tissue non-specific alkaline phosphatases: sugar
 5 moiety-induced enzymic and antigenic modulations and genetic aspects. Biochem. J
   321, 297-303.
           Oda et al. (1999). A general method for rapid purification of soluble versions of
   glycosylphosphatidylinositol-anchored proteins expressed in insect cells: an application
   for human tissue-nonspecific alkaline phosphatase. J Biochem. (Tokyo) 126, 694-9.
10         Owen et al. (1988). Stromal stem cells: marrow-derived osteogenic precursors.
   Ciba FoundSymp 136, 42-60.
           Pear et al. (1993) Production of High-Titer Helper-Free Retroviruses by
   Transient Transfection. ProcNatl Acad Sci USA. 90, 8392-8396.
           Pearson et al. (1988). Improved tools for biological sequence comparison. Proc.
15 NatI. Acad. Sci. USA 85, 24444-8.
           Prockop (1997). Marrow stromal cells as stem cells for nonhematopoietic
   tissues. Science 276, 71-4.
           Quesenbery et al. (eds) (1998) Stem Cell Biology and Gene Therapy, John
   Wiley & Sons.
20         Rucker et al. (1996) Regions in beta-chemokine receptors CCR5 and CCR2b
   that determine HIV-1 cofactor specificity. Cell 87, 437-46 .
           Sato et al. (1994). Preferential usage of the bone-type leader sequence for the
   transcripts of liver/bone/kidney-type alkaline phosphatase gene in neutrophilic
   granulocytes. Blood 83, 1093-101.
25         Simmons et al. (1991). Identification of stromal cell precursors in human bone
   marrow by a novel monoclonal antibody, STRO-1. Blood 78, 55-62.
           Stewart et al. (1999). Further characterization of cells expressing STRO-1 in
   cultures of adult human bone marrow stromal cells. JBone Miner Res 14, 1345-56.
           Wang et al. (2003) Synthesis and characterization of a novel degradable
30 phosphate-containing hydrogel. Biomaterials24, 3969-3980.
           Weiss et al. (1986). Isolation and characterization of a cDNA encoding a human
   liver/bone/kidney-type alkaline phosphatase. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 83, 7182-6.
           Weiss et al. (1988). Structure of the human liver/bone/kidney alkaline
   phosphatase gene. JBiol Chem 263, 12002-10.
35         Whyte (1994). Hypophosphatasia and the role of alkaline phosphatase in
   skeletal mineralization. EndocrRev 15, 439-61.

                                               87
          Xu et al. (1994). Correction of the enzyme deficiency in hematopoietic cells of
  Gaucher patients using a clinically acceptable retroviral supernatant transduction
  protocol. Exp. Hemat. 22, 223-30.
          Zannettino et al. (1996). A powerful new technique for isolating genes encoding
5 cell surface antigens using retroviral expression cloning. JImmunol 156, 611-20.
          Zannettino et al. (1998) The sialomucin CD164 (MGC-24v) is an adhesive
  glycoprotein expressed by human hematopoietic progenitors and bone marrow stromal
  cells that serves as a potent negative regulator of hematopoiesis. Blood 92, 2613-28.

                                                   88
   Claims
   1.      Use of TNAP as a marker for the identification and/or enrichment of adult
   multipotential cells.
 5
   2.      A method of enriching for adult multipotential cells, the method comprising
   preparing a cell sample from a tissue source and enriching for adult multipotential cells
   that express the TNAP marker.
10 3.      A method according to claim 2 which comprises:
           contacting the cell sample with a TNAP binding agent under conditions that
   allows binding of TNAP to the TNAP binding agent; and
           separating cells bound to the TNAP binding agent.
15 4.      A method according to claim 2 or claim 3 wherein the tissue source is selected
   from the group consisting of adipose tissue, teeth, dental pulp, skin, liver, kidney, heart,
   retina, brain, hair follicles, intestine, lung, spleen, lymph node, thymus, pancreas, bone,
   ligament, bone marrow, tendon and skeletal muscle.
20 5.      A method according to claim 3 or claim 4 wherein the TNAP binding agent
   binds to the LAP, KAP and/or BAP isoforms of TNAP.
   6.      A method according to claim 3 or claim 4 wherein the TNAP binding agent
   binds specifically to the BAP isoform of TNAP.
25
   7.      A method according to any one of claims 3 to 6 wherein the TNAP binding
   agent is an anti-TNAP antibody.
   8.      A method according to claim 7 wherein the anti-TNAP antibody is an antibody
30 that binds to the same epitope as the STRO-3 antibody produced by the hybridoma cell
   line deposited with ATCC on 19 December 2005 under the provisions of the Budapest
   Treaty under deposit accession number PTA-7282.
   9.      A method according to claim 7 or claim 8 wherein the anti-TNAP antibody is
35 monoclonal antibody.

                                               89
   10.     A method according to claim 9 wherein the anti-TNAP monoclonal antibody is
   the STRO-3 antibody produced by the hybridoma cell line deposited with ATCC on 19
   December 2005 under the provisions of the Budapest Treaty under deposit accession
   number PTA-7282.
 5
   11.     A method according to any one of claims 3 to 10 wherein the method further
   comprises contacting the cells with a binding agent that binds to a marker selected from
   the group consisting of LFA-3, THY-1, VCAM-1, ICAM-1, PECAM-1, P-selectin, L
   selectin, CD49a/CD49b/CD29, CD49c/CD29, CD49d/CD29, CD29, CD18, CD61,
10 integrin beta, 6-19, thrombomodulin, CD10, CD13, SCF, PDGF-R, EGF-R, IGF1-R,
   NGF-R, FGF-R, Leptin-R, (STRO-2 = Leptin-R), RANKL STRO-l ri, and CD146 or
   any combination of these markers.
   12.     A method according to any one of claims 3 to 11 wherein the TNAP binding
15 agent is labelled.
   13.     A method according to any one of claims 3 to 11 wherein the TNAP binding
   agent is coupled to a fluorescent labelling compound.
20 14.     A method according to claim 13 wherein the separation of cells bound to the
   TNAP binding agent is carried out using a fluorescence-activated cell sorter (FACS).
   15.     A method according to any one of claims 3 to 11 wherein the TNAP binding
   agent is linked to a solid particle.
25
   16.     A method according to claim 15 wherein the solid particle is a magnetic particle.
   17.     A method for identifying the presence of an adult multipotential cell in a cell
   sample, the method comprising identifying cells in the sample that express the TNAP
30 marker.
   18.     An enriched population of adult multipotential cells obtained by a method
   according to any one of claims I to 16.
35 19.     An enriched population of TNAP+ adult multipotential cells.

                                                 90
   20.     An expanded cell population obtained by culturing an enriched population of
   adult multipotential cells according to claim 18 or claim 19.
   21.     An enriched population of claim 18 or claim 19, or an expanded cell population
 5 of claim 20, which comprises a genetically modified cell(s).
   22.     A method of generating a tissue specific committed cell population, the method
   comprising
           culturing a population of adult multipotential cells according to claim 18, claim
10 19 or claim 21 in the presence of one or more stimulatory factors; and
           subjecting said cultured population to conditions biasing differentiation of the
   adult multipotential cells to a specific tissue type.
   23.     A method according to claim 21 wherein the tissue type is selected from the
15 group consisting of cardiac muscle, vascular tissue, bone tissue, neural tissue, smooth
   muscle and endothelial tissue.
   24.     A method according to claim 22 or claim 23, wherein the stimulatory factor is
   selected from the group consisting of la,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3 (1,25D), platelet
20 derived growth factor (PDGF), tumor necrosis factor a (TNF- a), interleukin -1P (IL
   1p ) and stromal derived factor 1a (SDF- 1a).
   25.     A composition comprising a population of enriched adult multipotential cells
   according to claim 18 or claim 19 and/or an expanded cell population of claim 20.
25
   26.     A composition according to claim 24 further comprising a stimulatory factor.
   27.     A composition according to claim 26 wherein the stimulatory factor is selected
   from the group consisting of la,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3 (1,25D), platelet derived
30 growth factor (PDGF), tumor necrosis factor u (TNF- a), interleukin -1 P (IL-1I3) and
   stromal derived factor la (SDF-la).
   28.     A composition according to any one of claims 25 to 27 which further comprises
   a fibrin glue.
35

                                               91
   29.     A method for generating or repairing tissue in a subject, the method comprising
   administering to the subject an enriched or expanded cell population according to any
   one of claims 18 to 21.
 5 30.     A method for generating or repairing tissue in a subject, the method comprising
   administering to the subject a composition according to any one of claims 25 to 28.
   31.     A method according to claim 29 or claim 30 wherein the tissue is bone or
   cartilage tissue.
10
   32.     A method according to any one of claims 29 to 31 wherein the tissue is used to
   anchor a prosthetic device.
   33.     A method according to claim 29 or claim 30 wherein the tissue is cardiac tissue.
15
   34.     A method according to claim 29 or claim 30 wherein the subject has, or will,
   undergo a bone marrow transplantation.
   35.     A method according to any one of claims 29 to 34 wherein at least some of the
20 cells are genetically modified.
   36.     Use of an enriched or expanded cell population according to any one of claims
   18 to 21 for the manufacture of a medicament for generating or repairing tissue in a
   subject.
25
   37.     Use of a composition according to any one of claims 25 to 28 for the
   manufacture of a medicament for generating or repairing tissue in a subject.
   38.     An isolated cell which has been obtained by a method according to any one of
30 claims 1 to 16, or a progeny cell thereof, wherein the cell is genetically modified.
   39.     An isolated cell according to claim 38, wherein the adult multipotential cell, or
   progeny thereof, is genetically modified to express a heterologous protein.
35 40.     An isolated cell according to claim 39, wherein the heterologous protein is
   selected from the group consisting of la,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3 (1,25D), platelet

                                              92
   derived growth factor (PDGF), tumor necrosis factor a (TNF- a), interleukin -1p (IL
   1P), stromal derived factor la (SDF-la), BMP-2, BMP-3, BMP-4, BMP-6 and BMP-7.
   41.     A STRO-3 hybridoma cell line deposited with ATCC on 19 December 2005
 5 under the provisions of the Budapest Treaty under deposit accession number PTA
   7282.
   42.     A STRO-3 antibody produced by the hybridoma cell line deposited with ATCC
   on 19 December 2005 under the provisions of the Budapest Treaty under deposit
10 accession number PTA-7282.
   43.     An isolated antibody which binds to the same epitope on multipotential cells as
   the STRO-3 antibody produced by the hybridoma cell line deposited with ATCC on 19
   December 2005 under the provisions of the Budapest Treaty under deposit accession
15 number PTA-7282.
   44.     A composition comprising an antibody according to claim 42 or claim 43.
   45.     A kit comprising an enriched cell population according to claim 18 or claim 19,
20 an expanded cell population according to claim 20, a composition according to any one
   of claims 25 to 28 or 44, an isolated cell according to any one of claims 38 to 40, a
   hybridoma according to claim 41 and/or an antibody according to claim 42 or claim 43.

<removed-date>
                          1 / 24
<removed-apn>
              STRO-3 Antigen Expression (PE)
                        Figure 1

<removed-date>
                2 / 24
<removed-apn>
              M STRO-3 Antigen
               Figure 2

<removed-date>
                                                      3 / 24
              BLASTN 1.4.8MP [20-June-1995] [Build 16:33:28 Sep 5 1995]
              Reference: Altschul, Stephen F., Warren Gish, Webb Miller, Eugene W. Myers,
              and David J. Lipman (1990). Basic local alignment search tool. J. Mol.
              Biol. 215:403-10.
<removed-apn>
              Query= az4 (821 letters)
              Database: Non-redundant PDB+GBupdate+GenBank+EMBLupdate+EMBL 534,094
              sequences; 373,855,830 total letters.
              Smallest Sum High   Probability
              Sequences producing High-scoring Segment Pairs: Score   P(N)       N
              gb|H37944|H37944 yp47b08.r1 Homo sapiens cDNA clone 190551 5' similar to gb:X14174
              ALKALINE PHOSPHATASE, TISSUE-NONSPECIFIC ISOZYME
              PRECURSOR (HUMAN);. Length = 484 Plus Strand HSPs:
              Score = 936 (258.6 bits), Expect = 3.0e-144, Sum P(5) = 3.0e-144
              Identities = 188/189 (99%), Positives = 188/189 (99%), Strand = Plus / Plus
              Query:   123 CCGTGCTCCCACGCGCTTGTGCCTGGACGGACCCTCGCCAGTGCTCTGCGCAGGATTGGA 182
                          ||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||
              Sbjct:   26 CTGTGCTCCCACGCGCTTGTGCCTGGACGGACCCTCGCCAGTGCTCTGCGCAGGATTGGA 85
              Query:   183 ACATCAGTTAACATCTGACCACTGCCAGCCCACCCCCTCCCACCCACGTCGATTGCATCT 242
                          ||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||
              Sbjct:   86 ACATCAGTTAACATCTGACCACTGCCAGCCCACCCCCTCCCACCCACGTCGATTGCATCT 145
              Query:   243 CTGGGCTCCAGGGATAAAGCAGGTCTTGGGGTGCACCATGATTTCACCATTCTTAGTACT 302
                          ||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||
              Sbjct:   146 CTGGGCTCCAGGGATAAAGCAGGTCTTGGGGTGCACCATGATTTCACCATTCTTAGTACT 205
              Query:   303 GGCCATTGGCACCTGCCTTACTAACTCCTTAGTGCCAGAGAAAGAGAAAGACCCCAAGTA 262
                          |||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||
              Sbjct:   206 GGCCATTGGACCTGCCTTACTAACTCCTTAGTGCCAGAGAAAGAGAAAGACCCCAAGTAC 265
              Query:   263 CTGGCGAGACCAAGCGCAAGAGACACTGAAATATGCCCTNGGAGCTTCAGAAGCTCAAAT 422
                          ||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||
              Sbjct:   266 TGGCGGAGACCAAGCGCAAGAGACACTGAAATATGCCCTGGGAGCTTCAGAAGCTCAAAT 322
              Query:   423 ATTGTCATCATGTTCCCTGGGAGATGGATTGGGNTTGTC 479
                          |||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||
              Sbjct:   323 AATGTCATCATGTTCCTGGGGAGATGGGATGGGTGTCTC 377
                                                  Figure 3

           <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                               4 / 24
Figure 4

           <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                               5 / 24
Figure 5

           <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                               6 / 24
Figure 6

           <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                               7 / 24
Figure 7

                                   <removed-apn>    <removed-date>
                   CFU-F per 10^5 cells plated
           Pre
                                                        8 / 24
Figure 8   TNAP+
           TNAP-

            <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
           TNAP PE
                                9 / 24
Figure 9

            <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                10 / 24
Figure 10

            <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                    11 / 24
Figure 11
                         TNAP
                         Selected

            <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
Figure 12                       12 / 24

                                            <removed-apn>     <removed-date>
            P2
Figure 13                                                          13 / 24
            P5
                 IgG isotype   TNAP   CC9   IgM isotype   STRO-1
                                            control

<removed-date>
                14 / 24
                          Figure 11
<removed-apn>
              Figure 14

<removed-date>
                                                  15 / 24
                                                         X (ug Ca/ml) OD-550nm   -blank
                                                             0           0.000
<removed-apn>
                                                           0.05          0.025
                                                           0.1           0.054
                                                           0.2           0.121
                                                           0.4           0.265
                                                           0.6           0.383
                                                           0.8           0.466
                                                             1           0.534
              Slope of the regression line      0.5752
              Results                          # ug Calcium/well
              Lot 2242A
              Control sample                      0   ug Calcium/well
              Test sample                        57.2 ug Calcium/well
              Lot 2070C
              Control sample                    -0.174 ug Calcium/well
              Test sample                       85.83 ug Calcium/well
                                             Figure 15

            <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                16 / 24
Figure 16

            <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
Figure 17                       17 / 24

            <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                18 / 24
Figure 18

                                          <removed-apn>     <removed-date>
                                             *p<0.05
            flexion   lateral extension                torsion
                                                                 19 / 24
Figure 19

            <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
Figure 20                       20 / 24

            <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                21 / 24
Figure 21

<removed-date>
                              22 / 24
<removed-apn>
              control media             1M TNAP selected cells
                        Figure 22

<removed-date>
                                            23 / 24
                          (B)
              % change in DVOL from pre-infarct
                baseline in a sheet HF model
<removed-apn>
                                                      (A)
                            (C)
                                                       TNAP+ cells
                                         Figure 23

                    <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
            Number of Cells
                                        24 / 24
Figure 24

                                                     1/7
                                       SEQUENCE LISTING
<removed-date>
              <110>   Angioblast Systems, Inc.
              <120>   Marker for enrichment of adult multipotential cells
              <130>   504292
              <150>   US 60/670,250
              <151>   2005-04-12
              <160>   3
<removed-apn>
              <170>   PatentIn version 3.1
              <210>   1
              <211>   524
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Homo sapiens
              <400>   1
              Met Ile Ser Pro Phe Leu Val Leu Ala Ile Gly Thr Cys Leu Thr Asn
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ser Leu Val Pro Glu Lys Glu Lys Asp Pro Lys Tyr Trp Arg Asp Gln
                          20                  25                  30
              Ala Gln Glu Thr Leu Lys Tyr Ala Leu Glu Leu Gln Lys Leu Asn Thr
                      35                  40                  45
              Asn Val Ala Lys Asn Val Ile Met Phe Leu Gly Asp Gly Met Gly Val
                  50                  55                  60
              Ser Thr Val Thr Ala Ala Arg Ile Leu Lys Gly Gln Leu His His Asn
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Pro Gly Glu Glu Thr Arg Leu Glu Met Asp Lys Phe Pro Phe Val Ala
                              85                  90                  95
              Leu Ser Lys Thr Tyr Asn Thr Asn Ala Gln Val Pro Asp Ser Ala Gly
                          100                 105                 110
              Thr Ala Thr Ala Tyr Leu Cys Gly Val Lys Ala Asn Glu Gly Thr Val
                      115                 120                 125
              Gly Val Ser Ala Ala Thr Glu Arg Ser Arg Cys Asn Thr Thr Gln Gly
                  130                 135                 140
              Asn Glu Val Thr Ser Ile Leu Arg Trp Ala Lys Asp Ala Gly Lys Ser
              145                 150                 155                 160

                                                    2/7
<removed-date>
              Val Gly Ile Val Thr Thr Thr Arg Val Asn His Ala Thr Pro Ser Ala
                              165                 170                 175
              Ala Tyr Ala His Ser Ala Asp Arg Asp Trp Tyr Ser Asp Asn Glu Met
                          180                 185                 190
              Pro Pro Glu Ala Leu Ser Gln Gly Cys Lys Asp Ile Ala Tyr Gln Leu
                      195                 200                 205
<removed-apn>
              Met His Asn Ile Arg Asp Ile Asp Val Ile Met Gly Gly Gly Arg Lys
                  210                 215                 220
              Tyr Met Tyr Pro Lys Asn Lys Thr Asp Val Glu Tyr Glu Ser Asp Glu
              225                 230                 235                 240
              Lys Ala Arg Gly Thr Arg Leu Asp Gly Leu Asp Leu Val Asp Thr Trp
                              245                 250                 255
              Lys Ser Phe Lys Pro Arg Tyr Lys His Ser His Phe Ile Trp Asn Arg
                          260                 265                 270
              Thr Glu Leu Leu Thr Leu Asp Pro His Asn Val Asp Tyr Leu Leu Gly
                      275                 280                 285
              Leu Phe Glu Pro Gly Asp Met Gln Tyr Glu Leu Asn Arg Asn Asn Val
                  290                 295                 300
              Thr Asp Pro Ser Leu Ser Glu Met Val Val Val Ala Ile Gln Ile Leu
              305                 310                 315                 320
              Arg Lys Asn Pro Lys Gly Phe Phe Leu Leu Val Glu Gly Gly Arg Ile
                              325                 330                 335
              Asp His Gly His His Glu Gly Lys Ala Lys Gln Ala Leu His Glu Ala
                          340                 345                 350
              Val Glu Met Asp Arg Ala Ile Gly Gln Ala Gly Ser Leu Thr Ser Ser
                      355                 360                 365
              Glu Asp Thr Leu Thr Val Val Thr Ala Asp His Ser His Val Phe Thr
                  370                 375                 380
              Phe Gly Gly Tyr Thr Pro Arg Gly Asn Ser Ile Phe Gly Leu Ala Pro
              385                 390                 395                 400

                                                    3/7
              Met Leu Ser Asp Thr Asp Lys Lys Pro Phe Thr Ala Ile Leu Tyr Gly
<removed-date>
                              405                 410                 415
              Asn Gly Pro Gly Tyr Lys Val Val Gly Gly Glu Arg Glu Asn Val Ser
                          420                 425                 430
              Met Val Asp Tyr Ala His Asn Asn Tyr Gln Ala Gln Ser Pro Val Pro
                      435                 440                 445
              Leu Arg His Glu Thr His Gly Gly Glu Asp Val Ala Val Phe Ser Lys
<removed-apn>
                  450                 455                 460
              Gly Pro Met Ala His Leu Leu His Gly Val His Glu Gln Asn Tyr Val
              465                 470                 475                 480
              Pro His Val Met Ala Tyr Ala Ala Cys Ile Gly Ala Asn Leu Gly His
                              485                 490                 495
              Cys Ala Pro Ala Ser Ser Ala Gly Ser Leu Ala Ala Gly Pro Leu Leu
                          500                 505                 510
              Leu Ala Leu Ala Leu Tyr Pro Leu Ser Val Leu Phe
                      515                 520
              <210>   2
              <211>   524
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Mus musculus
              <400>   2
              Met Ile Ser Pro Phe Leu Val Leu Ala Ile Gly Thr Cys Leu Thr Asn
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ser Phe Val Pro Glu Lys Glu Arg Asp Pro Ser Tyr Trp Arg Gln Gln
                          20                  25                  30
              Ala Gln Glu Thr Leu Lys Asn Ala Leu Lys Leu Gln Lys Leu Asn Thr
                      35                  40                  45
              Asn Val Ala Lys Asn Val Ile Met Phe Leu Gly Asp Gly Met Gly Val
                  50                  55                  60
              Ser Thr Val Thr Ala Ala Arg Ile Leu Lys Gly Gln Leu His His Asn
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Thr Gly Glu Glu Thr Arg Leu Glu Met Asp Lys Phe Pro Phe Val Ala
                              85                  90                  95

                                                    4/7
<removed-date>
              Leu Ser Lys Thr Tyr Asn Thr Asn Ala Gln Val Pro Asp Ser Ala Gly
                          100                 105                 110
              Thr Ala Thr Ala Tyr Leu Cys Gly Val Lys Ala Asn Glu Gly Thr Val
                      115                 120                 125
              Gly Val Ser Ala Ala Thr Glu Arg Thr Arg Cys Asn Thr Thr Gln Gly
                  130                 135                 140
<removed-apn>
              Asn Glu Val Thr Ser Ile Leu Arg Trp Ala Lys Asp Ala Gly Lys Ser
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Val Gly Ile Val Thr Thr Thr Arg Val Asn His Ala Thr Pro Ser Ala
                              165                 170                 175
              Ala Tyr Ala His Ser Ala Asp Arg Asp Trp Tyr Ser Asp Asn Glu Met
                          180                 185                 190
              Pro Pro Glu Ala Leu Ser Gln Gly Cys Lys Asp Ile Ala Tyr Gln Leu
                      195                 200                 205
              Met His Asn Ile Lys Asp Ile Asp Val Ile Met Gly Gly Gly Arg Lys
                  210                 215                 220
              Tyr Met Tyr Pro Lys Asn Arg Thr Asp Val Glu Tyr Glu Leu Asp Glu
              225                 230                 235                 240
              Lys Ala Arg Gly Thr Arg Leu Asp Gly Leu Asp Leu Ile Ser Ile Trp
                              245                 250                 255
              Lys Ser Phe Lys Pro Arg His Lys His Ser His Tyr Val Trp Asn Arg
                          260                 265                 270
              Thr Glu Leu Leu Ala Leu Asp Pro Ser Arg Val Asp Tyr Leu Leu Gly
                      275                 280                 285
              Leu Phe Glu Pro Gly Asp Met Gln Tyr Glu Leu Asn Arg Asn Asn Leu
                  290                 295                 300
              Thr Asp Pro Ser Leu Ser Glu Met Val Glu Val Ala Leu Arg Ile Leu
              305                 310                 315                 320
              Thr Lys Asn Leu Lys Gly Phe Phe Leu Leu Val Glu Gly Gly Arg Ile
                              325                 330                 335

                                                    5/7
<removed-date>
              Asp His Gly His His Glu Gly Lys Ala Lys Gln Ala Leu His Glu Ala
                          340                 345                 350
              Val Glu Met Asp Gln Ala Ile Gly Lys Ala Gly Ala Met Thr Ser Gln
                      355                 360                 365
              Lys Asp Thr Leu Thr Val Val Thr Ala Asp His Ser His Val Phe Thr
                  370                 375                 380
<removed-apn>
              Phe Gly Gly Tyr Thr Pro Arg Gly Asn Ser Ile Phe Gly Leu Ala Pro
              385                 390                 395                 400
              Met Val Ser Asp Thr Asp Lys Lys Pro Phe Thr Ala Ile Leu Tyr Gly
                              405                 410                 415
              Asn Gly Pro Gly Tyr Lys Val Val Asp Gly Glu Arg Glu Asn Val Ser
                          420                 425                 430
              Met Val Asp Tyr Ala His Asn Asn Tyr Gln Ala Gln Ser Ala Val Pro
                      435                 440                 445
              Leu Arg His Glu Thr His Gly Gly Glu Asp Val Ala Val Phe Ala Lys
                  450                 455                 460
              Gly Pro Met Ala His Leu Leu His Gly Val His Glu Gln Asn Tyr Ile
              465                 470                 475                 480
              Pro His Val Met Ala Tyr Ala Ser Cys Ile Gly Ala Asn Leu Asp His
                              485                 490                 495
              Cys Ala Trp Ala Gly Ser Gly Ser Ala Pro Ser Pro Gly Ala Leu Leu
                          500                 505                 510
              Leu Pro Leu Ala Val Leu Ser Leu Pro Thr Leu Phe
                      515                 520
              <210>   3
              <211>   524
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Rattus norvegicus
              <400>   3
              Met Ile Leu Pro Phe Leu Val Leu Ala Ile Gly Pro Cys Leu Thr Asn
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ser Phe Val Pro Glu Lys Glu Lys Asp Pro Ser Tyr Trp Arg Gln Gln

                                                    6/7
                         20                  25                  30
<removed-date>
              Ala Gln Glu Thr Leu Lys Asn Ala Leu Lys Leu Gln Lys Leu Asn Thr
                      35                  40                  45
              Asn Val Ala Lys Asn Ile Ile Met Phe Leu Gly Asp Gly Met Gly Val
                  50                  55                  60
              Ser Thr Val Thr Ala Ala Arg Ile Leu Lys Gly Gln Leu His His Asn
              65                  70                  75                  80
<removed-apn>
              Thr Gly Glu Glu Thr Arg Leu Glu Met Asp Lys Phe Pro Phe Val Ala
                              85                  90                  95
              Leu Ser Lys Thr Tyr Asn Thr Asn Ala Gln Val Pro Asp Ser Ala Gly
                          100                 105                 110
              Thr Ala Thr Ala Tyr Leu Cys Gly Val Lys Ala Asn Glu Gly Thr Val
                      115                 120                 125
              Gly Val Ser Ala Ala Thr Glu Arg Thr Arg Cys Asn Thr Thr Gln Gly
                  130                 135                 140
              Asn Glu Val Thr Ser Ile Leu Arg Trp Ala Lys Asp Ala Gly Lys Ser
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Val Gly Ile Val Thr Thr Thr Arg Val Asn His Ala Thr Pro Ser Ala
                              165                 170                 175
              Ala Tyr Ala His Ser Ala Asp Arg Asp Trp Tyr Ser Asp Asn Glu Met
                          180                 185                 190
              Arg Pro Glu Ala Leu Ser Gln Gly Cys Lys Asp Ile Ala Tyr Gln Leu
                      195                 200                 205
              Met His Asn Ile Lys Asp Ile Asp Val Ile Met Gly Gly Gly Arg Lys
                  210                 215                 220
              Tyr Met Tyr Pro Lys Asn Arg Thr Asp Val Glu Tyr Glu Leu Asp Glu
              225                 230                 235                 240
              Lys Ala Arg Gly Thr Arg Leu Asp Gly Leu Asp Leu Ile Ser Ile Trp
                              245                 250                 255
              Lys Ser Phe Lys Pro Arg His Lys His Ser His Tyr Val Trp Asn Arg
                          260                 265                 270

                                                    7/7
<removed-date>
              Thr Glu Leu Leu Ala Leu Asp Pro Ser Arg Val Asp Tyr Leu Leu Gly
                      275                 280                 285
              Leu Phe Glu Pro Gly Asp Met Gln Tyr Glu Leu Asn Arg Asn Asn Leu
                  290                 295                 300
              Thr Asp Pro Ser Leu Ser Glu Met Val Glu Val Ala Leu Arg Ile Leu
              305                 310                 315                 320
<removed-apn>
              Thr Lys Asn Pro Lys Gly Phe Phe Leu Leu Val Glu Gly Gly Arg Ile
                              325                 330                 335
              Asp His Gly His His Glu Gly Lys Ala Lys Gln Ala Leu His Glu Ala
                          340                 345                 350
              Val Glu Met Asp Glu Ala Ile Gly Lys Ala Gly Thr Met Thr Ser Gln
                      355                 360                 365
              Lys Asp Thr Leu Thr Val Val Thr Ala Asp His Ser His Val Phe Thr
                  370                 375                 380
              Phe Gly Gly Tyr Thr Pro Arg Gly Asn Ser Ile Phe Gly Leu Ala Pro
              385                 390                 395                 400
              Met Val Ser Asp Thr Asp Lys Lys Pro Phe Thr Ala Ile Leu Tyr Gly
                              405                 410                 415
              Asn Gly Pro Gly Tyr Lys Val Val Asp Gly Glu Arg Glu Asn Val Ser
                          420                 425                 430
              Met Val Asp Tyr Ala His Asn Asn Tyr Gln Ala Gln Ser Ala Val Pro
                      435                 440                 445
              Leu Arg His Glu Thr His Gly Gly Glu Asp Val Ala Val Phe Ala Lys
                  450                 455                 460
              Gly Pro Met Ala His Leu Leu His Gly Val His Glu Gln Asn Tyr Ile
              465                 470                 475                 480
              Pro His Val Met Ala Tyr Ala Ser Cys Ile Gly Ala Asn Leu Asp His
                              485                 490                 495
              Cys Ala Trp Ala Ser Ser Ala Ser Ser Pro Ser Pro Gly Ala Leu Leu
                          500                 505                 510
              Leu Pro Leu Ala Leu Phe Pro Leu Arg Thr Leu Phe
                      515                 520

