                                     ABSTRACT
The invention belongs to the public safety field and provides a method of calling
the elevator and an elevator. The method includes recording the matching
relationship between the elevator leading to the underground garage and the
specific calling terminal; when the elevator receives the calling signal, it will
decide whether the calling signal comes from the specific calling terminal; when
the calling signal comes from the specific calling terminal, only the elevator
leading to the underground garage will be activated; when the calling signal does
not come from the specific calling terminal, the nearest elevator closed to the
calling terminal will be activated.   The invention enhances the efficiency of the
operation of elevator by activating different elevators according to the calling
signal received from different calling terminals.

                                    1/1
                                                              S100
           Recording the matching relationship between
              the elevator leading to the underground
               garage and the specific calling terminal
                Detecting the corresponding               S101
          terminals when the elevator receives
                     the calling signal
When the calling signal comes from the specific calling          S102
terminal, only the elevator leading to the underground
 garage will be activated; when the calling signal does
not come from the specific calling terminal, the nearest
elevator closed to the calling terminal will be activated.
                                   Figure 1
                                                     21
                            recording unit
                                                 22
                       detecting unit
                                                       23
                         responding unit
                                   Figure 2

                                              1
                METHOD OF CALLING THE ELEVATOR AND AN ELEVATOR
   TECHNICAL FIELD
           The invention belongs to the public safety field and provides a method for
 5 calling the elevator and an elevator.
   BACKGROUND TECHNOLOGY
           Elevator is necessary in today's urban life. The current situation is that:
   generally, there are many elevators in one building. Among the elevators, some
10 are going to the ground floor whereas some are going to the underground garage.
           Under the current elevator operation system, when user push the button to
   call the elevator, then the nearby elevator will correspond (the elevator will open
   the door on the floor where the user push the calling button). The shortage of this
   kind of elevator operation system is that when a user will go to the underground
15 and while the elevator nearby the user does not lead to the underground garage,
   the user may have to take this elevator down to the ground and then change to
   another elevator going to the underground garage or he /she may have to call for
   another elevator to go to the underground garage (he/she does not know whether
   the corresponding elevator will go to the underground garage).
20         In conclusion, the current elevator operation system result in delay
   treatment and affect the use efficiency of the elevator.
   CONTENTS OF INVENTION
           The invention is aimed to solve the current situation that the current
25 elevator operation system result in delay treatment and affect the use efficiency of
   the elevator. The invention provides a method of calling elevator.
           The invention is realized as the following: a method for calling an elevator,
   comprising the following steps:
           recording the matching relationship between the elevator leading to the
30 underground garage and the specific calling terminal;
           detecting whether the calling signal is from the specific calling device when
   the elevator receives the calling signal;

                                               2
           detecting the opening time of the current elevator door when the elevator
   door is opened; and
           activating the elevator leading to the underground garage when the calling
   signal is from specific calling device; when the calling signal is not from specific
 5 calling device, the closest elevator nearby the floor which the calling device is
   located will be activated.
           Specifically, the mentioned specific calling device has been set in the car
   keys and has recorded the specific floor, which can send messages to the calling
   terminals by putting the button on the keys.
10         The embodiment of the invention further provides an elevator, which
   comprises:
           a recording unit, a detecting unit and a responding unit, wherein
           the recording unit is used for recording the matching relationship between
   the elevator leading to the underground garage and the specific calling terminal;
15         the detecting unit is used for detecting whether the calling signal is from
   the specific calling device when the elevator receives the calling signal;
           the responding unit whose input unit is connected with the detecting unit, is
   used for activating the elevator leading to the underground garage when the
   calling signal is from specific calling device; when the calling signal is not from
20 specific calling device, the closest elevator nearby the floor which the calling
   device is located will be activated.
           The invention enhance the elevator operation efficiency by distinguishing
   the sending terminals of elevator calling signals and calling different elevators
   accordingly.
25
   BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
           FIG.1 is a process diagram of the method of calling elevator provided in
   this invention;
           FIG.2 is the structure diagram of the elevator provided in the embodiment.
30
   EMBODIMENTS
           In order to illustrate the purpose, technical scheme and advantages of the
   invention clearly, the invention is further described in details in combination with

                                              3
   the drawings and embodiments. It should be understood that the specific
   embodiment described here is used for explaining the invention only instead of
   limiting the invention.
           FIG.1 is a process diagram of the method for calling an elevator provided
 5 in the embodiment.        For explaining conveniently, the part related to the
   embodiment of the invention is shown only.
           In step S100, recording the matching relationship between the elevator
   leading to the underground garage and the specific calling terminal.
           This step can be distinguished by pre-setting the signal band of a particular
10 calling terminal, for example, setting the calling signal of the elevator to Signal A
   and Signal B, among which Signal A will correspond to normal calling method
   while Signal B will correspond to specific calling terminals.
           In step S101, when elevator receives the calling signals, it will detect
   whether the signal is from the specific calling terminal.
15         As shown in the last step, different calling terminals could be distinguished
   according to the type of calling signals.
           In step S102, when the calling signal is from the specific calling terminals,
   only the elevator going to the underground will be activated; when the calling
   signal is not from specific calling device, the closest elevator nearby the floor
20 which the calling device is located will be activated.
           Specifically, the mentioned specific calling device has been set in the car
   keys and has recorded the specific floor, which can send messages to the calling
   terminals by putting the button on the keys. Simultaneously, the specific calling
   device could also be different buttons in the calling panel of the elevator.
25         The invention enhances the elevator operation efficiency by distinguishing
   the sending terminals of elevator calling signals and calling different elevators
   accordingly.
           FIG.2 is the structure diagram of the elevator provided in the embodiment;
   and the elevator comprises:
30         a recording unit 21, a detecting unit 22 and a corresponding unit 23,
   wherein

                                              4
           the recording unit 21 is used for recording the matching relationship
   between the elevator leading to the underground garage and the specific calling
   terminal;
           the detecting unit 22 is used for detecting whether the calling signal is from
 5 the specific calling terminal when the elevator receives the calling signals;
           the responding unit 23, the input ends of which are respectively connected
   with the output end of the recording unit 21 and the output end of the detection
   unit 22, is used for activating the elevator going to the underground garage when
   the calling signal is from the specific calling terminals; when the calling signal is
10 not from specific calling device, the closest elevator nearby the floor which the
   calling device is located will be activated.
           Working principles: the recording unit 21 records the matching relationship
   between the elevator leading to the underground garage and the specific calling
   terminal; when the elevator receives the calling signal, the detecting unit 22 will
15 detect whether the calling signal is from the specific calling terminal; when the
   calling signal is from the specific calling terminal, the responding unit 23 will
   activate the elevator going to the underground garage only; when the calling
   signal is not from the specific calling terminal, the responding unit 23 will activate
   the closest elevator nearby the floor where the calling device is located.
20         The invention enhances the elevator operation efficiency by distinguishing
   the sending terminals of elevator calling signals and calling different elevators
   accordingly.
           The above is the better embodiment of the invention, not for limiting the
   invention. Any alteration, equivalent replacement and improvement without
25 departing from the spirit and principle of the invention should be in the protection
   scope of the invention.

                                               5
   CLAIMS:
   1.      A method of calling the elevator, comprising the following steps:
           recording the matching relationship between the elevator leading to the
   underground garage and the specific calling terminal;
 5         detecting the corresponding terminals when the elevator receives the
   calling signal;
           when the calling signal comes from the specific calling terminal, only the
   elevator leading to the underground garage will be activated; when the calling
   signal does not come from the specific calling terminal, the nearest elevator
10 closed to the calling terminal will be activated.
   2.      The method of claim 1, wherein the mentioned calling device is put in the
   car keys and has recorded the relevant floor, which could be sent to the elevator
   calling terminals by putting one button on the keys.
   3.      An elevator, comprising:
15         a recording unit, a detecting unit and a responding unit, wherein:
           the recording unit is used for recording the matching relationship between
   the elevator leading to the underground garage and the specific calling terminal;
           the detecting unit whose input unit is connected with the said recording
   unit, is used for detecting whether the calling signal is from the specific calling
20 device when the elevator receives the calling signal;
           the responding unit whose input unit is connected with the detecting unit, is
   used for activating the elevator leading to the underground garage when the
   calling signal is from specific calling device; when the calling signal is not from
   specific calling device, the closest elevator nearby the floor which the calling
25 device is located will be activated.

                                                 1/1
<removed-date>                                                                 S100
                         Recording the matching relationship between
                           the elevator leading to the underground
                            garage and the specific calling terminal
<removed-apn>
                            Detecting the corresponding                  S101
                        terminals when the elevator receives
                                  the calling signal
              When the calling signal comes from the specific calling           S102
              terminal, only the elevator leading to the underground
               garage will be activated; when the calling signal does
              not come from the specific calling terminal, the nearest
              elevator closed to the calling terminal will be activated.
                                                Figure 1
                                                                   21
                                         recording unit
                                                              22
                                     detecting unit
                                                                    23
                                       responding unit
                                                Figure 2

