ABSTRACT
Sydney Study Tour is an innovative program that combines STUDY and TOUR to provide
invaluable life changing support for FUTURE CAREER CHOICE and FUTURE EDUCATION
DIRECTION. This is aimed for mostly international participants who are anxious to discover
the NEW JOBS of the next few decades (Yr. 2020 - 2060) and the educational pathways to
fulfill those dreams.

        0
COMPLETE SPECIFICAITON
  INNOVATION PATENT

                                                   [1]
AN INNOVATIVE PROGRAM THAT COMBINES 'STUDY' and 'TOUR' TO PROVIDE
INVALUABLE LIFE CHANGING SUPPORT TO DISCOVER FUTURE CAREER OPPORTUNITIES
AND EDUCATION DIRECTION NEEDED FOR YEARS 2020 to 2060
BACKGROUND OF THE CONCEPT AND PROCESS INNOVATION
[0001] Most study tours are excursions or exchange programs with other schools. They are
aimed at understanding other school systems, education curriculum pedagogy, networking
to learn and do projects together or travel like a tourist.
[0002] Innovation: Sydney Study Tour's (SST's) unique and innovative "design" and
"delivery", is designed to help students explore their "future career opportunities" (2020 to
2060) and "Future Education Choices" through an experiential travel program.
[0003] The innovation is a unique Study Tour "concept" that provides international
participants future career opportunity and choice and future education need and direction.
Example, Artificial intelligence, machine learning, drone technology, virtual reality, robotics
etc. that will replace many jobs of today's in future. Students needs to be prepared for
these jobs through right education direction and career choices that no one is providing
today in a fun tour to Sydney from international locations and other destinations.
[0004] The innovation is also in the "Process". Integration of several elements of career,
education and life coaching needs are clubbed in one single format.
[0005] This is similar to the smartphone concept in education service, where multiple
services and benefit offering are clubbed in one. The details are below:
[0006] Unique Design Concept : The tour of international visitors is designed in 3 distinctive
components for a 360 degree experiential learning to support appropriate future career
choice and education direction that the new world (Yr.2020 -2060) will need. Jobs will be
created in sectors that will use artificial intelligence, machine learning, drone technology,
virtual reality, robotics etc. Therefore Part 1 of the tour is designed to deal with exposure to
Australian education system that will offer education in these new technologies. Example:
universities, institutions in different Australian locations, career pathways and career
counseling. Part 2 deals with exposure to industry, entrepreneurship and employment

                                                 [2]
scenario of the future and future opportunities in Australia and in global marketplace. Part 3
deals with socio-cultural fitment, soft skills required to succeed in the new world of
multicultural society, borderless world, education and employment environment and how
to become a global citizen with global cultural, communication and social skills. All 3
components are nested around a fun tour of international participants that includes all
iconic places of tourism interest to ensure experiential attractiveness of Australia and
memorability.
[0008] Unique design framework (concept): This study tour is uniquely designed around
the academic framework and PESTEL-CCC model for international participants that provides
an experiential analysis of Australia's Political, Economic, Social, Technological,
Environmental and Legal (PESTEL) context by visits to e.g. Canberra Parliament, ASX,
Innovation hubs, court system with experienced experts, educators and guides. This is
critical success factor for international participants, entrepreneurs and businesses for
Australia to be their preferred country of investments, career and education. The tour
focuses on experiencing Australian Customers, Clients and Citizens (CCC) that is part of the
experiential analysis of the Australian context.
[0009] Unique Delivery process: Unlike other tours which are delivered by travel and
tourism guides, this study tour is designed to be delivered by expert career counsellors,
industry experts, socio-cultural trainers, life skill coaches and educators (professors).
University visits are arranged to provide experiential knowledge of future's new skills and
related education opportunity. Industry workshops and visits are arranged to showcase
early adopters of future jobs like automated cars, drones, virtual reality based training in
mining industry, deep sea oil drilling rigs training using augmented reality technology,
robotics in accounting etc.
[0010] Patent protection is needed for such innovative new program for future readiness in
education and employment.
[0011] International Targeted segments are: students; workforce, professionals and
parents.

                                               [3]
[0012] Sydney Study Tour is aimed for mostly international participants who are anxious to
discover the NEW JOBS of the next few decades (Yr. 2020 - 2060) and the educational pathways to
fulfill those dreams.

                                                 [1]
CLAIMS Definitions:
a.   "Study Tour" means bringing individuals or groups to Australia from overseas or
     interstate locations.
b.   "Sydney Study Tour Purpose" means providing to individual or groups, knowledge,
     exposure, education, support, coaching, mentoring that helps in their "Career Choice"
     and "future education decision" in Australia or other countries.
c.   "Target Groups" means students, parents, executives, professionals and individuals
    from early workforce, mid-career executives and professionals, returning jobseekers,
     career changers, midlife reskill seekers and individuals.
d.   "Student" means individual pursuing knowledge, skills, qualifications, education in any
     levels of secondary, higher secondary, undergraduate, graduate, masters, post
    graduate, vocational education and training, certificate courses, professional
     development courses, executive education, corporate education, professional body
     education, coaching classes, in private or public educational institutions, academy,
     collages, training institutions, coaching institutes, and in home education in
     international and domestic locations.
e.   "Participants" means Groups or individual taking part in study tour using their personal
     means, sponsored by parents, relatives, community, clubs, charitable organizations,
     commercial organizations, corporates, award winners, government sponsored, semi
    government sponsored, or funded by any other means or free enrollments, from
     international and domestic locations.
f.   "Claim" mean concept claim, content claim, process claim, design claim, delivery claim,
     logistics claim, partnership model claim, and collaborative model claim.
CLAIMS
1.       Protection from anyone copying the unique concept of combining study and tour 2
in design, delivery, process, logistics, partnerships, and collaborations to exploit the "target

                                                 [2]
group" (as defined in the nomenclature herein). More specifically the design, delivery and
application elements of the concept, content and process to be protected are :
a.   Use of PESTEL-CCC model or alias like PEST model, PESTEL model in a study-tour to
     train, educate, coach, mentor or design program, to protect this ingenuity of application
     and intellectual and creative use of such academic framework.
b. The unique concept of experiential study tour for future "career choice" (new skills
     areas) and future "education decision" (in new knowledge areas) in Australia by
     combining study and tour in a 2 in 1 design for international and domestic
     "participants" & "Students"(as in the nomenclature above).
     The protection from anyone copying the design and deliver mechanism of using any one
     or all 3 elements of ours value proposition of experiential coaching using a combination
     of 3 dimensions of i) Australian Education System ii) Industry exposure and iii) socio
     cultural, communication and soft life skills to international and domestic participants.
c.   Protection of our (proposed) patented intellectual application and methodology of
     combining several elements to create a novel and unique service. E.G. combining
     walking tours, workshops, seminars, experts panel, question and answer sessions,
     university or institution tours, university or institution engagement, university or
     institution board and lodging, industry tours, parliament and political system tours
     (PESTLE model), socio-cultural tours like bush walking, surfing, trekking, group bonding
     and team building activities etc., all combined in one study tour to render the unique
     value of future career choice and education direction for personal success.
2.       Protection from anyone using our concept, content, application, design, delivery,
methodology, logistic etc. to sign MOU with schools, colleges, institutions, universities,
corporates.
3.       Protection from anyone offering other value added services related to this future's
career choice guidance and education pathways, provided to Sydney Study Tour participants
and their extended network of colleagues, friends, relatives, students, relatives and siblings
who came to know about this concept, content, application, design, delivery, methodology,
logistic etc. through their word of mouth and about future's education and career

                                             [3]
opportunities.
4.     Protection from anyone copying the content, concept and program process etc.
which are published in various social media platforms of Sydney Study Tour and its
networks.

