A multi-recipient electronic payment processing system, the system configured for:
receiving a structured datafile representing a plurality of payment recipients each comprising a
respective bank account number and a payment amount;
initiating, using a card payment gateway, a credit card payment transaction for a sum of the
payment amounts to transfer funds to a merchant account,
for each of the payment recipients, initiating an electronic funds transfer to transfer the respective
amount from the merchant account to an account associated with the respective bank account
number.

0o
      N   ~  r               LO)C
                a,            0
            _r     0
                cu                     0
                   E_             a)
                                       U/)
                   fn                  a,
   -E       cu.          a)          0     Z)
      CU0                         au
            a,                CU       L
            0      0CU
                   CU       .
                       U      CE

        A system and method for multi-recipient electronic payment
                                              processing
Field of the Invention
[1]       The present invention relates to system and method for multi-recipient electronic payment
processing and in particular, but not necessarily entirely, to system and method for multi-recipient
electronic payroll payment processing.
[2]       The invention has been developed primarily for use in/with payroll payment processing and
will be described hereinafter with reference to this application. However, it will be appreciated that
the invention is not limited to this particular field of use.
Background of the Invention
[3]       According to conventional arrangements, multi-recipient payment processing, such as payroll
payment processing may be implemented by providing a structured datafile (such as an ABA file) to a
financial institution server which then initiates electronic fund transfer payments for each recipient
specified by the structured datafile transferring funds from a payer account to respective payee
account.
[4]       However, the present system and method seeks to provide an alternative wherein funds may
be paid from a credit card account alternatively.
[5]       However, problems of conventional arrangements include that a merchant ID is generally
required for the receipt of credit card payments and, as such, employees having banking accounts are
not able to receive credit card payroll payments.
[6]       The present invention seeks to provide a multi-recipient electronic payment processing
system, which will overcome or substantially ameliorate at least some of the deficiencies of the prior
art, or to at least provide an alternative.
[7]       It is to be understood that, if any prior art information is referred to herein, such reference
does not constitute an admission that the information forms part of the common general knowledge
in the art, in Australia or any other country.
Summary of the Disclosure
[8]       In the embodiments that follow, there is provided a system and method for multi-recipient
electronic payment processing and preferably for, but not necessarily entirely limited to, payroll
transaction processing.
[9]       As will be described in further detail below, the system and method provided herein allows
for the multi-recipient payroll payment transaction processing wherein payment originates from a
                                                      1

credit card account but which may also be transferred by way of electronic funds transfer to a plurality
of recipient bank accounts in a manner that does not require the recipients to possess a merchant ID.
[10]     As such, with the foregoing in mind, according to a first aspect of the present invention, there
is a provided multi-recipient electronic payment processing system, the system configured for:
receiving a structured datafile representing a plurality of payment recipients each comprising a
respective bank account number and a payment amount; initiating, using a card payment gateway, a
credit card payment transaction for a sum of the payment amounts to transfer funds to a merchant
account, for each of the payment recipients, initiating an electronic funds transfer to transfer the
respective amount from the merchant account to an account associated with the respective bank
account number.
[11]     The structured datafile may comprise a format comprising at least one of XML, CSV, ABA and
DE data formats.
[12]     The system may be configured for retrieving the structured datafile from an API exposed by
an accounting application server.
[13]     The system may comprise a payment facilitating server configured for receiving the structured
datafile, initiating the credit card payment transaction and initiating the electronic fund transfers.
[14]     The payment facilitating server may be configured for authenticating with the API exposed by
the accounting application server.
[15]     When initiating the credit card payment transaction, the payment facilitating server may be
configured for authenticating with an API exposed by a payment gateway.
[16]     The system may be configured for receiving credit card details and processing the credit card
payment transaction in accordance with the credit card details.
[17]     The credit card details comprise at least one of PAN, CVV and expiry date details.
[18]     The system may be configured for utilising a payment gateway to generate a card token and
initiating the credit card payment using the card token.
[19]     Other aspects of the invention are also disclosed.
Brief Description of the Drawings
[20]      Notwithstanding any other forms which may fall within the scope of the present invention,
preferred embodiments of the disclosure will now be described, by way of example only, with
reference to the accompanying drawings in which:
[21]      Figure 1 shows a multi-recipient electronic payment processing system in accordance with an
embodiment; and
                                                     2

[22]      Figure 2 shows a multi-recipient electronic payment processing method in accordance with
an embodiment.
Description of Embodiments
[23]      For the purposes of promoting an understanding of the principles in accordance with the
disclosure, reference will now be made to the embodiments illustrated in the drawings and specific
language will be used to describe the same. It will nevertheless be understood that no limitation of
the scope of the disclosure is thereby intended. Any alterations and further modifications of the
inventive features illustrated herein, and any additional applications of the principles of the disclosure
as illustrated herein, which would normally occur to one skilled in the relevant art and having
possession of this disclosure, are to be considered within the scope of the disclosure.
[24]      Before the structures, systems and associated methods relating to the multi-recipient
electronic payment processing system are disclosed and described, it is to be understood that this
disclosure is not limited to the particular configurations, process steps, and materials disclosed herein
as such may vary somewhat. It is also to be understood that the terminology employed herein is used
for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting since the
scope of the disclosure will be limited only by the claims and equivalents thereof.
[25]      In describing and claiming the subject matter of the disclosure, the following terminology will
be used in accordance with the definitions set out below.
[26]      It must be noted that, as used in this specification and the appended claims, the singular forms
''a," "an," and "the" include plural referents unless the context clearly dictates otherwise.
[27]      As used herein, the terms "comprising," "including," "containing," "characterised by," and
grammatical equivalents thereof are inclusive or open-ended terms that do not exclude additional,
unrecited elements or method steps.
[28]      It should be noted in the following description that like or the same reference numerals in
different embodiments denote the same or similar features.
[29]      Figure 1 shows a system 1 for multi-recipient electronic payment processing in accordance
with an exemplary embodiment.
[30]      The system 1 comprises an accounting application server having a plurality of accounting
modules 4 within memory 2 and having a webserver 5 so as to expose an accounting interface 7 at a
client terminal 6.
[31]      As such, utilising the client terminal 6, and, for example, a web browser, a user is able to access
the accounting interface 7 managed by the accounting application server 1.
                                                        3

[32]      Now, the system 1 comprises a payment facilitating server 8 configured for implementing the
multi-recipient electronic payment processing described herein wherein funds originate from a credit
card account.
[33]      In the embodiment shown in figure 1, the payment facilitating server 8 is a standalone server
(such as a physical rack mounted server or alternatively a virtualised server instance, such as that
which may be implemented utilising Amazon web services (AWS), for example) which may
communicate with the accounting application server 1 utilising an API 3.
[34]      However, it should be appreciated that the payment facilitating functionality may be
implemented alternatively by way of software plug-in executed by the accounting application server
1 or the financial institution 17.
[35]      Now, when payroll processing, the payroll module of the accounting modules 4 may generate
a structured data file specifying the payroll pay recipients (which may include bank account details)
and respective amounts for each recipient.
[36]      Such structured data file may be in the form of XML, CSV, ABA, DE or the like.
[37]      Now, the payment facilitating server 8 comprises a transaction retrieval module 10 within
memory 9.
[38]      As such, at periodic intervals, or when prompted, the transactions retrieval module 10 is
configured for retrieving the payroll recipient structured data file via the API 3 of the accounting
application server.
[39]      It should be noted that there are differing manners by which such structured data file may be
provided to the payment facilitating server 8 within the purposive scope of the embodiments
described herein, including by way of uploading the structured data file to the payment facilitating
server 8 via a web interface or the like.
[40]      Now, as alluded to above, the patent facilitating server 8 is configured for processing the
payroll payments but wherein the funds originate from a credit card account, such as one associated
with an employer of the recipient employees.
[41]      As such, the payment facilitating server 8 comprises a card transactions processor 11. As such,
upon receipt of the payroll recipient structured data file, the card transaction processor 11 is
configured for facilitating one or more card transactions for the sum of the recipient amounts utilising
a card payment gateway 13.
[42]      Specifically, the card payment gateway 13 may comprise an API 15 with which the payment
facilitating server 8 may authenticate for the purposes of initiating a credit card transaction.
[43]      Specifically, when registering with the payment processing server 8, the employer may have
provided credit card details, including PAN number, CVV and expiry date details. Such details may be
                                                      4

securely stored by the card payment gateway 30 so as to allow the payment facilitating server 8 to
initiate credit card transactions utilising a card token representation.
[44]      The card payment gateway 13 comprises a card transactions processor 16 which, under
instruction of the payment facilitating server 8, initiates a credit card transaction for the sum of the
payment amount specified by the structured data file from a credit card account 21 associated with
the employer to a merchant account 20 associated with the payment facilitating server 8.
[45]      The merchant account 20 may have an associated merchant ID so as to allow for the recipient
the credit card payments.
[46]      Upon successful completion of the credit card payment, card payment gateway 13 sends
confirmation to the payment facilitating server 8.
[47]      Thereafter, the payment facilitating server 8, utilising an EFT transactions processor 12
initiates separate EFT transactions from the merchant account 20 to a plurality of savings accounts 19
associated with each recipient. Specifically, the structured data file may comprise recipient bank
account details which are utilised by the EFT transactions processor 12 for the processing of the EFT
transactions to the savings accounts 19.
[48]      As can be seen, the payment facilitating server 8 may utilise an API 18 exposed by the financial
institution 17 for the purposes of initiating the plurality of EFT transactions. Alternatively, as alluded
to above, the payment facilitating functionality may be implemented by way of a plug-in at the
financial institution 17 such that no API access is required for such.
[49]      Turning now to figure 2, there is shown a method for multi-recipient electronic payment
processing utilising the aforedescribed system 1.
[50]      The method 28 starts at step 22, when payment initiating instruction are received by the
payment facilitating server or plug-in 8 to initiate the multi-recipient electronic payments.
[51]      As step 23, the structured data file comprising the plurality of payment recipient bank account
details and respective payment amounts are retrieved by the payment facilitating server 8.
[52]      At step 24, the server 8 calculates the sum of the payments of the recipients as specified by
the structured data file and at step 25, the payment facilitating server 8 initiates the credit card
payment transaction utilising the card payment gateway 13 to transfer the sum of the payment
amounts to the merchant account 20.
[53]      Then, at step 26, for each recipient specified by the structured data file, the payment
facilitating server 8, utilising the API 18 exposed by the financial institution 17, initiates an EFT
transaction 27 to transfer each respective payment amount to each banking account 19 by way of
electronic fund transfer.
                                                      5

[54]     In embodiments, the accounting interface 107 may display a "1-Click" interface wherein the
interface displays a plurality of payroll payments of which all or a subset thereof may be selected and
paid with the press of one button/click. Specifically, the initiation of the 1-click functionality initiates
a three step process wherein the accounting application server 1 or the client terminal 6 generates an
export batch file of the selected payments which are then transmitted to the payment facilitating
server 8 which then processes the credit card payments therefor using the card payment gateway 13
after which the financial institution 17 distributes the payments to the respective recipients in
substantial real-time. In an additional or alternative embodiment, such a 1-click interface may be
displayed within an online banking interface displayed via the financial institution 17 wherein multiple
awaiting payroll transactions can be selected for simultaneous processing.
[55]     As alluded to above, the aforedescribed system and method need not necessarily be limited
to utilisation for processing of payroll transactions and may be utilised for other multi-recipient
payment processing. Furthermore, the architecture of system 1 is exemplary only and modifications
may be made thereto within the purposive scope of the embodiments provided herein.
                                                    6

Interpretation
Embodiments:
[56]     Reference throughout this specification to "one embodiment" or "an embodiment" means
that a particular feature, structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is
included in at least one embodiment of the present invention. Thus, appearances of the phrases "in
one embodiment" or "in an embodiment" in various places throughout this specification are not
necessarily all referring to the same embodiment, but may. Furthermore, the particular features,
structures or characteristics may be combined in any suitable manner, as would be apparent to one
of ordinary skill in the art from this disclosure, in one or more embodiments.
[57]     Similarly it should be appreciated that in the above description of example embodiments of
the invention, various features of the invention are sometimes grouped together in a single
embodiment, figure, or description thereof for the purpose of streamlining the disclosure and aiding
in the understanding of one or more of the various inventive aspects. This method of disclosure,
however, is not to be interpreted as reflecting an intention that the claimed invention requires more
features than are expressly recited in each claim. Rather, as the following claims reflect, inventive
aspects lie in less than all features of a single foregoing disclosed embodiment. Thus, the claims
following the Detailed Description of Specific Embodiments are hereby expressly incorporated into
this Detailed Description of Specific Embodiments, with each claim standing on its own as a separate
embodiment of this invention.
[58]     Furthermore, while some embodiments described herein include some but not other features
included in other embodiments, combinations of features of different embodiments are meant to be
within the scope of the invention, and form different embodiments, as would be understood by those
in the art. For example, in the following claims, any of the claimed embodiments can be used in any
combination.
Different Instances of Objects
[59]     As used herein, unless otherwise specified the use of the ordinal adjectives "first", "second",
"third", etc., to describe a common object, merely indicate that different instances of like objects are
being referred to, and are not intended to imply that the objects so described must be in a given
sequence, either temporally, spatially, in ranking, or in any other manner.
Specific Details
[60]     In the description provided herein, numerous specific details are set forth. However, it is
understood that embodiments of the invention may be practiced without these specific details. In
other instances, well-known methods, structures and techniques have not been shown in detail in
order not to obscure an understanding of this description.
                                                       7

Terminology
[61]     In describing the preferred embodiment of the invention illustrated in the drawings, specific
terminology will be resorted to for the sake of clarity. However, the invention is not intended to be
limited to the specific terms so selected, and it isto be understood that each specific term includes all
technical equivalents which operate in a similar manner to accomplish a similar technical purpose.
Terms such as "forward", "rearward", "radially", "peripherally", "upwardly", "downwardly", and the
like are used as words of convenience to provide reference points and are not to be construed as
limiting terms.
Comprising and Including
[62]     In the claims which follow and in the preceding description of the invention, except where the
context requires otherwise due to express language or necessary implication, the word "comprise" or
variations such as "comprises" or "comprising" are used in an inclusive sense, i.e. to specify the
presence of the stated features but not to preclude the presence or addition of further features in
various embodiments of the invention.
[63]     Any one of the terms: including or which includes or that includes as used herein is also an
open term that also means including at least the elements/features that follow the term, but not
excluding others. Thus, including is synonymous with and means comprising.
Scope of Invention
[64]     Thus, while there has been described what are believed to be the preferred embodiments of
the invention, those skilled in the art will recognize that other and further modifications may be made
thereto without departing from the spirit of the invention, and it is intended to claim all such changes
and modifications as fall within the scope of the invention. For example, any formulas given above
are merely representative of procedures that may be used. Functionality may be added or deleted
from the block diagrams and operations may be interchanged among functional blocks. Steps may be
added or deleted to methods described within the scope of the present invention.
[65]     Although the invention has been described with reference to specific examples, it will be
appreciated by those skilled in the art that the invention may be embodied in many other forms.
Industrial Applicability
[66]     It is apparent from the above, that the arrangements described are applicable to the payment
processing industries.
                                                      8

Claims
1.       A multi-recipient electronic payment processing system, the system configured for:
          receiving a structured datafile representing a plurality of payment recipients each
comprising a respective bank account number and a payment amount;
          initiating, using a card payment gateway, a credit card payment transaction for a sum of the
payment amounts to transfer funds to a merchant account,
         for each of the payment recipients, initiating an electronic funds transfer to transfer the
respective amount from the merchant account to an account associated with the respective bank
account number.
2.       A system as claimed in claim 1, wherein the structured datafile comprises a format
comprising at least one of XML, CSV, ABA and DE data formats.
3.       A system as claimed in claim 1, wherein the system is configured for retrieving the
structured datafile from an API exposed by an accounting application server.
4.       A system as claimed in claim 1, wherein the system comprises a payment facilitating server
configured for receiving the structured datafile, initiating the credit card payment transaction and
initiating the electronic fund transfers.
5.       A system as claimed in claim 4, wherein the payment facilitating server is configured for
authenticating with the API exposed by the accounting application server.
6.       A system as claimed in claim 4, wherein, when initiating the credit card payment transaction,
the payment facilitating server is configured for authenticating with an API exposed by a payment
gateway.
7.       A system as claimed in claim 1, wherein the system isconfigured for receiving credit card
details and processing the credit card payment transaction in accordance with the credit card
details.
8.       A system as claimed in claim 7, wherein the credit card details comprise at least one of PAN,
CVV and expiry date details.
9.       A system as claimed in claim 8, wherein the system isconfigured for utilising a payment
gateway to generate a card token and initiating the credit card payment using the card token.
                                                     9

                        <removed-apn>              <removed-date>
                                +
                        ,
    %               -
        &                                                     +
                                        "   #                 ,
        '
                                                $
            !                                             %-
                    %
        (                                                 %
                                                                  1/2
                                    &
                            '
                    (
)
                    )
                *

              <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                             %+
               %%
. *            %&
               %'
                                         2/2
               %(
          $    %)
      !        %
      %

