                                          ABSTRACT
        A device may receive data associated with an event. The device may identify a
context of the event based on receiving the data. The device may identify a similar event
based on performing a comparison of the context of the event and a context of the similar
event. The device may determine a set of pre-events associated with the event based on
identifying a pre-event that occurred before the similar event. The set of pre-events may
include at least one pre-event similar to the pre-event that occurred before the similar event.
The device may determine a set of post-events associated with the event based on
determining the set of pre-events and identifying a post-event that occurred after the similar
event. The set of post-events may include at least one post-event similar to the post-event.
The device may perform an action based on the set of post-events.

                             1/9
                                                    a)        c
                                                a)>           a)      a
                                                              L-      t
                                      f
                   (i)                                                cm    0
                   c  --                                              0
                         a)                  C)               0)-I
                        Cy                             ,   a)      C:
                     --          CU-                               W  a))a
                                     x4                             > 0-0
                '4
                                      c(a a)      a)             M~ CU       o
                                     C)                  IL        CL
   U)'-
   CU0
   0A
                          X2
                                                                          0
        CL    C
             CC
    0      '
CC

                                              1
             AUTOMATIC PREDICTION OF AN EVENT USING DATA
BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
[0001]     Surveillance is the monitoring of the behavior, activities, or other changing
information, usually of people for the purpose of influencing, managing, directing, or
protecting the people. Surveillance can include observation from a distance using electronic
equipment, such as video cameras, closed circuit television (CCTV) cameras, microphones,
and/or the like. Surveillance may be used by governments for intelligence gathering, the
prevention of crime, and/or the investigation of a crime. Surveillance also may be used for
the protection of a process, a person, a group, an object, or the like.

                                                2
SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
[0002]      In one aspect, the present invention provides a device, including one or more
processors that receive data associated with a first event, identify a first context of the first
event based on the data, identify a plurality of second events based on the first context and
a second context of the plurality of second events, the first context being similar to the second
context, determine a set of pre-events associated with the first event based on a plurality of
pre-events associated with the plurality of second events, one or more pre-events of the set
of pre-events being similar to the plurality of pre-events, determine a set of post-events
associated with the first event based on the set of pre-events and based on a plurality of
post-events associated with the plurality of second events, the set of post-events including
one or more post-events predicted to occur after the first event, the one or more post-events
being similar to the plurality of post-events, and perform an action related to the first event
based on determining the set of post-events.
[0003]      In another aspect, the present invention provides a method, including receiving,
by a device, data associated with an event, identifying, by the device, a context of the event
based on receiving the data, identifying, by the device, a similar event based on performing
a comparison of the context of the event and a context of the similar event, determining, by
the device, a set of pre-events associated with the event based on identifying a pre-event
that occurred before the similar event, the set of pre-events including at least one pre-event
similar to the pre-event that occurred before the similar event, determining, by the device, a
set of post-events associated with the event based on determining the set of pre-events and
identifying a post-event that occurred after the similar event, the set of post-events including
at least one post-event similar to the post-event, and performing, by the device, an action
based on the set of post-events.
[0004]      In yet another aspect, the present invention provides a non-transitory computer
readable medium storing instructions, the instructions including one or more instructions that,
when executed by one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to receive,
from multiple devices, data associated with an event, process the data to identify a context
of the event, the context of the event being based on a term or a tag identified in the data,

                                                 3
identify a historical event associated with a similar context as the context of the event based
on processing the data, the context of the historical event being based on another term
similar to the term or another tag similar to the tag, determine a set of pre-events associated
with the event based on identifying a pre-event associated with the historical event, the set
of pre-events being semantically similar to the pre-event, determine a set of post-events
associated with the event based on the set of pre-events and based on a post-event
associated with the historical event, the set of post-events being semantically similar to the
post-event, and perform an action related to the event based on determining the set of post
events.

                                                4
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0005]      Figs. 1A-1E are diagrams of an overview of an example implementation described
herein;
[0006]      Fig. 2 is a diagram of an example environment in which systems and/or methods,
described herein, may be implemented;
[0007]      Fig. 3 is a diagram of example components of one or more devices of Fig. 2;
[0008]      Fig. 4 is a flow chart of an example process for processing data related to a
historical event; and
[0009]      Fig. 5 is a flow chart of an example process for automatically predicting an event
based on data.

                                               5
DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE EMBODIMENT(S) OF THE INVENTION
[0010]     The following detailed description of example implementations refers to the
accompanying drawings. The same reference numbers in different drawings may identify
the same or similar elements.
[0011]     A surveillance system (e.g., a surveillance system) may be used to perform video,
image, and/or audio surveillance of a premises (e.g., a home, an airport, or the like) in order
to detect an event, such as criminal activity and/or any other type of event. As such, a
surveillance system may be used to perform surveillance in real-time or near real-time and/or
to record video, an image, and/or audio for review at a later time. However, the surveillance
system may lack a technique to predict an outcome of an observed or detected event,
recommend an action to be performed based on the observed or detected event, and/or
perform the recommended action.
[0012]     Implementations described herein enable an analytics system to automatically
identify a pre-event and/or a post-event of a historical event captured by a surveillance
system, store information associated with the pre-event, the post-event, and/or the historical
event, use the stored information to determine a pre-event and/or predict a post-event of a
current event captured by the surveillance system, and/or perform an action based on
determining the pre-event and/or predicting the post-event of the current event. In addition,
implementations may enable determination of a pre-event that contributed to a predicted
post-event (e.g., by determining that identification of a particular pre-event caused the
analytics system to predict a particular post-event).      In this way, the analytics system
improves surveillance via determination of a pre-event and/or prediction of a post-event
associated with a current event and facilitates performing an action based on the current
event. In addition, the analytics system increases an efficiency of determining a pre-event
and/or predicting a post-event by enabling automatic real-time or near real-time prediction.
Further, the analytics system improves an accuracy of determining a pre-event and/or
predicting a post-event of a current event, thereby conserving processing resources
associated with inaccurately determining the pre-event and/or predicting the post-event.
Further still, the analytics system improves safety by enabling quick and efficient

                                                  6
performance of an action based on a current event, such as a criminal event. Further still,
the analytics system may objectively determine a pre-event and/or predict a post-event
associated with an event, thereby reducing or eliminating errors that would occur due to
subjective human analysis.
[0013]      Figs. 1A-1E are diagrams of an overview of an example implementation 100
described herein. As shown in Figs. 1A-1E, example implementation 100 includes a user
device, a surveillance system, a server device, an analytics system, and a client device.
[0014]      As shown in Fig. 1A, and by reference number 105, the analytics system may
receive data associated with a historical event. The analytics system may receive millions,
billions, or trillions of data items associated with thousands, millions, or billions of historical
events. The analytics system may receive the data from multiple sources and/or receive
different types of data. For example, the analytics system may receive a text and/or an email
message from the user device, a media item from the surveillance system (e.g., an image
and/or audio and metadata related to the image and/or audio), a crime report from the server
device, and/or the like. Continuing with the previous example, the analytics system may
receive thousands, millions, or billions of text messages, emails, images, and/or audio files.
[0015]      As shown by reference number 110, the analytics system may identify a pre-event
of the historical event, a post-event of the historical event, and/or a context of the historical
event using the received data. For example, the analytics system may identify thousands,
millions, or billions of pre-events, post-events, and/or contexts associated with thousands,
millions, or billions of historical events. A pre-event may include an event that occurs before
the historical event, a post-event may include an event that occurs after the historical event,
and the context of the historical event may include a location where the historical event
occurred, a device identifier for a device that provided the data associated with the historical
event, a time of day or day of the week when the historical event occurred, a classification
of the historical event, and/or the like.
[0016]      The analytics system may identify the pre-event, the post-event, and/or the context
of the historical event by analyzing the data (e.g., performing a semantic analysis to identify
a particular term and/or tag included in the data and/or performing image processing to

                                                   7
identify a particular object, or type of object, in an image). For example, the analytics system
may analyze thousands, millions, or billions of data items to identify thousands, millions, or
billions of pre-events, post-events, and/or contexts associated with thousands, millions, or
billions of historical events.
[0017]      Assume, for example, that the historical event is historical event HE1 and that
historical event HE1 is a burglary event. As shown by reference number 115, the analytics
system may identify that the context of historical event HE1 includes a date of occurrence of
October 13, 2016, a time of occurrence of 14:30 hours, a location of occurrence of Henry
Street, involvement of a vehicle having a vehicle identifier of XYZ-1 111, and that the event
was captured by a camera (e.g., of the surveillance system) having a camera identifier of
XA23.
[0018]      As further shown by reference number 115, the analytics system may identify that
the pre-events of historical event HE1 include a known burglar reported or detected in the
same geographic area as historical event HE1 (e.g., by processing a crime report, using
facial recognition software to analyze an image captured prior to historical event HE1, and/or
using voice recognition software to analyze audio data captured prior to historical event
HE1), possibly indicating that the known burglar was scouting the area, and a report of stolen
car in the same geographic area of historical event HE1.         As further shown by reference
number 115, the analytics system may identify that the post-events of historical event HE1
include a report that a burglar escaped through an alley near where historical event HE1
occurred and that the burglar escaped on foot (e.g., based on processing a crime report or
a text message received from a user device).
[0019]      As shown in Fig. 1B, and by reference number 120, the analytics system may
receive data associated with a current event (e.g., current event CE1). The analytics system
may receive the data from the user device, from the surveillance system, and/or from the
server device. The analytics system may receive data similar to what was described above.
In addition, the analytics system may receive the data in real-time, near real-time, as current
event C1 is occurring or unfolding, and/or the like.

                                                 8
[0020]      As shown by reference number 125, the analytics system may identify a context
associated with current event CE1 in a manner similar to that described above with respect
to identifying the context of historical event HE1. As shown by reference number 130, the
analytics system may identify a historical event similar to current event CE1 based on the
context of current event CE1 and the context of the historical event (e.g., a historical event
having a location similar to the location of current event CE1, a historical event that occurred
at a time of day similar to current event CE1, or a historical event where an image related to
the historical event shows a similar object as an image related to current event CE1). For
example, the analytics system may use machine learning, modeling, artificial intelligence,
semantic analysis, and/or the like to process thousands, millions, or billions of data items to
identify a historical event, or thousands, millions, or billions of historical events, associated
with current event CE1.
[0021]      As shown by reference number 135, assume, for example, that the similar
historical events identified by the analytics system include historical events HE1, HE2, and
HE3 based on historical events HE1, HE2, and HE3 having a similar context to current event
CE1. For example, the analytics system may analyze thousands, millions, or billions of data
items to determine that historical events HE1, HE2 and HE3 have a similar context to current
event CE1.      In addition, although this example includes identification of three historical
events (e.g., historical events HE1, HE2, and HE3), the analytics system may identify
thousands, millions, or billions of historical events that have a context similar to current event
CE1.
[0022]      As shown in Fig. 1C, and by reference number 140, the analytics system may
determine a set of pre-events associated with current event CE1. The identification of the
set of pre-events may be based on identified pre-events of the similar historical events (e.g.,
historical events HE1, HE2, and HE3) using a knowledge graph. For example, and as shown
by reference number 145, the analytics system may identify pre-events a, c, and d for
historical event HE1, pre-events d, e, and c for historical event HE2, and pre-events a and c
for historical event HE3.

                                               9
[0023]     As further shown by reference number 145, the analytics system may normalize
the pre-events related to historical events HE1, HE2, and HE3, such as to determine an
order of the pre-events across the historical events. For example, the analytics system may
determine that pre-events a and d tend to occur a greater amount of time before a historical
event than pre-events e and c, and may determine that pre-events a and d are to be ordered
before pre-events e and c. In a similar manner, the analytics system may determine that
pre-event e is to be ordered before pre-event c.
[0024]     As further shown by reference number 145, the analytics system may map data
for the pre-events associated with historical events HE1, HE2, and HE3 to the knowledge
graph to structure data related to the pre-events into groups based on semantic similarities
of the data related to the pre-events. For example, the analytics system may map the data
for the pre-events to the knowledge graph to group the data for the pre-event by type of pre
event, by a term included in data for various pre-events, and/or the like. Continuing with the
previous example, the analytics system may organize the data related the pre-events into
groups, such as a scouting event, a known burglar in an area event, and/or a stolen vehicle
event.
[0025]     As shown by reference number 150, the analytics system may use these groups
to determine the set of pre-events for current event CE1. For example, the set of pre-events
may include a scouting event that relates to pre-events a and d, a known burglar in an area
event related to pre-event e, and a stolen vehicle event related to pre-event c.
[0026]     As shown in Fig. 1D, and by reference number 155, the analytics system may
determine a set of post-events associated with current event CE1 using the set of pre-events
for current event CE1 shown by reference number 150. The analytics system may map the
set of pre-events for current event CE1 to the knowledge graph to identify the set of post
events for current event CE1.
[0027]     As shown by reference number 160, the analytics system may identify historical
events that have similar pre-events as the set of pre-events. For example, assume that the
analytics system identifies historical events HE1, HE2, and HE3 as having pre-events similar
to the set of pre-events. As further shown by reference number 160, the analytics system

                                                10
may identify post-events of the identified historical events. For example, the analytics system
may identify that historical event HE1 is associated with post-events o and m, that historical
event HE2 is associated with post-events I, p, and q, and that historical event HE3 is
associated with post-events q, I, and m.
[0028]      As shown by reference number 165, the analytics system may identify a set of
post-events based on the post-events of historical events HE1, HE2, and HE3. For example,
the analytics system may perform a semantic analysis of data related to the post-events of
historical events HE1, HE2, HE3 to identify semantically similar post-events among historical
events HE1, HE2, and HE3 and determine the set of post-events based on the post-events
that have semantically similar data. As further shown by reference number 165, the analytics
system may determine that the set of post-events includes post-event o followed by post
event q and/or that the set of post-events includes post-event o followed by post-event m,
which may be followed by post-event 1. In some implementations, the analytics system may
determine a likelihood of the set of post-events occurring (e.g., based on a frequency of
occurrence with historical events HE1, HE2, HE3, based on a term associated with the post
events included in the set of post-events, etc.).
[0029]      As shown in Fig. 1E, and by reference number 170, the analytics system may
determine an action to perform based on the set of post-events of current event CE1.          In
some cases, the analytics system may determine the action to perform based on an action
perform with respect to historical events HE1, HE2, and/or HE3. For example, the analytics
system may determine, using data related to historical event HE1, that in historical event
HE1, which is similar to current event CE1, three police officers were dispatched to the
location of historical event HE1 but that the suspect escaped. Continuing with the previous
example, the analytics system may determine to dispatch more than three police officers to
the location of current event CE1 based on the suspect having escaped when three police
officers were dispatched to a similar historical event.
[0030]      In addition, the analytics system may determine an action to perform based on the
likelihood of the post-events included in the set of post-events. For example, the analytics

                                                 11
system may determine to perform an action for a post-event with a higher likelihood relative
to another post-event prior to determining to perform an action for the other post-event.
[0031]      As further shown in Fig. 1E, and by reference number 175, the analytics system
may perform an action. For example, the analytics system may send a message to the client
device indicating a post-event, may activate an alarm, or may send a message to a dispatch
system to dispatch a police officer to the location of current event CE1.
[0032]      In this way, the analytics system improves the determination of a pre-event and/or
prediction of a post-event associated with a current event and facilitates performing an action
based on the current event.       In addition, the analytics system increases an efficiency of
determining a pre-event and/or predicting a post-event by enabling automatic real-time or
near real-time prediction of the pre-event and/or the post-event.         Further, the analytics
system also improves an accuracy of determining a pre-event and/or predicting a post-event,
thereby conserving processing resources associated with inaccurately determining the pre
event and/or predicting the post-event. Further still, the analytics system improves safety by
enabling quick and efficient performance of an action based on a current event, such as a
criminal event.
[0033]      As indicated above, Figs. 1A-1E are provided merely as an example.            Other
examples are possible and may differ from what was described with regard to Figs. 1A-1 E.
Although Figs. 1A-1 E are described in terms of a criminal event, implementations described
herein are not limited to criminal events. For example, implementations may relate to other
types of events, such as an emergency event, a traffic event (e.g., traffic congestion or a
traffic accident), a manufacturing error/accident event, and/or the like.
[0034]      Fig. 2 is a diagram of an example environment 200 in which systems and/or
methods, described herein, may be implemented. As shown in Fig. 2, environment 200 may
include an analytics system 205, a cloud computing environment 210, a set of computing
resources 215, one or more user devices 220 (referred to collectively as "user devices 220,"
and individually as "user device 220"), a surveillance system 225, one or more server devices
230 (referred to collectively as "server devices 230," and individually as "server device 230"),

                                              12
and a client device 235.       Devices of environment 200 may interconnect via wired
connections, wireless connections, or a combination of wired and wireless connections.
[0035]      Analytics system 205 includes one or more devices capable of determining a set
of pre-events and/or a set of post-events for a current event. For example, analytics system
205 may include a cloud server or a group of cloud servers. In some implementations,
analytics system 205 may be designed to be modular such that certain software components
can be swapped in or out depending on a particular need. As such, analytics system 205
may be easily and/or quickly reconfigured for different uses.
[0036]      In some implementations, as shown, analytics system 205 may be hosted in cloud
computing environment 210.       Notably, while implementations described herein describe
analytics system 205 as being hosted in cloud computing environment 210, in some
implementations, analytics system 205 may not be cloud-based (i.e., may be implemented
outside of a cloud computing environment) or may be partially cloud-based.
[0037]      Cloud computing environment 210 includes an environment that hosts analytics
system 205. Cloud computing environment 210 may provide computation, software, data
access, storage, etc. services that do not require end-user knowledge of a physical location
and configuration of system(s) and/or device(s) that host analytics system 205. As shown,
cloud computing environment 210 may include a group of computing resources 215 (referred
to collectively as "computing resources 215" and individually as "computing resource 215").
[0038]      Computing resource 215 includes one or more personal computers, workstation
computers, server devices, or other types of computation and/or communication devices. In
some implementations, computing resource 215 may host analytics system 205. The cloud
resources may include compute instances executing in computing resource 215, storage
devices provided in computing resource 215, data transfer devices provided by computing
resource 215, etc. In some implementations, computing resource 215 may communicate
with other computing resources 215 via wired connections, wireless connections, or a
combination of wired and wireless connections.

                                                13
[0039]       As further shown in Fig. 2, computing resource 215 may include a group of cloud
resources, such as one or more applications ("APPs") 215-1, one or more virtual machines
("VMs") 215-2, one or more virtualized storages ("VSs") 215-3, or one or more hypervisors
("HYPs") 215-4.
[0040]       Application 215-1 includes one or more software applications that may be provided
to or accessed by one or more devices of environment 200. Application 215-1 may eliminate
a need to install and execute the software applications on devices of environment 200. For
example, application 215-1 may include software associated with analytics system 205
and/or any other software capable of being provided via cloud computing environment 210.
In some implementations, one application 215-1 may send/receive information to/from one
or more other applications 215-1, via virtual machine 215-2.
[0041]       Virtual machine 215-2 includes a software implementation of a machine (e.g., a
computer) that executes programs like a physical machine. Virtual machine 215-2 may be
either a system virtual machine or a process virtual machine, depending upon use and
degree of correspondence to any real machine by virtual machine 215-2. A system virtual
machine may provide a complete system platform that supports execution of a complete
operating system ("OS"). A process virtual machine may execute a single program, and may
support a single process. In some implementations, virtual machine 215-2 may execute on
behalf of a user (e.g., client device 235), and may manage infrastructure of cloud computing
environment 210, such as data management, synchronization, or long-duration data
transfers.
[0042]       Virtualized storage 215-3 includes one or more storage systems and/or one or
more devices that use virtualization techniques within the storage systems or devices of
computing resource 215. In some implementations, within the context of a storage system,
types of virtualizations may include block virtualization and file virtualization.         Block
virtualization may refer to abstraction (or separation) of logical storage from physical storage
so that the storage system may be accessed without regard to physical storage or
heterogeneous structure. The separation may permit administrators of the storage system
flexibility in how the administrators manage storage for end users. File virtualization may

                                                14
eliminate dependencies between data accessed at a file level and a location where files are
physically stored. This may enable optimization of storage use, server consolidation, and/or
performance of non-disruptive file migrations.
[0043]      Hypervisor 215-4 may provide hardware virtualization techniques that allow
multiple operating systems (e.g., "guest operating systems") to execute concurrently on a
host computer, such as computing resource 215. Hypervisor 215-4 may present a virtual
operating platform to the guest operating systems, and may manage the execution of the
guest operating systems. Multiple instances of a variety of operating systems may share
virtualized hardware resources.
[0044]      User device 220 includes one or more devices capable of receiving, generating,
storing, processing, and/or providing information associated with an event (e.g., a historical
event and/or a current event). For example, user device 220 may include a communication
and computing device, such as a mobile phone (e.g., a smart phone or a radiotelephone), a
laptop computer, a tablet computer, a gaming device, a wearable communication device
(e.g., a smart wristwatch, a pair of smart eyeglasses, or an activity band), or a similar type
of device. In some implementations, user device 220 may transmit data and/or a message
to analytics system 205 and/or server device 230, as described elsewhere herein.
Additionally, or alternatively, user device 220 may receive data and/or a message from
analytics system 205 and/or server device 230, as described elsewhere herein.
[0045]     Surveillance system 225 includes one or more devices capable of receiving,
generating, storing, processing, and/or providing information associated with a media item
(e.g., an image, a set of images, video, and/or audio). For example, surveillance system 225
may include one or more cameras (e.g., one or more digital video cameras, still image
cameras, infrared cameras, etc. installed at a location or at a premises), one or more server
devices (e.g., one or more server devices 230), one or more client devices (e.g., one or more
client devices 235), a closed-circuit television (CCTV) system, one or more microphones, or
other similar types of devices/systems. In some implementations, surveillance system 225
may capture a media item (e.g., using one or more cameras and/or microphones), as
described elsewhere herein.      Additionally, or alternatively, surveillance system 225 may

                                                15
provide the media item and/or related metadata to analytics system 205, as described
elsewhere herein.
[0046]     Server device 230 includes one or more devices capable of receiving, generating,
storing, processing, and/or providing information associated with a media item or an event.
For example, server device 230 may include a server (e.g., in a data center or a cloud
computing environment), a data center (e.g., a multi-server micro data center), a workstation
computer, a virtual machine (VM) provided in a cloud computing environment, or a similar
type of device. In some implementations, server device 230 may include a communication
interface that allows server device 230 to receive information from and/or transmit
information to other devices in environment 200. In some implementations, server device
230 may receive information associated with a media item or an event from user device 220,
surveillance system 225, and/or client device 235, as described elsewhere herein.
Additionally, or alternatively, server device 230 may provide the information to analytics
system 205, as described elsewhere herein.
[0047]     Client device 235 includes one or more devices capable of receiving, generating,
storing, processing, and/or providing information associated with a media item (e.g., an
image, video, or audio) or an event.         For example, client device 235 may include a
communication and/or computing device, such as a desktop computer, a video monitor, a
mobile phone (e.g., a smart phone or a radiotelephone), a laptop computer, a tablet
computer, a gaming device, a wearable communication device (e.g., a smart wristwatch, a
pair of smart eyeglasses, or an activity band), or a similar type of device.        In some
implementations, client device 235 may receive information associated with a media item
and/or an event from analytics system 205, as described elsewhere herein. Additionally, or
alternatively, client device 235 may provide information associated with a media item and/or
an event to analytics system 205, as described elsewhere herein.
[0048]     The number and arrangement of devices and networks shown in Fig. 2 are
provided as an example.        In practice, there may be additional devices, fewer devices,
different devices, or differently arranged devices than those shown in Fig. 2. Furthermore,
two or more devices shown in Fig. 2 may be implemented within a single device, or a single

                                               16
device shown in Fig. 2 may be implemented as multiple, distributed devices. Additionally, or
alternatively, a set of devices (e.g., one or more devices) of environment 200 may perform
one or more functions described as being performed by another set of devices of
environment 200.
[0049]      Fig. 3 is a diagram of example components of a device 300. Device 300 may
correspond to analytics system 205, a set of computing resources 215, user device 220,
surveillance system 225, server device 230, and/or client device 235.                 In some
implementations, analytics system 205, a set of computing resources 215, user device 220,
surveillance system 225, server device 230, and/or client device 235 may include one or
more devices 300 and/or one or more components of device 300. As shown in Fig. 3, device
300 may include a bus 310, a processor 320, a memory 330, a storage component 340, an
input component 350, an output component 360, and a communication interface 370.
[0050]      Bus 310 includes a component that permits communication               among    the
components of device 300.       Processor 320 is implemented in hardware, firmware, or a
combination of hardware and software. Processor 320 includes a central processing unit
(CPU), a graphics processing unit (GPU), an accelerated processing unit (APU), a
microprocessor, a microcontroller, a digital signal processor, a field-programmable gate
array (FPGA), an application-specific integrated circuit (ASIC), or another type of processing
component.      In some implementations, processor 320 includes one or more processors
capable of being programmed to perform a function. Memory 330 includes a random access
memory (RAM), a read only memory (ROM), and/or another type of dynamic or static storage
device (e.g., a flash memory, a magnetic memory, and/or an optical memory) that stores
information and/or instructions for use by processor 320.
[0051]      Storage component 340 stores information and/or software related to the
operation and use of device 300. For example, storage component 340 may include a hard
disk (e.g., a magnetic disk, an optical disk, a magneto-optic disk, and/or a solid state disk),
a compact disc (CD), a digital versatile disc (DVD), a floppy disk, a cartridge, a magnetic
tape, and/or another type of non-transitory computer-readable medium, along with a
corresponding drive.

                                                 17
[0052]      Input component 350 includes a component that permits device 300 to receive
information, such as via user input (e.g., a touch screen display, a keyboard, a keypad, a
mouse, a button, a switch, and/or a microphone).            Additionally, or alternatively, input
component 350 may include a sensor for sensing information (e.g., a global positioning
system (GPS) component, an accelerometer, a gyroscope, and/or an actuator).               Output
component 360 includes a component that provides output information from device 300 (e.g.,
a display, a speaker, and/or one or more light-emitting diodes (LEDs)).
[0053]     Communication interface 370 includes a transceiver-like component (e.g., a
transceiver and/or a separate receiver and transmitter) that enables device 300 to
communicate with other devices, such as via a wired connection, a wireless connection, or
a combination of wired and wireless connections. Communication interface 370 may permit
device 300 to receive information from another device and/or provide information to another
device. For example, communication interface 370 may include an Ethernet interface, an
optical interface, a coaxial interface, an infrared interface, a radio frequency (RF) interface,
a universal serial bus (USB) interface, a Wi-Fi interface, a cellular network interface, or the
like.
[0054]      Device 300 may perform one or more processes described herein. Device 300
may perform these processes in response to processor 320 executing software instructions
stored by a non-transitory computer-readable medium, such as memory 330 and/or storage
component 340. A computer-readable medium is defined herein as a non-transitory memory
device. A memory device includes memory space within a single physical storage device or
memory space spread across multiple physical storage devices.
[0055]     Software instructions may be read into memory 330 and/or storage component
340 from another computer-readable medium or from another device via communication
interface 370. When executed, software instructions stored in memory 330 and/or storage
component 340 may cause processor 320 to perform one or more processes described
herein.   Additionally, or alternatively, hardwired circuitry may be used in place of or in
combination with software instructions to perform one or more processes described herein.

                                               18
Thus, implementations described herein are not limited to any specific combination of
hardware circuitry and software.
[0056]      The number and arrangement of components shown in Fig. 3 are provided as an
example. In practice, device 300 may include additional components, fewer components,
different components, or differently arranged components than those shown in Fig. 3.
Additionally, or alternatively, a set of components (e.g., one or more components) of device
300 may perform one or more functions described as being performed by another set of
components of device 300.
[0057]      Fig. 4 is a flow chart of an example process 400 for processing data related to a
historical event. In some implementations, one or more process blocks of Fig. 4 may be
performed by analytics system 205. In some implementations, one or more process blocks
of Fig. 4 may be performed by another device or a group of devices separate from or
including analytics system 205, such as user device 220, surveillance system 225, server
device 230, and/or client device 235.
[0058]      As shown in Fig. 4, process 400 may include receiving data associated with a
historical event (block 410). For example, analytics system 205 may receive data associated
with a historical event from user device 220, surveillance system 225, and/or server device
230. In some implementations, analytics system 205 may receive the data periodically, as
the data is captured, determined, or inputted, according to a schedule, and/or based on input
from a user of a device.
[0059]      In some implementations, the data associated with the historical event may include
text (e.g., a text document, a text file, a web page, a social media page, an article). For
example, the data may include the text of a crime report or a news article, text data of a
social media post, and/or the like. Additionally, or alternatively, the data associated with the
historical event may include a media item, such as an image, a set of images, video, and/or
audio (e.g., from user device 220 or surveillance system 225), and/or metadata associated
with the media item.       For example, the metadata may identify a location of a device that
captured the media item, a time the media item was captured, or a device identifier of the
device that captured the media item. Additionally, or alternatively, the data associated with

                                                 19
the historical event may include a message (e.g., a short message service (SMS) message
or an email) from a device, such as user device 220.
[0060]      In some implementations, the data may include millions, billions, or trillions of data
items related to thousands, millions, or billions of historical events. In some implementations,
analytics system 205 may use a technique that can manage large quantities of data items
(e.g., a big data technique) to process the data in the manner described herein.
[0061]      In some implementations, the data associated with the historical event may identify
a context of the historical event. For example, the data associated with the historical event
may identify a particular day on which the historical event occurred, a time of day at which
the historical event occurred, a location of the historical event, a device identifier that
identifies a device that is sending the data, and/or the like. As a particular example, in the
case in which the historical event is a crime event, the data associated with the historical
crime event may identify tools or weapons used by a perpetrator of the crime event, a
description of a suspected perpetrator of the crime event, a quantity of police officers
deployed to the scene of the crime event, a badge number or other identifier of a police
officer deployed to the scene of the crime event, and/or the like.
[0062]      In some implementations, analytics system 205 may process the data (e.g., using
computer vision, image analysis, audio analysis, video analysis, etc.), as described in more
detail below. Additionally, or alternatively, another device, such as another analytics system
205, surveillance system 225, and/or server device 230 may process the data and store the
data in a repository, which analytics system 205 may access.
[0063]      In this way, analytics system 205 may quickly and efficiently receive data
associated with a historical event, thereby conserving processing resources.
[0064]      As further shown in Fig. 4, process 400 may include identifying a pre-event
associated with the historical event, a post-event associated with the historical event, and/or
a context of the historical event (block 420) and storing information identifying the pre-event,
the post-event, and/or the context (block 430). For example, analytics system 205 may
identify a pre-event associated with the historical event, a post-event associated with the

                                                20
historical event, and/or a context associated with the historical event based on the received
data. In some implementations, analytics system 205 may store information identifying the
pre-event, the post-event, and/or the context.
[0065]      In some implementations, analytics system 205 may identify the pre-event
associated with the historical event, the post-event associated with the historical event,
and/or the context associated with the historical event based on processing the received
data.    For example, analytics system 205 may process the data using a processing
technique. In some implementations, analytics system 205 may process the received data
to identify a term and/or a tag included in the received data. For example, analytics system
205 may process text from a crime report and/or metadata associated with a media item
using natural language processing, text analysis, computational linguistics, machine
learning, and/or artificial intelligence to perform term lemmatization or term extraction to
identify a set of characters, such as a character string, a misspelled word, an acronym, a
tag, and/or the like. In this way, analytics system 205 may quickly and efficiently identify a
term and/or a tag included in the received data, thereby conserving processing resources.
[0066]      In some implementations, analytics system 205 may generate a list of unique
terms included in the received data. For example, analytics system 205 may generate a list
of unique terms based on identifying a term and/or a tag included in the received data. In
some implementations, a term included in the list of unique terms may identify a pre-event
of the historical event, a post-event of the historical event, and/or a context of the historical
event. For example, analytics system 205 may use a data structure that includes terms and
information indicating whether the terms are associated with an event or a context of an
event to determine whether the term identifies a pre-event, a post-event, and/or a context.
[0067]      In some implementations, analytics system 205 may perform a lookup of a term in
a data structure and identify corresponding information that indicates whether the term is
associated with a pre-event, a post-event, and/or a context. For example, analytics system
205 may perform a lookup of a term that identifies a city in which a historical event occurred.
Continuing with the previous example, analytics system 205 may identify corresponding

                                                21
information that indicates that the term identifies a context of the historical event (e.g., rather
than identifying a pre-event or a post-event of the historical event).
[0068]     In some implementations, analytics system 205 may process an image.                  For
example, analytics system 205 may process the image to identify an event shown in the
image (e.g., a pre-event or a post-event associated with a historical event) and/or a context
of the event. In some implementations, analytics system 205 may process the image using
a technique. For example, analytics system 205 may process the image using machine
learning, pattern recognition, object detection, computer vision, and/or the like to detect an
object shown in the image, edges of the object, a pattern shown in the image, and/or the
like.
[0069]     In some implementations, analytics system 205 may identify a pre-event, a post
event, and/or a context of the historical event shown in the image based on detecting the
object, the edges of the object, and/or the pattern. For example, analytics system 205 may
use a data structure that includes information identifying various objects or patterns that may
be shown in an image and an associated event or context to identify the pre-event, the post
event, and/or the context. Continuing with the previous example, analytics system 205 may
perform a lookup in a data structure using information that identifies an object shown in an
image and identify corresponding information that indicates that the object identifies a
context of a historical event shown in the image.       In this way, analytics system 205 may
quickly and efficiently process the data to permit identification of a pre-event, a post-event,
and/or a context included in the data, thereby conserving processing resources. In addition,
in this way, analytics system 205 may identify a pre-event, a post-event, and/or a context of
a historical event in an objective manner, thereby reducing or eliminating errors that would
occur with identification in a subjective manner.
[0070]     In some implementations, analytics system 205 may determine whether an
identified event is a pre-event or a post-event. For example, analytics system 205 may
determine whether the identified event is a pre-event or a post-event based on the data
and/or other information associated with the historical event.        In some implementations,
analytics system 205 may determine whether the identified event is a pre-event or a post-

                                               22
event using temporal data.        For example, temporal data may include metadata or a
timestamp that indicates a date or a time at which the historical event and/or the identified
event occurred, thereby permitting analytics system 205 to determine whether the identified
event occurred before or after the historical event. In this way, analytics system 205 may
use temporal data to categorize an identified event as a pre-event or a post-event associated
with a historical event, thereby reducing an amount of processing associated with
categorization and thereby conserving processing and/or memory resources. In addition,
analytics system 205 may increase an accuracy of determining whether an identified event
is a pre-event or a post-event, thereby conserving processing resources.
[0071]     Additionally, or alternatively, analytics system 205 may determine whether the
identified event is a pre-event or a post-event associated with a historical event based on a
type of the event. For example, analytics system 205 may identify a type of the event using
the received data. In some implementations, analytics system 205 may identify the type of
an event based on processing the data. For example, analytics system 205 may process
the data to identify a term or a tag included in the data and using a data structure to identify
a type of the event associated with the term or tag and whether the type of event is
associated with being a pre-event or a post-event. As another example, analytics system
205 may identify an object in an image and use a data structure to identify a type of the
object and whether the type of the object is associated with a pre-event or a post-event. This
conserves processing resources of analytics system 205 by permitting analytics system 205
to perform fewer lookups relative to performing lookups based on the term or the object.
[0072]     In some implementations, analytics system 205 may store information identifying
the context, the pre-event, and/or the post-event. For example, analytics system 205 may
store the information using memory resources of analytics system 205.                 In some
implementations, analytics system 205 may store the information using a data structure.
Additionally, or alternatively, analytics system 205 may store the information using a
knowledge base and/or a knowledge graph that structures the information into a set of
hierarchical relationships (e.g., where two events that are associated with the same
geographic location, such as a city, state, or country are associated with the same node in
the knowledge base or knowledge graph). Additionally, or alternatively, analytics system

                                                 23
205 may store the information in a log of events. For example, analytics system 205 may
generate a log entry, in a log of events that includes data associated with a pre-event, a post
event, and/or a context of the historical event.
[0073]     In some implementations, when storing the information in the log of events,
analytics system 205 may store the information in a particular manner.            For example,
analytics system 205 may store the information such that analytics system 205 can identify
a historical event, a pre-event associated with the historical event, a post-event associated
with the historical event, and/or a context of the historical event (e.g., by associating the
information with an identifier that identifies the historical event).
[0074]     In this way, analytics system 205 may identify a pre-event, a post-event, and/or a
context of a historical event and store information identifying the pre-event, the post-event,
and/or the context of a historical event. This conserves processing resources by permitting
quick and efficient access to the information and/or by reducing or eliminating a need for
analytics system 205 to re-determine the pre-event, the post-event, and/or the context of the
historical event.   In addition, this permits analytics system 205 to use the information in
various ways. For example, analytics system 205 may use the information as a training set
for machine learning, such as to improve identification of a pre-event, a post-event, and/or a
context of a historical event. As another example, analytics system 205 may provide the
information to another analytics system 205. This may conserve processing resources of
the other analytics system 205 by reducing or eliminating the need for the other analytics
system 205 to identify the pre-event, the post-event, and/or the context of the historical event.
[0075]     Although Fig. 4 shows example blocks of process 400, in some implementations,
process 400 may include additional blocks, fewer blocks, different blocks, or differently
arranged blocks than those depicted in Fig. 4. Additionally, or alternatively, two or more of
the blocks of process 400 may be performed in parallel.
[0076]     Fig. 5 is a flow chart of an example process 500 for automatically predicting an
event based on data. In some implementations, one or more process blocks of Fig. 5 may
be performed by analytics system 205. In some implementations, one or more process
blocks of Fig. 5 may be performed by another device or a group of devices separate from or

                                                24
including analytics system 205, such as user device 220, surveillance system 225, server
device 230, and/or client device 235.
[0077]      As shown in Fig. 5, process 500 may include receiving data associated with an
event (block 510) and identifying a context of the event based on the data (block 520). For
example, analytics system 205 may receive data associated with an event and identify the
event or a context of the event based on the received data.
[0078]      In some implementations, analytics system 205 may receive the data in a manner
similar to that described above.       For example, analytics system 205 may automatically
receive the data from user device 220, surveillance system 225, and/or server device 230 in
real-time, in near real-time, periodically, and/or according to a schedule.             In some
implementations, the data may relate to a current event. For example, analytics system 205
may receive data related to an event that has occurred within a threshold amount of time of
when analytics system 205 receives the data (e.g., based on temporal data).
[0079]      In some implementations, analytics system 205 may identify the current event or
a context of the current event in a manner similar to that described above with respect to a
historical event.     For example, analytics system 205 may process the data using a
processing technique.      In some implementations, analytics system 205 may store the
information associated with the current event in a manner similar to that described above.
[0080]      In this way, analytics system 205 may automatically receive information related to
the event from various sources and identify the event and/or a context of the event, thereby
conserving processing resources.         In addition, in this way, analytics system 205 may
accurately identify the event and/or a context of the event, thereby conserving processing
resources that would otherwise be used to inaccurately identify the event and/or the context
of the event.
[0081]      As further shown in Fig. 5, process 500 may include identifying a historical event
based on the context of the event and a context of the historical event (block 530). For
example, analytics system 205 may identify a similar historical event using stored information
that identifies the context of a current event and the context of the historical event.

                                                25
[0082]      In some implementations, analytics system 205 may use a technique to identify
the historical event (e.g., the similar historical event). For example, analytics system 205
may use a canonical correlation technique to identify a historical event that has a context
similar to the current event. Continuing with the previous example, analytics system 205
may use the canonical correlation technique to identify a correlation among information
related to the current event and information related to the historical event by identifying
semantically similar terms or tags in the information related to the current event and the
historical event. Additionally, or alternatively, analytics system 205 may use the canonical
correlation technique using semantically similar terms that identify similar objects shown in
images associated with the current event and the historical event.
[0083]      In some implementations, analytics system 205 may determine a score when
using the canonical correlation technique. For example, the score may indicate a correlation
between data of the current event and data of a historical event. In some implementations,
when analytics system 205 uses a canonical correlation technique, analytics system 205
may identify a set of similar historical events when the correlation of semantically similar
terms, identified objects, and/or the like between the set of historical events and the current
event satisfies a threshold (e.g., when a score generated using the canonical correlation
technique satisfies a threshold).
[0084]      In some implementations, when using the technique, analytics system 205 may
identify a historical event with a similar context to the event. In some implementations, when
using the technique to identify a similar historical event, analytics system 205 may identify a
historical event that occurred in a location similar to the current event.      Additionally, or
alternatively, analytics system 205 may identify a historical event that occurred at a similar
time of day as the current event. Additionally, or alternatively, analytics system 205 may
identify a historical event that occurred on a similar day of the week as the current event.
[0085]     Additionally, or alternatively, and using a criminal event as an example, analytics
system 205 may identify a historical criminal event that involved the use of similar tools as
the current criminal event, such as a similar make, model, or type of vehicle used (e.g., a
car, a truck, a van, a bike, or a motorcycle), a similar weapon used, a similar technique used

                                                   26
(e.g., a similar method of entry, such as via a window, a back door, a basement door, a
garage, etc.), and/or the like. Additionally, or alternatively, analytics system 205 may identify
a historical event that included the same individual as the current event. For example, and
using a crime event as an example, analytics system 205 may identify a historical event that
included the same suspect, or a similar description of a suspect, the same victim, the same
police officer that was dispatched, the same witness, and/or the like.
[0086]       In some implementations, analytics system 205 may use a filter when identifying
the similar historical event. For example, analytics system 205 may apply a filter to filter
identified historical events based on particular information.           In some implementations,
analytics system 205 may use a temporal filter when identifying the similar historical event.
For example, analytics system 205 may use a temporal filter to identify a historical event that
occurred within a particular time period prior to the current event, occurred during a particular
time of day, occurred on a particular day of the week, occurred within a threshold amount of
time before the current event, and/or the like. Additionally, or alternatively, analytics system
205 may use a geographic filter. For example, analytics system 205 may use the geographic
filter to identify a historical event that occurred in a particular geographic location, a threshold
distance from a particular location, in the same, or a similar, location as the current event,
and/or the like.
[0087]       In some implementations, analytics system 205 may store a result of identifying
the similar historical events.       For example, analytics system 205 may store information
identifying an event, a historical event that is similar to the event, a context of the event or
the historical event, a pre-event associated with the historical event, and/or the like. In some
implementations, analytics system 205 may use the stored information as a training set for
a machine learning algorithm. This improves identification of a historical event that is similar
to an event, thereby conserving processing resources.                 Additionally, or alternatively,
analytics system 205 may provide the stored information to another analytics system 205.
This conserves processing resources of the other analytics system 205 by reducing or
eliminating a need for the other analytics system 205 to identify the similar historical event.

                                                27
[0088]      In this way, analytics system 205 may quickly and efficiently identify a historical
event that is similar to an event (e.g., a current event), thereby conserving processing
resources. In addition, this increases an accuracy of identifying a historical event similar to
a current event, thereby conserving processing resources that would otherwise be used to
inaccurately identify a similar historical event.
[0089]     As further shown in Fig. 5, process 500 may include determining a set of pre
events associated with the event based on a pre-event associated with the historical event
(block 540).      For example, analytics system 205 may determine a set of pre-events
associated with a current event based on one or more pre-events associated with the
historical event.
[0090]      In some implementations, analytics system 205 may identify a pre-event
associated with a similar historical event. For example, analytics system 205 may identify a
pre-event of the historical event using previously stored information that identifies a pre
event associated with the historical event. In some implementations, analytics system 205
may identify multiple pre-events for multiple historical events.
[0091]      In some implementations, analytics system 205 may identify a pre-event that is
common to a threshold quantity of historical events, such as when analytics system 205
identifies multiple pre-events for multiple historical events.     In some implementations,
analytics system 205 may match a term and/or a tag in data associated pre-events of a
threshold quantity or percentage of similar historical events. For example, analytics system
205 may match the term "scouting" or "suspicious person" in a threshold quantity or
percentage crime reports associated with historical events that occurred before a historical
burglary event.      In this case, analytics system 205 may identify a scouting event or a
suspicious person event as a pre-event of a burglary event. In this way, analytics system
205 may identify a pre-event of a historical event based on semantics of the data associated
with the historical event.
[0092]     Additionally, or alternatively, in the case of an image and/or video, analytics
system 205 may match an object identified in an image related to a pre-event that is
associated with a threshold quantity or percentage of historical events to identify a pre-event.

                                                     28
For example, analytics system 205 may process images of pre-events of historical events
and determine that the same vehicle is present in images of the location of the burglary event
and at the same time as the burglary event for a threshold quantity of days prior to the
burglary event. In this case, analytics system 205 may identify the presence of the same
vehicle at the same location and at the same time as a pre-event of a historical event (e.g.,
indicating scouting activity). In this way, analytics system 205 may identify a pre-event that
is associated with a threshold quantity or percentage of historical events, thereby improving
identification of a pre-event.
[0093]      In some implementations, analytics system 205 may use a homophily technique
(e.g., to determine a score, such as a homogeneity metric or a similarity score) to determine
a correlation between two events. For example, analytics system 205 may use a homophily
technique to determine a semantic similarity between identified pre-events of historical
events and a current event. In some implementations, analytics system 205 may use the
homophily technique to identify pre-events of historical events that are semantically similar
to a current event. For example, analytics system 205 may identify pre-events that are
semantically similar to the current event when information related to pre-events and the
current event include semantically similar terms, a threshold quantity of semantically similar
terms, a threshold quantity of similar nodes in a knowledge graph, when analytics system
205 determines a threshold score, and/or the like.
[0094]      In some implementations, analytics system 205 may use machine learning, train
a model, and/or the like to identify pre-events of historical events that are semantically similar
to a current event. For example, analytics system 205 may use data related to a previously
used homophily technique to train a model to identify pre-events using the homophily
technique.
[0095]      In some implementations, the homophily technique may be represented by an
equation or a formula. For example, the homophily technique may be represented by the
equation:
S(Ei, E;, KG)    (totaltotal quantity of connected nodes
                        quantity of nodes in knowledge graph
                                                             whereVi   j (1)

                                                 29
[0096]      In equation 1, the term S may represent a score determined using equation 1 that
indicates a similarity between two events. For example, a threshold score may indicate that
two events include semantically similar or dissimilar terms. Continuing with equation 1, the
term Ei may represent event i, the term Ej may represent event j, and the term KG may
represent that a relationship between data in a knowledge graph for events i and j is used to
determine the score, the term total quantity of connected nodes may represent a total
quantity of nodes in the knowledge graph that data related to events i and j have in common
(e.g., if events i and j occur in the same city, then data identifying a location of events i and j
may have a "city" node in common in the knowledge graph), and the term V i *                 j may
represent that events i and j are different events.
[0097]      In some implementations, analytics system 205 may determine multiple scores for
multiple sets of events. For example, analytics system 205 may determine a first similarity
score for a first event and a second event, a second similarity score for the first event and a
third event, and a third similarity score for the second event and the third event. In some
implementations, when analytics system 205 determines multiple scores, analytics system
205 may determine an order, a rank, or a priority (e.g., high, medium, low, first, second, third,
etc.) for the scores. For example, analytics system 205 may determine the order, rank or
priority by organizing the similarity scores from highest score to lowest score, from lowest
score to highest score, based on other information associated with the events for which the
score was determined, such as temporal proximity between the events, a geographic
proximity of the events, and/or the like.
[0098]      In some implementations, analytics system 205 may determine an order, a rank
or a priority of historical events based on the similarity score. For example, assume that
analytics system 205 has determined similarity scores for a first current event and a first
historical event, and for the first current event a second historical event. Further assume, for
example, that a first similarity score for the first current event and the first historical event is
higher relative to a second similarity score for the first current event and the second historical
event. In this case, analytics system 205 may determine a higher order, rank, or priority for
the first historical event relative to the second historical event based on the first similarity
score having a higher value relative to the second similarity score.

                                                30
[0099]      In some implementations, analytics system 205 may normalize information related
to pre-events of historical events similar to the current event. For example, analytics system
205 may normalize the pre-events to determine an order of the pre-events across different
historical events, a timing of the pre-events across different historical events, and/or the like.
In some implementations, analytics system 205 may normalize the pre-events using
information related to timing of a pre-event relative to the historical event with which the pre
event is associated. For example, analytics system 205 may determine a temporal distance
of a pre-event from a historical event and compare the temporal distance of the pre-event to
other pre-events of the same historical event and/or a different historical event to determine
an order of the pre-events. Continuing with the previous example, analytics system 205 may
determine a quantity of days and/or hours that a first pre-event occurred before a first
historical event and may compare that information to a second pre-event associated with the
first event or a second historical event to determine whether the first pre-event occurred
before or after the second pre-event.
[00100]     In some implementations, analytics system 205 may determine an average
temporal distance that a pre-event has occurred before a historical event across multiple
historical events using information associated with the multiple historical events.           For
example, analytics system 205 may determine that a pre-event has occurred, on average, a
particular quantity of days or hours before a historical event. In this way, analytics system
205 may normalize pre-events across multiple historical events to permit comparison of the
pre-events of the historical.
[00101]     In some implementations, analytics system 205 may determine a timing of pre
events of a historical event (e.g., using temporal data related to the pre-events).           For
example, analytics system 205 may determine a timing of steps of a historical event. In
some implementations, analytics system 205 may determine a set of pre-events for a current
event based on a timing of the steps of the pre-events of the historical event. For example,
analytics system 205 may determine that a set of particular pre-events occurred prior to a
current event based on the timing (e.g., an order) of each pre-event of a set of pre-events
that occurred prior to a historical event. In this way, analytics system 205 may determine a
pre-event based on the timing of steps of pre-events of a historical event.

                                               31
[00102]    In some implementations, analytics system 205 may determine a type or a
grouping of a pre-event when normalizing pre-events. For example, and using a crime event
as an example, analytics system 205 may determine a first pre-event (e.g., a suspicious
person event) and a second pre-event (e.g., a suspicious vehicle event) are scouting type
events. In this case, when normalizing the first and second pre-events, analytics system 205
may normalize the first and second pre-events based on the first and second pre-events
being scouting type events (e.g., where the first and second pre-event are normalized as
scouting events rather than as suspicious person and suspicious vehicle events).
[00103]    In some implementations, analytics system 205 may use nodes of a knowledge
graph to identify a type or a grouping of a pre-event. For example, analytics system 205
may determine whether two or more pre-events are associated with information that is
semantically similar based on having a node of a knowledge graph in common and may
determine a type or grouping of the pre-events based on the common node. As a specific
example, analytics system 205 may determine that a suspicious person pre-event and a
suspicious vehicle pre-event are scouting type pre-events based on both being associated
with the node "suspicious" in the knowledge graph.
[00104]    In some implementations, analytics system 205 may determine a set of pre-events
for the event based on identifying a pre-event associated with a historical event.           For
example, analytics system 205 may determine a set of pre-events for a current event based
on a pre-event associated with a historical event. In some implementations, analytics system
205 may determine to include a pre-event in the set of pre-events based on identifying a
term, or semantically similar terms, included in the data for a threshold quantity or historical
events. For example, assume that analytics system 205 identifies multiple historical events
that have a similar context to the event.
[00105]   Continuing with the previous example, analytics system 205 may identify a term,
such as "suspicious," or a term that is semantically similar to the term "suspicious," in data
for pre-events of a threshold quantity of the multiple historical events. In this case, analytics
system 205 may include the pre-event in the set of pre-events based on the term
"suspicious," or a semantically similar term, being included in data for pre-events of a

                                                 32
threshold quantity of the multiple historical events.      In some implementations, analytics
system 205 may determine an order for the pre-events included in the set of pre-events. For
example, analytics system 205 may determine an order for pre-events included in the set of
pre-events based on the normalized order determined for the pre-events of the similar
historical events.
[00106]     In this way, analytics system 205 may quickly and efficiently determine a set of
pre-event associated with an event based on pre-events associated with historical events,
thereby improving determination of the set of pre-events.
[00107]    As further shown in Fig. 5, process 500 may include determining a set of post
events associated with the event based on the set of pre-events and based on a post-event
associated with the historical event (block 550). For example, analytics system 205 may
determine a set of post-events associated with the current event based on a set of pre-events
associated with the current event and based on a post-event associated with a historical
event that is similar to the current event.
[00108]     In some implementations, analytics system 205 may use the set of pre-events to
identify a historical event that has pre-events similar to the set of pre-events associated with
a current event. For example, assume that the set of pre-events includes a first and a second
pre-event. In this case, analytics system 205 may use information related to the first and
second pre-events to identify a historical event that has pre-events similar to the first pre
event and/or the second pre-event. In some implementations, analytics system 205 may
identify the historical event with similar pre-events based on comparing terms associated
with the set of pre-events and terms associated with the pre-events of the historical event
and identify the historical event when the comparison indicates a match.
[00109]    Additionally, or alternatively, analytics system 205 may use a homophily technique
for the set of pre-events and pre-events of historical events in a manner similar to that
described above to determine a historical event associated with pre-events similar to the set
of pre-events. For example, analytics system 205 may determine that a historical event is
associated with pre-events similar to the set of pre-events when a score from the homophily
technique satisfies a threshold. In this way, analytics system 205 may quickly and efficiently

                                                33
identify a historical event associated with pre-events that are similar to the set of pre-events
of an event, thereby conserving processing resources.
[00110]     In some implementations, analytics system 205 determine the set of post-events
based on the post-events associated with the historical events that have pre-events similar
to the set of pre-events. For example, analytics system 205 may identify post-events that
are associated with a threshold quantity or percentage of historical events and may include
the post-events that are associated with the threshold quantity of historical events in the set
of post-events.
[00111]     In some implementations, analytics system 205 may determine the set of post
events using a knowledge graph. For example, analytics system 205 may use a knowledge
graph that includes data related to a historical event, such as data that identifies, or is
associated with, the context of the historical event, a pre-event associated with the historical
event, and/or a post-event associated with the historical event. In some implementations,
analytics system 205 may map data associated with an event to the same knowledge graph
used for the historical events. For example, analytics system 205 may map data related to
the context of a current event or the set of pre-events for the current event to the knowledge
graph.
[00112]     In some implementations, when using a knowledge graph, analytics system 205
may identify a historical event based on a semantic similarity between a current event and
the historical event. For example, analytics system 205 may identify a historical event that
is associated with terms that are semantically similar to the terms associated with the current
event (e.g., a threshold quantity of terms, a threshold percentage of terms, etc.).
[00113]    Additionally, or alternatively, when using a knowledge graph, analytics system 205
may identify a historical event that is associated with pre-events similar to the set of pre
events based on nodes of the knowledge graph that are common to data related to the pre
events associated with the historical event and data related to the set of pre-events. For
example, analytics system 205 may determine that pre-events associated with a historical
event are similar to the set of pre-events associated with an event when data related to the
pre-events and the set of pre-events has a threshold quantity or percentage of nodes in

                                                34
common.      In some implementations, analytics system 205 may determine the set of post
events by identifying post-events associated with the historical events that have pre-events
similar to the set of pre-events.
[00114]     In some implementations, analytics system 205 may use a predictive modeling
technique to determine a set of post-events for an event based on data associated with a
historical event. For example, analytics system 205 may identify a post-event of the historical
event and predict a post-event for the current event based on terms associated with a post
event of a historical event, a semantic similarity between a pre-event of the historical event
and a set of pre-events for a current event, and/or the like.
[00115]     In some implementations, analytics system 205 may use machine learning, train
a model, and/or the like to determine whether a pre-event associated with a historical event
is similar to the set of pre-events. For example, analytics system 205 may use data related
to a previous determination to train a model perform another determination of whether a pre
event associated with a historical event is similar to the set of pre-events.
[00116]     In some implementations, analytics system 205 may use a formula or an equation
to determine whether a pre-event associated with a historical event is similar to the set of
pre-events.     For example, analytics system 205 may use an equation or a formula to
determine a score that indicates a semantic similarity of data (e.g., terms or tags) related to
a pre-event of a historical event and the set of pre-events of a current event.          In some
implementations, the equation or formula may be represented by the following steps:
            Step 1: sum(ER, Ek) = sum({F, ..., Fj),{FAi,  ... , F,1) where i E f1, n}(2)
                                   Step 2: Max (sum(ER, EI))
[00117]     In equation 2, the term sum(ER, EH) may represent that analytics system 205 is to
find the total quantity of common or connected nodes of a knowledge graph between events
ER  (a current event) and EH (a historical event), the term       {FR, ...,Fj} may represent pre
events for event ER and the term     {Fi, ..., F,} may represent pre-events for event EH, the
term i E {1, n} may represent that there is at least one pre-event associated with the historical

                                                35
event, and the term Max (sum(ER, EH)) may represent that analytics system 205 identifies a
historical event with a threshold, or maximum, quantity of nodes in common with the current
event relative to other historical events, indicating that the historical event is most similar to
the current event (e.g., relative to other historical events).        In some implementations,
analytics system 205 may determine the set of post-events by identifying post-events of
historical events where the score satisfies a threshold.
[00118]     In some implementations, analytics system 205 may determine a likelihood (e.g.,
severity level, such as high, medium, or low) for the set of post-events. For example, a
likelihood for the set of post-events may indicate how a post-event included in the set of post
events is to occur. In some implementations, analytics system 205 may determine the
likelihood for the set of post-events using a data structure, a log, or a dictionary.         For
example, the data structure, log, or dictionary may include terms and/or tags and
corresponding likelihoods associated with the terms and/or tags. In some implementations,
analytics system 205 may perform a lookup of a term and/or a tag associated with a post
event included in the set of post-events in a data structure that includes information
identifying a set of terms and/or tags and determine a corresponding likelihood identified by
the data structure.
[00119]    Additionally, or alternatively, analytics system 205 may determine a likelihood for
the set of post-events based on a frequency with which a post-event, or a similar post-event,
occurs with respect to historical events. For example, analytics system 205 may determine
a likelihood for a post event included in the set of post-events when the post-event, or a
similar post-event, has occurred with respect to a threshold quantity or percentage of
historical events that are similar to the current event. In this way, analytics system 205 may
quickly and efficiently determine a likelihood of a post-event included in the set of post
events, thereby conserving processing resources.
[00120]     In some implementations, analytics system 205 may determine a severity of a set
of post-events. For example, analytics system 205 may determine a high severity, a medium
severity, or a low severity for a set of post-events.       In some implementations, analytics
system 205 may use a data structure to determine the severity of a set of post-events. For

                                                  36
example, the data structure may include information that identifies historical events that are
similar to the set of post-events and information identifying a severity of the similar historical
events. In some implementations, when using the data structure, analytics system 205 may
identify a severity of a similar historical event and determine a severity of a set of post-events
based on the severity of the similar historical event. In this way, analytics system 205 may
determine a severity of a set of post-events.
[00121]     In some implementations, analytics system 205 may identify an action associated
with a post-event of a historical event. For example, analytics system 205 may identify an
action using data associated with the historical event. In some implementations, an action
may include an action taken with respect to the historical event and/or a post-event of the
historical even. For example, if a historical event is a burglary event, an action may include
deployment of a particular quantity of law enforcement officers to the location of the burglary
event.
[00122]     In some implementations, analytics system 205 may determine a set of actions to
perform with respect to an event based on an action taken with respect to a similar historical
event and/or a post-event similar to the set of post-events. For example, analytics system
205 may use data associated with a historical event and/or a post-event of the historical
event to identify a set of actions that could be taken with respect to a current event based on
the current event and the historical event being similar, based on the set of post-events for
the current event and a post-event for the historical event being similar, and/or the like.
[00123]     In some implementations, analytics system 205 may determine a score for each
action included in the set of actions. For example, analytics system 205 may use a Bayesian
model or a Bayesian network to determine a Bayesian probability (e.g., using a Bayesian
probability technique) for an action included the set of actions. Continuing with the previous
example, the Bayesian probability may indicate a likelihood that the action would be
associated with a similar historical event or a historical event with a post-event similar to the
set of post-events. In this way, analytics system 205 may determine a set of actions for an
event based on an action related to a similar historical event and/or a historical event with a
post-event similar to set of post-events determined for the event.

                                               37
[00124]     In some implementations, analytics system 205 may determine an order, a rank,
or a priority for the set of actions. For example, analytics system 205 may determine an
order, a rank, or a priority of the actions included in the set of actions based on the score
determined for each action included in the set of actions. Continuing with the previous
example, analytics system 205 may order actions included in the set of actions from highest
score to lowest score, lowest score to highest score, and/or the like. This permits analytics
system 205 to prioritize an action relative to other actions, thereby improving selection of an
action to perform and conserving processing resources that would otherwise be used to
perform a low priority action.
[00125]     In some implementations, analytics system 205 may permit identification of a set
of pre-events that caused analytics system 205 to determine a set of post-events.            For
example, analytics system 205 may determine that a particular set of pre-events caused
analytics system 205 to determine a particular set of post-events. In this way, analytics
system 205 may track the determination of the set of post-events based on the set of pre
events.
[00126]     In this way, analytics system 205 may automatically predict a post-event of an
event (e.g., a current event) and determine a set of actions to perform with respect to the
event.
[00127]     In some implementations, analytics system 205 may generate a recommendation
for an action based on the set of actions. For example, analytics system 205 may provide
to user device 220 and/or client device 235 a message for display that indicates an action
included in the set of actions.
[00128]    As further shown in Fig. 5, process 500 may include performing an action related
to the event (block 560). For example, analytics system 205 may perform an action included
in a set of actions associated with a current event and/or another action.
[00129]     In some implementations, analytics system 205 may identify an action to perform
based on the order, the rank, and/or the priority of actions included in the set of actions that
analytics system 205 has determined. For example, analytics system 205 may identify the

                                               38
action with the highest order, rank, and/or priority relative to other actions as the action to
perform.
[00130]    In some implementations, analytics system 205 may identify an action based on a
combination of the order, rank, and/or priority of the action and a likelihood of a post-event
included in the set of post-events. For example, analytics system 205 may identify a first
action, associated with a first post-event, as having a higher priority than a second action,
associated with a second post-event, but may select the second action when the second
post-event has a higher likelihood than the first post-event, a likelihood that satisfies a
threshold, and/or the like. This improves selection of an action to perform by permitting
dynamic selection of the action based on a likelihood of a post-event associated with an
event. In addition, this conserves processing resources that would otherwise be used to
perform an action related to a low likelihood post-event or a post-event with a likelihood that
does not satisfy a threshold.
[00131]    In some implementations, analytics system 205 may modify the action based on
an outcome of a post-event associated with a historical event. For example, analytics system
205 may determine an outcome for a post-event of a historical event (e.g., using data
associated with the post-event and/or the historical event) and may modify an action included
in the set of actions based on the outcome. Using a criminal event as an example, assume
that analytics system 205 identifies deploying a particular quantity of police officers as the
action to perform. Further assume that analytics system 205 determines that the same, or
a similar, quantity of police officers were deployed during a similar historical event and that
the suspect in the similar historical event evaded capture (e.g., by identifying a term and/or
a tag, such as "suspect," "escaped," and/or "evaded capture" in a crime report for the crime
event). In this case, analytics system 205 may modify the action to deploy a higher quantity
of police officers based on determining that the suspect in the similar historical event evaded
capture when the same, or a similar, quantity of police officers were deployed.
[00132]    In some implementations, analytics system 205 may perform various actions
regardless of whether the actions are associated with a post-event of a historical event. As
an example of an action that analytics system 205 may perform, analytics system 205 may

                                              39
automatically transmit an SMS message to user devices 220 that are proximate to the
location of the event.      As another example, analytics system 205 may cause a law
enforcement officer, or additional law enforcement officers, to be deployed to the location of
the event by transmitting a message to user device 220 (e.g., used by a law enforcement
officer) and/or to a dispatch system. As another example, analytics system 205 may cause
emergency or medical personnel or equipment to be allocated and/or mobilized by
transmitting a message to a dispatch system.
[00133]     As another example, analytics system 205 may cause an emergency message to
be broadcast by transmitting a command and/or a message to an emergency notification
system. As another example, analytics system 205 may cause pedestrian traffic or vehicle
traffic to be rerouted (e.g., by causing announcements to be made via a navigation system,
a message to be displayed via an electronic sign, etc.). As another example, analytics
system 205 may control traffic devices (e.g., a stop light or an electronic traffic sign), such
as to detour or route vehicle and/or pedestrian traffic. As another example, analytics system
205 may cause evacuation or removal of personnel from an area (e.g., by causing an
announcement to be made via an intercommunication system, a message to be displayed
via an electronic sign, etc.).
[00134]     As another example, analytics system 205 may cause a vehicle, such as an
unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV), or a robot to be deployed to the location of the event (e.g.,
to gather additional media items and/or other data about an event). As another example,
analytics system 205 may automatically complete a document, such as to request a warrant.
In this way, analytics system 205 increases an efficiency of acting based on an event or a
post-event related to the event, by reducing an amount of time from identification of the event
or a post-event to performing an action.
[00135]     Although Fig. 5 shows example blocks of process 500, in some implementations,
process 500 may include additional blocks, fewer blocks, different blocks, or differently
arranged blocks than those depicted in Fig. 5. Additionally, or alternatively, two or more of
the blocks of process 500 may be performed in parallel.

                                               40
[00136]    Implementations described herein improve determination of a pre-event and/or
prediction of a post-event associated with a current event and facilitate performing of an
action based on the current event. In addition, implementations increase an efficiency of
determining a pre-event and/or predicting a post-event by enabling automatic real-time or
near real-time prediction. Further, implementations improve an accuracy of determining a
pre-event and/or predicting a post-event, thereby conserving processing resources
associated with inaccurately determining the pre-event and/or predicting the post-event.
Further still, implementations improve safety by enabling quick and efficient performance of
an action based on an event, such as a criminal event.
[00137]    The foregoing disclosure provides illustration and description, but is not intended
to be exhaustive or to limit the implementations to the precise form disclosed. Modifications
and variations are possible in light of the above disclosure or may be acquired from practice
of the implementations.
[00138]    As used herein, the term component is intended to be broadly construed as
hardware, firmware, and/or a combination of hardware and software.
[00139]    Some implementations are described herein in connection with thresholds. As
used herein, satisfying a threshold may refer to a value being greater than the threshold,
more than the threshold, higher than the threshold, greater than or equal to the threshold,
less than the threshold, fewer than the threshold, lower than the threshold, less than or equal
to the threshold, equal to the threshold, etc.
[00140]    It will be apparent that systems and/or methods, described herein, may be
implemented in different forms of hardware, firmware, or a combination of hardware and
software. The actual specialized control hardware or software code used to implement these
systems and/or methods is not limiting of the implementations. Thus, the operation and
behavior of the systems and/or methods were described herein without reference to specific
software code-it being understood that software and hardware can be designed to
implement the systems and/or methods based on the description herein.

                                                41
[00141]     Even though particular combinations of features are recited in the claims and/or
disclosed in the specification, these combinations are not intended to limit the disclosure of
possible implementations. In fact, many of these features may be combined in ways not
specifically recited in the claims and/or disclosed in the specification.        Although each
dependent claim listed below may directly depend on only one claim, the disclosure of
possible implementations includes each dependent claim in combination with every other
claim in the claim set.
[00142]     No element, act, or instruction used herein should be construed as critical or
essential unless explicitly described as such. Also, as used herein, the articles "a" and "an"
are intended to include one or more items, and may be used interchangeably with "one or
more." Furthermore, as used herein, the term "set" is intended to include one or more items
(e.g., related items, unrelated items, a combination of related and unrelated items, etc.), and
may be used interchangeably with "one or more." Where only one item is intended, the term
"one" or similar language is used. Also, as used herein, the terms "has," "have," "having," or
the like are intended to be open-ended terms. Further, the phrase "based on" is intended to
mean "based, at least in part, on" unless explicitly stated otherwise.
[00143]     Throughout this specification and the claims which follow, unless the context
requires otherwise, the word "comprise", and variations such as "comprises" and
"comprising", will be understood to mean the inclusion of a stated feature or step, or group
of features or steps, but not the exclusion of any other feature or step, or group of features
or steps.
[00144]     Any reference to prior art in this specification is not, and should not be taken as
an acknowledgement, or any suggestion that, the prior art forms part of the common general
knowledge.

                                                   42
The claims defining the invention are as follows:
1.     A device, including:
       one or more processors that:
               receive data associated with a first event;
               identify a first context of the first event based on the data;
               identify a plurality of second events based on the first context and a second
       context of the plurality of second events,
                       the first context being similar to the second context;
               determine a set of pre-events associated with the first event based on a
       plurality of pre-events associated with the plurality of second events,
                       one or more pre-events of the set of pre-events being similar to the
               plurality of pre-events;
               determine a set of post-events associated with the first event based on the set
       of pre-events and based on a plurality of post-events associated with the plurality of
       second events,
                       the set of post-events including one or more post-events predicted to
               occur after the first event,
                       the one or more post-events being similar to the plurality of post-events;
               and
               perform an action related to the first event based on determining the set of
       post-events.
2.     A device according to claim 1, where the one or more processors further:
       determine a timing of steps of the plurality of second events; and
       where the one or more processors, when determining the set of pre-events:
               determine the set of pre-events based on the timing of the steps of the plurality
       of second events.
3.     A device according to either claim 1 or claim 2, where the one or more processors:

                                                  43
        use a canonical correlation technique to identify the plurality of second events based
on receiving the data;
        apply a filter to the plurality of second events based on identifying the plurality of
second events,
                the filter including a temporal filter or a geographic filter; and
        where the one or more processors, when identifying the plurality of second events,
are to:
                identify the plurality of second events based on applying the filter to the plurality
        of second events.
4.      A device according to any one of the preceding claims, where the one or more
processors further:
        use a homophily technique to determine a score for the first event and the plurality of
second events based on identifying the plurality of second events,
                the score indicating a semantic similarity between the first event and the
        plurality of second events based on a knowledge graph;
        determine an order for the plurality of second events based on the score; and
        where the one or more processors, when determining the set of pre-events, are to:
                determine the set of pre-events based on the order for the plurality of second
        events.
5.      A device according to any one of the preceding claims, where the one or more
processors, further:
        identify the plurality of post-events associated with the plurality of second events
based on identifying the plurality of second events in a knowledge graph;
        identify another plurality of post-events associated with a plurality of third events
based on identifying the plurality of third events in the knowledge graph,
                a third context of the plurality of third events being similar to the first context;
        and
        where the one or more processors, when determining the set of post-events:

                                                44
                determine the set of post-events based on identifying the plurality of post
        events and the other plurality of post-events.
6.      A device according to any one of the preceding claims, where the one or more
processors further:
        identify a second action associated with the plurality of second events based on
identifying the plurality of second events;
        determine a set of actions associated with the first event based on identifying the
second action; and
        where the one or more processors, when performing the action:
                perform the action based on determining the set of actions,
                       the action being included in the set of actions.
7.      A device according to any one of the preceding claims, where the one or more
processors further:
        determine a severity of the set of post-events; and
        where the one or more processors, when performing the action:
                perform the action based on the severity of the set of post-events.
8.      A method, including:
        receiving, by a device, data associated with an event;
        identifying, by the device, a context of the event based on receiving the data;
        identifying, by the device, a similar event based on performing a comparison of the
context of the event and a context of the similar event;
        determining, by the device, a set of pre-events associated with the event based on
identifying a pre-event that occurred before the similar event,
                the set of pre-events including at least one pre-event similar to the pre-event
        that occurred before the similar event;
        determining, by the device, a set of post-events associated with the event based on
determining the set of pre-events and identifying a post-event that occurred after the similar
event,

                                                 45
                the set of post-events including at least one post-event similar to the post
        event; and
        performing, by the device, an action based on the set of post-events.
9.      A method according to claim 8, further including:
        receiving other data associated with the similar event prior to receiving the data;
        identifying the pre-event, the post-event, or the context of the similar event based on
receiving the other data; and
        storing information identifying the pre-event, the post-event, or the context of the
similar event based on identifying the pre-event, the post-event, or the context of the similar
event.
10.     A method according to either claim 8 or claim 9, further including:
        processing the data to identify a term included in the data based on receiving the data;
and
        where identifying the context of the event includes:
                identifying the context of the event based on processing the data to identify the
        term.
11.     A method according to claim 10, further including:
        identifying a first term included in the data based on receiving the data,
                the first term being associated with the context of the event;
        identifying a second term included in other data based on receiving the other data,
                the second term being associated with the context of the similar event;
        determining whether the first term and the second term are similar based on
identifying the first term and the second term; and
        where identifying the similar event includes:
                identifying the similar event based on determining whether the first term and
        the second term are similar.
12.     A method according to any one of claims 8 to 11, further including:

                                               46
        identifying one or more pre-events associated with one or more similar events based
on identifying the one or more similar events,
                the one or more similar events including the similar event;
       determining whether the one or more pre-events are associated with a threshold
quantity of the one or more similar events based on identifying the one or more pre-events;
and
       where determining the set of pre-events includes:
                determining the set of pre-events based on determining whether the one or
        more pre-events are associated with the threshold quantity of the one or more similar
       events.
13.    A method according to any one of claims 8 to 12, further including:
        identifying another similar event based on receiving other data associated with the
other similar event;
       determining whether the other similar event is the post-event associated with the
similar event based on identifying the other similar event; and
       where determining the set of post-events includes:
                determining the set of post-events based on determining whether the other
       similar event is the post-event associated with the similar event.
14.    A method according to any one of claims 8 to 13, further including:
       determining the action to perform based on a similar action associated with the post
event;
       determining an outcome of the post-event using a term associated with the post-event
based on determining the action;
        modifying the action based on determining the outcome of the post-event; and
       where performing the action includes:
                performing the action based on modifying the action.

                                                  47
15.    A non-transitory computer-readable medium storing instructions, the instructions
including:
       one or more instructions that, when executed by one or more processors, cause the
one or more processors to:
               receive, from multiple devices, data associated with an event;
               process the data to identify a context of the event,
                        the context of the event being based on a term or a tag identified in the
               data;
               identify a historical event associated with a similar context as the context of the
       event based on processing the data,
                        the context of the historical event being based on another term similar
               to the term or another tag similar to the tag;
               determine a set of pre-events associated with the event based on identifying a
       pre-event associated with the historical event,
                        the set of pre-events being semantically similar to the pre-event;
               determine a set of post-events associated with the event based on the set of
       pre-events and based on a post-event associated with the historical event,
                        the set of post-events being semantically similar to the post-event; and
               perform an action related to the event based on determining the set of post
       events.
16.    A non-transitory computer-readable medium according to claim 15, where the one or
more instructions, when executed by the one or more processors, further cause the one or
more processors to:
       identify a first pre-event associated with a first historical event and a second pre-event
associated with a second historical event based on identifying the first historical event and
the second historical event;
       normalize a first temporal distance of the first pre-event from the first historical event
and a second temporal distance of the second pre-event from the second historical event;
and

                                               48
       where the one or more instructions, that cause the one or more processors to
determine the set of pre-events, further cause the one or more processors to:
              determine the set of pre-events based on normalizing the first temporal
       distance and the second temporal distance.
17.    A non-transitory computer-readable medium according to either claim 15 or claim 16,
where the one or more instructions, when executed by the one or more processors, further
cause the one or more processors to:
       determine a likelihood of the set of post-events based on determining the set of post
events;
       determine a set of actions to perform based on the likelihood of the set of post-events,
              the set of actions including the action; and
       where the one or more instructions, that cause the one or more processors to perform
the action, cause the one or more processors to:
              perform the action based on determining the set of actions.
18.    A non-transitory computer-readable medium according to any one of claims 15 to 17,
where the one or more instructions, when executed by the one or more processors, further
cause the one or more processors to:
       determine a set of actions based on the set of post-events,
              the set of actions including the action;
       determine a likelihood of a historical action, similar to the action, being associated
with one or more historical events using a Bayesian probability technique based on
determining the set of actions; and
       where the one or more instructions, that cause the one or more processors to perform
the action, cause the one or more processors to:
              perform the action based on the likelihood satisfying a threshold.
19.    A non-transitory computer-readable medium according to any one of claims 15 to 18,
where the one or more instructions, when executed by the one or more processors, further
cause the one or more processors to:

                                              49
       use a predictive modeling technique to predict the set of post-events based on the
post-event; and
      where the one or more instructions, that cause the one or more processors to
determine the set of post-events, cause the one or more processors to:
               determine the set of post-events based on using the predictive modeling
      technique to predict the set of post-events.
20.   A non-transitory computer-readable medium according to any one of claims 15 to 19,
where the one or more instructions, when executed by the one or more processors, further
cause the one or more processors to:
       identify first pre-events associated with the historical event and second pre-events
associated with the historical event,
               the first pre-events being associated with a first set of semantically similar
      terms,
               the second pre-events being associated with a second set of semantically
      similar terms;
      determine a first group of pre-events for the first pre-events and a second group of
pre-events for the second pre-events based on identifying the first pre-events and the second
pre-events; and
      where the one or more instructions, that cause the one or more processors to
determine the set of pre-events, cause the one or more processors to:
               determine the set of pre-events based on the first group of pre-events and the
      second group of pre-events.

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           1/9

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                      2/9

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                       3/9

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                       4/9

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                      5/9

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                      6/9

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                       7/9

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                   8/9

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                    9/9

