                                      Abstract
 5
   A single stage pressure leach method for the removal of uranium, thorium,
   radium, lead, bismuth and polonium and/ or other radionuclides from a
   radioactive copper concentrate to produce an upgraded copper concentrate
   having lowered emission levels is described. The method involves subjecting
10 the copper concentrate to an atmospheric pressure oxidative acidic leaching
   process to dissolve copper from the dirty concentrate. The slurry is then
   further subjected to an acidic non-oxidising leaching process using the earlier
   leached copper sulfate in a chloride matrix under lowered electrochemically
   conditions, to allow controlled removal of one or more of the radionuclides to
15 produce the lowered emission level upgraded copper concentrate, and lower
   soluble copper losses in the discharge stream. This second leaching process
   is conducted to transfer essentially all the copper in the lixiviant into the
   upgraded copper concentrate, at elevated temperature and under pressure to
   suppress boiling in the leaching process.
20
   Drawing to accompany Abstract: Figure 1

              0
   w                   0)
                     0(D
                                        0             0
           0L
             oW                              W
                       d,    C)               C)
          00
        0 F    0L
                                           -       CX
  0O                                                                00
                                                             0~00
                                                        ~            0
                                           0W                     0 -OH
                        Oz         KO0
                                                        U-)r
                                i- 0             _
     Zl  w00            T-(Y                                           a
  0w              *o
                                       H)
           H
0    O                                 Cl)

                                       ORIGINAL
                                    AUSTRALIA
                                    Patents Act 1990
                    COMPLETE SPECIFICATION
Invention title:
                 "A SINGLE STAGE PRESSURE LEACH
 HYDROMETALLURGICAL METHOD FOR THE REMOVAL OF
         RADIONUCLIDES FROM RADIOACTIVE COPPER
                              CONCENTRATES"
Applicant:
        Orway Mineral Consultants (WA) Pty Ltd
Associated Provisional Application No.: <removed-apn>
The following statement is a full description of the invention, including the best
method of performing it known to me:

                                           2
        "A SINGLE STAGE PRESSURE LEACH HYDROMETALLURGICAL
            METHOD FOR THE REMOVAL OF RADIONUCLIDES FROM
                   RADIOACTIVE COPPER CONCENTRATES"
 5 Field of the Invention
   The present invention relates to a truncated or simplified method for the
   hydrometallurgical   removal    of   radionuclides  from   radioactive  copper
   concentrates. The method relates particularly although not exclusively to the
   removal of the radionuclides uranium, thorium, radium, lead, bismuth and
10 polonium.    The method relates typically but not exclusively to the removal of
   radionuclides from copper concentrates being primary copper sulphide
   flotation concentrates and matte without pre-treatment or post-treatment. The
   method also relates to the efficient use of soluble copper in the non-oxidative
   leaching step for upgrade of copper concentrates and so minimize copper
15 losses.
   Background to the Invention
   The dominant copper-containing minerals in most copper sulfide deposits are
20 chalcopyrite, cubanite and bornite. Chalcocite, covelite and in some cases
   enargite or tennantite are also present.        The gangue mineral sulfides
   sometimes have pyrite and pyrrhotite present, many of these along with
   lesser quantities of host or gangue minerals report to the final flotation
   concentrate.
25
   High-grade, copper sulfide concentrates, (typically greater than about 25%
   Cu weight/weight), are commonly treated by pyrometallurgical            routes,
   whereas hydrometallurgical routes are generally favoured for the lower
   grade, or impurity bearing copper concentrates.         The economically and
30 technically most favourable processing route can also be influenced by the
   concentration of minor amounts of valuable metals such as cobalt and nickel,

                                              3
   or payable precious metals such as silver, gold, palladium and platinum, as
   well as contamination by radioactive elements such as uranium, thorium,
   radium, lead, bismuth or polonium and deleterious metals such as arsenic,
   present in the feed material.         Hydrometallurgical processing routes are
 5 generally more energy consuming than smelting, because the heat of
   combustion of the concentrates is not efficiently utilized.
   The three dominant pyrometallurgical routes for high-grade, copper sulfide
   concentrates are;
10                a) smelting to a matte followed by converting to blister copper,
                  b) direct to blister smelting and
                  c) oxidative roasting.
   The efficiency of the smelting technology is determined by, amongst other
15 things, the Cu/S ratio and the concentration of slag forming components,
   especially iron, magnesium and silica. Conventional smelting processes are
   generally not applicable to lower grade copper concentrates. Not all of the
   copper content of the original feed is recovered as blister copper, with the
   remaining copper reporting to the slag and to the smelter dusts or fumes
20 recovered from the smelter off-gases.
   Roasting of copper concentrates requires the conversion of the copper
   content to a water-soluble or sulfate form, which is recovered from the
   roaster   calcine    by    leaching,   followed   by   solvent  extraction  and
25 electrowinning.     Roasting is often inefficient because copper-containing
   insoluble ferrite phases can form during the roasting stage and lock some
   copper and valuable by-products such as cobalt.
   Many hydrometallurgical processes have been described for treating copper
30 containing concentrates, for example;
   Burkin A. R, Chemical Hydrometallurgy, 1952-1994, Trans. Inst Min. Metall.,
   103, 1994, C169-C176.

                                            4
   Dreisinger, D, Copper leaching from primary sulfides: Options for biological
   and chemical extraction of copper, HYDROMETALLURGY, 2006, 83, 10-20.
   Few of the proposed processes have attained full-scale commercial
 5 development, and most give little or no attention to removal of impurity or
   penalty elements, including radionuclides, or disposal of these elements by
   environmentally benign methods.         Hydrometallurgical processes for copper
   concentrates struggle to compete economically against pyrometallurgical
   steps such as smelting, for reasons including:
10
                 a) effective removal of impurity or penalty elements,
                 b) cost of power,
                 c) environmentally acceptable disposal of residues, and
                 d) difficulty in precious metal recovery.
15
   Economic performance of the smelting routes in particular is improved if
   copper concentrates can be upgraded in their copper content or deleterious
   impurities can be removed before being fed to the smelting furnaces. But the
   source or production of copper sulfate solution for 'metathesis' reactions, and
20 deportment of the impurity, radioactive or value elements, is not considered
   in most treatment routes, and nor is the disposal of residues and effluents.
   Various means of hydrometallurgical upgrading of the copper content of a
   copper concentrate have been proposed, including 'metathesis' leaching
25 which displaces the iron content of the concentrate with copper. The so
   called 'metathesis' process, in which the chalcopyrite component of the
   concentrate is reacted with a copper sulfate solution to produce low-iron
   copper sulfide (e.g. digenite) and an acidic, ferrous sulfate solution, can be
   represented:
30
   (1)    3CuFeS 2 + 6CuSO4 + 4H 20 -+ 5Cu1. 8 S     + 3FeSO 4 + 4H 2 SO4

                                            5
   A similar reaction also occurs for any bornite present in the copper
   concentrate:
   (2)     3Cu 5 FeS 4 + 6CuSO 4 + 4H 20 -- 5Cu1 8 S + 6Cu 2 S + 3FeSO 4 + 4H 2SO4
 5
   Similar reactions occur when cobalt is recovered from a blend of cobaltite
   and chalcopyrite minerals or carrollite.
   The descriptions of processes which involve metathesis reactions do not
10 generally include the source of copper sulfate, the deportment of impurity,
   valuable and radioactive elements, or the treatment and disposal of residues
   and effluents.
   One or both of these above reactions (1) and (2) are referred to directly or
15 indirectly in US Patent Nos. 2 568 963, 2 662 009, 2 744 172 and 4 024 218,
   Canadian Patent No. 1 258 181, South African Patent No. 2007/01337, and
   WIPO Patent Publication No. WO 2004/106561. All of these patents propose
   to forward the upgraded copper sulfide concentrate, which typically contains
   above 50% Cu, to either a smelter or treatment by other means.
20
   The flowsheets in these patent specifications contain several deficiencies,
   such as identifying an economic source of copper sulfate solution, incomplete
   separation of iron and copper in solution, the requirement of additional
   flotation steps, economic recovery of precious metals from the residues, or
25 have difficulty removing other impurities such as radionuclides, including
   uranium and its decay elements, and the final destination or treatment route
   of residues and effluents which can be problematic.
   More recently PCT/AU2014/000268 and PCT/AU2014/000269 aim to at least
30 partially overcome some of these deficiencies. This prior art addresses more
   importantly the removal of uranium, along with the other radionuclides which
   are its decay elements, that would otherwise limit or penalise the processing

                                           6
   of the concentrate in an off-shore or remote smelter, or prohibit or restrict the
   international trade of copper concentrate across international borders. Thus
   these inventions have successfully lowered the level of uranium and other
   radionuclides in a radioactive or 'dirty' copper concentrate to allow the
 5 concentrate to be smelted within the limits of national or international
   regulations. These recently published flowsheets have included pre- and/or
   post- treatment of the concentrates, which necessarily complicates the
   number, and type of process steps, as well as the control of the chemistry in
   each of the process steps.      Such complexity adds to the operating and
10 capital costs of implementing the flowsheet for the treatment of copper
   concentrates compared to the methods described by the present invention.
   The present invention was developed with a view to providing a truncated
   flowsheet and simplified operation of facilities for hydrometallurgical removal
   of radionuclides from copper concentrates, which can be conducted to lower
15 the soluble copper losses, and so enhance the economics of the treatment
   process.     Overall capital and operating cost components of the total
   processing of concentrates are minimised, as well as ensuring residues may
   be disposed by means acceptable to regulatory authorities.
20 References to prior art in this specification are provided for illustrative
   purposes only and are not to be taken as an admission that such prior art is
   part of the common general knowledge in Australia or elsewhere.
   Summary of the Invention
25
   According to one aspect of the present invention there is provided a
   hydrometallurgical method for the removal of uranium, thorium, radium, lead,
   bismuth and polonium and/ or other radionuclides from a radioactive copper
   concentrate to produce an upgraded copper concentrate having lowered
30 emission levels, the method comprising the step of:

                                              7
   subjecting the radioactive copper concentrate to an acidic leaching process
   (NONOX leach) using a copper sulfate and chloride containing lixiviant under
   lowered electrochemical conditions, wherein the copper sulfate is derived
   primarily from the radioactive copper concentrate in a feed tank for the
 5 NONOX leach employing an atmospheric pressure oxidative leach step,
   wherein the leaching process (NONOX leach) allows controlled removal of
   one or more of the radionuclides to produce the lowered emission level
   upgraded copper concentrate, and lower soluble copper losses in a
   discharge stream, and wherein the leaching process (NONOX leach) is
10 conducted:
   to convert essentially all the copper in the lixiviant into the upgraded copper
   concentrate, and
   employing elevated temperature and elevated pressure to suppress boiling in
   the leaching process.
15 Preferably the leaching process (NONOX                leach) is conducted at an
   electrochemical potential of greater than 150mV (Ag/AgCl 3.8M KCI). More
   preferably the leaching process (NONOX leach) is conducted at an
   electrochemical potential in the range of between about 175mV and 450mV
   (Ag/AgCl 3.8M KCI).
20 Typically the electrochemical potential of the NONOX leach is controlled by
   the presence of, or the addition to the NONOX leach of, one or more of
   cupric sulfate, ferric ion, air, oxygen, sodium chlorate, pyrolusite, or hematite.
   Preferably the sulfate and chloride containing lixiviant comprises at least
   copper sulfate and sodium chloride.
25 Preferably the radionuclides comprise one or more radionuclides selected
   from the group comprising U2 38 , Th 23 0 , Ra226 , Pb2 10, po 2 10 and Bi2 1 0 .
   Preferably the NONOX leach allows for the removal of about 20% to 99% of
   the uranium and/or thorium, and allows for lowering of one or more of radium,
   lead, bismuth and polonium levels to below 3Bq/g.

                                             8
   The copper sulfate and chloride containing lixiviant typically comprises one or
   more of the following solutes: sulfuric acid, hydrochloric acid, sodium
   chloride, chloride salt, potassium chloride, and copper sulfate, the sulfate and
   chloride containing lixiviant being obtained from within the NONOX leach, or
 5 from a source external to the NONOX leach.
   Preferably each radionuclide in the lowered emission upgraded copper
   concentrate has a radioactive emission level of about 0.1 to 2.0Bq/g. The
   lowered emission upgraded copper concentrate may typically have a
   radioactive emission level of less than about 0.5Bq/g for U23 8 or Th 230 and a
10 radioactive emission level of less than about 2Bq/g for each of the other
   radionuclides. The copper sulfate and chloride containing lixiviant may
   comprise one or more of seawater, brines from seawater desalination, and
   fluorides, or other anions leached from the radioactive copper concentrate, or
   from process water. The chloride levels in the sulfate and chloride containing
15 lixiviant are typically between 5 and 100g/L chloride.
   Preferably the NONOX leach is conducted between about 1000 C and 2400
   C.    More preferably the NONOX leach is conducted between about 1600 C
   and 2400 C.
   In the hydrometallurgical method of the invention, copper-iron-sulfides and
20 cupric sulfide (covellite) are typically transformed in the NONOX leach, and
   more usually the NONOX leach is conducted under conditions to transform
   50% to 99% of the copper-iron-sulfides to iron-depleted copper sulfides and
   covellite and to a sulfur-depleted variant (digenite/chalcocite). Similarly pyrite
   and pyrrhotite can be substantially altered under NONOX conditions to iron
25 depleted copper-iron-sulf ides.
   Iron oxides that often host the value minerals can be altered under NONOX
   conditions.
   Preferably the NONOX leach is conducted at a pressure in the range of 500
   3500kPa.

                                           9
   Typically the retention time of the NONOX leach is between about 0.5 and 8
   hours.
   The method may further comprise feeding into the NONOX leach a copper
   sulfate slurry from a crystalliser or a copper sulfate leach liquor from a
 5 pressure oxidation reactor (PROX reactor), or copper sulfate solution from an
   external source, or a copper sulfate leach slurry direct from a PROX reactor,
   or copper sulfate slurry from a leach of the radioactive copper concentrate
   itself. The sulfate slurry typically comprises copper sulfate, iron sulfate and
   sulfuric acid.   Preferably the copper sulfate is added to more than one
10 compartment in the NONOX leach reactor. Typically the copper aqueous
   concentration levels within the discharge liquor from the NONOX leach
   reactor are less than 5g/L and more typically less than 1g/L.
   Throughout the specification, unless the context requires otherwise, the word
15 "comprise" or variations such as "comprises" or "comprising", will be
   understood to imply the inclusion of a stated integer or group of integers but
   not the exclusion of any other integer or group of integers. Likewise the word
   "preferably" or variations such as "preferred", will be understood to imply that
   a stated integer or group of integers is desirable but not essential to the
20 working of the invention.
   Brief Description of the Drawings
   The nature of the invention will be better understood from the following
   detailed description of preferred embodiments of the invention, given by way
25 of example only, with reference to the accompanying drawing, in which:
           Figure 1 is a flow diagram of a hydrometallurgical method for the
           removal   of radionuclides from      a radioactive   or 'dirty'  copper
           concentrate.

                                           10
   Detailed Description of Preferred Embodiments
 5 Figure 1 is a single stage pressure leach process flowsheet for a
   hydrometallurgical method 80 for the removal of uranium, thorium, radium,
   lead, bismuth and polonium and/ or other radionuclides from a radioactive
   copper concentrate [92].
   Copper concentrate [92] is produced by known methods of treating sulfide
10 ore [91] such as milling and flotation [90]. Tailings [93] which contain the
   gangue minerals may be disposed directly to impoundment [169] or utilized
   for neutralization of effluent streams, or treatment of discharge liquors [180].
   The "dirty" or radioactive copper flotation concentrate [92] containing primary
   and secondary copper sulfides, iron sulfides, primary uranium minerals and
15 associated radionuclides is repulped [100] with process liquors that may
   contain sodium, copper, iron, sulfates, chlorides [94]. Typically the copper
   sulfide minerals include one or more of: chalcopyrite, covelite, bornite,
   chalcocite, cubanite, enargite, tennantite, tetrahedrite.     Typically the iron
   sulfides may contain pyrite, arsenopyrite, pyrrhotite and the like. Typically
20 the primary uranium minerals may contain brannerite, betafite, davidite,
   coffinite and uraninite. Generally, the decay products of uranium will be
   associated with the uranium minerals, but may be distributed with other
   minerals depending on the prior treatment of the ore and concentrate.
   Repulped concentrate slurry [101] is advanced to a pre-treatment oxidative
25 leach [110] where sulfuric acid [112] and steam [103] is employed to raise the
   slurry temperature to near atmospheric boil point. The concentrate in [110] is
   oxidised to generate soluble copper in a leach process.
   An alternate or simultaneous variant to the upgrade of the dirty or radioactive
   copper concentrate has the dirty or radioactive copper concentrate [92] being
30 fed direct to the NONOX reactor [120].

                                            11
   The radioactive ('dirty') copper concentrate is subjected to a single stage
   pressure leach process (NONOX leach) using a sulfate and chloride lixiviant
   (in which the chloride levels are between 5 and 100g/L chloride) under
   electrochemically controlled conditions, to allow at least partial removal of
 5 one or more of the radionuclides to produce the lowered emission upgraded
   copper concentrate, wherein the leaching process is conducted at elevated
   temperature and under pressure to suppress boiling in the leaching process.
   The upgraded copper concentrate is typically a concentrate which is
   upgraded in terms of copper metal which contains reduced levels of
10 impurities.
   The NONOX reactor [120] receives a copper sulfate, iron sulfate and sulfuric
   acid containing slurry [115] from the oxidation reactor [110].        Optionally
   stream [115] can be a copper, iron sulfate stream from which the oxidation
   leach residue has been separated. Optionally stream [115] can be a copper
15 sulfate crystal slurry. Optionally the copper sulfate addition to the NONOX
   reactor can be in two or more locations within the autoclave. Preferably the
   copper concentration in the NONOX reactor aqueous phase is maintained in
   excess of 0.2g/L.
   Preferably this hot slurry [115] from the oxidation reactor [110] is fed directly
20 without cooling into the NONOX reactor [120].             Steam [121] may be
   supplemented to maintain the reactor at the target temperature.
   Temperatures below      2 4 0 2C and typically below 21 0QC are employed in the
   NONOX leach. Typically the NONOX leach is conducted between about
   10 0QC and   2 4 0 2C, and more typically between about 16 0QC and       2 4 0 2C.
25 Nominally anaerobic leach conditions are maintained through the NONOX
   reactor. Small quantities of oxygen, air or an appropriate oxidant may be
   required to influence the overall chemistry within the reactor or to control the
   electro-chemical potential of the reactor above typically 150mV (Ag/AgCl;
   3.8M KCI), and more typically in the range of between about 175mV and
30 450mV (Ag/AgCI 3.8M KCI).         The electrochemical potential is chosen with a
   lower limit of just above that at which elemental copper could form and

                                           12
   precipitate, and be lost from the aqueous phase. The inventors have found
   that it is possible to reduce the electro-chemical potential of the reactor to a
   potential of above 150mV (or above 175mV) instead of the higher ranges
   mentioned in the applicant's previous application PCT/AU2014/000268.
 5 These lowered ranges are achieved, inter alia, at elevated temperatures and
   are supportive of improved radionuclide removal.
   Conditions are employed such that a majority of the iron associated with the
   copper minerals is removed and a near stoichiometric amount of copper is
   precipitated in the concentrate.
10 Advantageously, conditions are employed in the reactor such that there is
   above 90% removal of uranium and thorium, and above 30% removal of
   radium, lead and polonium from the concentrate. Other base metals such as
   nickel, cobalt and zinc are also substantially removed from the dirty copper
   concentrate.
15 Copper solution transferred in stream [115] is lowered to concentration
   between 0.2-5.0 g/L in the exit stream [122] from the NONOX leach reactor.
   The other components of the aqueous fraction of NONOX discharge [122]
   will vary with the mineral assemblage in concentrate, the carrier fluid
   comprising the slurry and the soluble content of feed stream [101] but include
20 sodium, iron (major), sulfuric acid and lesser quantities of dissolved uranium,
   lead, thorium, radium, polonium, bismuth, aluminium, selenium, magnesium,
   calcium, silicon, and other soluble anions such as sulfates, chlorides, etc.
   A NONOX leach retention time of between 0.5 and 8 hours is required and
   typically this could be between 0.5 to 3 hours.
25 Stream [122] is preferably cooled in a flash tank [125] where steam [123] and
   slurry [124] are discharged.
   The flash steam [123] can be scrubbed and then used for preheat duties.
   Excess flash steam can be released to atmosphere or employed elsewhere
   in the flowsheet for heating.

                                            13
   The cooled slurry [124] can be further cooled and then thickened in decanter
   [130]. Flocculant [131] and recycle filtrate [133] and internal solution recycles
   can be employed to aid slurry thickening. The thickener overflow [132] can
   be further clarified before optionally recovering uranium [186] and thereafter
 5 copper [190] from stream [181] if economic.
   Alternately, the thickener overflow liquor [132] can be neutralised by
   employing for example, limestone.       This neutralisation step is employed to
   remove the acid from thickener overflow [132]. Additionally most of the iron,
   aluminium, radium, lead, uranium, thorium, bismuth and polonium in stream
10 [132] is precipitated.
   The neutralisation slurry can be thickened and/ or filtered to produce a slurry
   or cake, and the barren liquor re-employed as a repulp fluid [94].
   The thickened slurry [134] is filtered [135] and the upgraded copper
   concentrate is then washed with water [136] before it is repulped in clean
15 water [139] and refiltered and transferred as a washed upgraded copper
   concentrate [137].
   The washed concentrate is split [170] into two portions by employing known
   processes e.g. screening, partitioning, etc. One part [111] is employed, if
   required, in the oxidation leach [110], and the balance [171] is the clean
20 concentrate product.
   The oxidation reactor [110] receives primarily the dirty copper concentrate
   and if required, some of the upgraded copper concentrate slurry [111] along
   with sulfuric acid [112] and oxygen or air [114].
   The oxidation reactor operates:
25         0     at temperatures below 10 0QC and typically between 40 and
                  952C;
           *     at an oxygen partial pressure of between 1 and 100 kPa, and
           .     with a retention time of between 0.25 and 6 hours.

                                           14
   Sulfuric acid is required to stabilise copper (and iron) in solution. A free acid
   concentration of between 1 and 50 g/L is adequate for the oxidation reactor
   [110].
   Preferably a portion of the oxidation reactor discharge [115] is thickened to
 5 provide an aqueous stream of copper containing liquor for use as a copper
   trim [123] in NONOX [120]. Optionally the copper sulfate leach liquor from the
   oxidation reactor [110] can be crystallised in a copper sulfate evaporator to
   produce a copper sulfate crystal slurry which can be fed directly to the
   NONOX reactor [120].
10 Preferably, the oxidation reactor [110] is fed directly into the NONOX reactor
   [120].
   The    latter option   is  more    thermally  efficient and will    require  less
   supplementary steam [121] to sustain the NONOX reactor [120] at its design
   operating temperature.
15
   Example 1
   A dirty or radioactive copper concentrate containing 36% Copper, 30% Iron,
   27.6% total Sulfur, Sulfur consisting of chalcopyrite, bornite, and some pyrite
20 was tested, employing part of the flowsheet in Figure 1.            The uranium
   concentration was in excess of 100 PPM. The precious metals concentration
   was not determined.
   This concentrate was subjected to a non-oxidising (NONOX) leach at 15%
25 solids where lixiviant concentration was 68 g/L Copper as copper (2) sulfate,
   and 75g/L dissolved chloride comprising sodium chloride and potassium
   chloride. The NONOX leach temperature was 21 5 2C and the total pressure
   was approximately 2200 kPa(g).

                                            15
   After a leach period of 1 hour the upgraded copper concentrate assayed:
                             Cu                60
                             Fe                7.6
                             S(Sulfide)        27.8
                             U                 6(PPM)
   Example 2
 5 A test to demonstrate the Atmospheric Oxidative Leach, the dirty or
   radioactive concentrate in Example 1 was employed:
   The solids density in the Atmospheric Oxidative Leach feed was 15% and the
   leach temperature was    8 0 -902C  with an oxygen partial pressure at the leach
   impeller of 10-50 kPa (variable).
10
   The leachate composition after 60 minutes into the leach was:
                                      gL
                     Cu               29
                     Fe               1.2
                     H2SO4            ~3.0
                     pH               1.65
                     Eh               +345 (Ag/AgCI @ 3.8 M
                                      KCI)
   The present invention has this Atmospheric Oxidative Leach slurry at 80-90
15 being fed to the NONOX reactor.
   The upgraded concentrate after 60 minutes into the NONOX was determined
   to be:

                                         16
                             Cu             59
                             Fe             8
                             S(Sulfide)     29
                             U              8(PPM)
   The leachate assayed:
                                             q/L
                                Cu           0.55
 5                              Fe           53
   The removal of uranium in the NONOX leach was in excess of 90% and the
   copper upgrade was 63%. After a further 60 minutes (total 120 minutes)
10 into the NONOX leach the copper in the upgraded concentrate was:
                             Cu             60.5
                             Fe             7
                             S(Sulfide)     29
                             U              8(PPM)
   This copper assay corresponds to a copper upgrade in excess of 68 %.
15
   Now that preferred embodiments of the hydrometallurgical method for the
   removal of radionuclides from a radioactive copper concentrate have been
   described in detail, it will be apparent that the described embodiments
   provide a number of advantages over the prior art, including the following:
20 (i)    A low intensity atmospheric pressure copper leach.
   (ii)    Single stage pressure leach flowsheet with less process steps, and
           hence a simplified operation.

                                         17
   (iii)   Consequently lower capital and operating costs.
   It will be readily apparent to persons skilled in the relevant arts that various
   modifications     and  improvements    may     be   made    to  the    foregoing
 5 embodiments, in addition to those already described, without departing from
   the basic inventive concepts of the present invention. Therefore, it will be
   appreciated that the scope of the invention is not limited to the specific
   embodiments described and is to be determined from the appended claims.
10

                                          18
   The Claims defining the Invention are as follows:
   1.     A hydrometallurgical method for the removal of uranium, thorium,
   radium, lead, bismuth and polonium and/ or other radionuclides from a
 5 radioactive copper concentrate to produce an upgraded copper concentrate
   having lowered emission levels, the method comprising the step of:
   subjecting the radioactive copper concentrate to an acidic leaching process
   (NONOX leach) using a copper sulfate and chloride containing lixiviant under
   lowered electrochemical conditions, wherein the copper sulfate is derived
10 primarily from the radioactive copper concentrate in a feed tank for the
   NONOX leach employing an atmospheric pressure oxidative leach step,
   wherein the leaching process (NONOX leach) allows controlled removal of
   one or more of the radionuclides to produce the lowered emission level
   upgraded copper concentrate, and lower soluble copper losses in a
15 discharge stream, and wherein the leaching process (NONOX leach) is
   conducted:
   to convert essentially all the copper in the lixiviant into the upgraded copper
   concentrate, and
   employing elevated temperature and elevated pressure to suppress boiling in
20 the leaching process.
   2.      A hydrometallurgical method as defined in claim 1, wherein the
   leaching process (NONOX leach) is conducted at an electrochemical
   potential of greater than 150mV (Ag/AgCl 3.8M KCI).
   3.      A hydrometallurgical method as defined in claim 2, wherein the
25 leaching process (NONOX leach) is conducted at an electrochemical
   potential in the range of between about 175mV and 450mV (Ag/AgCl 3.8M
   KCI).
   4.      A hydrometallurgical method as defined in any one of claims 1 to 3,
   wherein the electrochemical potential of the NONOX leach is controlled by

                                                19
   the presence of, or the addition to the NONOX leach of, one or more of
   cupric sulfate, ferric ion, air, oxygen, sodium chlorate, pyrolusite, or hematite.
   5.      A hydrometallurgical method as defined in claim 1, wherein the
   copper sulfate and chloride containing lixiviant comprises at least copper
 5 sulfate and sodium chloride.
   6.      A hydrometallurgical method as defined in claim 1, wherein the
   radionuclides comprise one or more radionuclides selected from the group
   comprising U2 38 , Th 230 , Ra226 , Pb2 10, po 2 10 and Bi 2 10 .
   7.      A hydrometallurgical method as defined in claim 1, wherein the
10 NONOX leach allows for the removal of about 20% to 99% of the uranium
   and/or thorium, and allows for lowering of one or more of radium, lead,
   bismuth and polonium levels to below 3Bq/g.
   8.      A hydrometallurgical method as defined in claim 1, wherein the
   copper sulfate and chloride containing lixiviant comprises one or more of the
15 following solutes: sulfuric acid, hydrochloric acid, sodium chloride, chloride
   salt, potassium chloride, and copper sulfate, the sulfate and chloride
   containing lixiviant being obtained from within the NONOX leach, or from a
   source external to the NONOX leach.
   9.      A hydrometallurgical method as defined in claim 1, wherein each
20 radionuclide in the lowered emission upgraded copper concentrate has a
   radioactive emission level of about 0.1 to 2.OBq/g.
   10.     A hydrometallurgical method as defined in claim 1, wherein the
   lowered emission upgraded copper concentrate has a radioactive emission
   level of less than about 0.5Bq/g for U2 38 or Th 230 , and a radioactive emission
25 level of less than about 2Bq/g for each of the other radionuclides.
   11.     A hydrometallurgical method as defined in claim 1, wherein the
   copper sulfate and chloride containing lixiviant comprises one or more of
   seawater, brines from seawater desalination, and fluorides, or other anions
   leached from the radioactive copper concentrate, or from process water.

                                           20
   12.     A hydrometallurgical method as defined in claim 1, wherein the
   chloride levels in the copper sulfate and chloride salts containing lixiviant are
   between 5 and 100g/L chloride.
   13.     A hydrometallurgical method as defined in claim 1, wherein the
 5 NONOX leach is conducted between about 1000 C and 2400 C.
   14.     A hydrometallurgical method as defined in claim 13, wherein the
   NONOX leach is conducted between about 1600 C and 2400 C.
   15.     A hydrometallurgical method as defined in claim 1, wherein copper
   iron-sulfides and cupric sulfide (covellite) are transformed in the NONOX
10 leach, and wherein the NONOX leach is conducted under conditions to
   transform 50% to 99% of the copper-iron-sulfides to iron-depleted copper
   sulfides and covellite and to a sulfur-depleted variant (digenite/chalcocite).
   16.     A hydrometallurgical method as defined in claim 1, wherein the
   NONOX leach is conducted at a pressure in the range of 500-3500kPa.
15 17.     A hydrometallurgical method as defined in claim 1, wherein the
   retention time of the NONOX leach is between about 0.5 and 8 hours.
   18.     A hydrometallurgical method as defined in claim 1, further comprising
   feeding into the NONOX leach a copper sulfate slurry from a crystalliser or a
   concentrated copper sulfate leach liquor or slurry from an atmospheric
20 pressure oxidative reactor, or copper sulfate solution from an external
   source.
   19.     A hydrometallurgical method as defined in claim 18, wherein the
   sulfate slurry or solution comprises copper sulfate, iron sulfate and sulfuric
   acid.
25 20.     A hydrometallurgical method as defined in claim 18, wherein the
   copper sulfate is added to more than one compartment in the NONOX leach
   reactor.

                                       21
   21.     A hydrometallurgical method as defined in claim 18, wherein the
   copper aqueous concentration levels within the discharge liquor from the
   NONOX reactor are less than 5g/L.
   22.     A hydrometallurgical method as defined in claim 21, wherein the
 5 copper aqueous concentration levels within the discharge liquor from the
   NONOX reactor are less than 1g/L.
10 Dated this 5th day of November 2017
   Orway Mineral Consultants (WA) Pty Ltd
   by its Patent Attorneys
15 WRAYS

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
