                                     ABSTRACT
[0036]   Glycine is an organic compound that can be used in the making of a synthetic
base that obviates all the drawbacks of strong bases such as sodium hydroxide. The
new compound is made by dissolving glycine in water and adding calcium hydroxide
at a molar ration of about 1:1. Next, sodium percarbonate is dissolved in the solution
to produce the new compound, which can be referred to as glycine hydroxide.

     WO 2015/103227                                                     PCT/US2014/072701
                   SYNTHETIC BASE AND ASSOCIATED METHODS
                   CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATION
[0001]    This application claims priority to provisional application Serial No. 61/921,813,
filed December 30, 2013, the contents of which are fully incorporated by reference for
all purposes.
                               FIELD OF THE INVENTION
[0002]    The present invention relates to compositions comprising synthetic bases and
to methods of use for such compositions, including, but not limited to, the hydraulic
fracturing of oil and gas wells, adjusting the pH of well drilling fluids during oil and gas
exploration and mining, and adjusting the pH of process and waste waters.
                          BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
[0003]    Bases by their very nature can be dangerous to use, handle, transport, and
store. Further, most bases are hazardous to the environment.
[0004]    Sodium hydroxide, for example, is a highly corrosive, strong base that is used
in many industrial and household applications including surface cleaning and descaling
operations, peeling aid operations, oil and gas well mud and water treatments, pH
adjustments, municipal water treatments, and in the food industry. Concentrated sodium
hydroxide is corrosive and dangerous to living tissue.
[0005]    Thus, there is a need for a synthetic base that is less corrosive, more
environmentally friendly, and safer to use for a plurality of applications.
                             SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
[0006]    The present invention is directed to a synthetic base, method of making, and
method of using said base. The synthetic base comprises a glycine compound known
as glycine hydroxide that is made by mixing glycine with calcium hydroxide and sodium
percarbonate.
[0007]    The application provides a method of making a synthetic base comprising
mixing glycine with calcium hydroxide. In another embodiment, the method comprises
                                               1

     WO 2015/103227                                                  PCT/US2014/072701
mixing glycine with calcium hydroxide at a molar ratio of approximately 1:1 to produce a
solution/ In yet another embodiment, the method further comprises dissolving sodium
percarbonate into the solution.
[0008]     The synthetic base can be used in place of a plurality of known bases,
oxidizers, and disinfectants, such as, but not limited to, sodium hydroxide, potassium
hydroxide, magnesium hydroxide, as well as lithium hydroxide.
[0009]     Particular uses of the compositions described herein include but are not
limited to use in the manufacturing of cleaning compounds, fruit and vegetable peeling
aid operations, oil and gas well mud and water treatments, pH adjustments for water
treatment, water based mud systems to yield gels and polymers, replacement of
conventional usage of sodium hydroxide in the bitumen extraction process, regeneration
of resin systems used in the process of steam assisted gravity drainage (SAGD),
hydration of organic slurries relating to mud systems used in the hydraulic fracturing of
rock, pH buffering for frac fluid systems, direct replacement for caustic in a cross-linked
frac fluid system, and in food processing applications.
[0010]     The embodiments described herein have a multiplicity of advantages and
benefits, not the least of which is that the embodiments of the compositions are more
environmentally friendly than typical bases, and, additionally, are deemed organic
compounds. Thus, as described above, the embodiments can be used to replace
traditional bases and are safer to use than existing bases.
                      DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF EMBODIMENTS
[0011]     A description of the preferred embodiments of the invention will now be
presented:
[0012]     The application provides a method of making a synthetic base comprising
mixing glycine with calcium hydroxide. In another embodiment, the method comprises
mixing glycine with calcium hydroxide at a molar ratio of approximately 1:1 to produce a
solution/ In yet another embodiment, the method further comprises dissolving sodium
percarbonate into the solution.
[0013]     The application also provides a method of making             a synthetic base
comprising:
                                              2

     WO 2015/103227                                                   PCT/US2014/072701
               i)     mixing glycine with calcium hydroxide with a molar ratio of
       approximately 1:1 to produce a solution; and
               ii)    dissolving sodium percarbonate into the solution.
[0014]    The application provides a method of improving hydraulic fracturing of an oil or
gas well and adjusting the pH of well drilling fluids, comprising adding to at least one of
the well and the drilling fluid an effective amount of a solution of glycine hydroxide in
order to adjust the pH thereof to a desired level.
[0015]    The application provides a method of adjusting the pH of at least one of
process and waste waters, comprising adding to the at least one of the process and
waste waters an effective amount of a solution of glycine hydroxide in order to adjust
the pH thereof to a desired level.
[0016]    The application provides a method of regenerating resin systems used in
steam assisted gravity drainage, comprising adding to the resin systems an effective
amount of a solution of glycine hydroxide.
[0017]    The application provides a method of hydrating organic slurries, comprising
adding to the organic slurries an effective amount of a solution of glycine hydroxide.
[0018]     Glycine is an organic compound having the formula NH2CH 2COOH. Glycine
is a crystalline solid that is known to be used commercially in pharmaceutical
applications, as an agent in metal chelation, as an animal food additive, and in
cosmetics.
[0019]     Herein described is a new use for glycine in the making of a synthetic base
that substantially reduces negative environmental, industrial, and personal impacts
associated with the use of strong bases such as sodium hydroxide.
[0020]    One embodiment of the synthetic base disclosed herein is made by treating
glycine with a 25% solution of calcium hydroxide, in a molar ratio of approximately 1:1.
The mixture is allowed to react, for example, for approximately 30 minutes or until the
glycine is essentially fully dissolved in the calcium hydroxide solution.           In one
embodiment of the invention, an inline eductor is used to decrease the time required for
the glycine to dissolve in the solution.
[0021]     In one embodiment, once dissolution of the glycine in the calcium hydroxide
solution is complete, sodium percarbonate is then dissolved in the solution, resulting in
                                             3

     WO 2015/103227                                                    PCT/US2014/072701
an embodiment of the synthetic base, which will be referred to herein as glycine
hydroxide.
[0022]     In the embodiment outlined above, 25% by weight of sodium percarbonate is
introduced into the solution and allowed to react until a complete dissolution is
achieved, requiring approximately an additional 30 minutes. It is noted that the vessels
used for reaction are preferably capable of withstanding extreme heat for extended
periods of time as the reaction is quite exothermic, thus releasing energy from the
synthesis. Thus, ideally, the product should be allowed to reach ambient temperature
prior to transferring to smaller vessels or containers.
[0023]     It has been discovered that, not only does the synthetic base described herein
serve to replace most traditionally used bases, but embodiments of glycine hydroxide as
described herein have been found to be less caustic than typical strong bases, as well
as to moderate other strong bases interacting with substrates.          For example, when
sodium hydroxide is placed on a metal such as aluminum or steel, a dangerous and
corrosive reaction takes place. However, when glycine hydroxide as described herein is
added to sodium hydroxide on such a metal surface, the reaction is substantially and
immediately minimized, and corrosion is essentially prevented from occurring.
[0024]     Particular non-limiting uses of the embodiments disclosed herein include the
manufacturing of cleaning compounds, including but not limited to carpet stain
removers, cleaning compounds for cars, boats, trains, and other vehicles, household
cleaners and other janitorial supplies, degreasers, upholstery cleaners, driveway
cleaners, and soot removers for removing soot after a fire or other instances in which
removal of soot is desirable.
[0025]     Further non-limiting uses of the embodiments disclosed include use in oil and
gas well mud and water treatments, pH adjustments for water treatment, including but
not limited to waste water treatment plants, water based mud systems to yield gels and
polymers, replacement of conventional usage of sodium hydroxide in the bitumen
extraction process, regeneration of resin systems used in the process of steam assisted
gravity drainage (SAGD), hydration and/or pH adjustment of organic slurries relating to
mud systems used in the process of hydraulic fracturing of rock prior to recirculation into
a drilling well, pH buffering of frac fluid and/or direct replacement for caustic in a cross
                                               4

     WO 2015/103227                                                    PCT/US2014/072701
linked frac fluid system or systems relating to the hydraulic fracturing of rock, and in the
food processing industries, including fruit and vegetable peeling aid operations, and
food juicing factories.
[0026]     Other uses for the embodiments disclosed herein include use in the paper
manufacturing industry, including adjusting the pH level of pulp systems and cleaning
fabric used during the paper manufacturing process.
[0027]     Even further uses for the embodiments described herein include the cleaning
and pH adjustment of concrete plant washout pits, adjusting the pH of ponds, and
adjusting the pH of closed-loop fluid systems relating to factories.
General Conditions
[0028]     Compounds of the invention can be made by a variety of methods depicted in
the illustrative synthetic reactions described herein.
[0029]     The starting materials and reagents used in preparing these compounds
generally are either available from commercial suppliers, such as Aldrich Chemical Co.,
or are prepared by methods known to those skilled in the art following procedures set
forth in references such as Fieser and Fieser's Reagents for Organic Synthesis; Wiley &
Sons: New York, 1991, Volumes 1-15; Rodd's Chemistry of Carbon Compounds,
Elsevier Science Publishers, 1989, Volumes 1-5 and Supplementals; and Organic
Reactions, Wiley & Sons: New York, 1991, Volumes 1-40, the contents of which are
fully incorporated by reference herein for all purposes. It should be appreciated that the
synthetic reaction schemes shown in the Examples section are merely illustrative of
some methods by which the compounds of the invention can be synthesized, and
various modifications to these synthetic reaction schemes can be made and will be
suggested to one skilled in the art having referred to the disclosure contained in this
application.
[0030]     The starting materials and the intermediates of the synthetic reaction schemes
can be isolated and purified if desired using conventional techniques, including but not
limited to, filtration, distillation, crystallization, chromatography, and the like. Such
                                                 5

     WO 2015/103227                                                   PCT/US2014/072701
materials can be characterized using conventional means, including physical constants
and spectral data.
[0031]     The reactions described herein are typically conducted at atmospheric
pressure at a reaction temperature range of from about -78      0C  to about 150  0C, often
from about 0    0C to about 125 C, and more often and conveniently at about room (or
ambient) temperature, e.g., about 20 C. However, other temperatures and pressures
are considered to be within the scope of the present disclosure.
[0032]     Various substituents on the compounds of the invention can be present in the
starting compounds, added to any one of the intermediates or added after formation of
the final products by known methods of substitution or conversion reactions.          If the
substituents themselves are reactive, then the substituents can themselves be
protected according to the techniques known in the art. A variety of protecting groups
are known in the art, and can be employed. Examples of many of the possible groups
can be found in "Protective Groups in Organic Synthesis" by Green et al., John Wiley
and Sons, 1999, the contents of which are fully incorporated by reference herein for all
purposes. For example, nitro groups can be added by nitration and the nitro group can
be converted to other groups, such as amino by reduction, and halogen by diazotization
of the amino group and replacement of the diazo group with halogen. Acyl groups can
be added by Friedel-Crafts acylation. The acyl groups can then be transformed to the
corresponding alkyl groups by various methods, including the Wolff-Kishner reduction
and Clemmenson reduction.         Amino groups can be alkylated to form mono- and di
alkylamino groups; and mercapto and hydroxy groups can be alkylated to form
corresponding ethers. Primary alcohols can be oxidized by oxidizing agents known in
the art to form carboxylic acids or aldehydes, and secondary alcohols can be oxidized to
form ketones. Thus, substitution or alternate reactions can be employed to provide a
variety of substituents throughout the molecules of the starting materials, intermediates,
or the final product, including isolated products.
[0033]     The features disclosed in the foregoing description, or the following claims, or
any structures or reactions, expressed in their specific forms or in terms of a means for
performing the disclosed function, or a method or process for attaining the disclosed
                                              6

      WO 2015/103227                                                   PCT/US2014/072701
result, as appropriate, may, separately, or in any combination of such features, be
utilized for realizing the embodiments in diverse forms thereof.
[0034]      The foregoing invention has been described in some detail by way of
illustration and example, for purposes of clarity and understanding. It will be obvious to
one of skill in the art that changes and modifications may be practiced within the scope
of the appended claims. Therefore, it is to be understood that the above description is
intended to be illustrative and not restrictive.      The scope of the invention should,
therefore, be determined not with reference to the above description, but should instead
be determined with reference to the following appended claims, along with the full scope
of equivalents to which such claims are entitled.
[0035]      All patents, patent applications and publications cited in this application are
hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety for all purposes to the same extent as
if each individual patent, patent application or publication were so individually denoted.
                                              7

     WO 2015/103227                                                    PCT/US2014/072701
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
        1.       A method of making a composition, the method comprising:
                 mixing glycine with calcium hydroxide to produce a solution.
        2.       The method as described in claim 1, wherein the glycine and the calcium
hydroxide are mixed at a molar ratio of about 1:1.
        3.       The method as described in claim 1, further comprising adding sodium
percarbonate to the solution.
        4.       The method as described in claim 3, wherein the sodium percarbonate is
added at a concentration of about 25% by weight of the solution.
        5.       A method of adjusting the pH of a fluid, the method comprising:
                 adding to the fluid a composition comprising glycine, calcium hydroxide,
        and sodium percarbonate to adjust the pH thereof to a predetermined level.
        6.       The method as described in claim 5, wherein the fluid comprises an oil
well drilling fluid.
        7.       The method as described in claim 5, wherein the fluid comprises a gas
well drilling fluid
        8.       The method as described in claim 5, wherein the fluid comprises a
process water.
        9.       A method as described in claim 5, wherein the fluid comprises a waste
water.
                                               8

     WO 2015/103227                                                PCT/US2014/072701
        10.   A method for treating a system, the method comprising adding to the
system a composition comprising glycine, calcium hydroxide, and sodium percarbonate.
        11.   The method as described in claim 10, wherein the system comprises a
resin system.
        12.   The method as described in claim 11, wherein the resin system comprises
a resin system used in the process of steam-assisted gravity drainage.
        13.   The method as described in claim 10, wherein the system comprises an
organic slurry.
        14.   The method as described in claim 10, wherein the system comprises a
concrete plant washout pit.
        15.   The method as described in claim 10, wherein the system comprises a
waste water treatment plant.
        16.   The method as described in claim 10, wherein the system comprises a
water-based mud system for yielding at least one of a gel and a polymer.
        17.   The method as described in claim 10, wherein the system comprises a
bitumen extraction system.
        18.   The method as described in claim 10, wherein the system comprises a
pulp system used in the manufacture of paper.
                                           9

    WO 2015/103227                                               PCT/US2014/072701
       19.   A composition comprising glycine and calcium hydroxide.
      20.    The composition as described in claim 19, further comprising sodium
percarbonate.
                                         10

