                                          Abstract
A drilling progress data electronic log device to log user input data of drilling activity at
the surface, the device includes manual input means to receive initial input drilling data,
an electronic data storage to store said initial input drilling data, and current drilling data
creator to create current drilling data based on the initial input drilling data, and user
operated subsequent drilling data input controls for entering subsequent drilling data. The
drilling data electronic log device includes a comparator means for comparing the current
drilling data and the subsequent drilling data. When comparing the subsequent drilling
data with the current progress drilling data the drilling data electronic log device checks
the subsequent drilling data for accuracy against stored data and gives an error message or
an alert or a prompt if incorrect or irrational subsequent drilling data is entered. The
drilling data electronic log device prevents updating of the current drilling data with the
subsequent drilling data until the correct or rational subsequent drilling data is entered.
The drilling data electronic log device updates the current drilling data with the correct or
rational subsequent drilling data. The updated drilling data is used by the drilling data
electronic log device for creating drilling operations data. The log device further includes
output means to output drilling operations data on demand.

                                               1
         DRILLING ACTIVITY LOGGING DEVICE, SYSTEM AND METHOD
TECHNICAL FIELD
         The present invention relates to drilling activity logging device, system and
method.
BACKGROUND
         In the mining, oil & gas and construction industries, as well as other
industries that use drilling, daily drilling activities are recorded. To do this a
"progressive log of drilling" is recorded. This is commonly termed a "Plod Sheet"
or "Plod", and refers to a "Daily Activity Sheet" or written log of drilling tasks at a
particular site or machine for each operator shift. A drilling rig Plod includes
details identifying the rig and location, operator names, operator hours, type of
drilling activity, distance drilled, drilling consumables used and safety issues.
         Current practice is to manually record the information on hard copy paper
forms, with allocated rows and columns to simplify data recording by a drill rig
operator. These forms are later compiled manually into a more structured form,
sometimes in consultation with a geologist on site. The compiled hard copy forms
are then collected from different drill rig sites and forwarded to 'data entry'
personnel at the drilling company's office (sometimes outsourced to specialised
data entry services). Drilling data is then manually methoded and entered by the
data entry personnel into computer software programs that produce reports for
the drilling company management and clients. These reports may be available
immediately after data entry and computer methoding, or it may be delayed
according to the frequency of PLOD compilation, manual data entry and
methoding. This may even be after a week of activity on a drill rig.          It will be
appreciated that manual data entry is not only time consuming and labour
intensive in transcribing the data already written by the operator(s), it is also
prone to human error by the data entry personnel.
         Reports that may be produced by currently available software programs
after manual data entry from PLOD sheets include a spreadsheet detailing daily
drilling, work time and consumables, a summary sheet/invoice with the drill holes

                                            2
listed, a summary of man hours for the period if required, and a summary of
accidents, incidents and safety issues if required.
         The PLOD sheet and reporting method is an essential part of any drilling
company's activity, as it:
         a) formalises all expenses and other additional costs to the paying client,
         b) records drill rig crew man hours for wages calculation,
         c) monitors efficiency and hence costs during drill rig operations,
         d) highlights hazardous or safety issues which may be dealt with on future
drilling activities.
         However, given the importance placed on correct reporting of drilling
activities and producing the necessary drilling history, problems and inefficiencies
inherent in present methods of PLOD, data compilation and analysis include:
         Manual writing of information to PLOD activity sheet by an operator may
result in missed information or hand writing errors
         Possibility of misplacing or damaging PLOD hard copy paper sheets due to
environmental conditions at the mine site, such as water and muddy conditions,
bad weather etc.
         Possible human error when transferring Hole data from survey instrument
readouts to PLOD sheets.
         Possible human error when compiling multiple PLOD sheets and during
manual data entry to computer system.
         Furthermore, hand written hard copy PLOD sheets do not allow for
interactive or dynamic recording and feedback relating to input data.              For
example, drilling data entered onto the present hard copy PLOD sheets is 'dumb'
data - that is, there is no feedback in relation to budgets, timing, man hours, use
of consumables etc.
         It has been realised that improvements to the present method of capturing
and recording PLOD data is required.          With this in mind, it has been found
desirable of the present invention to provide improved PLOD data capture and
recording techniques that alleviate or remove the aforementioned problems.

                                              3
SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
With the aforementioned in view, an aspect of the present invention provides a
drilling progress data electronic log device to log user input data of drilling activity
at the surface, the device including manual input means to receive initial input
drilling data, electronic data storage to store said initial input drilling data, and
current drilling data creator creating current drilling data based on said initial input
drilling data, and user operated subsequent drilling data input controls for entering
subsequent drilling data, the drilling data electronic log device including
comparator means for comparing the current drilling data and the subsequent
drilling data, in comparing the subsequent drilling data with the current progress
drilling data the drilling data electronic log device checks the subsequent drilling
data for accuracy against stored data and gives an error message or an alert or a
prompt if incorrect or irrational subsequent drilling data is entered, the drilling data
electronic log device preventing updating of the current drilling data with the
subsequent drilling data until the correct or rational subsequent drilling data is
entered, the drilling data electronic log device updating the current drilling data
with the correct or rational subsequent drilling data, the updated drilling data used
by the drilling data electronic log device for creating drilling operations data, and a
drilling data electronic log device output means to output said drilling operations
data on demand.
         A further aspect of the present invention provides a drilling operations
event records system incorporating a device according to the aforementioned
aspect in combination with one or more remote metering devices provided on a
drill rig to transmit drill rig operating conditions to the device.
          The device may utilise hardware, firmware and software to electronically
monitor (dynamic monitoring and feedback to operators) activity at a mining drill
rig site through data input by an operator, such as; personnel hours, types of
activity, metres drilled, consumables, maintenance scheduling, breakdowns, fuel
usage, safety issues and costing.
          Progressive logging, monitoring and feedback of drilling activities and
events, shall be achieved using a newly developed electronic hand-held unit

                                              4
which records and provides dynamic (instant on-site) feedback to mine site
personnel, providing analysis for efficiency and productivity of the drilling method,
and eventually producing reports and generated costs for mining and exploration
companies.
         The device may preferably be a purpose built, user friendly hand held unit
for recording data relating to drill rig and operator activity. The device may be
constructed having a protective outer housing or casing so as to withstand rugged
use in the field, such as when operating under harsh mining industry conditions
and environments.
         Data recorded into the device may be directly transferred to a USB thumb
drive via a built-in host USB interface, or via hardwire or wireless connection, to a
computer. The recorded drilling data may then be uploaded to the computer for
instant, real time or delayed analysis, such as by using third party software, or
using specially developed proprietary software. Manual data entry into computers
is not necessary as information in the device's storage means or as transferred to
one or more thumb drives may be formatted to readily work with a number of
different software packages.
         The device may be configured to provide instant 'drill-rig specific' feedback
and analysis of drilling activity as it is occurring on site. This can enable operators
to react instantly if drilling operations are not going according to plan or according
to schedule and/or budget. This flexibility in operation and dynamic feedback is
not possible using traditional handwritten PLOD sheets.
         To further improve drilling event recording at the drill rig site, drill rig
equipment may be fitted with one or more metering devices to directly transmit
operating conditions to the device of the present invention, such as by infra red or
other wireless communication.         To facilitate this, the device may include an in
built transceiver, such as an infrared transceiver. As such, operators will not be
required to 'key in' machine related conditions such as oil pressure, temperature,
rig specific maintenance schedules etc. When used with a suite of survey
instruments, drilling survey results may be directly input to the device via its in
built interface.

                                             5
        The device may also be integrated into partially or fully automated (and
remote controlled) drill rig systems. The hardware and/or software functionality
may be included as an embedded function of the automated rig to communicate
with the device.      Functionality may include voice information and instruction
recording, as well as image recording as part of the system, from which can be
derived 'time and motion' information, work progress, invoicing etc, with an
automatic method of images and task recordings that back up the method.
        The device may be programmable, such as to accept industry terms and
nomenclature specific to drill rig activity logging. The inclusion of 'predictive text'
functionality may further assist operators to quickly and accurately record drilling
data and activity. Site related parameters (such as rig location, client details, site
drilling specific requirements, scheduling etc) may be uploaded to the device via
an in-built information communication interface, such as an infrared or USB
interface, prior to or during drilling operations.
        Device functionality, activity reports and site analysis may be directly
related to an in-built 'Real Time Clock' in the device, which may provide a 'time
stamp' for drilling events and activities on the drill rig site.
        The specific ways in which an operator progressively encounters events
when utilising one or more embodiments of the device, with data entry methods
that closely emulate a traditional PLOD sheet, provides familiarity of use by the
operator and hence, limited or no need for special user training. This is expected
to enhance user acceptance of the device who are already familiar with the use of
existing paper PLOD sheets.
        The device according to one or more embodiments of the present
invention eliminates the need for manual handwritten logs at the drill rig site and
manual data entry for computer analysis programmes. There is minimal or no
time delay in generating or receiving reports at the drill rig site or area site office.
        A number of user recording functions may be automated, which all but
eliminates human recording errors. Each device of the present invention may be
upload configurable (such as through a USB or infrared port) to hold site, crew
and job specific parameters, to further reduce the need to record basic
information. In such a way, drilling and job data is always 'ready' and in a

                                               6
'manageable format' for further analysis.           There is no need for handwritten,
printed or scanned sheets of paper for data analysis. All site activity data and
reports may be digitally stored in the data storage means of the device, and are
easily accessible via the in-built USB and Infrared ports. The stored data may
then be made available 'electronically' and instantly transferable to any location
around the world via LAN, via the internet, through land lines links, mobile
networks or satellite modem communication media.
A further aspect of the present invention provides a drilling progress data logging
method for at least one drilling activity, including the steps of:
a)       entering initial drilling data into an electronic data logger, said initial drilling
data relating to at least one said drilling activity at the surface;
b)       creating current progress drilling data in the data logger based on said
initial drilling data;
c)       entering subsequent drilling data into the data logger of the drilling activity
at the surface for one or more of a drilling task, drilling progress, drilling
equipment or drilling operators of said drilling operation;
d)       comparing the subsequent drilling data with the current progress drilling
data;
e)       checking the subsequent drilling data for accuracy against data stored in
the electronic data logging device;
f)       the electronic data logging device giving an error message or an alert or a
prompt if incorrect or irrational subsequent drilling data is entered;
g)       the drilling data electronic log device preventing updating of the current
drilling data until correct or rational subsequent drilling data is entered; and

                                             7
h)      updating the current progress drilling data using the entered correct or
rational subsequent drilling data.
        The initial drilling data may include one or more of the following:
        i.        a drillstring start direction data, such as a vertical or inclined
                  drilling angle
        ii.       drillstring dip angle
        iii.      required drill hole diameter
        iv.       distance to target (e.g. in metres and/or number of drill rods)
        v.        global positioning data (e.g. geographic position of the drill site)
        vi.       operators or other people at that drilling operation
        vii.      information relating to the equipment being used
        viii.     time and date information
        It will be appreciated that the initial drilling data is not limited to the
aforementioned examples of drilling data and may include other drilling data not
mentioned above.
        In comparing the subsequent data with the current progress drilling data, a
'sanity check' or cross check can be carried out to ensure that the data entered is
correct and makes sense. If incorrect data is entered, such as an incorrect length
or number of drill rods or an incorrect size of drill bit, a error message or warning
may be given. An error message or warning may one or more of a warning light,
a message in text on a display or a combination of both.
        If an operator has added a half length drill rod (for example a 3m rod
instead of a full length 6m rod), a prompt may be given at a subsequent
opportunity to either add a further half length rod so that the drillstring has the
equivalent of a full length rod, or to replace the half length rod in use with a full
length rod.     Such a prompt may be given when the comparison between the
subsequent drilling data and the current progress drilling data is carried out or at
a time thereafter.
        One particular benefit of the aforementioned method is that operator errors
are avoided. The traditional "white board" or hand written paper hard copy means

                                             8
for capturing data relating to initial drill site setup and drilling progress is an
opportunity for operator errors. There is no automatic mechanism for ensuring
that drilling data is correct. An operator can make errors on a written sheet or
white board that can go undetected, such as a wrong count of the number of drill
rods in a drillstring and therefore propagating an error in the distance actually
drilled. Another error may be in the number and/or type of consumable items
used, such as drill bits.
        The method may receive data from a remote site or equipment.             For
example, drill orientation data and/or survey data may be captured and input,
such as part of the initial drilling data and/or the subsequent drilling data.
        The method may include validating some or all of the data input into the
data logger. The methods may include one or more algorithms or software that
carries out a check that the input data is sensible in relation to set parameters or
limitations. For example, such a check may be that the drill bit size or type data
entered by an operator is within defined parameters and not outside of minimum
or maximum values. Entered drilling equipment data or drilling operations data
may be cross checked against stored data relating to subsurface geology, or vice
versa, to ensure that the intended drilling equipment and operating criteria match
the geology to be drilled. Thus, self validation can be invaluable to ensure correct
operations, avoid time wasted in correcting errors, and to reduce equipment
wastage through otherwise using incorrect equipment.
        The method may include prompting an operator to enter subsequent
drilling data or to enter certain required subsequent drilling data before the
method will carry out the comparison and/or update the current progress drilling
data. Thus, an operator may be 'flagged' that no data or incorrect data has been
entered and the process will not continue further until data entry has been
satisfactorily completed.
        The data logger may be a hand held electronic device with data entry
means, such as an alphanumeric or other keypad, touch sensitive screen or voice
activated software to effect receipt of data to be input into the data logger.
        A record may be recorded via the data logger, such as in a memory,
against at least one consumable item of equipment that the cost of which is to

                                             9
chargeable to a third party. This ensures cost recovery of consumables is not
overlooked.
         Comments by shift personnel on drilling progress, activities, tasks,
personnel, events, equipment changes or decisions during drilling activities may
be entered into the data logger and those comments subsequently provided to
shift personnel at a shift change, thereby improving efficiency of shift changeover
and ensuring that important information relating to drilling activities is passed on
to the next shift to avoid information being forgotten or overlooked.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
Figure 1 shows a hand held data logger according to an embodiment of the
present invention
Figure 2 shows a flow chart of data entry for logging drilling operations according
to an embodiment of the present invention.
DESCRIPTION OF PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS
         Embodiments of the present invention will hereinafter be described with
reference to the accompanying figures.
         Figure 1 shows a hand held electronic data logger 10. The data logger 10
has a display screen 12, data input buttons 14-28, navigation buttons 30-36, a
"resume" button 38 and an "escape" button 40, and a data transfer port 42 (in this
example a USB data port) for communication with other devices. The casing of
the hand held device is shockproof and water resistant having rubberised grips
and corner protection.        The hand held device 10 can be powered by a
rechargeable battery (not shown) or be mains powered.
         In use, data entry into the device is carried out by a drilling operator.
Referring to Figure 2, presuming first setting up equipment to commence drilling,
initial drilling data is entered 100 into the device 10.      Initial drilling can include
information relating to the drill site (e.g. geographical location, geology, proximity
to watercourses, building and installations etc, time and date, details regarding
operators and other staff involved in the drilling operation, type of drill, distance to
target, angle of inclination for drilling). Such initial data or additional data can be
inputted 102, 104 from one or more remote sites, such as survey or orientation
equipment, wirelessly.      Further progress with entering drilling data will not be

                                            10
permitted unless at least minimum specified information is entered. Thus, initial
data is captured and drilling operations cannot commence until a required prompt
is given to the operator.        This provides a validation step 106 to check that
information entered is correct and meets at least minimum requirements.             The
amount and type of information required can be preset to ensure that the
minimum information is sufficient for the drilling task in hand.            Thus, more
complex drilling tasks can require a present level of authorisation, values entered
or specification of equipment or location before further and subsequent drilling
data can be entered.
         Once the required initial drilling data is recorded, current progress drilling
data is created 108. This data can include distance drilled (which at the start of
drilling may be zero), length and/or number of drill rods etc.
        As drilling continues, subsequent drilling data can be entered 110.          For
example, the addition of further drill rods (number or length), progress in distance
drilled, distance to target, any change in drilling equipment, elapsed time, change
of operator personnel or consumables used.
         A data validation or "sanity" check can be automatically carried out to
ensure that the subsequent drilling data entered is valid and makes sense in
relation to the initial drilling data and/or current progress drilling data. If the new
subsequent drilling data is incorrect or does not make sense/is not rational 112 in
relation to the previously entered data, an error indication can be given 114. This
error indication can be a visual and/or audible indication. The current progress
drilling data will not be completely updated or not at all updated until the correct or
rational data is entered. For example, if the length or incremental number of drill
rods is incorrect, an error prompt will be given and the current progress drilling
data will not be updated.
         If correct or rational subsequent drilling data is entered 110, and the
"sanity" check is passed 116, the current progress drilling data 108 is updated
118. This avoids data entry errors and will not let an operator progress data entry
or update current data unless correct or rational data is entered at the right point
or as prompted.

                                            11
        The data logger 10 may be accessed remotely, such as by wireless and/or
it may communicate data with one or more remote facilities or equipment. Thus,
the data logger can include a transmitter and/or receiver. Drilling progress and
status may be monitored remotely without having to speak to the operator on site.
        Also, drilling progress and site operations can be monitored in near real
time.
        The data logger can include a clock or timer so that it optionally gives a
prompt for fresh data after a set period or at the start or end of an operator shift.
        If there is an active (open) drill hole (such as at the handover between one
personnel shift finishing and another shift starting, initial drilling data need not be
entered.     However, data relating to the new shift may be required, such as
personnel or operator details, time/date, any change of equipment, an update of
consumables etc.
        The accumulated data may be used for accounting and/or invoicing
purposes.     For example, number of personnel and time spent at the drill site,
consumables used (drill bits, fuel etc), can all be accounted for and invoiced to
the client.
        The method and device of the present invention improves reliability of data
capture and beneficially improves capture of drilling data for use in statistical
analysis and accounting procedures. Human error is alleviated and a standard
format of information capture is ensured.         Hand written sheets or white board
entries are avoided, along with the possibility of misreading or misinterpreting
hand written data/information. Also, with the data in electronic format, the data
can be transmitted/received and used within software packages for manipulation
and ease of storage.
        At the handover between one shift and another, the captured data cannot
be misinterpreted or lost.
        Furthermore, additional data may be imported from or exported to remote
devices or systems. For example, survey or geological data may be imported into
and used as part of the drilling data.       One particular example is the geological
data could update the distance or direction to target, and thereby automatically

                                             12
update target data within the device or method. Thus, accurate data and records
are maintained.
       The hand held data logger embodiments make the present invention
practical, robust and secure in rugged working environments in the field. Further,
with set prompts being given for data entry, errors are avoided.
       Benefits to the driller of using a data logger according to one or more
embodiments of the present invention include:
    -  Continuous tracking of hole depth, rod string, rod count and barrel length
    -   Instant access to hole data for review while drilling (including from previous
       shifts and until EOH) including:
            o  Individual run comments (e.g. rod count OK, bit change, caviy,
               water intercepted etc.)
            o Surveys
            o Comments entered relating to cross shift changeover
            o Comments tagged against depth drilled
    -  Personnel hours can be entered, saved, output and displayed
    -  Start/stop times of drilling activities are recordable
    -  Calculates current meters drilled and total meters per drill bit per reamer at
       any time and total meters drilled per shift and total core recovered as
       required
    -  Provides correct depths for surveys, bits and reamer changes, and core
       orientation depths
    -  Records condition and serial number of bits and reamers versus meters
       drilled
    -  Prevents incorrect carry on of data from previous drill shifts
    -  Provides seamless cross-shift transfer of drilling data for drilling data
       integrity.
There are also benefits to the drilling supervisor and GEO:
    -  Data is displayed accurately and clearly, and can be output to a computer
       for handling and display, thereby avoiding issues with unclear handwriting
       that causes a problem in handwritten logs

                                          13
     -  Manual calculations are avoided, and therefore errors are reduced.     The
        data logger manages the necessary calculations for the operator
     -  Accurate allocation of tasks and activities thus removing subjective
        interpretations and eliminating ambiguous reporting and subsequent
        delays and misinterpretations
     -   Improved progress reporting, which can be done remotely by interrogating
        the data logger or sending data from the data logger to a remote site
Benefits to the business enterprise requiring the drilling activity:
     -  Uniform processes and training across all contractors and employees
     -  Avoidance of manual calculations, with avoidance of mental calculation
        errors and handwriting errors
     -   Instant account of actual progress against budget and expected progress
     -  Statistics on consumables efficiently and accurately created
     -  Efficiency monitoring and reporting on a variety of aspects of the drilling
        process, including daily monitoring to provide useful intelligence for
        improvements and to assist in future planning.
Features of embodiments of the data logger and system include one or more of
the following:
        *The data logger has a protective casing and is suitable for use in low
temperatures, high temperatures, salt spray, dust, rain, mud, and can survive
high physical G shocks from drops/International transit shocks or pressure from
compression under vehicle tyres. Thus the data logger is tailor made to survive
the harsh drilling environment.
        eThe underlying operating platform is in machine language and therefore
file sizes can be kept low making it easy to transfer copious amounts data
cheaply, efficiently and seamlessly. i.e. micro data can be sent without graphic
headers, font and form formats or formulas.             Operators read data using
proprietary software which contains the larger graphic bytes & algorithms.
        eError checking routines ensure that saved flash data is robust, reliable
and unlikely to become lost or corrupt
        ePush button data input means are tactile making data entry fast and
reliable

                                           14
        eComments Menu with efficient filter making menus easy to compile,
streamlined, consistent and therefore faster and more accurate than writing them
        eAuto-Add of new comments to menu makes the entry of comments easier
with use
        *Screen and key backlighting ensures good visibility in all conditions
        9USB & wireless transceiver capability for seamless transfer of data to
other third party systems and equipment.
        eCharging cradle equipped with fast infra-red transceiver and interface to
allow for future implementation of other communication means (speed equivalent
to about 1 second per shift including transmission integrity checks)
        eBuilt in GPS chip provides exact position of rig for safety reasons
        .Easy Back-up file to USB facilities ensures that data copies can be saved
and easily stored, providing peace of mind (and compliance to risk management
procedures)
        eInstant help and tech files stored within the handheld eliminate the need
for paper manuals and improve the knowledge and skill of the operator instantly.
This means faster training and implementation.
        eNon-volatile memory means no data loss even in the event of total power
failure
        *Data deletion prevention if data was not backed up or transferred
successfully to external storage
        eShort circuit protection on power terminals increases rig safety and
reduced fire risk and overall product electrical robustness
        elnbuilt chargeable Battery life well in excess of 12 hours (outlasts a shift)
        eFully operational when charging (charging cradle wall mount & desk
mount with quick detach/re-attach)
        eTracking of hole depth and real time logging of activities provides an
instant efficiency monitor.   This helps drilling operation supervisors to manage
information more efficiently and improve the quality of invoicing processes by
reducing depth reporting errors.

                                              15
         .Electronic run sheet logging facilities improves the overall field QA
procedures by reducing errors and streamlining the ops process.               Corporate
Customers will value improved processes and this will improve the day to day
customer relationships.
         eFile utility features enable synchronisation between data loggers when
necessary (important for underground drilling)
         eMachine language platform is flexible for future requirements to log
maintenance schedules, fuel/oil checks, safety checks, Bit tests, Mud tests etc.
         eSpecial calculation algorithms ensure that consumable recording and
activity are in sync (fault flagged if bit size doesn't match pipe size etc.)
         *Entry field definition for data integrity e.g. file type and character length
match for database translation
         eBuilt in memory and input/output test ensures that device is functioning
properly
         9Optional 'integrated plug in' hardware interface for expandability to meet
future needs such reading of bar codes, camera, and any other functions that
may be required in the future
         eData can be sorted and output in any file format to be compatible with       3 rd
party systems, such as Oracle, Acquire etc., which helps drilling contractors to
meet customer reporting requirements.
         One or more forms of the present invention provides a fully integrated
electronic log of drilling, particularly relevant to the mining industry or other
industries where drilling is required.
         At least one embodiment of the present invention provides a handheld
data logger tool that allows drillers to digitally record the progressive log of drilling
including consumables, chargeables, all activities and tasks and comments on
run by run basis. The tool performs all the necessary calculations and keeps the
driller informed of the hole status on run by run basis and including the total rods,
depth & rod string. The data logger tool also retains all relevant data regarding
the hole from previous shifts, and keeps this data available for the drillers of
following shifts and until the end-of-hole.

                                           16
        The data logger can provide a guided step by step set up the drilling shift
and hole parameters and specification.         Embodiments of the data logger are
process & menu driven and when the operator enters a new item (like a name)
the data logger remembers new entries and the next time these will be displayed
on the menu. When the next shift is started for the same hole, the shift setup will
be minimized to entering the operators' names. All other setup data that remains
the same can be carried forward. Once the shift starts the driller can log activities
as they happen from starting a run, adding rods, recording stickup, to
consumables, bit & reamer changes and their condition, to actual duration of each
activity or their start & finish time.
        Because the data logger can incorporate an electronic run sheet, the depth
for certain activities can be automatically logged, as well as the number of
surveys & core orientations performed & logged.
        At the end of each shift the driller may end the shift on the data logger.
Additional data will be prompted at that time, such as operators hours. Once the
shift is ended the shift data is transferred into a memory stick and then to a PC
where dedicated software can be used to generate the log and run sheet reports.
        Once the shift data is entered, the operator can edit the data to fix any
error and then the Plod report can be printed, converted to a PDF file for
transferring such as by emailing the file (preferably an editable version) to the
GEO or admin office where it can be further viewed/edited or processed using
software.
        Shift data can also be loaded into a database where many additional
management & operational reports can be generated from data logged from all
shifts and all other drill rigs providing similar information or needing to share the
data from the data logger relating to one or more other rigs or other data.
Reports that can be output based on the logged drilling data include operators
hours, bit & reamer reports, hole surveys, meters per rig, machine hours,
consumables and more. The shift data can also be fed into the user's          3 rd party
accounting or database.
        The hand held data logger has many fail-proof features.       It is robust and
designed to be operated in the harsh drilling environment. Shift files cannot be

                                              17
deleted unless they have been transferred to an external memory and preferably
the data logger may only hold four complete shifts intentionally to force the user
to transfer the shift data to a PC for processing. This avoids accidental loss of
shift data and causes the data to be processed in a timely manner.
         The improved functionality of the data logger avoids ambiguity and
eliminates errors due to miscalculations, eligible handwriting, omissions and other
miscellaneous causes. It also can allocate user's codes to activities and
consumables thus minimising subjective interpretations.
         The data logger can be battery powered.           To assist with battery power
management: the data logger can revert to a standby mode after a preset time
period, preferably after 35 seconds of inactivity.            To resume operation from
standby mode and return to the previous position, any pre-selected key may be
pressed. After a predetermined period of inactivity, the data logger may power
down and switch off. All saved data remains saved even when the data logger is
switched off. To resume operations, the data logger is switched on via an on
key/button
         To maximise charging speed when connected to a charger, the data logger
will revert to a standby mode after a predetermined amount of time, such as 7
minutes. To return from standby mode any key/button can be pressed. A low
power indication may be given when the battery power data logger battery is
depleted to a preselected level, such as 40% power reserve.
         In setting up a drilling log activity in the data logger, such as at the start of
a drilling shift, the following data may be entered: Date, Shift time (day or night or
exact time), Drilling rig number, Location, Rig type, Site name, Operators
(minimum 2 up to 5), Drill rig position (GPS), Client, Job number.
         Hole setup is run next. This requires entering some or all of the following
data: Type and purpose of drilling, Hole name, Start azimuth & start dip, Constant
stick up, initial barrel length, Rod length, Start depth.         Drill data may next be
entered, including: Bit serial number, type and size or hammer serial number,
type and size, Reamer serial number and type,              2 nd reamer (optional).   Data
entered at this point depends on the type of drilling to be undertaken.

                                           18
        Tasks that include chargeable items can be noted at data entry points,
such as when entering drill bit, reamer and hammer data. A chargeable item can
be unmarked in the data logger if the item is subsequently not to be charged or
was incorrectly marked as chargeable. Charge markings are removed by going
back to that data entry and reversing the charge entry through the input buttons.
        An orientation can be logged for any given run at a respective depth.
        End of shift data is entered into the data logger. This records the end of
one shift prior to the next shift or the end of the drilling job. The end of shift data
entry sequence may be irreversible, so a safety feature can be included that
requires one or more buttons to be pressed for a required time or in a certain
sequence, such as holding down one or more buttons for several seconds.
Operator hours are then entered and the shift is ended.
        At the end of hole, this sequence indicates that no more drilling is required.
Once entered, the data logger identifies that hole as ended and a new hole will be
started. Thus data entry reverts to the start of the setup sequence. As with the
end of shift data entry sequence, a similar safety feature prevents end of hole
sequence being commenced unless one or more buttons are pressed as
required.
        At end of shift or end of hole, data logged in the data logger (drilling and
shift related data including consumables) can be transferred to a memory device
or transmitted to a remote data receiver. The data can then be manipulated in a
suitable software programme for display, accounting, reporting or planning etc.
The data logger can backup data to a backup file for safety and security. This
backup data can be a copy of the data logged during a drilling shift. This backup
data can be restored to the main area of the data logger for ongoing use or can
be output to a memory device or transmitted to a remote device.
        Two data loggers may be used, such as on the same drilling rig.             For
example, one may be dedicated to the night shift and the other to day shift. Both
collect data relating to the same drill hole. At the end of one shift, and after that
shift is ended, a synchronising file can be created for the first data logger's
recorded data during its shift. That synchronising file of data is restored to the
second data logger for the other shift.       Thus when that other shift starts, the

                                               19
second data logger is ready to continue on the same drill hole as the first data
logger because it contains the same data.             The first data logger can then be
recharged, such as at the surface of a mine.              Thus, the data logger is fully
charged (such as when taken underground) for its shift and the use data logger
can be returned for charging. This avoids loss of productivity and progress when
drilling, especially if drilling activities are 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.
         Embodiments of the present invention provide flexibility and reliability in
drilling operation information/data capture, thereby providing economic and time
saving benefits.

                                             20
Please amend the claims as follows:
1.     A drilling progress data electronic log device to log user input data of drilling
activity at the surface, the device including manual input means to receive initial
input drilling data, electronic data storage to store said initial input drilling data, and
current drilling data creator creating current drilling data based on said initial input
drilling data, and user operated subsequent drilling data input controls for entering
subsequent drilling data, the drilling data electronic log device including comparator
means for comparing the current drilling data and the subsequent drilling data, in
comparing the subsequent drilling data with the current progress drilling data the
drilling data electronic log device checks the subsequent drilling data for accuracy
against stored data and gives an error message or an alert or a prompt if incorrect or
irrational subsequent drilling data is entered, the drilling data electronic log device
preventing updating of the current drilling data with the subsequent drilling data until
the correct or rational subsequent drilling data is entered, the drilling data electronic
log device updating the current drilling data with the correct or rational subsequent
drilling data, the updated drilling data used by the drilling data electronic log device
for creating drilling operations data, and a drilling data electronic log device output
means to output said drilling operations data on demand.
2.     The drilling progress data electronic log device according to claim 1, including
hardware, firmware and/or software to electronically monitor the drilling operations at
the drill rig site through data input by an operator.
3.     The drilling progress data electronic log device according to claim 1 or 2,
provided as a hand held unit.
4.     The drilling progress data electronic log device according to any one of the
preceding claims, constructed having a protective outer housing or casing arranged
to withstand rugged use in the field, such as when operating under harsh mining
industry conditions and environments.

                                             21
5.    The drilling progress data electronic log device according to any one of the
preceding claims, being a self powered unit incorporating a rechargeable battery.
6.    The drilling progress data electronic log device according to any one of the
preceding claims, including a data transfer device enabling data input into or
recorded in the drilling data electronic log device to be directly transferred to an
external data storage device or computer.
7.    The drilling progress data electronic log device according to any one of the
preceding claims, the device including a transmitter to wirelessly transmit drilling
data to a remote location and/or a receiver to wirelessly receive drilling data from a
remote location.
8.    The drilling progress data electronic log device according to any one of the
preceding claims, including operator voice or image information and instruction
recording or recognition, or activation of one or more functions of the drilling data
electronic log device.
9.    A drilling progress operations event records system incorporating the drilling
data electronic log device according to any one of the preceding claims in
combination with one or more remote metering devices provided on a drill rig to
transmit drill rig operating conditions to the drilling progress data electronic log
device.
10.   The drilling progress operations event records system according to claim 9,
wherein the drilling data electronic log device is integrated with a partially or fully
automated drill rig system.
11.   A drilling progress data logging method for at least one drilling activity, including
the steps of:
a)     entering initial drilling data into an electronic data logger, said initial drilling
data relating to at least one said drilling activity at the surface;

                                              22
b)       creating current progress drilling data in the data logger based on said initial
drilling data;
c)       entering subsequent drilling data into the data logger of the drilling activity at
the surface for one or more of a drilling task, drilling progress, drilling equipment or
drilling operators of said drilling operation;
d)       comparing the subsequent drilling data with the current progress drilling data;
e)       checking the subsequent drilling data for accuracy against data stored in the
electronic data logging device;
f)       the electronic data logging device giving an error message or an alert or a
prompt if incorrect or irrational subsequent drilling data is entered;
g)       the drilling data electronic log device preventing updating of the current drilling
data until correct or rational subsequent drilling data is entered; and
h)       updating the current progress drilling data using the entered correct or rational
subsequent drilling data.
12.     The method according to claim 11, the initial drilling data including one or more
of the following: drillstring start direction data, drillstring dip angle, required drill hole
diameter, distance to target, global positioning data, operators or other people at that
at least one drilling operation at the drill rig site, information relating to the drilling
equipment being used, time and date information.
13.    The method according to claim 11 or 12, including carrying out a data accuracy
check on the subsequent drilling data by comparing the subsequent drilling data with
the current progress drilling data.
14.    The method according to any one of claims 11 to 13, including providing a
warning indication that incorrect initial and/or subsequent drilling data has been
entered.

                                              23
15.    The method according to claim 14, wherein the warning indication includes an
error message on a display or a warning light, or combinations thereof.
16.    The method according to any one of claims 11 to 15, including the electronic
data logger giving a prompt to an operator when the initial drilling data is entered or
when the comparison between the subsequent drilling data and the current progress
drilling data is carried out or at a time thereafter.
17.    The method according to claim 16, whereby the prompt includes giving an
indication to the operator that certain data requires entering into the electronic data
logger.
18.    The method according to any one of claims 11 to 17, further including receiving
remote originating data transmitted from remote equipment and combining that
remote originating data with the initial drilling data or subsequent drilling data.
19.    The method according to claim 18, the remote originating data including survey
data, geological data, GPS data and/or drill orientation data transmitted from the
remote equipment.
20.    The method according to any one of claims 11 to 19, further including validating
for accuracy or correctness at least some of the initial or subsequent drilling data
entered into the electronic data logger.
21.    The method according to claim 20, wherein validation includes checking that
the inputted initial or subsequent drilling data is sensible in relation to set parameters
or limitations.
22.    The method according to any one of claims 11 to 21, the method including
prompting an operator to enter the subsequent drilling data or to enter certain
required subsequent drilling data before the method will carry out the comparison
and/or update the current progress drilling data.

                                            24
23.   The method according to any one of claims 11 to 22, wherein the electronic
data logger is a hand held electronic device with data entry means, such as an
alphanumeric or other keypad, touch sensitive screen or voice activated software to
effect receipt of data to be entered into the electronic data logger.
24.   The method according to any one of claims 11 to 23, including recording in the
electronic data logger a record against at least one consumable item of equipment
that the cost of which is to chargeable to a third party.
25.   The method according to any one of claims 11 to 24, including entering into the
electronic data logger comments by shift personnel on drilling progress, activities,
tasks, personnel, events, equipment changes or decisions during the drilling
operations at the drill rig site, and providing those comments to subsequent shift
personnel at a shift change.
26.   Use of a hand held said electronic drilling progress data logger device to carry
out the method according to any one of claims 11 to 25.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
