                                       ABSTRACT
An agrochemical formulation comprising an agricultural active and an adjuvant is disclosed.
The adjuvant comprises a residue of sorbitan or sorbitan derivative having at least one active
hydrogen atom replaced to form an ethyloxylated or propoxylated ester. The adjuvant and
methods of treating crops with an agrochemical formulation comprising the adjuvant are
also disclosed.

                                                                                          P/00/011
                                                                                     Regulation 3.2
                                         AUSTRALIA
                                        Patents Act 1990
                     COMPLETE SPECIFICATION
                           FOR A DIVISIONAL PATENT
                                         ORIGINAL
Name of Applicant:        CRODA, INC.
Actual Inventor(s):       Gregory James LINDNER
Address for Service:      Houlihan 2. Level     1, 70 Doncaster Road, Balwyn North, Victoria
                          3104, Australia
Invention Title:          ALKOXYLATED POLYSORBATE ESTER ADJUVANTS
The following statement is a full description of this invention, including the best method of
performing it known to the Applicant:-

                             Alkoxylated Polysorbate Ester Adjuvants
   The present Application is a Divisional Application from Australian Patent Application No.
   2014334803. The entire disclosures of Australian Patent Application No. 2014334803and its
   corresponding International Patent Application No. PCT/US2014/059612, are incorporated
 5 herein by reference.
   This application is related to, and claims the benefit of priority of, U.S. Provisional
   Application     No.   61/892,740,    entitled  ALKOXYLATED         POLYSORBATE          ESTER
   ADJUVANTS, filed on 18 October 2013, the contents of which are incorporated herein by
   reference in their entirety for all purposes.
10 The present invention relates to adjuvants for agrochemical active formulations, and a method
   of providing adjuvancy in agrochemical formulations comprising said adjuvant compounds
   with one or more agrochemical actives. The present invention also includes methods of
   treating crops with such formulations.
   An adjuvant is generally defined as a chemical or a mixture of chemicals (commonly
15 surfactants) capable of improving the biological activity or effectiveness of an agrochemical
   active. Adjuvants do not themselves control or kill pests. Instead, these additives modify
   some property (e.g., spreading, retention, penetration, droplet size, etc.) of the agrochemical
   formulation which improves the ability of the active to penetrate, target, or protect the target
   organism.     The typical types of compounds used as adjuvants may include surfactants,
20 emulsifiers, oils, and salts. Adjuvants do not significantly inhibit translocation of the active
   in the treated plant. In addition, the adjuvant should not produce unwanted phytotoxic effects
   on the plant.
   One particular problem with agrochemical formulations is that typical adjuvants such as
   known polysorbates may be limited in their applicability.        In particular, the quantity of
25 adjuvant added to the agrochemical formulation may be limited as above certain amounts the
   formulation may become undesirably thickened or destabilised. In particular, the inclusion
   rate of known adjuvants in aqueous and/or solvent based formulations may be problematic.
   It may be possible to overcome such limitations through formulation techniques. However,
   that approach may use up already limited formulation space and reduce the space available
30 for more desirable components such as active ingredients.
   The present invention seeks to provide compounds suitable for use as adjuvants in
   agrochemical formulations, where said adjuvants may be able to overcome the above

                                                  -3-
   described problems. Additionally, the present invention seeks to provide adjuvants which
   may have desired properties such as surfactancy, viscosity at reduced temperatures, and
   dilution performance in cold water. The present invention provides for the use of the adjuvant
   compounds in agrochemical compositions in combination with an agrochemical active, where
 5 the compounds may provide desired adjuvancy. The present invention also seeks to provide
   the use of agrochemical concentrates and dilute formulations comprising said adjuvants.
   According to a first aspect of the present invention there is provided an agrochemical
   formulation comprising;
            i) an adjuvant; and
10          ii) at least one agrochemical active;
   wherein said adjuvant has general structure (I):
                           Sorb.(AOH)n1(AO 2H)n2 (AO 3H)n3(AO 4R),    4                 (I)
   wherein;
          Sorb represents a residue of a sorbitan or sorbitan derivative;
          AOi, AO 2, AG 3 , and AG 4 each independently represents an oxyalkylene chain formed
15 from oxyethylene units, oxypropylene units, or a mixture thereof, wherein at least one of AOI,
   A0 2, AG 3 , and AG 4 comprises a mixture of oxyethylene and oxypropylene units;
          the total sum of oxyethylene units and oxypropylene units is in the range from 5 to 38;
          nI, n2, and n3 each independently represent an integer having a value of 0 or 1;
          n4 represents a value of 1; and
20        R' represents an alkanoyl group -C(O)R 2 wherein R 2 represents a C 4 to C28 hydrocarbyl.
   According to a second aspect of the present invention there is provided a concentrate
   formulation suitable for making an agrochemical formulation of the first aspect, said
   concentrate comprising;
            i) an adjuvant, wherein said adjuvant wherein said adjuvant has general structure (1):
                           Sorb.(AOiH), 1(AO 2H), 2(AO3H), 3(AO 4R)n4                   (I)
25 wherein;
          Sorb represents a residue of a sorbitan or sorbitan derivative;

                                                 -4-
         AOi, A02, A03, and A04 each independently represents an oxyalkylene chain formed
   from oxyethylene units, oxypropylene units, or a mixture thereof, wherein at least one of AOI,
   AO 2, AG 3 , and AG4 comprises a mixture of oxyethylene and oxypropylene units;
         the total sum of oxyethylene units and oxypropylene units is in the range from 5 to 38;
 5       n1, n2, and n3 each independently represent an integer having a value of 0 or 1;
         n4 represents a value of 1;
         R' represents an alkanoyl group -C(O)R 2 wherein R 2 represents a C4 to C28 hydrocarbyl;
   and
           ii) optionally, at least one agrochemical active.
10 According to a third aspect of the present invention there is provided the use of compound
   having general structure (I):
                         Sorb.(AOH),I(AO 2H), 2 (AO 3H), 3(AO 4R),   4                (I)
   wherein;
         Sorb represents a residue of a sorbitan or sorbitan derivative;
         AOi, AO 2, AG 3 , and AG 4 each independently represents an oxyalkylene chain formed
15       from oxyethylene units, oxypropylene units, or a mixture thereof, wherein at least one
         of AOI, AG 2 , AG 3, and AG 4 comprises a mixture of oxyethylene and oxypropylene
         units;
         the total sum of oxyethylene units and oxypropylene units is in the range from 5 to 38;
         n1, n2, and n3 each independently represent an integer having a value of 0 or 1;
20       n4 represents a value of 1; and
         R' represents an alkanoyl group -C(O)R 2 wherein R2 represents a C 4 to C28 hydrocarbyl;
   as an adjuvant in an agrochemical formulation comprising at least one agrochemical active.
   According to a fourth aspect of the present invention there is provided a method of treating
   vegetation to control pests, the method comprising applying a formulation of the first aspect,
25 and/or a diluted concentrate formulation of the second aspect, either to said vegetation or to
   the immediate environment of said vegetation.
   According to a fifth aspect of the present invention, there is provided a compound having
   general structure (I):
                         Sorb.(AO1H),1(AO2H)n 2 (AO 3H),3(AO 4R),    4                (I)

                                                  -5-
   wherein;
          Sorb represents a residue of a sorbitan or sorbitan derivative;
          AOI, AO 2, AO 3 , and AO 4 each independently represents an oxyalkylene chain formed
          from oxyethylene units, oxypropylene units, or a mixture thereof, wherein at least one
 5        of AOi, AO2, AO3, and A0       4 comprises a mixture of oxyethylene and oxypropylene
          units;
          the total sum of oxyethylene units and oxypropylene units is in the range from 5 to 38;
          n1, n2, and n3 each independently represent an integer having a value of 0 or 1;
          n4 represents a value of 1; and
10        R1 represents an alkanoyl group -C(O)R 2 wherein R 2 represents a C 4 to C 28 hydrocarbyl;
   suitable for use as an adjuvant in an agrochemical formulation.
   It has been found that fatty acid sorbitans mono esters which are ethoxylated and propoxylated
   provide for desired adjuvancy properties when used in an agrochemical formulation having
   at least one agrochemical active.
15 As used herein, the terms 'for example,' 'for instance,' 'such as,' or 'including' are meant to
   introduce examples that further clarify more general subject matter.           Unless otherwise
   specified, these examples are provided only as an aid for understanding the applications
   illustrated in the present disclosure, and are not meant to be limiting in any fashion.
   As used herein, the terms "comprise", "comprises", "comprised" or "comprising" are are to
20 be interpreted as specifying the presence of the stated features, integers, steps or components
   referred to, but not to preclude the presence or addition of one or more other feature, integer,
   step, component or group thereof.
   It will be understood that, when describing the number of carbon atoms in a substituent group
   (e.g., 'CI to C6 alkyl'), the number refers to the total number of carbon atoms present in the
25 substituent group, including any present in any branched groups.            Additionally, when
   describing the number of carbon atoms in, for example fatty acids, this refers to the total
   number of carbon atoms including the one at the carboxylic acid, and any present in any
   branch groups.
   The adjuvant of the present invention has general structure (I):
                         Sorb.(AOiH),i(AO 2H), 2(AO 3H)n3(AO 4R)n4                       (I)
30 wherein;

                                                  -6
           Sorb represents a residue of a sorbitan or sorbitan derivative;
           AOi, AG 2, AO 3 , and AG 4 each independently represents an oxyalkylene chain formed
   from oxyethylene units, oxypropylene units, or a mixture thereof, wherein at least one of AG 1 ,
   AG 2, AG 3 , and AG 4 comprises a mixture of oxyethylene and oxypropylene units;
 5         the total sum of oxyethylene units and oxypropylene units is in the range from 5 to 38;
           n1, n2, and n3 each independently represent an integer having a value of 0 or 1;
           n4 represents a value of 1; and
           R' represents an alkanoyl group -C(O)R 2 wherein R2 represents a C 4 to C28 hydrocarbyl.
   The adjuvant of the present invention is, at least notionally, built up from the group Sorb that
10 can be considered as the 'core group' of the compound. This core group represents the residue
   (i.e., after removal of at least one active hydrogen atom) of a sorbitan or sorbitan derivative
   containing at least one active hydrogen atom, and is referred to herein as a sorbitan or sorbitan
   derivative residue.
   The term 'sorbitan or sorbitan derivative residue' as used herein, unless otherwise defined,
15 therefore refers to an organic radical derived from sorbitan or sorbitan derivative by removal
   of at least one active hydrogen atom, the hydrogen atom being from one of the hydroxyl
   groups present. The term 'active hydrogen' refers to the hydrogen atoms present as part of
   the hydroxyl groups of the sorbitan or sorbitan derivative.
   In the compounds of the invention, the sorbitan residue at the core of the molecule,
20 corresponding to the residue 'Sorb' in formula (I) may be selected from residues of any
   suitable sorbitan or sorbitan derivative.        In particular, it may be selected from 1,4
   anhydrosorbitol, 1,5-anhydrosorbitol, and 3,6-anhydrosorbitol. Particularly preferred are 1,4
   anhydrosorbitol and 3,6-anhydrosorbitol.
   The reactions to form the ethoxylated/propoxylated ester will replace at least one of the active
25 hydrogen atoms of the sorbitan or sorbitan derivative, thereby giving a mono-ester of the
   ethoxylated/propoxylated sorbitan. It will be envisaged that the any of the active hydrogen
   atoms of the sorbitan or sorbitan derivative may be suitably substituted, although particular
   sites may be restricted or prevented by steric hindrance.
   The sorbitan or sorbitan derivative residue may be homogeneous in that it comprises only one
30 specific sorbitan or sorbitan derivative residue and is formed from one specific sorbitan or
   sorbitan derivative. In an alternative embodiment, the sorbitan or sorbitan derivative residue
   starting material may be heterogeneous in that it comprises a mixture of a number of different
   sorbitan or sorbitan derivatives selected from those listed herein, and therefore the sorbitan or

                                                 -7-
   sorbitan derivative residues formed therefrom may be heterogeneous. Preferably, the sorbitan
   or sorbitan derivative residue is homogeneous.
   In one particular embodiment, sorbitan or sorbitan derivatives obtainable from natural
   saccharide processing will be preferred.
                                                               2
 5 R' represents an alkanoyl group represented by -C(O)R         wherein R 2 represents a C4 to C28
   hydrocarbyl.    It will be understood that one R' group is present per sorbitan or sorbitan
   derivative molecule, and therefore the adjuvant of the present invention is a mono-ester.
   The C4 to C28 hydrocarbyl is preferably selected from a C4 to C28 alkyl or C 4 to C28 alkenyl.
   The term 'alkyl' as used herein, unless otherwise defined, refers to saturated hydrocarbon
10 radicals being straight chain, branched, or combinations thereof, containing from 4 to 28
   carbon atoms.      Preferably, the alkyls each contain from 6 to 24 carbon atoms.          More
   preferably, 8 to 22 carbon atoms. Further preferably, 10 to 20 carbon atoms. Most preferably,
    12 to 18 carbon atoms.
   Examples of alkyl radicals may be independently selected from butyl, pentyl, hexyl, heptyl,
15 octyl, nonyl, decyl, undecyl, dodecyl, tridecyl, tetradecyl, pentadecyl, hexadecyl, heptadecyl,
   octadecyl, nonadecyl, eicosyl, henicosyl, docosyl, tricosyl, tetracosyl, pentacosyl, hexacosyl,
   heptacosyl, octacosyl, or branched variants thereof.
   The alkyl radicals may preferably be selected from octyl, nonyl, decyl, undecyl, dodecyl,
   tridecyl, tetradecyl, pentadecyl, hexadecyl, heptadecyl, octadecyl, nonadecyl, or eicosyl.
20 More preferably, decyl, undecyl, dodecyl, tridecyl, tetradecyl, pentadecyl, hexadecyl,
   heptadecyl, octadecyl, nonadecyl, or eicosyl. Most preferably, dodecyl or octadecyl.
   The term 'alkenyl' as used herein, unless otherwise defined, refers to hydrocarbon radicals
   having at least one or a plurality, preferably no more than four, double bonds. The alkenyl
   radicals may be straight chain, or branched moieties, or combinations thereof, containing from
25 4 to 28 carbon atoms. Preferably, the alkenyls each contain from 8 to 26 carbon atoms. More
   preferably, 10 to 24 carbon atoms.       Further preferably, 14 to 22 carbon atoms.       Moste
   preferably, 16 to 20 carbon atoms.
   Examples of alkenyl radicals may be independently selected from butenyl, pentenyl, hexenyl,
   heptenyl,   octenyl, nonenyl, decenyl, undecenyl,        dodecenyl, tridecenyl, tetradecenyl,
30 pentadecenyl,     hexadecenyl,    heptadecenyl,     octadecenyl,    nonadecenyl,    eicosenenyl
   henicosenyl, docosenyl, tricosenyl, tetracosenyl, pentacosenyl, hexacosenyl, heptacosenyl,
   octacosenyl, or branched variants thereof.

                                                  - 8
   The alkenyl radicals may preferably be selected from dodecenyl, tridecenyl, tetradecenyl,
   pentadecenyl, hexadecenyl, heptadecenyl, octadecenyl, nonadecenyl, eicosenyl, or branched
   variants thereof. More preferably, tetradecenyl, pentadecenyl, hexadecenyl, heptadecenyl,
   octadecenyl, nonadecenyl, or eicosenyl. Most preferably, octadecenyl.
 5 Said alkanoyl group may preferably be a residue of a fatty acid. The term 'residue of a fatty
   acid' as used herein refers to the moiety that is the resulting product of the fatty acid in a
   particular reaction scheme or subsequent formulation or chemical product, regardless of
   whether the moiety is actually obtained from the specified chemical species. A 'fatty acid
   residue' thereby refers to the moiety which results when a fatty acid participates in a particular
10 reaction (i.e., the residue is a fatty alkanoyl group R2 C(O)-).       The fatty acid residue is
   therefore 'derived' from the respective fatty acid. It is understood that this moiety can be
   obtained by a reaction with a species other than the specified fatty acid per se, for example,
   by a reaction with an unsaturated fatty acid chloride, ester, or anhydride.
   The fatty acids used in the first adjuvant of the present invention are preferably selected from
15 Cs to C2s fatty acids, more preferably Cio to C24 fatty acids, particularly C 12 to C20 fatty acids.
   Especially Ct2 and Cis fatty acids may be preferred.
   The fatty acids may be selected from linear or branched fatty acids. The fatty acids may be
   selected from saturated or unsaturated fatty acids.
   Suitable saturated fatty acids may be selected from caprylic acid, capric acid, lauric acid,
20 myristic acid, palmitic acid, stearic acid, isostearic acid, arachidic acid, behenic acid, or
   lignoceric acid. Preferred saturated fatty acids may be selected from lauric acid, myristic acid,
   palmitic acid, isostearic acid, or stearic acid. Most preferably, lauric acid, isostearic acid, or
   stearic acid.
   Where unsaturated fatty acids are present, these may be selected from unsaturated fatty acids
25 comprising at least one unsaturated carbon-carbon double bond. Particularly preferred are
   unsaturated fatty acids having in the range from 1 to 3 carbon-carbon double bonds. Most
   preferred are mono-unsaturated or di-unsaturated fatty acids residues. The carbon-carbon
   double bond(s) of the fatty chain may be present either in a cis or a trans configuration.
   Preferably, where the alkanoyl group is derived from an unsaturated fatty acid, said
30 unsaturated fatty acid is linear and mono-unsaturated.
   Iodine values are understood to represent the average amount of unsaturation of fats or oils,
   and is expressed in terms of the number of centigrams of iodine absorbed per gram of sample
   (% iodine absorbed).     Where unsaturated fatty acids are present, said fatty acids may be

                                                  -9-
   selected such that the iodine value is greater than 70. Preferably, said iodine value is greater
   than 75. More preferably, said iodine value is greater than 80. Most preferably, said iodine
   value is greater than 85.
   Suitable unsaturated fatty acids may be selected from myristoleic acid, palmitoleic acid,
 5 sapienic acid, oleic acid, elaidic acid, vaccenic acid, linoleic acid, linoelaidic acid, arachidonic
   acid, eicosapentaenoic acid, erucic acid, or docosahexaenoic acid. Preferred unsaturated fatty
   acids may be selected from oleic acid, linoleic acid, linolenic acid, palmitoleic acid, or elaidic
   acid. Particularly preferred unsaturated fatty acids may be oleic acid or linoleic acid.
   The fatty acid residue may most preferably be selected from oleic acid, stearic acid, or lauric
10 acid.
   The fatty acids may be obtained from natural fats and oils, e.g., canola oil, sunflower oil,
   soybean oil, olive oil, cotton seed oil, grape seed oil, peanut oil, rapeseed oil, safflower oil,
   cottonseed oil, or tall oil. Preferably canola oil, safflower oil, soybean oil, or tall oil.
   In an alternative embodiment, the fatty acid used may be purified prior to use in the present
15 invention. Purification may be undertaken to raise the levels of desired fatty acid chains and
   reduce the level of undesired fatty acid chains in order to modify the iodine values, titre values,
   or pour points.
   At least one of the active hydrogen atoms present in the sorbitan or sorbitan derivative residue
   is alkoxylated. Where only one active hydrogen site is alkoxylated it will be seen that the
20 values of nI, n2, and n3 of formula (I) would be 0, whilst n4 would have a value of 1.
   Preferably, more than one of the active hydrogen atoms present in the sorbitan or sorbitan
   derivative residue are alkoxylated. The values of n1, n 2 , and n3 of formula (I) would therefore
   be 0 or 1, whilst n4 would have a value of 1.
   Where all active hydrogen atoms present in the sorbitan or sorbitan derivative are alkoxylated,
25 the values of n1, n2, n3, and n4 of formula (I) would all be 1.
   Alkoxylation of the adjuvant of the present invention comprises use of oxyalkylene groups
   which are oxyethylene units (-CH 2CH 2-O-) and/or oxypropylene units (-CH 2 (CH 3 )CH 2 -O-).
   Each oxyalkyene group or chain present (AO 1, A0 2 , A0 3, and A0 4 ) in the adjuvant may
   independently comprise        oxyethylene,    oxypropylene,     or a mixture of oxyethylene,
30 oxypropylene units. At least one of the oxyalkyene chains present comprises a mixture of
   oxyethylene and oxypropylene units.

                                                ~10 ~
   Each oxyalkylene unit may independently be the same or may be different along said
   oxyalkylene chain. Therefore, each oxyalkylene chain may be homopolymeric, or may be
   copolymeric. Preferably, each oxyalkylene chain is copolymeric.
   Where the oxyalkylene chain is copolymeric, the oxyalkylene chain may be a block or random
 5 copolymer (either normal or reverse) of oxyethylene and oxypropylene units.
   Where said copolymer is a block copolymer, this may be in the form of a reverse block
   copolymer (where the oxyethylene portion is bonded closest to the sorbitan and the
   oxypropylene portion is bonded furthest from the sorbitan), or a normal block copolymer
   (where the oxypropylene portion is bonded closest to the sorbitan and the oxyethylene portion
10 is bonded furthest from the sorbitan).
   Random copolymers will therefore be understood to refer to oxyalkylene chains where there
   is a mixture of oxyethylene and oxypropylene units randomly distributed along the chain
   length.
   Where the oxyalkylene chain is a copolymer, it is preferably a reverse or random copolymer.
15 More preferably, a reverse copolymer.
   Where co-polymeric chains are used these are copolymers of oxyethylene and oxypropylene
   units. More preferably, where co-polymeric chains of oxyethylene and oxypropylene are
   used, the molar proportion of oxyethylene units comprised in the oxyalkylene chain may be
   in the range of between 20% and 90%. More preferably, in the range of between 30% and
20 80%. Further preferably, in the range of between 40% and 80%. Most preferably, in the
   range of between 50% and 75%.
   The oxyethylene and oxypropylene units may be evenly distributed over the available active
   hydrogens sites of the sorbitan residue, with said distribution being close to an expected
   random distribution.
25 However, in an alternative embodiment, where the active hydrogen atoms are not equivalent,
   alkoxylation may result in unequal oxyalkylene chain lengths at each of the active hydrogen
   sites of the sorbitan.
   The number of moles of oxyethylene present in each of the four oxyalkylene chains at each
   of the active hydrogen sites of the sorbitan or sorbitan derivative may vary. The number of
30 moles of oxyethylene present in each oxyalkylene group may independently be an integer in
   the range from 0 to 10. It will be understood where the value of is 0 no oxythylene is present
   in that specific oxyalkylene chain.

                                                ~II ~
   Preferably, the number of moles of oxyethylene present in each oxyalkylene group is
   independently an integer in the range from I to 8. More preferably, in the range from 2 to 7.
   Further preferably, in the range from 2 to 6. Most preferably, in the range from 2 to 5.
   The number of moles of oxypropylene present in each of the four oxyalkylene chains at each
 5 of the active hydrogen sites of the sorbitan or sorbitan derivative may vary. The number of
   moles of oxypropylene present in each oxyalkylene group may independently be an integer
   in the range from 0 to 10. It will be understood where the value of is 0 no oxypropylene is
   present in that specific oxyalkylene chain.
   Preferably, the number of moles of oxypropylene present in each oxyalkylene group is
10 independently an integer in the range from I to 8. More preferably, in the range from I to 6.
   Further preferably, in the range from 2 to 5. Most preferably, in the range from 2 to 4.
   The total number of moles of oxyethylene units present in each adjuvant molecule may be an
   integer value in the range of from 1 to 19. Preferably, in the range from 4 to 18. More
   preferably, in the range from 6 to 17. Further preferably, in the range from 8 to 16. Most
15 preferably, in the range from 10 to 15.
   The total number of moles of oxypropylene units in each adjuvant molecule, and said sum
   has an integer value in the range of from 1 to 19. Preferably, in the range from 2 to 17. More
   preferably, in the range from 3 to 14. Further preferably, in the range from 4 to 12. Most
   preferably, in the range from 5 to 10.
20 The total number of moles of both oxyethylene and oxypropylene units present in each
   adjuvant molecule has an integer value in the range of from 5 to 38. Preferably, in the range
   from 8 to 32. More preferably, in the range from 12 to 28. Further preferably, in the range
   from 15 to 25. More further preferably, in the range from 18 to 22. Most preferably, total
   number of moles of both oxyethylene and oxypropylene units present in each adjuvant
25 molecule is 20.
   The molecular weight (weight average) of the adjuvant is preferably in the range from 450 to
   2,700, more preferably 590 to 1,500, particularly 800 to 2,200, further preferably, 1,000 to
   1,900, more further preferably 1,100 to 1,800, and especially 1,200 to 1,600.
   Specific preferred examples of adjuvants of the present invention may be selected from the
30 group comprising polyoxyethylene (15) polyoxypropylene (5) (normal copolymer) sorbitan
   mono-laurate, polyoxyethylene (10) polyoxypropylene (10) (normal copolymer) sorbitan
   mono-laurate, polyoxyethylene (5) polyoxypropylene (15) (normal copolymer) sorbitan
   mono-laurate, polyoxyethylene (15) polyoxypropylene (5) (reverse copolymer) sorbitan

                                                 ~ 12~
   mono-laurate, polyoxyethylene (10) polyoxypropylene (10) (reverse copolymer) sorbitan
   mono-laurate, polyoxyethylene (5) polyoxypropylene (15) (reverse copolymer) sorbitan
   mono-laurate, polyoxyethylene (15) polyoxypropylene (5) (random copolymer) sorbitan
   mono-laurate, polyoxyethylene (10) polyoxypropylene (10) (random copolymer) sorbitan
 5 mono-laurate, polyoxyethylene (5) polyoxypropylene (15) (random copolymer) sorbitan
   mono-laurate, polyoxyethylene (15) polyoxypropylene (5) (normal copolymer) sorbitan
   mono-oleate, polyoxyethylene (10) polyoxypropylene (10) (normal copolymer) sorbitan
   mono-oleate, polyoxyethylene (5) polyoxypropylene (15)           (normal copolymer) sorbitan
   mono-oleate, polyoxyethylene (15) polyoxypropylene (5) (reverse copolymer) sorbitan
10 mono-oleate, polyoxyethylene (10) polyoxypropylene (10) (reverse copolymer) sorbitan
   mono-oleate, polyoxyethylene (5) polyoxypropylene (15)           (reverse copolymer) sorbitan
   mono-oleate, polyoxyethylene (15) polyoxypropylene (5) (random copolymer) sorbitan
   mono-oleate, polyoxyethylene (10) polyoxypropylene (10) (random copolymer) sorbitan
   mono-oleate, and polyoxyethylene (5) polyoxypropylene (15) (random copolymer) sorbitan
15 mono-oleate.
   More preferably, the adjuvants of the present invention may be selected from polyoxyethylene
   (15) polyoxypropylene (5) (reverse copolymer) sorbitan mono-laurate, and polyoxyethylene
   (10) polyoxypropylene (10) (reverse copolymer) sorbitan mono-laurate.
   The adjuvant of the present invention can be made by methods generally known in the art for
20 corresponding known compounds, i.e., the polysorbates.        In particular, they may be made
   from sorbitan esters, which are known generally as a class, by reaction with ethylene oxide
   and/or propylene oxide usually under basic catalysis.
   Base catalysis may be provided by sodium or potassium hydroxide or methoxide.                 The
   ethoxylation/propoxylation reaction may be carried out at a temperature typically from 150'C
25 to 180'C and at a pressure of from 400 to 650 kPa (gauge).
   The sorbitan esters, used as starting materials for the ethoxylation/propoxylation reaction
   making the compounds of the invention, are generally known and may themselves be made
   by reacting sorbitol with a suitable fatty acid to form the sorbitan ester by anhydridisation
   cyclisation of the sorbitol to sorbitan and esterification.
30 This reaction can be carried out by catalysed direct reaction of sorbitol and the fatty acid at a
   temperature typically from 225'C to 250'C and at ambient or near ambient pressure under
   base, acid, or buffered acid catalysis. Further information on the synthesis of this general type
   of surfactant can be found in standard text books on non-ionic surfactants such as Surfactant

                                                  ~ 13~
   Science Volume 1: Nonionic Surfactants (pub. 1967 by Marcel Dekker) particularly the
   chapter by F R Benson titled "Polyol Surfactants".
   Additionally the 'mono-esters' (and the corresponding ethoxylated derivatives) will include
   small proportions of compounds including unesterified sorbitan or sorbitan derivative (e.g.,
 5 sorbitan, iso-sorbide, etc.) residues, substantial proportions of mono- and di- fatty acyl esters,
   mainly of sorbitan, but including modest amounts based on iso-sorbide and small proportions
   based on sorbitol, with some level of tri-and higher esters mainly based on sorbitan. This
   contrasts with the nominal triesters of sorbitan which contain major proportions of tri- and
   higher esters. Of course the range of individual compounds after alkoxylation will be even
10 greater.
   On initial esterification, it may be understood that the majority of the acyl residues react with
   primary hydroxyls in the sorbitan or sorbitan derivatives (corresponding to the 1- or 6
   positions in sorbitol), but that during subsequent processing trans-esterification largely
   randomises the position of the acyl group(s). The alkoxylation may involve further trans
15 esterification for further randomising the acyl positions.
   The adjuvants of the present invention preferably have cloud point of greater than 10'C.
   Preferably, greater than 20'C. More preferably, greater than 30'C. Further preferably, greater
   than 35'C. Most preferably, greater than 40'C.
   The method of determining cloud point is as described herein using a 1 wt.% aqueous dilute
20 solution of adjuvant.
   The contact angle of an agrochemical formulation represents a profile measurement of a drop
   of the formulation when in contact with a solid surface. When a surfactant is added to water
   the surface tension of the solution is reduced and the droplet is therefore able to spread out
   over a greater leaf area.      This flatter droplet has a lower contact angle.     It is typically
25 understood that a water droplet has a contact angle of >100' on parafilm, whilst a solution
   including a desired adjuvant will have a contact angle of 800 or less.
   The contact angle of the adjuvant per se of the present invention is preferably less than 70'.
   More preferably, less than 68'. Most preferably, less than 66'. The method of determining
   contact angle is as described herein using a 0.2 wt.% aqueous dilute solution of adjuvant.
30 A reduction of surface tension is desired as it would indicate an improved spreading of each
   droplet on the target surface which would lead to better uptake. The adjuvants of the present
   invention are found to provide desired surface tension.

                                                    ~14 ~
   The equilibrium surface tension (EST) of the adjuvant of the present invention is preferably
   less than 40 mN/n. More preferably, less than 38 mN/n. Further preferably, less than 35
   mN/n. Most preferably, less than 33 mN/n.
   The method of determining equilibrium surface tension is as described herein using a 0.1
 5 wt.% aqueous dilute solution of adjuvant.
   The lower surface tension values confirm desirable performance as non-ionic surfactant
   adjuvants. Lower dynamic surface tension (DST) for a material of the same molecular size
   or greater (as is the case of the materials of the present invention) provide improved properties
   related to increased droplet retention on leaf surfaces, and in combination with a lower contact
10 angle, will provide improved spreading.          The end result of this is increased leaf surface
   coverage.
   The dynamic surface tension of the adjuvant of the present invention at 0.2 wt.% and at 5 ms
   is preferably less than 75 mN/n. More preferably, less than 70 mN/n. Most preferably, less
   than 65 mN/n.
15 The dynamic surface tension of the adjuvant of the present invention at 0.2 wt.% and at 80
   ms is preferably less than 73 mN/n. More preferably, less than 67 mN/n. Most preferably,
   less than 64 mN/n.
   The dynamic surface tension of the adjuvant of the present invention at 0.2 wt.% and at 1,250
   ms is preferably less than 60 mN/n. More preferably, less than 55 mN/n. Most preferably,
20 less than 50 mN/n.
   The method of determining dynamic surface tension is as described herein using 0.2 wt.%
   diluted adjuvant in water.
   Together, the series of observed physical property improvements in EST, contact angle, and
   DST, are generally considered important for improving the performance of contact
25 insecticides and fungicides.
   The adjuvants of the present invention are polymeric and generally of larger size whereas the
   more common approach for reducing DST is to make the surfactant molecule smaller and
   more mobile at a rapidly expanding interface as well as either shrinking or branching the
   hydrophobe.      The observed performance differentiates them from other surface active
30 compounds used to reduce the DST of agricultural spray mixtures.
   Adjuvants of the present invention yield the described dynamic effect. In addition, by
   maintaining     molecular    weight    above    1000   Daltons may provide      other  significant
   toxicological and eco-toxicological benefits.

                                                 ~ 15~
   The interfacial surface tension of the adjuvant of the present invention is preferably in the
   range from 1.0 mN/n to 8.0 mN/n. More preferably, in the range from 1.5 mN/n to 7.0 mN/n.
   Further preferably, in the range from 1.8 mN/n to 6.4 mN/n. Most preferably, in the range
   from 2.0 mN/n to 6.2 mN/n.
 5 The method of determining interfacial surface tension is as described herein using a 0.2 wt.%
   aqueous dilute solution of adjuvant.
   The viscosity of the adjuvant, at 5oC and at shear rate of 100s-, may be in the range from
   about 1000 mPa-s to about 1500 mPa-s. Preferably, the viscosity is in the range from about
    1020 mPa- s to about 1400 mPa- s. Most preferably, the viscosity is in the range from about
10  1050 mPa-s to about 1350 mPa-s.
   The viscosity value of the adjuvant, at 25'C and at shear rate of 100s- , may be in the range
   from about 200 mPa-s to about 500 mPa-s. Preferably, the viscosity is in the range from about
   220 mPa-s to about 400 mPa- s. Most preferably, the viscosity is in the range from about 250
   mPa-s to about 350 mPa-s.
15 The viscosity value of the adjuvant, at 40'C and at shear rate of 100s- , may be in the range
   from about 100 mPa- s to about 200 mPa-s. Preferably, the viscosity is in the range from about
    105 mPa- s to about 150 mPa-s. More preferably, the viscosity is in the range from about 110
   mPa-s to about 145 mPa-s.
   The method of determining viscosity is as described herein using neat adjuvant.
20 The ratio of the viscosity value at 5oC to the value at 40'C represents the variation in the
   viscosity across the temperature range. The ratio of the viscosity value at 5'C to the value at
   40'C, may be in the range from 7 to 14:1. Preferably, in the range from 8 to 13:1. Most
   preferably, in the range from 9 to 11:1.
   It has been found that the use of an adjuvant of the present invention advantageously provides
25 reduced viscosity across a range of temperatures for the liquid product, along with easing
   dilution which is measured as a dissolution rate in cold water.
   The adjuvants of the present invention therefore have low viscosity and provide for ready
   dilution in colder waters without the need for inclusion of either alcohols or glycols. The
   adjuvant may advantageously provide for a composition having low viscosity in an aqueous
30 medium, and no observable gelling at higher concentrations.         The adjuvant desirably has
   suitable storage stability and viscosity appropriate to the end use.

                                                ~16~
   The adjuvants of the present invention are found to dilute more readily in agricultural
   concentrate. This improved dilution of the adjuvants of the present invention is particularly
   desired in colder water.
   The cold water dilution time of the adjuvant of the present invention is preferably less than
 5 80 seconds. More preferably, less than 60 seconds. Most preferably, less than 50 seconds.
   The method of determining cold water dilution time is as described herein using a 1 wt.%
   aqueous dilute solution of adjuvant.
   The adjuvants of the present invention also provide for good and/or reduced foam stability.
   Advantageously this foam stability may provide for reduction in the need for foam control
10 agents in the formulation.
   The initial foam height of the adjuvant of the present invention is preferably less than 50 mm.
   More preferably, less than 40 mm. Most preferably, less than 25 mm.
   The foam height at 30 minutes of the adjuvant of the present invention is preferably less than
   30 mm. More preferably, less than 20 mm. Most preferably, less than 12 mm.
15 The foam height at 60 minutes of the adjuvant of the present invention is preferably less than
   20 mm. More preferably, less than 12 mm. Most preferably, less than 9 mm.
   The method of determining foam height is as described herein using a 1 wt.% aqueous dilute
   solution of adjuvant.
   The hydrophilic-lipophilic balance (HLB) scale ranges from 0 to 20, with 0 for a completely
20 lipophilic molecule and 20 for a completely hydrophilic molecule. The function of surfactants
   can be generally described by then HLB number, for example, de-foaming surfactants have
   an HLB range of 1-3, water-in-oil emulsifiers have an HLB range of 3-6, wetting agents have
   an HLB range of 7-9, oil-in-water emulsifiers have an HLB range of 8-18, detergents have an
   HLB range of 13-15, and solubilisers have an HLB range of 15-18.
25 Surfactants with low HLB are not considered soluble in water. They are considered
   dispersible in water, and may form a dispersed phase spontaneously without agitation.
   The adjuvants of the present invention preferably have a HLB value, as calculated by Griffin's
   method, of less than 17, more preferably less than 15, and most preferably less than 13. The
   adjuvants of the present invention suitably have a HLB value in the range from 5 to 15,
30 preferably 8 to 14, more preferably 10 to 13.
   The properties of the adjuvant per se will be understood to provide the same advantageous
   advantages for an agrochenical formulation comprising said adjuvant.              Therefore, an

                                                ~17
   agrochemical formulation is provided, when comprising the adjuvant of the present invention,
   having the advantages of the properties of the adjuvant per se.
   Agrochemically active compounds, including insecticides            and fungicides, require a
   formulation which allows the active compounds to be taken up by the plant/the target
 5 organisms.
   The term 'agrochemical formulation' as used herein refers to compositions including an active
   agrochemical, and is intended to include all forms of compositions, including concentrates
   and spray formulations. If not specifically stated, the agrochemical formulation of the present
   invention may be in the form of a concentrate, a diluted concentrate, or a sprayable
10 formulation.
   The adjuvant of the present invention may be combined with other components in order to
   form an agrochemical formulation comprising at least one agrochemical active.
   Accordingly, agrochemical active compounds may be formulated as an emulsifiable
   concentrate (EC), emulsion concentrate (EW), suspension concentrate (SC), soluble liquid
15 (SL), as an oil-based suspension concentrate (OD), and/or suspoemulsions (SE).
   In an EC formulation and in an SL formulation, the active compound may be present in
   dissolved form, whereas in an OD, SC, EW, or SE formulations the active compound may be
   present as a solid or emulsified liquid.
   It is envisaged that the adjuvant of the present invention will particularly find use in a EC,
20 EW, SC, SL, OD, or SE formulation.
   Agrochemical concentrates are agrochemical compositions, which may be aqueous or non
   aqueous, and which are designed to be diluted with water (or a water based liquid) to form
   the corresponding spray formulations. Said compositions include those in liquid form (such
   as solutions, emulsions, or dispersions) and in solid form (especially in water dispersible solid
25 form) such as granules or powders.
   Spray formulations are aqueous agrochemical formulations including all the components
   which it is desired to apply to the plants or their environment. Spray formulations can be
   made up by simple dilution of concentrates containing desired components (other than water),
   or by mixing of the individual components, or a combination of diluting a concentrate and
30 adding further individual components or mixtures of components. Typically such end use
   mixing is carried out in the tank from which the formulation is sprayed, or alternatively in a
   holding tank for filling the spray tank. Such mixing and mixtures are typically termed tank
   mixing and tank mixtures.

                                                 ~ 18~
   The adjuvant may therefore be incorporated into the formulation of the agrochemical active
   compound (in-can/built-in formulation) or be added after dilution of the concentrated
   formulation of the spray liquor (tank-mix). To avoid dosage errors and to improve user safety
   during application of agrochemical products, it is advantageous to incorporate the adjuvant
 5 into the formulation. This also avoids the unnecessary use of additional packaging material
   for the tank-mix products.
   According to the needs of the customer, concentrates thus formed may comprise typically up
   to 95 wt.% agrochemical actives. Said concentrates may be diluted for use resulting in a
   dilute composition having an agrochemical active concentration of about 0.5 wt.% to about I
10 wt.%. In said dilute composition (for example, a spray formulation, where a spray application
   rate may be from 10 to 500 L.ha- 1) the agrochemical active concentration may be in the range
   from about 0.001 wt.% to about I wt.% of the total formulation as sprayed.
   The adjuvant of the present invention will typically be used in an amount proportional to the
   amount of the active agrochemical in the formulation.             In agrochemical formulation
15 concentrates, the proportion of the adjuvant will depend on the solubility of the components
   in the liquid carrier. Typically, the concentration of the adjuvant in such a concentrate will
   be from I wt.% to 99 wt.%. Preferably, from I wt.% to 70 wt.%. More preferably, from 3
   wt.% to 50 wt.%.
   Upon dilution to form, for example, a spray formulation, the adjuvant will typically be present
20 at a concentration of from 0.01 wt.% to 2 wt.%, more usually from 0.03 wt.% to 0.5 wt.% of
   the spray formulation.      Further preferably, from 0.12 wt.% to 0.4 wt.% of the spray
   formulation.
   The ratio of adjuvant to active agrochemical in the agrochemical formulation is preferably
   from about 0.1:1 to about 1:1. More preferably, from about 0.3:1 to about 0.8:1. This ratio
25 range will generally be maintained for concentrate forms of formulations (e.g., where the
   adjuvant is included in a dispersible liquid concentrate or dispersible solid granule
   formulation), and in the spray formulations.
   When concentrates (solid or liquid) are used as the source of active agrochemical and/or
   adjuvant, the concentrates will typically be diluted to form the spray formulations.        The
30 dilution may be from 1 to 10,000, particularly 10 to 1,000, times the total weight of the
   concentrate of water to form the spray formulation.
   Where the agrochemical active is present in the aqueous end use formulation as solid particles,
   most usually it will be present as particles mainly of active agrochemical. However, if desired,

                                                 ~19 ~
   the active agrochemical can be supported on a solid carrier, e.g., silica or diatomaceous earth,
   which can be solid support, filler or diluent material as mentioned above.
   The spray formulations will typically have a pH within the range from moderately acidic (e.g.,
   about 3) to moderately alkaline (e.g., about 10), and particular near neutral (e.g., about 5 to
 5 8). More concentrated formulations will have similar degrees of acidity/alkalinity, but as they
   may be largely non-aqueous, pH is not necessarily an appropriate measure of this.
   The agrochemical       formulation may include        solvents  (other than     water) such   as
   monopropylene glycol, oils which can be vegetable or mineral oils such as spray oils (oils
   included in spray formulations as non-surfactant adjuvants), associated with the first and co
10 adjuvants. Such solvents may be included as a solvent for the adjuvant, and/or as a humectant,
   e.g., especially propylene glycol. When used such solvents will typically be included in an
   amount of from 5 wt.% to 500 wt.%, desirably 10 wt.% to 100 wt.%, by weight of the
   adjuvant.    Such combinations can also include salts such as ammonium chloride and/or
   sodium benzoate, and/or urea especially as gel inhibition aids.
15 The agrochemical formulation may also include other components as desired. These other
   components may be selected from those including:
        -  binders, particularly binders which are readily water soluble to give low viscosity
           solutions at high binder concentrations, such as polyvinylpyrrolidone; polyvinyl
           alcohol; carboxymethyl cellulose; gum arabic; sugars, e.g., sucrose or sorbitol; starch;
20         ethylene-vinyl acetate copolymers, sucrose and alginates,
        -  diluents, absorbents or carriers such as carbon black; talc; diatomaceous earth; kaolin;
           aluminium, calcium or magnesium stearate; sodium tripolyphosphate; sodium
           tetraborate; sodium sulphate; sodium, aluminium and mixed sodium-aluminium
           silicates; and sodium benzoate,
25      -  disintegration agents, such as surfactants, materials that swell in water, for example
           carboxy methylcellulose,      collodion, polyvinylpyrrolidone      and microcrystalline
           cellulose swelling agents; salts such as sodium or potassium acetate, sodium
           carbonate, bicarbonate or sesquicarbonate, ammonium sulphate and dipotassium
           hydrogen phosphate;
30      -  wetting agents such as alcohol ethoxylate and alcohol ethoxylate/propoxylate wetting
           agents;

                                                ~20~
       -   dispersants such as sulphonated naphthalene formaldehyde condensates and acrylic
           copolymers such as the comb copolymer having capped polyethylene glycol side
           chains on a polyacrylic backbone;
       -   emulsifiers such as alcohol ethoxylates, ABA block co polymers, or castor oil
 5         ethoxylates;
       -   antifoam agents, e.g., polysiloxane antifoam agents, typically in amounts of 0.005
           wt.% to 10 wt.% of the formulation;
       -   viscosity modifiers such as commercially available water soluble or miscible gums,
           e.g., xanthan gums, and/or cellulosics, e.g., carboxy- methyl, ethyl or propylcellulose;
10         and/or
       -   preservatives and/or anti-microbials such as organic acids, or their esters or salts such
           as ascorbic, e.g., ascorbyl palmitate, sorbic, e.g., potassium sorbate, benzoic, e.g.,
           benzoic acid and methyl and propyl 4-hydroxybenzoate, propionic, e.g., sodium
           propionate, phenol, e.g., sodium 2-phenylphenate; 1, 2-benzisothiazolin-3 -one; or
15         formaldehyde as such or as paraformaldehyde; or inorganic materials such as
           sulphurous acid and its salts, typically in amounts of 0.01 wt.% to 1 wt.% of the
           formulation.
   The agrochemical formulation according to the present invention may also contain
   components, such as surfactant materials which form part of the emulsifier system. Said
20 surfactants may include surfactant dispersants.
   Other adjuvants not within the scope of the present invention, such as surfactant adjuvants,
   may be included in the compositions and formulations of and used in this invention.
   Examples include alkylpolysaccharides (more properly called alkyl oligosaccharides); fatty
   amine ethoxylates, e.g., coconut alkyl amine 2EO; and derivatives of alk(en)yl succinic
25 anhydride, in particular those described in PCT applications WO 94/00508 and WO 96/16930.
   Suitable agrochemical actives for use in the formulations according to the invention are all
   agrochemically active compounds that may be solid or liquid at room temperature.             It is
   envisaged that the adjuvant of the present invention would have broad applicability to all
   types of agrochemical actives.
30 Agrochemical actives refer to biocides which, in the context of the present invention, are plant
   protection agents, more particular chemical substances capable of killing different forms of
   living organisms used in fields such as medicine, agriculture, forestry, and mosquito control.
   Also counted under the group of biocides are so-called plant growth regulators.

                                                  ~21
   Biocides for use in agrochemical formulations of the present invention are typically divided
   into two sub- groups:
        -  pesticides, including fungicides, herbicides, insecticides, algicides, moluscicides,
            miticides and rodenticides, and
 5      -   antimicrobials,    including    germicides,     antibiotics,  antibacterials,    antivirals,
            antifungals, antiprotozoals and antiparasites.
   In particular, biocides selected from insecticides, fungicides, or herbicides may be particularly
   preferred.
   The term 'pesticide' will be understood to refer to any substance or mixture of substances
10 intended for preventing, destroying, repelling, or mitigating any pest. A pesticide may be a
   chemical substance or biological agent (such as a virus or bacteria) used against pests
   including insects, plant pathogens, weeds, mollusks, birds, mammals, fish, nematodes
   (roundworms) and microbes that compete with humans for food, destroy property, spread
   disease or are a nuisance. In the following examples, pesticides suitable for the agrochemical
15 compositions according to the present invention are given.
   A fungicide is a chemical control of fungi. Fungicides are chemical compounds used to
   prevent the spread of fungi in gardens and crops. Fungicides are also used to fight fungal
   infections. Fungicides can either be contact or systemic. A contact fungicide kills fungi when
   it comes into contact with the fungicide retained on leaf surfaces. A systemic fungicide is
20 absorbed into plant tissues and kills the fungus when it attempts to invade the host.
   Examples for suitable fungicides, according to the present invention, encompass the following
   species:     (3-ethoxypropyl)mercury       bromide,     2-methoxyethylmercury        chloride,     2
   phenylphenol, 8-hydroxyquinoline sulphate, 8-phenylmercuri oxyquinoline, acibenzolar.
   acylamino acid fungicides, acypetacs, aldimorph, aliphatic nitrogen fungicides, allyl alcohol,
25 amide fungicides, ampropylfos, anilazine, anilide fungicides., antibiotic fungicides, aromatic
   fungicides,    aureofungin,    azaconazole,   azithiram,    azoxystrobin,  barium     polysulphide,
   benalaxyl-M, benodanil, benomyl, benquinox, bentaluron, benthiavalicarb, benzalkonium
   chloride,    benzamacril,     benzamide     fungicides,    benzamorf,    benzanilide    fungicides,
   benzimidazole fungicides, benzimidazole precursor fungicides, benzimidazolylcarbamate
30 fungicides, benzohydroxamic         acid, benzothiazole fungicides, bethoxazin, binapacryl,
   biphenyl, bitertanol, bithionol, blasticidin-S, Bordeaux mixture, boscalid, bridged diphenyl
   fungicides, bromuconazole, bupirimate, Burgundy mixture, buthiobate, butylamine, calcium
   polysulphide, captafol, captan, carbamnate fungicides, carbamorph, carbanilate fungicides,

                                                 ~22
   carbendazim,     carboxin,   carpropamid,     carvone,    Cheshunt     mixture,   chinomethionat,
   chlobenthiazone,    chloraniformethan, chloranil, chlorfenazole, chlorodinitronaphthalene,
   chloroneb, chloropicrin, chlorothalonil, chlorquinox, chlozolinate, ciclopirox, climbazole,
   clotrimazole, conazole fungicides, conazole fungicides (imidazoles), conazole fungicides
 5 (triazoles), copper(II) acetate, copper(II) carbonate, basic, copper fungicides, copper
   hydroxide, copper naphthenate, copper oleate, copper oxychloride, copper(II) sulphate,
   copper sulphate, basic, copper zinc chromate, cresol, cufraneb, cuprobam, cuprous oxide,
   cyazofamid, cyclafuramid, cyclic dithiocarbamate fungicides, cycloheximide, cyflufenamid,
   cymoxanil, cypendazole, cyproconazole, cyprodinil, dazomet, DBCP, debacarb, decafentin,
10 dehydroacetic acid, dicarboximide        fungicides,    dichlofluanid,   dichlone,    dichlorophen,
   dichlorophenyl,     dicarboximide     fungicides,    dichlozoline,    diclobutrazol,    diclocymet,
   diclomezine, dicloran, diethofencarb, diethyl pyrocarbonate, difenoconazole, diflumetorim,
   dimethirimol,    dimethomorph,     dimoxystrobin,      diniconazole,   dinitrophenol     fungicides,
   dinobuton, dinocap,      dinocton,   dinopenton,     dinosulphon,    dinoterbon,   diphenylamine,
15 dipyrithione, disulphiram,     ditalimfos,   dithianon, dithiocarbamate       fungicides,    DNOC,
   dodemorph,     dodicin,    dodine,   donatodine,     drazoxolon,    edifenphos,     epoxiconazole,
   etaconazole,etem, ethaboxam, ethirimol, ethoxyquin, ethylmercury 2,3-dihydroxypropyl
   mercaptide.,   ethylmercury     acetate,   ethylmercury      bromide,     ethylmercury      chloride,
   ethylmercury phosphate, etridiazole, famoxadone, fenamidone, fenaminosulph, fenapanil,
20 fenarimol, fenbuconazole,      fenfuram,    fenhexamid,     fenitropan,    fenoxanil,   fenpiclonil,
   fenpropidin, fenpropimorph, fentin, ferbam, ferimzone, fluazinam, fludioxonil, flumetover,
   fluopicolide,   fluoroimide,   fluotrimazole,     fluoxastrobin,   fluquinconazole,      flusilazole,
   flusulphamide, flutolanil, flutriafol, folpet, formaldehyde, fosetyl, fuberidazole, furalaxyl,
   furametpyr, furamide fungicides, furanilide fungicides, furcarbanil, furconazole, furconazole
25 cis, furfural., furmecyclox, furophanate, glyodin, griseofulvin,           guazatine, halacrinate,
   hexachlorobenzene,     hexachlorobutadiene, hexachlorophene, hexaconazole, hexylthiofos,
   hydrargaphen, hymexazol, imazalil, imibenconazole, imidazole fungicides, iminoctadine,
   inorganic fungicides, inorganic mercury fungicides, iodomethane, ipconazole, iprobenfos,
   iprodione, iprovalicarb, isoprothiolane, isovaledione, kasugamycin, kresoxim-methyl, lime
30 sulphur, mancopper, mancozeb, maneb, mebenil, mecarbinzid, mepanipyrim, mepronil,
   mercuric chloride, mercuric oxide, mercurous chloride, mercury fungicides, metalaxyl,
   metalaxyl-M, metam, metazoxolon, metconazole, methasulphocarb, methfuroxam, methyl
   bromide, methyl isothiocyanate, methylmercury benzoate, methylmercury dicyandiamide,

                                                   -23
   methylmercury        pentachlorophenoxide,         metiram,     metominostrobin,         metrafenone,
   metsulphovax, milneb, morpholine fungicides, myclobutanil, myclozolin, N-(ethylmercury)
   p-toluenesulphonanilide, nabam, natamycin, nitrostyrene, nitrothal-isopropyl, nuarimol,
   OCH, octhilinone, ofurace, organomercury              fungicides, organophosphorus         fungicides,
 5 organotin fungicides, orysastrobin, oxadixyl, oxathiin fungicides, oxazole fungicides, oxine
   copper,      oxpoconazole,        oxycarboxin,      pefurazoate,      penconazole,        pencycuron,
   pentachlorophenol, penthiopyrad, phenylmercuriurea. phenylmercury acetate, phenylmercury
   chloride, phenylmercury derivative of pyrocatechol, phenylmercury nitrate, phenylmercury
   salicylate, phenylsulphamide fungicides, phosdiphen, phthalide, phthalimide fungicides,
10 picoxystrobin, piperalin, polycarbamate, polymeric dithiocarbamate fungicides, polyoxins,
   polyoxorim, polysulphide fungicides, potassium azide, potassium polysulphide, potassium
   thiocyanate, probenazole, prochloraz, procymidone, propamocarb, propiconazole, propineb,
   proquinazid, prothiocarb, prothioconazole, pyracarbolid, pyraclostrobin, pyrazole fungicides,
   pyrazophos, pyridine fungicides, pyridinitril, pyrifenox, pyrimethanil, pyrimidine fungicides,
15 pyroquilon,     pyroxychlor,     pyroxyfiir,    pyrrole    fungicides,    quinacetol,     quinazamid,
   quinconazole, quinoline fungicides, quinone fungicides, quinoxaline fungicides, quinoxyfen,
   quintozene, rabenzazole, salicylanilide, silthiofam, simeconazole, sodium azide, sodium
   orthophenylphenoxide, sodium pentachlorophenoxide, sodium polysulphide, spiroxamine,
   streptomycin, strobilurin fungicides, sulphonanilide fungicides, sulphur, sultropen, TCMTB,
20 tebuconazole, tecloftalam, tecnazene, tecoram, tetraconazole, thiabendazole, thiadifluor,
   thiazole fungicides, thicyofen, thifluzamide, thiocarbamate fungicides, thiochlorfenphim,
   thiomersal, thiophanate, thiophanate-methyl, thiophene fungicides, thioquinox, thiram,
   tiadinil, tioxymid, tivedo, tolclofos-methyl, tolnaftate, tolylfluanid, tolylmercury acetate,
   triadimefon, triadimenol, triamiphos, triarimol, triazbutil, triazine fungicides, triazole
25 fungicides,    triazoxide,    tributyltin   oxide,   trichlamide,    tricyclazole,    trifloxystrobin,
   triflumizole, triforine, triticonazole, unclassified fungicides, undecylenic acid, uniconazole,
   urea   fungicides,    validamycin,      valinamide    fungicides,   vinclozolin,   zarilamid,     zinc
   naphthenate, zineb, ziram, zoxamide, and mixtures thereof.
   An herbicide is a pesticide used to kill unwanted plants. Selective herbicides kill specific
30 targets while leaving the desired crop relatively unharmed. Some of these act by interfering
   with the growth of the weed and are often based on plant hormones. Herbicides used to clear
   waste ground are non-selective and kill all plant material with which they come into contact.
   Herbicides are widely used in agriculture and in landscape turf management. They are applied

                                                  ~24~
   in total vegetation control (TVC) programs for maintenance of highways and railroads.
   Smaller quantities are used in forestry, pasture systems, and management of areas set aside as
   wildlife habitat.
   Suitable herbicides may be selected from the group comprising: aryloxycarboxylic acid, e.g.,
 5 MCPA, aryloxyphenoxypropionates,          e.g., clodinafop, cyclohexanedione       oximes, e.g.,
   sethoxydim, hydroxybenzonitriles, e.g., bromoxynil, sulphonylureas, e.g., nicosulphuron,
   triazolopyrimidines, e.g., penoxsulam, triketiones, e.g., mesotriones, triazine herbicides such
   as metribuzin, hexaxinone, or atrazine; sulphonylurea herbicides such as chlorsulfuron;
   uracils such as lenacil, bromacil, or terbacil; urea herbicides such as linuron, diuron, siduron,
10 or neburon; acetanilide herbicides such as alachlor, or metolachlor; thiocarbamate herbicides
   such as benthiocarb, triallate; oxadiazolone herbicides such as oxadiazon; isoxazolidone
   herbicides, phenoxyacetic acids; diphenyl ether herbicides such as fluazifop, acifluorfen,
   bifenox, or oxyfluorfen; dinitro aniline herbicides such as trifluralin; organophosphonate
   herbicides such as glufosinate salts and esters and glyphosate salts and esters; and/or
15 dihalobenzonitrile herbicides such as bromoxynil, or ioxynil, benzoic acid herbicides,
   dipyridilium herbicides such as paraquat; and other herbicides such as clomazone,
   carfentrazone, saflufenacil, and pyroxasulphone.
   Particularly preferred herbicides may be selected from 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4
   D), atrazine, dicamba as benzoic acid, glyphosate, glufosinate, imazapic as imidazolinone,
20 metolachlor as chloroacetamide, picloram, clopyralid, and triclopyr as pyridinecarboxylic
   acids or synthetic auxins, their respective water soluble salts and esters, and mixtures thereof.
   An insecticide is a pesticide used against insects in all developmental forms, and include
   ovicides and larvicides used against the eggs and larvae of insects. Insecticides are used in
   agriculture, medicine, industry and the household.
25 Suitable insecticides may include those selected from: chlorinated insecticides such as, for
   example, Camphechlor, DDT, Hexachloro- cyclohexane, gamma-Hexachlorocyclohexane,
   Methoxychlor,     Pentachlorophenol,     TDE,    Aldrin,   Chlordane,   Chlordecone,    Dieldrin,
   Endosulphan, Endrin, Heptachlor, Mirex and their mixtures; organophosphorous compounds
   such as, for example, Acephate, Azinphos-methyl, Bensulide, Chlorethoxyfos, Chlorpyrifos,
30 Chlorpyriphos-methyl,       Diazinon,    Dichlorvos     (DDVP),     Dicrotophos,     Dimethoate,
   Disulphoton, Ethoprop, Fenamiphos, Fenitrothion,            Fenthion, Fosthiazate, Malathion,
   Methamidophos,       Methidathion,     Methyl-parathion,     Mevinphos,     Naled,   Omethoate,
   Oxydemeton-methyl, Parathion, Phorate, Phosalone, Phosmet, Phostebupirim, Pirimiphos-

                                                 ~25
   methyl, Profenofos, Terbufos, Tetrachlorvinphos, Tribufos, Trichlorfon and their mixture;
   carbamates     such as, for example, Aldicarb, Carbofuran, Carbaryl, Methomyl, 2-(1
   Methylpropyl)phenyl methylcarbamate and their mixtures; pyrethroids such as, for example,
   Allethrin, Bifenthrin, Deltamethrin, Permethrin, Resmethrin, Sumithrin, Tetramethrin,
 5 Tralomethrin, Transfluthrin and their mixtures; plant toxin derived compounds such as, for
   example, Derris (rotenone), Pyrethrum, Neem (Azadirachtin), Nicotine, Caffeine and their
   mixture; neonicotinoids such as imidacloprid; abamectin e.g., emamactin; oxadiazines such
   as indoxacarb; and/or anthranilic diamides such as rynaxypyr.
   Miticides are pesticides that kill mites.         Antibiotic miticides, carbamate    miticides,
10 formamidine       miticides,  mite  growth    regulators,   organochlorine,   permethrin    and
   organophosphate miticides all belong to this category. Molluscicides are pesticides used to
   control mollusks, such as moths, slugs and snails. These substances include metaldehyde,
   methiocarb and aluminium sulphate. A nematicide is a type of chemical pesticide used to kill
   parasitic nematodes (a phylum of worm).
15 Most preferably, the active present in the agrochemical formulation of the present invention
   is selected from 2,4-D, glyphosate, dicamba, or dipyridilium herbicides
   The invention further includes a method of treating plants using formulations including at
   least one agrochemical and the adjuvant of the first aspect. The agrochemical may be one or
   more phytoactives, for example growth regulators and/or herbicides, and/or pesticides, for
20 example insecticides, fungicides or acaricides.
   Accordingly the invention further includes methods of use including:
       -   a method of killing or inhibiting vegetation by applying to the vegetation, or the
           immediate environment of the vegetation, e.g., the soil around the vegetation, a spray
           formulation including at least one dispersed phase agrochemical and the adjuvant of
25         the first aspect; and/or
       -   a method of killing or inhibiting pests of plants by applying to the plants or the
           immediate environment of the plants, e.g., the soil around the plants, a spray
           formulations including at least one dispersed phase agrochemical which is one or more
           pesticides, for example insecticides, fungicides or acaricides, and the adjuvant of the
30         first aspect.
   The adjuvant of the present invention will provide adjuvancy to the agrochemical formulation
   in which it is comprised.

                                                  ~26~
   As used herein, the term 'adjuvant' or 'adjuvancy' refers to compounds which when added to
   an agrochemical formulation will improve the agrochemical's desired effect. The adjuvant
   may affect the diluent, the mixture, the active, or the target by its improvements of the active's
   performance. An adjuvant can be used to adhere the pesticide on the area where the pesticide
 5 is functional, change the epidermal layer of the leaf surface permitting pesticide entry; and/or
   attract the target pest to the pesticide as when used as a food for the pest in baits.
   Specific adjuvancy effects may include surfactants, emulsifiers (dispersants and suspending
   agents), oils, emulsifiable oils, compatibility agents, buffering and conditioning agents,
   defoaming agents, deposition agents, drift control agents, thickeners, spreaders (wetters),
10 stickers (builders and extenders), plant penetrants, translocators, soil penetrants, and/or
   stabilising agents (UV filters).
   Preferably, the adjuvant of the present invention may find use as either the sole component or
   principal functioning agent in non-ionic surfactant adjuvants formulated either for tank-added
   use, or formulated directly into pesticide concentrates.
15 The materials of the present invention dilute more readily in agricultural concentrates and
   develop lower fluid viscosities in aqueous systems, either in the concentrate or upon dilution
   into water prior to spraying.        This behaviour provides improved ease of use in both
   manufacturing and upon dilution of products containing them, especially in colder waters.
   Reduction of foam stability is also observed which reduces the need for foam control agents.
20 The adjuvant of the present invention may be added to agrochemical formulations without
   undesirable thickening or destabilisation.
   In addition to exhibiting the desired physical properties, surprisingly the adjuvant
   performance in spray mixture with glyphosate and ammonium sulphate for many of these
   substances was statistically equivalent to or better than the performance of existing adjuvants
25 such as polysorbate 20 (Tween 20) or polysorbate 80 (Tween 80).
   The adjuvants of the present invention may provide for desired stability of the resulting
   agrochemical formulations.       The formulations do not undergo separation under storage.
   Additionally, the agrochemical formulations return to being homogeneous liquids at room
   temperature after being frozen.
30 All of the features described herein may be combined with any of the above aspects, in any
   combination.
   In order that the present invention may be more readily understood, reference will now be
   made, by way of example, to the following description.

                                                 ~27~
   It will be understood that all tests and physical properties listed have been determined at
   atmospheric pressure and room temperature (i.e., 25'C), unless otherwise stated herein, or
   unless otherwise stated in the referenced test methods and procedures.
   The following test methods        were used to determine performance of the adjuvant
 5 compositions.
        -  Cloud Point
   At 1 wt.% of the adjuvant in deionised water when heated at a definite temperature., the
   adjuvant may start to precipitate out of solution. The temperature at which this happens is the
   cloud point. The cloud point is therefore determined at an aqueous dilution of 1 wt.%
10 adjuvant.
   To determine the cloud point lOg of the adjuvant was added to 90g of deionised water, and
   stirred vigorously until the adjuvant was completely mixed and dissolved. This 10 wt.%
   dilution was then further diluted by a factor of 10 by removing 10g and addition to 90g of
   deionised water to give a 1 wt.% aqueous dilution of the adjuvant.
15 Approximately 20 ml of the final diluted solution was separated off in to a disposable culture
   tube. A hot water bath was prepared with the water in the bath maintained at a temperature
   at approximately 100 C above the expected cloud point. The culture tube was placed into the
   hot water bath under stirring and with a thermometer. The dilute solution, which is clear at
   room temperature, gradually becomes hazy and then suddenly becomes cloudy.                 The
20 temperature at which the solution becomes cloudy is the cloud point. The measurement of
   the cloud point was repeated until two identical temperatures were obtained.
        -  Contact Angle
   Aqueous solutions of each sample material were prepared at a concentration of 0.2%
   (w/w). Burdick & Jackson HPLC grade water was used. The samples were shaken by hand
25 and allowed to equilibrate for 24 hours.
   Measurements of the contact angle of each solution on Parafilm were made using a Rame
   Hart, Inc. NRL C.A. goniometer, model number 100-00- 115. A thin strip of Parafilm was
   affixed to a microscope slide using double stick tape; the protective barrier on the Parafilm
   was removed after applying the Parafilm to the tape. Droplets 5 microliters in volume were
30 applied to the Parafilm using a micropipette. The contact angle of each droplet was measured
   immediately upon application by visually aligning the cross-hairs of the goniometer along the

                                                  ~28~
   tangent of the droplet/substrate/air interface. Contact angles on each side of ten droplets were
   measured. These values were averaged to determine the value reported.
       -   Equilibrium Surface Tension
   Surface tension measurements were made using a Kruss model KIOST tensiometer with a
 5 Wilhelmy plate. The temperature of the sample chamber was controlled at 25.0'C  0.10 C
   using a VWR model 1156D refrigerated/heated circulating water bath.
   The performance of the instrument was verified by measuring the surface tension of HPLC
   grade water prior to making measurements on sample solutions. Approximately 2/3 of clean
   measurement unit was filled with HLPC grade water to establish baseline surface tension for
10 water alone without surfactant (72.8 mN/n).
   Aqueous solutions of each sample material were prepared at concentrations of 0.1 wt.% and
   0.2 wt.%. Burdick & Jackson HPLC grade water was used. The samples were subject to
   manual agitation, and allowed to equilibrate for at least 24 hours.
   Approximately 20 ml of sample solution was gently poured into a sample dish and placed in
15 the instrument sample holder. The evolution of surface tension was monitored for fifteen
   minutes, by which time it was determined that equilibrium had been effectively attained. The
   value of surface tension at this time was recorded. Measurements on at least two aliquots
   were made and the average value was reported.
       -   Dynamic Surface Tension
20 DST was determined using standard ASTM D3825-09 "Standard Test Method for Dynamic
   Surface Tension by the Fast-Bubble Technique" with 0.2 wt.% aqueous dilution of adjuvant
   at ambient temperature.
       -   Interfacial Tension
   Interfacial tension measurements were made using a Kruss model KIOST tensiometer with a
25 Du Nouy ring. The temperature of the sample chamber was controlled at 25.00 C  0.1 OC
   using a VWR model 1156D refrigerated/heated circulating water bath.
   Aqueous solutions of each sample material were prepared at concentration of 0.2 wt.%.
   Burdick & Jackson HPLC grade water was used.             The samples were subject to manual
   agitation, and allowed to equilibrate for at least 24 hours.
30 The tension of the interface between each of the aqueous solutions and methyl soyate was
   measured. The instrument was first zeroed with the Du Nouy ring attached and submerged
   below approximately 15 ml of methyl soyate to correct for the buoyancy of the ring in this
   oil. The ring was then cleaned by rinsing with isopropyl alcohol and water, followed by

                                                 ~29~
   heating in a flame until glowing red; this same procedure for cleaning the ring was followed
   before each subsequent measurement.
   The aqueous sample solution was then gently poured into a clean sample dish to a depth of
   about half full (approximately 20 ml) and placed in the instrument sample holder. The cleaned
 5 ring was submerged below the air/water surface and approximately 15 ml of methyl soyate
   was gently layered on top using a pipette. A measurement of the interfacial tension was made
   as the ring was pulled through the oil/water interface at a vessel speed setting of 5.
   When using the Du Nouy ring, the displayed interfacial tension value was corrected to account
   for the weight of the liquid suspended beneath the ring.            This was accomplished by
10 multiplying the instrument reading by the product of a constant multiplied by a correction
   factor (as described in Chapter 1 of the Enclosure to the Kruss KIOT User's Manual). The
   correction factor depends on the ring dimensions, the difference in the densities of the oil and
   water phases, and the recorded interfacial tension value. The expression for the correction
   factor is:
15                       F = 0.725 +      0.4036 -         (D -  d) +0.0128
   In this expression, D is the density of the aqueous phase (1 g/cm 3 in this case), d is the
   density of the oil phase (0.8815 g/cm 3 in this case), and G* is the interfacial tension (mN/m)
   value displayed on the instrument. The corrected interfacial tension, reported herein, is the
   value displayed on the instrument multiplied by 1.07 times the correction factor calculated
20 using the expression above.
       -    Viscosity
   The viscosity describes fluids compressibility. Viscosity was measured directly on neat liquid
   adjuvant at a series of temperatures by placing it into the viscometer and taking viscosity
   measurements according to the device manufacturer's guidance.
25 Viscosities are determined with a spinning spindle. Viscosity of neat samples was measured
   on TA ARG2 Rheometer by TA Instruments.             A concentric cylinder geometry was used.
   Measurements were made at three sample temperatures of 5'C, 25'C, and 40'C, with the
   temperature being controlled using a Peltier device using a 2' 35mm titanium cone against a
   plate with a 104 nm gap. Samples were allowed to equilibrate at the relevant temperature for
30 210 seconds before measurements were taken. A viscosity curve was then recorded, with the
   instrument operating in a rate-controlled flow mode.

                                                ~30 ~
   A steady-state flow procedure was followed. After a target shear rate was achieved, the
   required stress was monitored; when two consecutive 10 second readings were within 10% of
   each other equilibrium was judged to have been reached and the corresponding viscosity value
   was recorded. The viscosity values stated herein are at a shear rate of 100 s-.
 5     -   Foam Volume
   The foam volume was determined by firstly making 342ppm hard water from stock solution.
   A 100ml graduated cylinder is then filled with hard water and tested at both 1 wt.% and 2.5
   wt.% (i.e., 99 g of 342ppm hard water with 1 g of neat test material to form the 1% solutions
   and 97.5g of 342ppm hard water with 2.5g of neat test material to form the 2.5% solutions).
10 The filled cylinder was inverted 30 times during a 30 second period, with inversions being
   smooth in order to minimise air entrainment. The resulting foam height (initial foam height)
   was measured in mm with a graduated ruler. The cylinder was then left to stand undisturbed
   for 30 minutes and foam height measurements were taken. The cylinder was left to stand for
   further time periods of 1 hour, 4 hours, and 24 hours, and foam height measurements taken if
15 foam was still present.
       -   Cold Water Dilution
   The cold water dilution time was determined by firstly setting up the beakers/stirrers as
   required for sample set to be evaluated. Chilled distilled water with ice was added to a one
   gallon glass jar.
20 A repeating pipettor (Eppendorf Repeater Plus with Eppendorf 10 mL syringe) was set to 2.5
   (equivalent to 0.5 mL). The pipette was loaded with the sample to be tested, and an initial
   amount was ejected from the tip of the syringe to remove any air bubbles. A test ejection of
   the pipette at 2.5 was prepared by adjusting the pipette accordingly so approximately 0.5g is
   dispensed.
25 The ice in the water was removed by straining using a Buchner funnel leaving the water at
   around 4-7'C. 99.5g of the water was measured out in to a 150 mL beaker. A stirring bar
   was added, and the cold water containing beaker was placed on the VWR Dyla-Dual Hotplate
   Spinner with the magnetic stirrer to approximately 3.25. The temperature of the agitated
   water was recorded with a Fisher Scientific Accument Basic AB15 pH meter.
30 The sample from the pipette was aimed at the outside of the vortex in the water, and the
   adjuvant sample ejected over a time period of less than 10 seconds. The stopwatch for timing
   the dilution was begun as the slider of the pipette reached the bottom of its motion. The
   dissolution of the adjuvant in the water was observed, and the time to complete dissolution

                                                   ~31 ~
   was recorded. If the adjuvant was not dissolved by 3 minutes the time was recorded as > 180
   seconds. Other observations such as gelling, sticking to walls, or sticking to the vortex were
   recorded. The temperature of the complete dilution was recorded.
       -    HLB
 5 Adjuvant surfactants are amphiphilic molecules that concentrate at the interface between two
   phases and modify the properties of that interface. The hydrophilic-lipophilic balance (HLB)
   of a surfactant is measured on an empirical scale developed by Griffin (W.C. Griffin, J.
   Cosmet. Chem., 1, 311, 1949).
   Example Synthesis of Adjuvant
10 The adjuvants of the examples were prepared from sorbitol in process where water is initially
   removed from sorbitol to form a sorbitan (a cyclic sorbitol anhydride), the sorbitan is then
   partially esterified with a fatty acid, and the desired amount of EO/PO is chemically added in
   the presence of a catalyst to yield the polysorbate.
   The following three synthesis methods are for making adjuvants comprising an equal ratio of
15 EO to PO of 10 moles each per molecule. The methods each start with a clean dry 3 litre
   pressure vessel that was equipped with agitation, a nitrogen sparge, thermometer, and
   vacuum. 750g (1.7mol) of sorbitan mono-laurate (SML) and 5.6g (0.04 mol dry) of 45%
   potassium hydroxide were charge to the vessel at ambient temperature. Where sorbitan
   mono-oleate (SMO) based adjuvants were made, SML was substituted with 950g (1.5 mol)
20 SMO.
   The vessel was then purged with nitrogen. The vessel was heated to 1 10'C with agitation and
   vacuum was applied for one hour to dry the batch.
   The batches of sorbitan ester were then reacted according to one of the following three
   methods depending on whether a reverse, random, or normal copolymer was descired.
25 For normal block copolymers (propylene oxide first, react down, then ethoxylation):
   The batch was heated to 130'C.             Propylene oxide (995.7g) was fed such that the
   temperature mole ratio and pressure were maintained at 130'C and below 45psi. After the
   PO feed was completed the temperature was raised to 160'C. At 160'C ethylene oxide
   (755.2g) was fed such that the temperature and pressure were maintained at 160'C and below
30 45psi.
   For reverse block copolymers (ethylene oxide first, react down, then propoxylation):
   The batch was heated to 160'C.             Ethylene oxide (755.2g) was feed such that the
   temperature and pressure were maintained at 160'C and below 45psi. After the EO feed was

                                                 ~32 ~
   completed the temperature was lowered to 130'C. At 130'C propylene oxide (995.7g) was
   fed such that the temperature and pressure were maintained at 130'C and below 45psi.
   For random copolymers (propylene oxide mixtures with ethylene oxide):
   The batch was heated to 160'C. Ethylene oxide (668.5g) and propylene oxide (881.4g) were
 5 fed alternately such that equal amounts of EO/PO were maintained during the additions and
   the temperature and pressure were maintained at 160'C and below 45psi.
   In all cases after the oxide additions were completed the batches were allowed to react until a
   constant pressure was achieved. After constant pressure was achieved the SML normal and
   SMO random were allowed to react for an additional hour. The temperature of the SML
10 reverse batch was raised to 160'C and held for two hours. When the additional time had
   elapsed the batches were cooled to 1 10 C and vacuum stripped for one hour. After the one
   hour strip the batch was cooled to 65'C and the batches were neutralised with lactic acid to a
   pH of 5.5-7.5 and discharged.
   The following adjuvants were synthesised according to the above method.
15 Table 1. - Adjuvants synthesised
            Adjuvant        Ester      No. of Moles   No. of Moles     Copolymer Type
                                          of PO           of EO
                Al           SML             5              15              Normal
                A2           SML            10              10              Normal
                A3           SML            15               5              Normal
                A4           SML             5              15              Reverse
                A5           SML            10              10              Reverse
                A6           SML            15               5              Reverse
                A7           SML             5              15              Random
                A8           SML            10              10              Random
                A9           SML            15               5              Random
               A1O           SMO             5              15              Random
               All           SMO            10              10              Random
               A12           SMO            15               5              Random
               A13           SMO             5              15              Normal
               A14           SMO            10              10              Normal
               A15           SMO            15               5              Normal
   A sample of polysorbate 20 (Tween 20) labelled as Cl, and polysorbate 80 (Tween 80)
   labelled as C2, were also included as comparisons of a prior art adjuvants.

                                                ~33 ~
   The synthesised adjuvants were then analysed for various desired properties, and the results
   are shown below.
   Contact Angle & Cloud Point
   The properties of contact angle and cloud point were determined for the synthesised adjuvants
 5 by the methods described herein. Results are shown in Table 2 below.
   Table 2. - Contact angle and cloud point of synthesised adjuvants
                           .a        Contact Angle   (0)  Cloud Point ('C)
                        Adjuvant         0.20 wt.%              1 wt.%
                           Al                                      66
                           A2                                      32
                           A3                 -                   <20
                           A4               61.1                  60.8
                           A5               60.2                 40.5
                           A6               55.7                  <20
                           A7               66.0                 60.4
                           A8               65.0                 48.4
                           A9               56.0                  <20
                           A1O              69.6                 48.6
                           All              65.6                  34.4
                           A12              60.6                  <20
                           A13                -                    51
                           A14                                     36
                           A15                -                   <20
                            C1              74.3
                            C2              79.5
   The adjuvants of the present invention resulted in a lower contact angle than the comparative
   adjuvants C1 or C2. Reduced contact angle indicates enhanced spreading of water droplets
10 on leaf surfaces. Contact angles are also not so low as to overly increase droplet runoff,
   helping to maximise droplet retention on treated plants.
   The cloud point results for the adjuvants of the present invention were within the desired
   range.
   Foaming
15 The property of foaming was determined for the synthesised adjuvants by the method
   described herein. Results are shown in Table 3 below.

                                                ~34 ~
   Table 3. - Foaming performance of synthesised adjuvants
                                            Foam Height (mm) 1 wt.%
                   Adjuvant
                                      Initial        30 minutes          1 hour
                       A4               28                12                5
                       A5               21                 5                4
                       A6               11                 3                0
                       A7               24                 8                5
                       AS               19                 6                4
                       A9                4                 1                0
                      AlO               26                 6                5
                      All               16                 5                3
                      A12                2                 0                0
                       Cl               37               12.5              8.5
                       C2               34                26               24
   The foam height, and therefore the presence of foam, for the adjuvants of the present invention
   was lower at the initial measurement, after 30 minutes, and at 1 hour in comparison to the
 5 comparative adjuvants Cl and C2. The adjuvant of the present invention provides a clear
   benefit of lower foaming compared to prior adjuvants.
   Cold Water Dissolution Time
   The properties of cold water dissolution were determined for the synthesised adjuvants by the
   methods described herein. Results are shown in Table 4.
10 Table 4. - Cold water dissolution of synthesised adjuvants
                            Adjuvant          Dissolution Time (s) 1 wt.%
                               Al                         45.2
                               A2                         31.4
                               A3                          11.9
                               A4                           21
                               A5                           38
                               A6                           46
                               A7                           48
                               A8                           22
                               A9                           15
                              All                           22
                              A12                           30

                                                - 35
                                A13                        56.5
                                A14                        14.7
                                A15                         8.7
                                 C2                       > 180
   The cold water dissolution time for the adjuvants of the present invention was lower than the
   comparison C2 adjuvant. The adjuvants of the present invention therefore show good cold
   water dissolution performance.
 5 Surface Tension of Adjuvants
   The adjuvants were tested for equilibrium surface tension, dynamic surface tension, and
   interfacial tension, and results are shown in Table 5 below.
   Table 5. - Surface tension of synthesised adjuvants
                             EST (mN/m)                   DST (mN/m)                IFT
         Adjuvant                                   at 5      at 80   at 1250     (mN/m)
                       0.10 wt.%      0.20 wt.%                                 0.20 wt.%
                                                     ms         ms       ms
            Al            33.4             -          -          -
            A2            32.0             -          -          -
            A3            32.8             -          -          -
            A4            32.1           32.0      63.48      61.51    44.11         3.5
            A5            31.9           31.9      63.45      61.46    43.94         3.1
            A6            32.3           32.6      62.66      60.17    40.34         5.1
            A7            33.9           33.2      64.03      62.33    46.49         3.0
            A8            33.5           33.1      63.99      62.29    46.21         3.0
            A9            33.0           32.7      62.89      60.55    41.05        4.6
            AlO           33.2           33.1      65.11      63.87    51.34         3.8
            All           33.3           33.3      64.30      62.73    47.78         3.8
            A12           33.8           33.7      63.02      60.76    41.84         6.1
            A13           33.5             -          -          -        -
            A14           33.7             -          -          -
            A15           34.2             -          -          -
            C1            36.4           35.7      65.19      64.01    51.81
            C2            42.0           38.3      66.69      65.87    56.85
10 The adjuvants of the present invention were found to have reduced surface tension values
   over commercially available adjuvants C1 and C2. IFT values of the synthesised adjuvants
   were also observed to be in the desired range.
   In particular it can be seen that adjuvants of the present invention when compared to
   analogous prior art adjuvants provide for reduced DST. A4-A9 adjuvants are based on SML,

                                                 ~36 ~
   and when compared to C1 (also based on SML) provide for reduced DST values. Likewise,
   adjuvants A 10-A12 which are based on SMO provide for reduced DST values when compared
   to prior art adjuvant C2 which is also based on SMO.
   Viscosity of Adjuvants
 5 The adjuvants were tested for performance in minimise gelling. Measurements of viscosity
   were obtained at 5'C, 25'C, and 40'C. and the results are shown in Table 6 below.
   Table 6. - Viscosity of synthesised adjuvants
                                      Viscosity (mPa.s) at shear rate of 100 s
                      Adjuvant
                                          5C            25 0 C           40 0 C
                          Al             1527           373.8            165.7
                          A2             1406           334.8            145.8
                          A3             1528           350.2            149.2
                          A4             1057           254.8            112.2
                          A5             1329           319.7             141
                          A6             1442           334.8            144.5
                          A7             1364           340.7            152.9
                          A8             1347           337.3            151.7
                          A9             1411           338.9            147.1
                         A1O             1222           320.9            148.2
                         All            978.9           262.5            122.4
                         A12             1028           268.3            123.3
                         A13             1299           348.8            161.4
                         A14             1168           306.5            140.7
                         A15             1210           308.3            139.5
                          C1             1800           411.5            177.4
                          C2             2173           494.5            213.1
   The adjuvants all demonstrated low viscosity without inclusion of either alcohols or glycols.
10 The results indicated that the adjuvants of the present invention all provided good rheological
   performance.
   Agrochemical Formulation Examples
   The adjuvants of the present invention were tested in agrochemical formulations for
   adjuvancy performance. Different weed species were selected for each active ingredient to
15 assess control using various adjuvant treatments. The weeds species selected for use were
   velvetleaf. morningglory, ragweed and pigweed, cugrass, foxtail, and barnyardgrass.

                                               ~37 ~
   Formulations were made up including adjuvants of the present invention (shown Tables 7 to
   10). The adjuvants of the present invention were formulated at both 10 wt.% and 20 wt.%
   with 2,4-D 2-Ethylhexyl (Isooctyl) ester, and all were found to be fully soluble and stable.
   Table 7. - 2,4-D Diglycolamine 500 g/L SL
                                     Weight                   Active           Adjuvant
             Component                          S.G.      Ingredient g/L          g/L
     2,4-Dichlorophenoxyacetic,       61.3       1.21          510
          diglycolamine salt
     Adjuvants Al through A15         15.0                                         182
                 Water                23.7
                 Total               100.0
 5 S.G. - Specific Gravity at 25'C
   Ratio of active to adjuvant - 2.8
   Table 8. - 2,4-D Ester 680 g/L EC
                                     Weight         ,         Active           Adjuvant
             Component                 %        S'G       Ingredient g/L          g/L
     2,4-Dichlorophenoxyacetic,       90.0       1.14          681
          2-ethylhexyl ester
     Adjuvants Al through A15         10.0                                         114
                 Total               100.0
   S.G. - Specific Gravity at 25'C
   Ratio of active to adjuvant - 6.0
10 Table 9. - 2,4-D Ester 600 g/L EC
                                     Weight                   Active           Adjuvant
             Component                          S.G.      Ingredient g/L          g/L
     2,4-Dichlorophenoxyacetic,       80.0       1.14          605
          2-ethylhexyl ester
     Adjuvants Al through A15         20.0                                        228
                 Total               100.0
   S.G. - Specific Gravity at 25'C
   Ratio of active to adjuvant - 2.7

                                                ~38 ~
   Table 10. - 2,4-D Ester 400 g/L EW
                                     Weight                   Active           Adjuvant
                                          %                Ingredient g/L         g/L
     2,4-Dichlorophenoxyacetic,         54.0      1.12          401
           2-ethylhexyl ester
      Adjuvants Al through A15           6.0                                       67
                 Water                  40.0
                 Total                 100.0
   S.G. - Specific Gravity at 25'C
   Ratio of active to adjuvant - 6.0
   The effectiveness of the adjuvant combination of the present invention was assessed. The
 5 formulation of the present invention, and for the comparative formulation, were assessed for
   solubility and stability. The results for the formulation of the present invention were good
   and did not exhibit separation under any of the storage conditions.
   Use of the adjuvants of the present invention in formulations with 2,4-D amine and ester
   resulted in good to excellent weed control.
10 It is to be understood that the invention is not to be limited to the details of the above
   embodiments, which are described by way of example only. Many variations are possible.

                                                -  39
   The claims defining the invention are as follows:
   1.     An agrochemical formulation comprising;
          i)   an adjuvant; and
 5        ii)   at least one agrochemical active;
          wherein said adjuvant has general structure (I):
                         Sorb.(AOIH)n1(AO 2H)n2(AO 3H), 3(AO 4R)n 4                    (I)
        wherein;
             Sorb represents a residue of a sorbitan or sorbitan derivative;
            AOi, A02, A03, and A04 each independently represents an oxyalkylene group
10               formed from oxyethylene units, oxypropylene units, or a mixture thereof,
                 wherein at least one of AOi, A0 2 , A0 3 , and A0  4 comprises a block copolymer
                 of oxyethylene and oxypropylene units;
            the number of moles of oxyethylene present in each oxyalkylene group is in the range
                 from 1 to 8;
15          the number of moles of oxypropylene present in each oxyalkylene group is in the
                 range from 1 to 8;
            the total sum of oxyethylene units and oxypropylene units is in the range from 5 to
                  38;
            n1, n2, and n3 each independently represent an integer having a value of 0 or 1;
20          n4 represents a value of 1; and
            R 1 represents an alkanoyl group -C(O)R       2
                                                             wherein R 2 represents a C4 to C28
                 hydrocarbyl.
   2.     The agrochemical formulation according to claim 1, wherein the residue of a sorbitan
25        or sorbitan derivative is selected from 1,4-anhydrosorbitol, 1,5-anhydrosorbitol, and
          3,6-anhydrosorbitol.
   3.     The agrochemical formulation according to claim 1 or claim 2, wherein said alkanoyl
          group is a residue of a fatty acid.
30

                                             ~40
   4.  The agrochemical formulation according to claim 3, where the fatty acid is selected
       from linear or branched, saturated or unsaturated, Cs to C 28 fatty acids.
   5.  The agrochemical formulation according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein
 5     each oxyalkylene chain is copolymeric.
   6.  The agrochemical formulation according to claim 5, wherein the oxyalkylene chain is
       a reverse copolymer.
10 7.  The agrochemical formulation according to claim 5 or claim 6, where the molar
       proportion of oxyethylene units comprised in the oxyalkylene chain may be in the
       range of between 20% and 90%.
   8.  The agrochemical formulation according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein
15     the moles of both oxyethylene and oxypropylene units present in each adjuvant
       molecule has an integer value in the range of from 5 to 38.
   9.  The agrochemical formulation according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein
       the molecular weight (weight average) of the adjuvant is preferably in the range from
20     450 to 2,700
   10. A concentrate formulation suitable for making an agrochemical formulation according
       to any one of the preceding claims, said concentrate comprising;
       i)   an adjuvant, wherein said adjuvant wherein said adjuvant has general structure
25          (I):
                     Sorb.(AO1 H) 1(AO 2H)n2 (AO3H)n 3(AO 4R' )n4                 (I)
       wherein;
           Sorb represents a residue of a sorbitan or sorbitan derivative;
          AOi, A0 2 , A0 3, and AG 4 each independently represents an oxyalkylene group
                 formed from oxyethylene units, oxypropylene units, or a mixture thereof,

                                                 ~41~
                wherein at least one of AOi, AO2, AO3, and A04 comprises a block copolymer
                of oxyethylene and oxypropylene units;
           the number of moles of oxyethylene present in each oxyalkylene group is in the
                range from 1 to 8;
 5         the number of moles of oxypropylene present in each oxyalkylene group is in the
                range from I to 8;
           the total sum of oxyethylene units and oxypropylene units is in the range from 5 to
                38;
           nI, n2, and n3 each independently represent an integer having a value of 0 or 1;
10         n4 represents a value of 1;
           R' represents an alkanoyl group -C(O)R           2 wherein R 2 represents a C4 to C28
                hydrocarbyl; and
       ii)   optionally, at least one agrochemical active.
15 11. Use of compound having general structure (1):
                      Sorb.(A0 1 H)n11 (AO 2H)i, 2(AO 3H), 3(AO 4R'), 4              (I)
       wherein;
           Sorb represents a residue of a sorbitan or sorbitan derivative;
           AO 1 , A0 2, AG 3, and A0     4 each independently represents an oxyalkylene group
                formed from oxyethylene units, oxypropylene units, or a mixture thereof,
20              wherein at least one of AOi, AO 2, AG 3, and AG 4 comprises a block copolymer
                of oxyethylene and oxypropylene units;
           the number of moles of oxyethylene present in each oxyalkylene group is in the
                range from 1 to 8;
           the number of moles of oxypropylene present in each oxyalkylene group is in the
25              range from I to 8;
           the total sum of oxyethylene units and oxypropylene units is in the range from 5 to
                38;
           nI, n2, and n3 each independently represent an integer having a value of 0 or 1;
           n4 represents a value of 1; and

                                             ~42~
                                                          2
           R' represents an alkanoyl group -C(O)R           wherein R 2 represents a C 4 to C28
                 hydrocarbyl;
       as an adjuvant in an agrochemical formulation comprising at least one agrochemical
       active.
 5
   12. A method of treating vegetation to control pests, the method comprising applying a
       formulation according to any one of claims 1 to 9, and/or a diluted concentrate
       formulation according to claim 10, either to said vegetation or to the immediate
       environment of said vegetation.
10
   13. A compound having general structure (I):
                      Sorb.(AOH),I(AO 2H), 2 (AO 3H), 3(AO 4R),    4                (I)
       wherein;
           Sorb represents a residue of a sorbitan or sorbitan derivative;
         AOi, AO 2 , A0 3, and AO 4 each independently represents an oxyalkylene group
15            formed from oxyethylene units, oxypropylene units, or a mixture thereof,
               wherein at least one of AOi, AO 2 , AO 3 , and AG 4 comprises a block copolymer
              of oxyethylene and oxypropylene units;
         the number of moles of oxyethylene present in each oxyalkylene group is in the range
              from 1 to 8;
20         the number of moles of oxypropylene present in each oxyalkylene group is in the
                 range from 1 to 8;
           the total sum of oxyethylene units and oxypropylene units is in the range from 5 to
                 38;
           n 1, n2, and n3 each independently represent an integer having a value of 0 or 1;
25         n4 represents a value of 1; and
           R 1 represents an alkanoyl group -C(O)R        2
                                                            wherein R 2 represents a C 4 to C 28
                 hydrocarbyl;
       suitable for use as an adjuvant in an agrochemical formulation.

