Abstract
The present invention relates to an overhead air conditioner including a housing (1) having
air inlet (5). Air outlets (6) are arranged on top of the housing (1). An external circulation
component of the air conditioner comprises an exhaust fan (7) deviated from a bottom
center of an external circulation installation area (4). The axis of the exhaust fan (7) is
inclined to the bottom of the housing (1). The exhaust fan (7) comprises an axial split
surface (8). A total area of the air inlets (5) located on the axial split surface (8) and facing
away from the inclined side is larger than a total area of the air inlets (5) located on the axial
split surface (8) and facing toward the inclined side. Flow resistance caused by air
turbulence generated at the exhaust fan (7) can be effectively reduced by the compact
structures of the overhead air conditioner. Optimized ventilation can be realized and noise
can also be reduced.
(Figure 1)

                      5 /9
14
           233
                244
   1021
                                           5.
        23
                      21     21
                    Figure 8
              -          28
                                     is 22
                                39 3
                    Figure 9

                                                -1
                                    Overhead Air Conditioner
Technical Field
[0001]      The present disclosure relates to the field of air conditioning systems, and more
particularly, to an overhead air conditioner in recreational vehicles.
Background
[0002]      Overhead air conditioners are typically applied in recreational vehicles (RV) and
cars to adjust temperature in the inner space.
[0003]     Any discussion of the prior art throughout the specification should in no way be
considered as an admission that such prior art is widely known or forms part of common
general knowledge in the field.
[0004]      The overhead air conditioner usually comprises a casing, an internal circulation
component, and an external circulation component. The side wall of the casing is provided
with an air inlet, and the external circulation component comprises an exhaust fan, an
external heat exchanger, a compressor and the like. Using the exhaust fan, external air is
discharged from the exhaust fan after entering through the air inlet and exchanging heat
with the external heat exchanger. However, in prior arts, the installation position of the
exhaust fan and the design of the air inlet are irregular. Generally, the exhaust fan is
vertically arranged. The vertically arranged exhaust fan causes the following deficiencies:
[0005]      In a first aspect, the exhaust fan provides identical exhausting effects for winds
incoming from all directions since the exhaust fan is vertically arranged. If the exhaust fan is
located in the middle of the air inlet on the side wall of the casing, the exhaust fan would
occupy a central position due to the large volume of the exhaust fan. The space around the
exhaust fan would be narrowed and it can be difficult to install other components. If the
exhaust fan is deviated from the center, as shown in Fig. 1-2, the volume of air incoming
from air inlets 5 around the exhaust fan would be different. The incoming air volume from a

                                                 -2
part A of the exhaust fan 7 near the edge of the casing would be smaller than the incoming
air volume from a part B of the exhaust fan 7 far away from the edge of the casing. If the
exhaust fan 7 is arranged vertically, the air fluid of the part B with a larger incoming air
volume and the air fluid of the part A with a smaller incoming air volume would form a
turbulence at the inlet of the exhaust fan 7 and cause flow resistance, resulting in poor
ventilation of the exhaust fan and much noise.
[0006]     In addition, because the casing and components inside the casing are mounted
outside the roof of an RV while air guides and air guiding panels are installed inside the roof
of the RV during installation of the overhead air-conditioning, it is required to guide the air
guides through the roof to connect to exterior components. In prior arts, the air guides are
generally connected with the roof of the RV and exterior components through a telescopic
tube, and then the air guide assembly is fixed. Therefore, the configuration of having the air
guides extend through the roof of the RV to connect to exterior components is complicated.
[0007]     Furthermore, the air guide panels of an overhead air conditioner in the interior of a
RV generally comprise only baffles that lead to both sides. In many cases, the user wants
the air-conditioned air from the center part to obtain vertically downward air-conditioned air,
and prior arts fail to meet these needs.
[0008]     It is an object of the present invention to overcome or ameliorate at least one of
the disadvantages of the prior art, or to provide a useful alternative.
Summary of the Invention
[0009]     In one aspect, the present invention includes an overhead air conditioner which
comprises:
           a housing comprising a mounting cavity, said mounting cavity including an internal
circulation installation area for installing an air-conditioning internal circulation component
and an external circulation installation area for installing an air-conditioning external
circulation component, the housing including air inlets arranged on the housing and on a

                                                 -3
side wall of the external circulation installation area, and an air outlet arranged on top of the
housing;
            the air-conditioning external circulation component which is mounted within the
external circulation installation area, the air-conditioning external circulation component
comprising an exhaust fan, the exhaust fan arranged within the housing and at a position of
the air outlet, the exhaust fan being offset from a bottom center of the external circulation
installation area with an interval between the exhaust fan and an inner bottom surface of the
housing, an axis of the exhaust fan being inclined from a bottom surface of the housing, the
exhaust fan having an axial split surface which is a plane passing through the axis of the
exhaust fan and whose intersection with the bottom of the housing is perpendicular to the
axis of the exhaust fan, a total area of the air inlets located on the axial split surface and
facing away from the inclined side i larger than a total area of the air inlets located on the
axial split surface and facing toward the inclined side; and
            the air-conditioning internal circulation component which is used for heat
exchanging, the air-conditioning internal circulation component arranged in the internal
circulation installation area.
[0010]      Unless the context clearly requires otherwise, throughout the description and the
claims, the words "comprise", "comprising", and the like are to be construed in an inclusive
sense as opposed to an exclusive or exhaustive sense; that is to say, in the sense of
"including, but not limited to".
[0011]      In preference, the housing has a quadrilateral shape, the housing has a first side
rim, a second side rim, a third side rim and a fourth side rim located around the housing, the
air inlet comprises a first grating grille provided on the first side rim, a second air grille
provided on the second side rim, and a third grating grille provided on the third side rim, the
first side rim and the third side rim are oppositely arranged, an upper end of the exhaust fan
is inclined towards the first grating grill, and the exhaust fan is arranged on a side of a
center plane of the second side rim and the fourth side rim which is nearer to the first side
rim.

                                                 -4
[0012]     In preference, a baffle to guide air incoming from the first grating grille, the second
grating grille, and the third grating grille towards the exhaust fan is arranged on the bottom
surface of the housing.
[0013]     In preference, the air-conditioning internal circulation component comprises:
           an inner cover arranged within the housing to form an internal circulation space
with the inner bottom surface of the housing, the inner cover comprising an internal
circulation outlet on the bottom surface of the housing;
           a wind fan fixed to the housing and arranged at the position of the internal
circulation outlet; and
           a wind guiding component including a mounting board and a air guide ring
arranged at a center of the mounting board, the mounting board fixed to the bottom of the
housing, an interval being formed between an inner side wall of the internal circulation outlet
and an outer wall of the wind fan, the air guide ring being inserted into the interval.
[0014]     In preference, the air-conditioning internal circulation component further
comprises:
           a baseplate fixed between a recreational vehicle roof and the bottom of the
housing and spaced from the bottom of the housing, the recreational vehicle roof
comprising a mounting port, a mounting gap being provided at a center of the baseplate, a
through-hole being provided at the bottom of the housing near the internal circulation outlet,
the space between the baseplate and the housing forming a first internal circulation gas flow
path which connects to the through-hole;
           an internal heat exchanger fixed to the inner bottom surface of the housing, the
internal heat exchanger being provided between the internal circulation outlet and the
through-hole; and
           an air guide panel fixed to a lower end of the mounting board, wherein a second
internal circulation gas flow path is formed between an inner side wall of the mounting port
and an outer peripheral surface of the air guide ring, the first internal circulation gas flow
path is connected to the second internal circulation gas flow path, vias are provided on the

                                               -5
mounting board around the air guide ring, and the vias form a flow path exit of the second
internal circulation gas flow path.
[0015]     In preference, waterproof cotton is provided on the inner side wall and the outer
side wall of the air guide ring, the waterproof cotton within the air guide ring is in close
contact with the outer side wall of the wind fan, and the waterproof cotton outside the air
guide ring is in close contact with the inner side wall of the internal circulation outlet.
[0016]     In preference, a lower end of the air guide ring is in close contact with the inner
surface of the air guide panel, an air flow exit is provided on the air guide panel and inside
the air guide ring, an adjustment component to adjust the size of the air flow exit is provided
on the air guide panel, and flow guide boards are arranged on the air guide panel and on
the two sides of the air flow exit.
[0017]     In preference, the adjustment component comprises an adjusting board, the
adjusting board comprises holes adapted to the air flow exits, and the adjusting board is
slidably connected with the air guide panel.
[0018]     In preference, snaps are arranged on the air guide panel to form a chute, and the
adjusting board is slidably connected within the chute.
[0019]     In preference, the angle between the axis of the exhaust fan and the bottom
surface of the housing is 70'~85', and the ratio of the total area of air inlets on the axial split
surface facing toward the inclined side to the total area of air inlets on the axial split surface
facing away from the inclined side is 0.55-0.85.
[0020]     Advantageously, the present invention is to provide an overhead air conditioner
which provides improved ventilation and decreased noise by reducing flow resistance.

                                                 -6
[0021]     Other advantages of the present invention will become apparent from the
following description taking in connection with the accompanying drawings which illustrate
exemplary embodiments of the present invention.
Brief Description of the Drawings
[0022]     The present disclosure is illustrated by way of example and not limitation in the
figures of the accompanying drawing, in which like references indicate similar element, and
in which:
[0023]     Figure 1 is an illustration of an overhead air conditioner in prior arts.
[0024]     Figure 2 is a cross-section of an overhead air conditioner in prior arts.
[0025]     Figure 3 is a top view of an overhead air conditioner of the present disclosure.
[0026]     Figure 4 is a cross-section along the M-M line in Figure 3.
[0027]     Figure 5 is an illustration of an overhead air conditioner of the present disclosure.
[0028]     Figure 6 is another perspective of an overhead air conditioner of the present
disclosure.
[0029]     Figure 7 is a structural illustration of an overhead air conditioner of the present
disclosure with the upper housing removed.
[0030]     Figure 8 is a break-down illustration of an overhead air conditioner of the present
disclosure with the upper housing removed.
[0031]     Figure 9 is a structural illustration of the wind fan of an overhead air conditioner of
the present disclosure.

                                                 -7
[0032]     Figure 10 is a break-down illustration of an overhead air conditioner of the present
disclosure.
[0033]     Figure 11 is a cross-section along the N-N line in Figure 3.
[0034]     Figure 12 is an enlarged view of a part C in Figure 11.
[0035]     Figure 13 is a structural illustration of a baseplate of an overhead air conditioner
of the present disclosure.
[0036]     Figure 14 is a structural illustration of an air guide panel of an overhead air
conditioner of the present disclosure.
[0037]     Figure 15 is a break-down illustration of an air guide panel of an overhead air
conditioner of the present disclosure.
           Reference Numbers:
[0038]      1 housing ; 101 upper housing ; 102 lower housing ; 1.1 first side rim ; 1.2
second side rim ; 1.3 third side rim ; 1.4 fourth side rim ; 2 mounting cavity ; 3 internal
circulation installation area ; 4 external circulation installation area ; 5 air inlet ; 5.1 first
grating grille ; 5.2 second grating grille ; 5.3 third grating grille ; 6 air outlet ; 7 exhaust
fan ; 8 axial split surface ; 9 baffle ; 10 external heat exchanger ; 11 windshield ; 12 wind
deflector ; 13 compressor ; 14 inner cover ; 15 internal circulation space ; 16 internal
circulation outlet ; 17 recreational vehicle roof ; 18 baseplate ; 19 mounting port ; 20
mounting gap ; 21 through-hole ; 22 first internal circulation gas flow path ; 23 internal heat
exchanger ; 24 wind fan ; 25 mounting board ; 26 air guide ring ; 27 interval ; 28 second
internal circulation gas flow path ; 29 via ; 30 air guide panel       31 waterproof cotton ; 32 air
flow exit ; 33 adjusting board ; 34 hole ; 35 snap ; 36 chute         37 sink ; 38 positioning
flange ring ; 39 water basin ; 40 reinforcing ribs ; 41 contact board ; 42 push block ; 43
flow guide board ; 44 carved groove.

                                                 -8
Detailed Description of Preferred Embodiments
[0039]      Various aspects of the illustrative embodiments will be described using terms
commonly employed by those skilled in the art to convey the substance of their work to
others skilled in the art. However, it will be apparent to those skilled in the art that alternate
embodiments may be practiced with only some of the described aspects. For purposes of
explanation, specific numbers, materials, and configurations are set forth in order to provide
a thorough understanding of the illustrative embodiments. However, it will be apparent to
one skilled in the art that alternate embodiments may be practiced without the specific
details. In other instances, well-known features are omitted or simplified in order not to
obscure the illustrative embodiments.
[0040]      The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular example
embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting. As used herein, the singular forms "a,"
"an," and "the" may be intended to include the plural forms as well, unless the context
clearly indicates otherwise. The terms "comprises," "comprising," "including," and "having,"
are inclusive and therefore specify the presence of stated features, integers, steps,
operations, elements, and/or components, but do not preclude the presence or addition of
one or more other features, integers, steps, operations, elements, components, and/or
groups thereof. The method steps, processes, and operations described herein are not to
be construed as necessarily requiring their performance in the particular order discussed or
illustrated, unless specifically identified as an order of performance. It is also to be
understood that additional or alternative steps may be employed.
[0041]      As shown in Figure 3-15, an overhead air conditioner of an embodiment
comprises a housing 1 comprising a mounting cavity 2. The housing 1 includes an upper
housing 101 and a lower housing 102 that are fixedly connected. The mounting cavity 2
includes an internal circulation installation area 3 for installing an air-conditioning internal
circulation component and an external circulation installation area 4 for installing an air
conditioning external circulation component. The housing 1 includes air inlets 5 arranged on

                                                 -9
the housing 1 and on a side wall of the external circulation installation area 4. An air outlet 6
is arranged on top of the housing.
[0042]      The overhead air conditioner comprises an air-conditioning external circulation
component which is mounted within the external circulation installation area 4. The air
conditioning external circulation component comprises an exhaust fan 7. The exhaust fan 7
is arranged within the housing 1 and at a position of the air outlet 6. The exhaust fan 7 is
offset from a bottom center of the external circulation installation area 4 with an interval
between the exhaust fan 7 and an inner bottom surface of the housing 1. An axis of the
exhaust fan 7 is inclined from a bottom surface of the housing 1. The exhaust fan 7 has an
axial split surface 8 which is a plane passing through the axis of the exhaust fan 7 and
whose intersecting line with the inner bottom surface of the housing 1 is perpendicular to
the axis of the exhaust fan 7. The total area of the air inlets 5 located on the axial split
surface 8 and facing away from the inclined side is larger than the total area of the air inlets
5 located on the axial split surface 8 and facing toward the inclined side. For better
illustration, the side located on the axial split surface 8 and facing away from the inclined
side is labeled as the X side, and the side located on the axial split surface 8 and facing
toward the inclined side is labeled as the Y side.
[0043]      The overhead air conditioner comprises an air-conditioning internal circulation
component which is used for heat exchanging. The air-conditioning internal circulation
component is arranged in the internal circulation installation area 3.
[0044]      Several advantages are achieved by utilizing the above structures. The exhaust
fan 7 is a relatively large component of all external circulation components of the air
conditioner and occupies a large space. By offsetting the exhaust fan 7 from a bottom
center of the external circulation installation area 4, a disadvantage of narrowed
surrounding space due to occupation of the exhaust fan 7 in the center can be avoided, and
a relatively larger space is formed around the bottom center and edges of the external
circulation installation area 4. A compact structure is achieved which facilitates installation

                                               -10
of other components. Furthermore, intervals are provided between the exhaust fan 7 and
the inner bottom surface of the housing 1. The exhaust fan 7 has an axial split surface 8
which is a plane passing through the axis of the exhaust fan 7 and perpendicular to a
radical cross-section of the exhaust fan 7. A total area of the air inlets 5 located on the axial
split surface 8 and facing away from the inclined side is larger than a total area of the air
inlets 5 located on the axial split surface 8 and facing toward the inclined side. Flow
resistance caused by air turbulence generated at the exhaust fan 7 can be effectively
reduced by such a configuration and optimized ventilation can be realized. Noise is also
reduced as a result of the reduced flow resistance. The axis of the exhaust fan 7 is obliquely
arranged relative to the housing 1, so that the exhaust fan 7 no longer provides identical
exhausting effects for all directions. The exhaust volume of the exhaust fan 7 that faces the
inclined side is smaller than the exhaust volume that faces away from the inclined side.
Combining with the technical feature of "The total area of the air inlets 5 located on the axial
split surface 8 and facing away from the inclined side is larger than the total area of the air
inlets 5 located on the axial split surface 8 and facing toward the inclined side", the side of
the exhaust fan 7 with the smaller exhaust volume can be corresponding to the air outlets
with the smaller total area, and the side of the exhaust fan 7 with the larger exhaust volume
can be corresponding to the air outlets with the larger total area. Therefore, flow resistance
caused by air turbulence generated at the exhaust fan 7 can be effectively reduced to
provide optimized and smooth ventilation and noise can be reduced as a result of the
reduced flow resistance. A disadvantage of "forming air turbulence at the entry of the
exhaust 7 and causing poor ventilation and loud noise" described in the background section
can be avoided.
[0045]     As described above, embodiments of the present application achieves a large
space at the center of the bottom of the outer circulation installation area 4 and while taking
into consideration the exhaust characteristics of the exhaust fan 7 so as to facilitate the
installation of other components and achieve a compact structure. The embodiments
effectively reduce the flow resistance due to air turbulence at the exhaust fan 7. Smooth
exhaustion effects of the exhaust fan 7 can be achieved and less noise would be generated.

                                                - 11
[0046]      Additional technical features based on the above technical solution may be
described in combination with figures 3, 5, and 6. The housing 1 may have a quadrilateral
shape. The housing 1 may have a first side rim 1.1, a second side rim 1.2, a third side rim
1.3 and a fourth side rim 1.4 located around the four edges of the housing 1. The air inlets 5
comprises a first grating grille 5.1 provided on the first side rim 1.1, a second air grille 5.2
provided on the second side rim 1.2, and a third grating grille 5.3 provided on the third side
rim 1.3. The first side rim 5.1 and the third side rim 5.3 are oppositely arranged. An upper
end of the exhaust fan 7 is inclined towards the first grating grill 5.1, and the exhaust fan 7
is arranged on a side of a center plane p-p of the second side rim 1.2 and the fourth side
rim 1.4 which is nearer to the first side rim 1.1. No air inlet 5 is arranged on the fourth side
rim 1.4. The external circulation installation area 4 would have more space in the center to
install other components so as to achieve the compact structure.
[0047]      Additional technical features based on the above technical solution may include a
baffle 9 to guide air incoming from the first grating grille 5.1, the second grating grille 5.2,
and the third grating grille 5.3 towards the exhaust fan 7 which is arranged on the bottom
surface of the housing 1. Using these technical features, air incoming from the first grating
grille 5.1, the second grating grille 5.2, and the third grating grille 5.3 would have smooth
access to the exhaust fan 7 and flow resistance due to air turbulence can be reduced.
[0048]      Additional technical features based on the above technical solution may be
described in combination with figure 7. The external circulation component further
comprises an. The external heat exchanger 10 is U-shaped and fixedly connected to the
bottom of the housing 1. The U-shaped external heat exchanger 10 is correspondingly
disposed on the inner side of the first grating grille 5.1, the second grating grille 5.2, and the
third grating grille 5.3. Windshields 11 are provided on two ends of the external heat
exchanger 10, in particular, between the external heat exchanger 10 and the side wall of the
housing 1. With these technical features, the U-shaped external heat exchanger 10 is
adapted to the first grating grille 5.1, the second grating grille 5.2, and the third grating grille
5.3. Heat exchange with the heat exchanger 10 can be performed more adequately for air

                                                 - 12
incoming from the first grating grille 5.1, the second grating grille 5.2, and the third grating
grille 5.3. Besides, the windshields 11 at the two ends of the external heat exchanger 10
can be used to avoid heat dissipation from the two ends and ensure adequate exchange of
heat for the external heat exchanger 10.
[0049]      Additional technical features based on the above technical solution may include
wind deflectors 12 arranged between the external heat exchanger 10 and the top of the
housing 1. The shapes of the wind deflector 12 are adapted to the heat exchanger 10. One
end of the wind deflector 12 is in close contact with the external heat exchanger 10, and the
other end of the wind deflector 12 is in close contact with the inner top surface of the
housing 1. Heat dissipation of air incoming from the first grating grille 5.1, the second
grating grille 5.2, and the third grating grille 5.3 through the upper end of the external heat
exchanger 10 can be avoided by using these additional technical features which also
ensure that the incoming air has to travel through the external heat exchanger 10 to
exchange heat.
[0050]      Additional technical features based on the above technical solution may include a
compressor 13 which is included in the external circulation component of the air conditioner.
The compressor 13 is fixedly connected to the bottom of the housing 1 and arranged on a
side of the exhaust fan 7 facing the second grating grille 5.2. The compressor 13 is located
between the exhaust fan 7 and the heat exchanger 10. Since the second grating grille 5.2
belongs to the end with the relatively larger total area of air inlets, these additional technical
features allow effective cooling of the compressor 13 to ensure regular operation thereof.
[0051]      Additional technical features based on the above technical solution may include
forming the compressor 13 as a cylinder shape. The axial direction of the compressor 13
points towards the second grating grille 5.2. The cylindrical compressor 13 allows a smooth
air flow and avoids forming strong turbulence at the compressor 13. Less noise would be
generated when venting air with the exhaust fan 7.

                                                -13
[0052]     Additional technical features based on the above technical solution may be
described in combination with figures 8-12. The internal circulation component may
comprise an inner cover 14 arranged within the housing 1 to form an internal circulation
space 15 with the inner bottom surface of the housing 1. The inner cover 14 also comprises
an internal circulation outlet 16 on the bottom surface of the housing 1. The internal
circulation component may comprise a wind fan 24 fixed to the housing 1 and arranged at
the position of the internal circulation outlet 16. The internal circulation component may
comprise a wind guiding component including a mounting board 25 and a air guide ring 26
arranged at a center of the mounting board 25. The mounting board 25 is in close contact
with a recreational vehicle roof 17 of the RV and fixed to the bottom of the housing 1. An
interval 27 is formed between an inner side wall of the internal circulation outlet 16 and an
outer wall of the wind fan 24. The air guide ring 26 is inserted into the interval 27.
[0053]     Additional technical features based on the above technical solution may include
that the air-conditioning internal circulation component further comprises a baseplate 18
fixed between a recreational vehicle roof 17 and the bottom of the housing 1 and spaced
from the bottom of the housing 1. The recreational vehicle roof 17 comprises a mounting
port 19. A mounting gap 20 is provided at a center of the baseplate 18. A through-hole 21 is
provided at the bottom of the housing 1 near the internal circulation outlet 16. The space
between the baseplate 18 and the housing 1 forms a first internal circulation gas flow path
22 which connects to the through-hole 21.The internal circulation component may comprise
an internal heat exchanger 23 fixed to the inner bottom surface of the housing 1. The
internal heat exchanger 23 is provided between the internal circulation outlet 16 and the
through-hole 21. The internal circulation component may comprise an air guide panel 30
fixed to a lower end of the mounting board 25. A second internal circulation gas flow path 28
is formed between an inner side wall of the mounting port 19 and an outer peripheral
surface of the air guide ring 26. The first internal circulation gas flow path 22 is connected to
the second internal circulation gas flow path 28, Vias 29 are provided on the mounting
board 25 around the air guide ring 26, and the vias 29 form a flow path exit of the second
internal circulation gas flow path 28.

                                                 - 14
[0054]     These technical features allow constructing the first internal circulation gas flow
path 22 with the space formed between the baseplate 18 and the housing 1. The second
internal circulation gas flow path 28 is formed between the inner side wall of the mounting
port 19 and the outer peripheral surface of the air guide ring 26. The internal circulation
outlet 16, the first internal circulation gas flow path 22 and the second internal circulation
gas flow path 28 constitute an internal circulation which brings about the compact structure
of the overhead air conditioner. During installation of the overhead air conditioner, the air
guide component and the air guide panel 30 are mounted within the recreational vehicle
roof 17 since the baseplate 18 and any components thereon are mounted outside the
recreational vehicle roof 17. The air guide component shall connect with the components
outside through the recreational vehicle roof 17. If the interval 27 is formed between the
inner side wall of the internal circulation outlet 16 and the outer wall of the wind fan 24, and
the air guide ring 26 is inserted into the interval 27, then the connection of components
inside and outside the recreational vehicle roof 17 can be connected by inserting the air
guide ring 26 into the interval 27, allowing convenient assembly and disassembly.
[0055]     When the ventilation direction of the wind fan 24 points towards inside the RV, the
air-conditioning internal circulation component of the above structures will provide air
circulation that flows in turn from internal space of the RV to the second internal circulation
gas flow path 28, the first internal circulation gas flow path 22, the internal heat exchanger
23, the wind fan 24 and then to the internal space of the RV again, and vice versa.
[0056]     Additional technical features based on the above technical solution may be
described in combination with figures 12. Waterproof cotton 31 is provided on the inner side
wall and the outer side wall of the air guide ring 26. Alternatively, the waterproof cotton 31
can be provided on the inner side wall of the air guide ring 26 or the outer side wall of the air
guide ring 26. The waterproof cotton 31 within the air guide ring 26 can be in close contact
with the outer side wall of the wind fan 24, and the waterproof cotton 31 outside the air
guide ring 26 can be in close contact with the inner side wall of the internal circulation outlet

                                                -15
16. The waterproof cotton 31 of the embodiment can prevent condensed water generated
by the air-conditioning internal circulation component from dripping into the RV.
[0057]     Additional technical features based on the above technical solution may be
described in combination with figures 14-15. The lower end of the air guide ring 26 is in
close contact with the inner surface of the air guide panel 30. An air flow exit 32 is provided
on the air guide panel 30 and inside the air guide ring 26. An adjustment component to
adjust the size of the air flow exit 32 is provided on the air guide panel 30, and flow guide
boards 43 are arranged on the air guide panel 30 and on the two sides of the air flow exit
32. The flow guide boards 43 are used to blow the air flowing from the wind fan 24 towards
two sides of the RV. The air flow exit 32 is provided with adjusting mechanisms which
control the wind power coming from the air flow exit 32 according to different needs to
improve comfort of users.
[0058]     Additional technical features based on the above technical solution may include
that the adjustment component comprises an adjusting board 33. The adjusting board 33
comprises holes 34 adapted to the air flow exits 32, and the adjusting board 33 is slidably
connected with the air guide panel 30. When the air flow exits 32 overlap with the holes 34,
the air flow exits 32 would be opened. The size of the air flow exits 32 can be adjusted by
sliding the adjusting board 33 so that the air flow exits 32 may intersect the holes 34.
[0059]     Additional technical features based on the above technical solution may include
forming the air flow exits 32 and the holes 34 as waist-shaped structures.
[0060]     Additional technical features based on the above technical solution may include
snaps 35 arranged on the air guide panel 30 to form a chute 36, and the adjusting board 33
is slidably connected within the chute 36. Snaps 35 can be used as limiting structures and
also as a slidable connection.
[0061]     Additional technical features based on the above technical solution may include a
sink 37 arranged on the air guide panel 30. The adjusting board 33 is arranged within the

                                               -16
sink 37. The sink 37 of the embodiment can be used to prevent over-adjustment of the
adjusting board 33. The length of the sink 37 is greater than the length of the adjusting
board 33. A carved groove 44 is provided on the air guide panel 30. A push block 42 is
provided on the adjusting board 33. The push block 42 passes through the carved groove
44.
[0062]     Additional technical features based on the above technical solution may be
described in combination with figures 13. Downwards protruding positioning flange rings 38
are disposed on the baseplate 18 and outside the mounting gap 20. The positioning flange
rings 38 are mounted around the mounting gap 20. The inner ends of the positioning flange
rings 38 form a water basin 39. The positioning flange rings 38 can be used to position the
RV roof 17 to facilitate installation. The water basin 39 can be used to prevent condensed
water generated in the first internal circulation gas flow path 22 from dripping into the RV.
[0063]     Additional technical features based on the above technical solution may include
reinforcing ribs 40 arranged inside the water basin 39 to connect two side walls of the water
basin 39. The structural strength of the baseplate 18 could be improved.
[0064]     Additional technical features based on the above technical solution may include
shaping the internal heat exchanger 23 as a ring. Heat exchange efficiency can be
increased by venting the air from the wind fan 24 after the air receives sufficient heat
change at the internal heat exchanger 23 of the RV. A contact board 41 to press against the
internal heat exchanger 23 is arranged in the inner top part of the inner cover 14. An end
part of the contact board 41 is in close contact with the internal heat exchanger 23 to
improve stability of the inner cover 14 and avoids any deviation from the installation position
during travel.
[0065]     Preferably, an angle a between the axis of the exhaust fan 7 and the bottom
surface of the housing 1 is 70'~85', and the ratio of the total area of air inlets 5 on the axial
split surface 8 facing toward the inclined side to the total area of air inlets 5 on the axial split
surface 8 facing away from the inclined side is 0.55-0.85. These ranges provide preferable

                                                -17
effects. In particular, the angle a between the axis of the exhaust fan 7 and the bottom
surface of the housing 1 is 700, 750, 800, and 850. The ratio of the total area of air inlets 5 on
the axial split surface 8 facing toward the inclined side to the total area of air inlets 5 on the
axial split surface 8 facing away from the inclined side is 0.55, 0.6, 0.63, 0.65, 0.67, 0.7,
0.75, 0.80, and 0.85.
[0066]      The overhead air conditioner of the previous embodiments can be used in RVs,
cars, and board rooms.
[0067]      The foregoing description of the embodiments has been provided for purposes of
illustration and description. It is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the disclosure.

                                                -18
Claims
1.          An overhead air conditioner, comprising:
            a housing comprising a mounting cavity, said mounting cavity including an internal
circulation installation area for installing an air-conditioning internal circulation component
and an external circulation installation area for installing an air-conditioning external
circulation component, the housing including air inlets arranged on the housing and on a
side wall of the external circulation installation area, and an air outlet arranged on top of the
housing;
            the air-conditioning external circulation component which is mounted within the
external circulation installation area, the air-conditioning external circulation component
comprising an exhaust fan, the exhaust fan arranged within the housing and at a position of
the air outlet, the exhaust fan being offset from a bottom center of the external circulation
installation area with an interval between the exhaust fan and an inner bottom surface of the
housing, an axis of the exhaust fan being inclined from a bottom surface of the housing, the
exhaust fan having an axial split surface which is a plane passing through the axis of the
exhaust fan and whose intersecting line with the bottom of the housing is perpendicular to
the axis of the exhaust fan, a total area of the air inlets located on the axial split surface and
facing away from the inclined side being larger than a total area of the air inlets located on
the axial split surface and facing toward the inclined side; and
            the air-conditioning internal circulation component which is used for heat
exchanging, the air-conditioning internal circulation component arranged in the internal
circulation installation area.
2.          The overhead air conditioner of claim 1, wherein the housing has a quadrilateral
shape, the housing has a first side rim, a second side rim, a third side rim and a fourth side
rim located around the housing, the air inlet comprises a first grating grille provided on the
first side rim, a second air grille provided on the second side rim, and a third grating grille
provided on the third side rim, the first side rim and the third side rim are oppositely
arranged, an upper end of the exhaust fan is inclined towards the first grating grill, and the

                                                -19
exhaust fan is arranged on a side of a center plane of the second side rim and the fourth
side rim which is nearer to the first side rim.
3.         The overhead air conditioner of claim 2, wherein a baffle to guide air incoming
from the first grating grille, the second grating grille, and the third grating grille towards the
exhaust fan is arranged on the bottom surface of the housing.
4.         The overhead air conditioner of claim 1, wherein the air-conditioning internal
circulation component comprises:
           an inner cover arranged within the housing to form an internal circulation space
with the inner bottom surface of the housing, the inner cover comprising an internal
circulation outlet on the bottom surface of the housing;
           a wind fan fixed to the housing and arranged at the position of the internal
circulation outlet; and
           a wind guiding component including a mounting board and a air guide ring
arranged at a center of the mounting board, the mounting board fixed to the bottom of the
housing, an interval being formed between an inner side wall of the internal circulation outlet
and an outer wall of the wind fan, the air guide ring being inserted into the interval.
5.         The overhead air conditioner of claim 4, wherein the air-conditioning internal
circulation component further comprises:
           a baseplate fixed between a recreational vehicle roof and the bottom of the
housing and spaced from the bottom of the housing, the recreational vehicle roof
comprising a mounting port, a mounting gap being provided at a center of the baseplate, a
through-hole being provided at the bottom of the housing near the internal circulation outlet,
the space between the baseplate and the housing forming a first internal circulation gas flow
path which connects to the through-hole;
           an internal heat exchanger fixed to the inner bottom surface of the housing, the
internal heat exchanger being provided between the internal circulation outlet and the
through-hole; and

                                                - 20
            an air guide panel fixed to a lower end of the mounting board, wherein a second
internal circulation gas flow path is formed between an inner side wall of the mounting port
and an outer peripheral surface of the air guide ring, the first internal circulation gas flow
path is connected to the second internal circulation gas flow path, vias are provided on the
mounting board around the air guide ring, and the vias form a flow path exit of the second
internal circulation gas flow path.
6.          The overhead air conditioner of claim 4, wherein waterproof cotton is provided on
the inner side wall and the outer side wall of the air guide ring, the waterproof cotton within
the air guide ring is in close contact with the outer side wall of the wind fan, and the
waterproof cotton outside the air guide ring is in close contact with the inner side wall of the
internal circulation outlet.
7.          The overhead air conditioner of claim 4, wherein a lower end of the air guide ring
is in close contact with the inner surface of the air guide panel, an air flow exit is provided
on the air guide panel and inside the air guide ring, an adjustment component to adjust the
size of the air flow exit is provided on the air guide panel, and flow guide boards are
arranged on the air guide panel and on the two sides of the air flow exit.
8.          The overhead air conditioner of claim 7, wherein the adjustment component
comprises an adjusting board, the adjusting board comprises holes adapted to the air flow
exits, and the adjusting board is slidably connected with the air guide panel.
9.          The overhead air conditioner of claim 8, wherein snaps are arranged on the air
guide panel to form a chute, and the adjusting board is slidably connected within the chute.
10.         The overhead air conditioner of claim 1, wherein the angle between the axis of the
exhaust fan and the bottom surface of the housing is 70'~85', and the ratio of the total area
of air inlets on the axial split surface facing toward the inclined side to the total area of air
inlets on the axial split surface facing away from the inclined side is 0.55-0.85.

                      <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
Figure 2   Figure 1                              1/9

                      <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
Figure 4   Figure 3                              2/9

                      <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
Figure 6   Figure 5                              3/9

           <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
Figure 7                              4/9

                      <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
Figure 9   Figure 8                              5/9

            <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                       6/9
Figure 10

                7/9
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
              Figure 11
              Figure 12

                8/9
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
              Figure 13
              Figure 14

            <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                       9/9
Figure 15

