                                             Abstract
  A method for applying stones to metallic elements, particularly for the adhesive
  bonding of glass crystals to surfaces of tubular elements, which comprises the steps of
5 preparing an application surface (2) of a metallic element, spreading an adhesive
  medium (3) on the application surface (2) and making a single lateral face (4) of a first
  stone (5) to be applied adhere to the application surface (2). The axis of symmetry (10)
  of the first stone defines a first angle of intersection (8) with the application surface (2).
                                                               P93761.AU.2

                                           1
   METHOD FOR APPLYING STONES TO METALLIC ELEMENTS,
   PARTICULARLY         FOR      THE    ADHESIVE       BONDING        OF   GLASS
   CRYSTALS TO SURFACES OF TUBULAR ELEMENTS
   Technical field
 5        The present invention relates to a method for applying stones to
   metallic elements, particularly for the adhesive bonding of glass crystals to
   surfaces of tubular elements.
   Background Art
          Industrial and craftworker methods are known of setting stones,
10 especially glass crystals, in gold based metal alloys of different carat weight,
   which involve creating spaces in the resting surface that are adapted to
   receive the end portion of the stone.
          Creating the spaces is expensive and complicated given the fact that
   exceptional precision work is required and it involves a high loss of metal
15 due to mechanical working, with all the problems associated therewith,
   especially of economic nature.
          Moreover, with regard to the positioning of stones on items of jewelry
   worn on the finger, wrist and neck, given the fact that the depth of the
   spaces is proportional to the size of the stone, not all crystals can be set in
20 pieces of low thicknesses.
          This obviously means that it is impossible to set medium to large
   stones in pieces of gold ware that are relatively "light", i.e. having a weight
   of metal lower than 2-3 grams, and therefore it does not enable the
   manufacture of competitive items of jewelry.
25        The requirement to produce increasingly light gold ware, jewelry and
   silver ware products is particularly felt in the gold and silver smithing field,
   because of the continuing increase in the price of the base metal, which has
   more than doubled in recent years. Therefore a large market segment
   requires items of jewelry worn on the finger, wrist and neck, of low
30 thickness so as to keep the price of the product low.

                                          2
          In addition to this, nowadays customers are no longer content to have
   a few high-value pieces, but instead view articles of jewelry, gold ware and
   silver ware less as a safe asset and more as an accessory to go with what is
   being worn according to the occasion and circumstances.
 5 Disclosure of the Invention
          The aim of the present invention is to eliminate the above-mentioned
   drawbacks in conventional types of methods for applying stones to metallic
   elements, by providing a method for applying stones to metallic elements,
   particularly for the adhesive bonding of glass crystals to surfaces of tubular
10 elements, that enables the application of stones to metallic elements of low
   thickness, in particular the application of glass crystals to low-thickness
   products made of alloy of gold, silver or other precious metal, so as to keep
   the price of the item of jewelry low.
          Within this aim, an object of the invention is to provide a method for
15 applying stones to metallic elements, particularly for the adhesive bonding
   of glass crystals to surfaces of tubular elements, which firmly secures the
   stone to the application surface, without the danger of losing the stone.
          Another object of the invention is to provide a method for the
   application of stones to tubular elements that is aesthetically appreciable,
20 without the risk of damaging the item of jewelry or turning it opaque.
          Another object of the invention is to enable the manufacture of
   quality jewelry, with a method that is quick and simple.
          Another object of the invention is to provide a method for applying
   stones to metallic elements, particularly for the adhesive bonding of glass
25 crystals to surfaces of tubular elements, with means that are readily
   available on the market and using commonly used materials, so that the
   method is economically competitive.
          This aim and these and other objects which will become more
   apparent hereinafter, are achieved by a method for applying stones to
30 metallic elements, particularly for the adhesive bonding of glass crystals to

                                            3
   surfaces of tubular elements, according to the invention, characterized in
   that it consists in preparing the application surface of a metallic element, in
   spreading an adhesive medium on said application surface and in making a
   single lateral face of a first stone to be applied adhere to said application
 5 surface, the axis of symmetry of said first stone defining a first angle of
   intersection with said application surface.
   Brief description of the drawings
           Further characteristics and advantages of the invention will become
   more apparent from the description of a preferred, but not exclusive,
10 embodiment of the method for applying stones to metallic elements,
   particularly for the adhesive bonding of glass crystals to surfaces of tubular
   elements, illustrated by way of non-limiting example with the help of the
   accompanying drawing wherein the sole figure is a sectional view of the
   metallic element normal with respect to the application surface.
15 Ways of carrying out the Invention
           With reference to the figure, the method for applying stones to
   metallic elements, particularly for the adhesive bonding of glass crystals to
   surfaces of tubular elements, according to the invention, comprises the steps
   of:
20         - preparing the application surface 2 of a metallic element 9;
           - spreading an adhesive medium 3 on the surface 2;
           - making a single lateral face 4 of a first stone 5 to be applied adhere
   to the application surface 2, with the axis of symmetry 10 of the stone 5
   defining an angle of intersection 8 with the surface 2.
25         Advantageously, a final drying takes place at a temperature comprised
   between 40'C and 60'C, for a duration no less than two hours and no longer
   than three hours.
           After the drying a finishing step can be provided, which is known per
   se.
30         The stones are positioned one after the other, in succession.

                                             4
          With reference to Figure 1, the succession of stones involves the
   positioning of a second stone 6, which by means of the respective axis of
   symmetry 12 defines a second angle of intersection 11, next to the first stone
   5.
 5        The angle 11 will be the reversal of the first angle 8 of intersection
   about a vertical direction 7, which is normal with respect to the surface 2.
          A third stone, which forms a third angle of intersection with the
   surface 2, will in turn be positioned in such a way that this third angle is the
   reversal of the second angle 11 about the direction 7 and, at the same time,
10 is positioned parallel to the angle 8.
           Substantially, the stones (the first stone 5, the second stone 6 and the
   subsequently applied stones), are positioned one next to the other, almost
   forming a single body, on the surface 2 in an unusual position, laid on the
   lateral face 4, tracing a sort of zig-zag pattern.
15        Preparing the application surface can comprise a milling, or scraping,
   or diamond-cutting, or an abrasion of the surface 2, in order to increase its
   roughness. This surface preparation merely serves to increase the roughness
   of the application surface so as to increase the interface between the
   adhesive material and the metal and thus secure the stones more firmly to
20 the metallic element.
          Advantageously, the adhesive medium 3 consists of a base substance
   mixed with a curing agent and a flexibility increasing component.
          Preferably, the base substance consists of an epoxy resin enamel that
   is composed to at least 50% of polyglycol epichlorohydrin, the curing agent
25 consists of a compound which contains 2,2-dimethyl-4,4-methylene-bis
   cyclohexylamine at a concentration that can vary from 92 to 96% and the
   flexibility increasing component consists of a liquid solution based on a
   mixture of xylene isomers.
          Another essential characteristic of the invention consists in the fact
30 that the adhesive medium 3 used to apply stones to metallic elements,

                                            5
   particularly for the adhesive bonding of glass crystals to surfaces of tubular
   elements, is constituted to ten parts by weight by a base substance that
   consists of an epoxy resin enamel composed to at least 50% by polyglycol
   epichlorohydrin, mixed with four parts by weight of a curing agent which
 5 contains 2,2-dimethyl-4,4-methylene-bis-cyclohexylamine at a concentration
   that can vary from 92 to 96% and further mixed with one part of a flexibility
   increasing component that consists of a liquid solution based on a mixture
   of xylene isomers.
           A further characteristic of the invention is the fact that the adhesive
10 medium 3 is used in the field of silver ware, jewelry and gold ware, for the
   adhesive bonding of glass crystals to surfaces of tubular elements.
           The method for applying stones to metallic elements, particularly for
   the adhesive bonding of glass crystals to surfaces of tubular elements, first
   helps to avoid needless pre-embedding operations that would increase the
15 weight of the item of jewelry and enables the application of stones to
   jewelry, gold ware and silver ware products with super-low thicknesses,
    such as for example items of jewelry worn on the finger, wrist and neck.
           From the foregoing description it can thus be seen that the invention
   achieves the intended aim and objects and in particular attention is drawn to
20 the fact that a method is provided for applying stones to metallic elements
   that makes it possible to position the stones on low thicknesses, in particular
   the application of glass crystals to metallic elements made of alloy of gold,
    silver or other precious metal, with evident economic advantages owing to
   the continuous rise in the price of the metal (gold and silver in particular).
25         Another advantage of the invention is that it makes it possible to
   provide a method for applying stones to tubular elements, particularly for
   the adhesive bonding of glass crystals to surfaces of tubular elements, that is
   aesthetically appreciable, without the risk of damaging the item of jewelry
   or turning it opaque.
30         Another advantage of the method for applying stones to metallic

                                           6
   elements is that it allows the manufacture of quality jewelry with a method
   that is quick and simple.
           Last but not least, the use of means that are readily available on the
   market and the use of common materials ensure that the method is
 5 economically competitive.
           The   invention,   thus   conceived,   is  susceptible  of   numerous
   modifications and variations, all of which are within the scope of the
   appended claims.
           Moreover, all the details may be substituted by other, technically
10 equivalent elements.
           In practice the materials employed, and the dimensions, may be any
   according to requirements, as long as they are consistent with the
   implementation aim.
           The disclosures in Italian Patent Application No. AR2010A000029
15 from which this application claims priority are incorporated herein by
   reference.
           Where technical features mentioned in any claim are followed by
   reference signs, those reference signs have been included for the sole
   purpose of increasing the intelligibility of the claims and accordingly, such
20 reference signs do not have any limiting effect on the interpretation of each
   element identified by way of example by such reference signs.

                                          7
                                      CLAIMS
          1. A method for applying stones to metallic elements, particularly for
   the adhesive bonding of glass crystals to surfaces of tubular elements,
   characterized in that it comprises the steps of preparing an application
 5 surface (2) of a metallic element (9), spreading an adhesive medium (3) on
   said application surface (2) and making a single lateral face (4) of a first
   stone (5) to be applied adhere to said application surface (2), the axis of
   symmetry (10) of said first stone (5) defining a first angle of intersection (8)
   with said application surface (2).
10        2. The method according to claim 1, characterized in that it comprises
   at least one final drying at a temperature that is no lower than 40'C and no
   higher than 60'C.
          3. The method according to claim 2, characterized in that said at least
   one final drying is no less than two hours and no longer than three hours.
15        4. The method according to claim 1, characterized in that a succession
   of stones is positioned.
          5. The method according to one or more of the preceding claims,
   characterized in that said succession of stones consists in positioning a
   second stone (6), which defines a second angle of intersection (11) by
20 means of the respective axis of symmetry (12), next to said first stone (5),
   said second intersection angle (11) being a reversed angle with respect to
   said first intersection angle (8) about a vertical direction (7), which is
   normal with respect to said application surface (2).
          6. The method according to one or more of the preceding claims,
25 characterized in that said preparation of said application surface (2)
   comprises a milling.
          7. The method according to one or more of the preceding claims,
   characterized in that said adhesive medium comprises a base substance
   mixed with a curing agent and a flexibility increasing component.
30        8. The method according to one or more of the preceding claims,

                                           8
   characterized in that said base substance consists of an epoxy resin enamel
   that is composed to at least 50% by polyglycol epichlorohydrin.
           9. The method according to one or more of the preceding claims,
   characterized in that said curing agent consists of a compound that contains
 5 2,2-dimethyl-4,4-methylene-bis-cyclohexylamine at a concentration that can
   vary from 92 to 96%.
           10. The method according to one or more of the preceding claims,
   characterized in that said flexibility increasing component consists of a
   liquid solution based on a mixture of xylene isomers.
10         11. An adhesive medium for the application of stones to metallic
   elements, particularly for the adhesive bonding of glass crystals to surfaces
   of tubular elements, according to claim 5, characterized in that it consists by
   ten parts by weight of a base substance that consists of an epoxy resin
   enamel composed to at least 50% by polyglycol epichlorohydrin, mixed
15 with four parts by weight of a curing agent which contains 2,2-dimethyl-4,4
   methylene-bis-cyclohexylamine at a concentration that can vary from 92 to
   96% and further mixed with one part of a flexibility increasing component
   that consists of a liquid solution based on a mixture of xylene isomers.
           12. Use of an adhesive medium in the field of jewelry, gold ware and
20 silver ware, according to claim 11, for the adhesive bonding of glass crystals
   to surfaces of tubular elements.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
