                                        ABSTRACT
A shovel (1) includes a pan (2) having a base (3) and at least one enclosing side wall
(4). The side wall (4) has an open front portion (5) and a rear portion (6). A pan
actuator (9) is hingedly mounted to the rear portion of the side wall (6). A spade (10)
is pivotally mounted to the side wall (4). An elongate handle (12) is connected to the
spade (10) and extends away from it such that the handle (12) and the spade (10) are
maintained in a fixed orientation. The pan actuator (9) is moveable to rotate the pan
(2) between a closed position wherein the spade (10) is disposed over or adjacent the
pan open front portion (5) and an open position wherein the spade (10) is clear of the
pan open front portion (5).
5445A-AU                                    1

                        1/10
                24
      29
             22
         9
                   23
 10             25
 3                   26
           -        16
4   8    a          21

5445A-AU
                              AUSTRALIA
                             Patents Act 1990
                      COMPLETE SPECIFICATION
                        FORA STANDARD PATENT
                               ORIGINAL
Name of Applicant(s):                  Simon Mark ARCHER &
                                       William Robert ARCHER
Actual Inventor(s):                    Simon Mark ARCHER &
                                       William Robert ARCHER
Address for Service:                   FRASER OLD & SOHN
                                       Patent Attorneys
                                       PO Box 560
                                       MILSONS POINT NSW 1565
Invention Title:                       Shovel
                                     1

5445A-AU
                                        SHOVEL
Field of the Invention
The invention relates to shovels and, in particular, to shovels for clearing debris from
holes.
The invention has been developed primarily for clearing post holes or well holes and
will be described herein after with reference to these applications. It will be
appreciated, however, that the invention is not limited to these particular fields of use
and is applicable to clearing debris from any hole or pipe, inter alia.
Background Art
Commonly, post holes being of the order of a meter or more deep and half a metre or
more in diameter. Smaller holes are typically formed manually with the aid of a
shovel or petrol powered hand-held auger. Larger holes are formed with tractor or
truck mounted augers and these holes retain large posts and the like, for example,
power poles.
When shovels are employed to form post holes, the hole formed is wider than the
spade bit. This is because the shovel needs to be tipped to allow the spade to move
towards the horizontal to retain material to form the hole. However, once the hole
depth increases beyond about a spade depth, the hole must be significantly widened to
allow access. Material falls off the spade or from the hole walls or surrounds. This is
especially frustrating when digging holes in sand. A person clearing a shovel dug
hole by hand can only work up to about 70cm being the length of an arm.
When using an auger, it will be appreciate that unlike a shovel a substantially
uniformly wide hole is formed. In sandy ground particularly, debris returns off the
auger blade upon its removal and also from the upper perimeter of the hole. Post
holes, or wells, dug by augurs are typically much deeper than 70cm and clearing by
hand or shovel is impractical, especially for narrow holes of the order of 50cm.
To clear holes, two types of shovel have been developed. The first is in essence a pair
of shovels having elongate handles each with an opposed spade at an end thereof.
The spades are curved about the direction of elongation and the handles are hinged at
                                            2

5445A-AU
or adjacent the spades. Movement of the handles apart from a parallel position causes
the shovels to move towards each other and retain material. Movement of the handle
toward each other causes the spades to separate and extend substantially parallel.
Unfortunately this first type of post hole shovel is not particularly useful, especially in
sandy ground or sodden wet or sludgy material. This is because the spades are curved
and do not match relying on material compression to retain it and in any event the
handles can only open so far apart meaning the hole length can also limit the spade
size.
The second type of post hole shovel is a spade hingedly mounted on the end of an
elongate handle. The spade is rotated from a position where it extends substantially
parallel with the handle to a position where it is, most ideally, transverse. Whilst this
is a useful device, especially in preventing bending, it essentially mechanically
follows the action of a conventional shovel that is stabbed in parallel and then tipped
using mechanical advantage. To move the spade when laden perpendicular is difficult
and the spade only loosely retains sand or sodden or sludgy material.
Genesis of the Invention
The genesis of the invention is a desire to provide a post hole shovel overcoming one
or more of the disadvantages of the prior art, or to provide a useful alternative.
Summary of the Invention
In accordance with an aspect of the invention there is provided a shovel comprising:
        a pan having a base and at least one side wall, the side wall having a rear
portion and pan open front portion said sidewall at least partially enclosing said pan;
        a pan actuator hingedly mounted to, or adjacent to, a lower end of said rear
portion of the side wall;
        a spade mounted to the side wall;
        an elongate handle connected to the spade and extending away therefrom such
that the handle and the spade are maintained in a fixed orientation; and
        wherein the pan actuator is moveable to rotate the pan between a closed
position wherein said pan open front is substantially closed by the spade and an open
position wherein said pan open front is clear of said spade.
                                             3

5445A-AU
Preferably, the base is substantially square or rectangular. More preferably, the open
front portion extends along one edge of the base such that when the pan actuator is
moved to the open position the pan base at the open front portion and a lower edge of
the spade are substantially parallel.
In preferred embodiments, the pan includes a pair of opposed side walls extending
above the pan base intermediate the rear portion of the sidewall and the open front;
and an axle extending across the pan and mounted at each end to the opposed
sidewalls, the axle extending substantially parallel with the open front portion. More
preferably, the spade and the handle are mounted to the axle.
Preferably, the handle and the pan actuator are telescopic; or an end of the handle
distal from the spade and the pan actuator distal the pan rear portion are configured to
receive elongate handle extension sections.
In preferred embodiments, the shovel includes a latch movable between a latched
position wherein the latch is engaged with the pan to prevent rotation of the pan and
an unlatched position wherein the latch is moved clear of the pan.
The shovel 1 therefore advantageously allows the removal of debris from post holes
or well bores or the like, especially in sandy soil or with particularly loose debris or in
sodden or sludgy material since the pan 2 moves together with spade 16 to act as a
bucket. Further, in contrast to the prior art having a hinged bucket, the shovel 1
especially does not require a larger hole and the pan 2 can have relatively much larger
(ie pan base 3 area). Yet further, the shovel 1 does not pinch debris between spades as
the hinges pair of spade-type of prior art so as to be a more practical alternative
especially in sandy soils or sludge.
Brief Description of the Drawings
A preferred embodiment of the invention will now be described, by way of example
only, with reference to the accompanying drawings in which:
                                             4

5445A-AU
        Fig. 1 is a side view of the shovel according to the preferred embodiment in an
open position;
        Fig. 2 is a side view of the shovel of Fig. 1 in a closed position;
        Fig. 3 is a bottom view of part of the shovel of Fig. 1 in the open position;
        Fig. 4 is a bottom view of part of the shovel of Fig. 1 in the closed position;
        Fig. 5 is an elevated front view of part of the shovel Fig. 1 in a partly open
position;
        Fig. 6 is a side view of part of the shovel of Fig. 1 in the open position;
        Fig. 7 is an elevated top few of the shovel of Fig. 1 in a partly closed position;
        Fig. 8 is a front view of part of the shovel of Fig. 1 in the closed position;
        Fig. 9 is an elevated perspective view of part of the shovel of Fig. 1 in the
partly open position;
        Fig. 10 is an elevated perspective view of part of the shovel of Fig. 1 in the
closed position; and
        Fig. 11 is a rear elevated perspective view of part of the shovel of Fig. 1 in the
closed position.
Detailed Description
Referring to the drawings generally, the shovel 1 especially suited to clearing debris
from post holes and wells, for example, those dug in creek beds. The shovel 1
includes a metal pan 2 having a base 3 and a enclosing side wall 4 extending a
predetermined height above the base 3. The height of the side wall 4 need not be
constant. The pan 2 can be formed from any preferred metal or metal alloy, or any
other suitable material including plastics.
The enclosing side wall 4 includes a rear side wall portion 6 and a pair of opposed left
and right hand side walls 7 and 8 respectively. The side wall 4 has an open front
portion 5 disposed intermediate the left and right side walls 7 & 8. The rear portion 6
also extends intermediate the side walls 7 & 8.
A pan actuator 9 is mounted to lower end 10 of the rear portion 6 of the said side wall
4. The pan actuator 9 elongate and hingedly mounted at a lower end 11 to the pan 2
for movement in a plane substantially parallel with the sidewalls 6 & 7. The pan
                                              5

5445A-AU
actuator 9 extends upwardly away from the pan base 3 terminating at a manipulation
end 12.
In the preferred embodiment, it can be seen that the manipulation end 12 is in the
form of a handgrip and is contoured or shaped at a lower end about the rear wall 6 to
provide clearance for the rear wall 6. The rear wall 6 also includes a recess or cut-out
portion 13 at an upper end 14 thereof to accommodate the pan actuator 9.
An axle 15 extends across the pan 2 a predetermined height above the pan base 3 and
is rotatably mounted at each end to said left and right hand sidewalls 7 & 8. The axle
15 extends substantially parallel with the open front portion 5. A spade 16 is
connected to the axle 15 by means of a pair of arms 17 such that rotation of the axle
15 causes corresponding rotation of the spade 16.
It can be seen that the arms 17 are attached to left and right sides 18 & 19 of the axle
15. The arms 17 are substantially straight and attach to an upper end spade side walls
20 & 21.
An elongate handle 22 is connected to the axle 15 at a handle mounting end 23 and
extends upwardly away from the axle 15 terminating at a distal handle end 24. The
handle 22 and the spade 16 are maintained in a fixed orientation as shown in the
drawings of the preferred embodiment. A spade cover or extension 25 extends from
the top 26 of the spade 16 and terminates at the handle 2 a predetermined height
above the top 20 & 21 of the side walls 7 & 8.
The pan actuator 9 is moveable longitudinally so as to correspondingly to rotate the
pan 2 from the lower end 10 of the rear side wall 6 about the axle 15. In the preferred
embodiment, the actuator 9 is retained to handle 22 by means of retaining bracket 29
which allows the actuator 9 and handle 22 to move longitudinally relative to each
other. The pan 2 rotates between two positions. The first is a closed position (eg, Fig.
2) where the spade 16 is disposed adjacent the pan open front portion 6 and the
second an open position (eg, Fig. 1) wherein said spade is clear of said pan open front
portion.
                                            6

5445A-AU
In use, it can be seen that the spade advantageously enters a post hole or the like in the
open position and is moved into the closed position rotating the pan 2 rather than the
shovel 16 thereby retaining even sandy or very loose material. The shovel 1 further
does not require a post hole to be dug wider than it needs to be.
In the preferred embodiment, when the pan actuator 9 is moved longitudinally (away
from the base 3) to the open position the planes formed by the pan base 3 and the
spade 16 are substantially parallel. This allows the shovel 1 to be driven into loose
material and debris in a post hole. When moved into the closed position with
movement of the actuator 9 longitudinally (towards the base 3) the pan 2 rotates so
that the edge 27 of the base 2 along the open front portion 5 moves to meet the bottom
edge 28 of the spade 16 defining the closed position. Here, planes formed by the
spade 16 and the pan base 3 are substantially perpendicular and the spade acts to form
a barrier against collected debris falling from the open front portion 5 of the pan 2.
In the preferred embodiment shown and in the open position, edge 27 of the base 3
along the open front portion 5 and the lower edge 28 of said spade 16 are substantially
parallel and most preferably extend the same distance longitudinally from the distal
end 24 of the handle 22. The base 3 is substantially square or rectangular with curved
or bevelled corners. The side wall 4 extends substantially perpendicularly from the
base 3 and is correspondingly shaped at the comers.
It can therefore be seen that the shovel 1 allows the significantly more efficient
removal of debris from post holes or the like, especially in sandy soil or with
particularly loose debris whereby the pan 2 together with spade 16 act as a bucket.
Most advantageously, the shovel 1 can be used to remove debris from sodden or
sludgy holes or wells and is significantly relatively more efficient than the prior art
shovels.
In contrast to the prior art having a hinged bucket, the shovel 1 especially does not
require a larger hole and the pan 2 can be relatively much larger (ie pan base 3 area).
Further, the shovel 1 does not pinch debris between spades as the hinges pair of
                                              7

5445A-AU
spade-type of prior art so as to be a more practical alternative especially in sandy
soils. It will be appreciated that the spade 16 in the preferred embodiment shown is
kept substantially vertical in both the open and closed positions (and in-between)
allowing a digging motion.
Yet further, the movement of actuator 9 longitudinally and particularly towards the
pan 2 when closing provides a mechanically less arduous motion that the hinged
spade prior art allowing a greater load of debris to be removed. Although the comers
of the side wall 4 are rounded or bevelled, the corners where side walls 7 & 8 meet the
front open portion 5 are preferably substantially square (and the spade 16
correspondingly shaped) to allow the pan 2 (as well as spade 16) to also be used in a
digging motion.
Although not illustrated, it will be understood that the shovel 1 can be adapted to
reach to the bottom of deeper holes. For example, the handle 2 at the handle distal
end 24 and the pan actuator 9 at the pan actuator manipulation end 12 can be
configured to receive handle and actuator extensions respectively. This may be by
longitudinal end to end attachment by means of threaded portions at ends 24 & 12 to
receive and thereby retain corresponding threaded portions at an end of each
longitudinal extension.
Of course, the extensions may be connected longitudinally by any preferred
conventional means such as by keyed engagement or the use of brackets or clamps.
Further, the handle 22 and the actuator 9 may be telescopic whereby one or more
respective longitudinal extensions are nested therein.
It will be further appreciated that although also not illustrated, the shovel 1 can
include a latch mechanism having one or more latches that are movable between a
latched position and an unlatched position. In the latched position the latch(es) is
engaged with the pan 2 to prevent its rotation (especially towards the closed position).
In the unlatched position the latch is moved clear of the pan 2 to allow its rotation in
response to (actuation of) the actuator 9.
                                             8

5445A-AU
In embodiments using a latching mechanism (most useful when handle extension are
employed) a latch actuator is preferably disposed on or adjacent the handle distal end
24 (or equivalent on any handle 22 extension). In the alternative, the latch actuator
can be disposed on the pan actuator 9 at the pan actuator manipulation end 12 (or
equivalent on any pan actuator extension). Most preferably, the latch(es) are spring
loaded or otherwise resiliently biased towards the unlatched position. This way, once
the shovel 1 is down a hole and the latch actuator is actuated, the bias on the latch(es)
would force the latch(es) to disengage.
It will also be appreciated that whilst the handle 22 is connected to the axle 15 it can
be suitably shaped if necessary to rotatably mount directly to the sidewalls 7 & 8 or to
the spade 16 preferably at or adjacent top edge 26.
The foregoing describes only one embodiment of the present invention and
modifications, obvious to those skilled in the art, can be made thereto without
departing from the scope of the present invention.
The term "comprising" (and its grammatical variations) as used herein is used in the
inclusive sense of "including" or "having" and not in the exclusive sense of
"consisting only of'.
                                             9

5445A-AU
CLAIMS
1.      A shovel comprising:
        pan having a base and at least one side wall, said side wall having a rear
portion and a pan open front portion said sidewall at least partially enclosing said pan;
        a pan actuator hingedly mounted to, or adjacent to, a lower end of said rear
portion of said side wall;
        a spade mounted to said side wall;
        an elongate handle connected to said spade and extending away therefrom
such that said handle and said spade are maintained in a fixed orientation; and
        wherein said pan actuator is moveable to rotate said pan between a closed
position wherein said pan open front is substantially closed by said spade and an open
position wherein said pan open front is clear of said spade.
2.      A shovel according to claim 1 wherein when said pan actuator is moved to
said open position, said pan base and said spade are substantially parallel, and when
said pan actuator is moved to said closed position said spade and said pan base are
substantially perpendicular.
3.      A shovel according to claim 1 or 2 wherein said base is substantially square or
rectangular and said open front portion extends along one edge of said base such that
when said pan actuator is moved to said open position said pan base at said open front
portion and a lower edge of said spade are substantially parallel.
4.      A shovel according to claim 2 or 3 wherein said pan includes a pair of opposed
side walls extending above said pan base intermediate said rear portion of said
sidewall and said open front; and an axle extending from one pan side wall to the
other side wall and said axle being mounted to said opposed sidewalls.
5.      A shovel according to claim 4 wherein said axle extends substantially parallel
to said open front portion.
6.      A shovel according to claim 4 or 5 wherein said spade and said handle are
mounted to said axle.
7.      A shovel according to any one of claims 1 to 6 wherein said pan actuator is
elongate and extends substantially parallel to said handle such that said actuator is
longitudinally movable between said closed and open positions.
8.      A shovel according to any one of claims I to 7 wherein said handle and said
pan actuator are telescopic.
                                           10

5445A-AU
9.       A shovel according to any one of claims 1 to 7 wherein an end of said handle
distal from said spade and said pan actuator distal said pan rear portion are configured
to receive elongate handle extension sections.
10.      A shovel according to any one of claims I to 9 including a latch movable
between a latched position wherein said latch is engaged with said pan to prevent
rotation of said pan and an unlatched position wherein said latch is moved clear of
said pan.
11.      A shovel according to claim 10 including a latch actuator disposed on or
adjacent said handle distal from said spade.
12.      A shovel according to claim 10 including a latch actuator disposed on said pan
actuator distal said pan rear portion.
13.      A shovel according to any one of claims 10 to 12 wherein said latch is
resiliently biased towards said unlatched position.
Dated this  1 2 th day of March 2018
                                       SIMON MARK ARCHER AND WILLIAM
                                       ROBERT ARCHER
                                       By
                                       FRASER OLD & SOHN
                                       Patent Attorneys for the Applicants
                                           11

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
