ABSTRACT
Methods and systems for training an operator. One system includes a computing
device including a processing unit and computer-readable            medium.             The
computer-readable    medium stores a training simulator application that is
configured to receive an operating command from the operator, generate a
simulated working environment and a simulated wheel loader having a simulated
bucket, and generate an indicator providing depth-related information to an
operator relating to a position of at least a portion of the simulated wheel loader
with respect to a point-of-reference within the simulated working environment.
The training simulator application is further configured to output the simulated
working   environment and the indicator for display to the operator, and
automatically modify the indicator based on a position of the simulated wheel
loader with respect to the point-of-reference.
                                                                      10216656_1 (GHMatters) P94396.AU.5

    LU
    -j
    cc
    0
       _ OD _ C k
        UL
CDN

                                             -1
                DEPTH-RELATED HELP FUNCTIONS FOR A
                 WHEEL LOADER TRAINING SIMULATOR
RELATED APPLICATIONS
[0001]      This application is a divisional application of Australian Patent
Application <removed-apn> (the parent), which in turn is a divisional application of
Australian Patent Application 2014202349 (the grandparent). The entire
disclosures of both the parent and grandparent are incorporated herein by
reference.
BACKGROUND
[0002]       This invention relates to methods and systems for training operators
of industrial machines, such as shovels and wheel loaders in a simulated
environment.
SUMMARY
[0003]      Industrial machines, such as electric rope or power shovels, draglines,
wheel loaders, etc., are used to execute digging operations to remove material
from, for example, a bank of a mine. For example, an operator controls a shovel
or a wheel loader during a dig operation to load a dipper with materials.                 The
operator deposits the materials in the dipper into a haul truck. After unloading the
materials, the dig cycle continues and the operator swings the dipper back to the
bank to perform additional digging.
[0004]      Given the high cost of the industrial machines and the value of
efficient and cost-effective operation of the machines, properly training an
operator is important. However, based on these same parameters, providing real
world or on-site training for operators is difficult.     Therefore, computer-based
training simulators can be used to train operators.      Computer-based simulators
                                                                        10216656_1 (GHMatters) P94396.AU.5

                                             -2
generate a simulated training environment that provides a simulated machine,
such as a simulated shovel and/or a simulated wheel loader, and a simulated
working environment.       The training environment is displayed on at least one
monitor or screen.       The monitor or screen, however, is two-dimensional.
Therefore, it is difficult to provide proper depth perspectives within the training
environment. Even when the training environment is generated and displayed in
three-dimensions (using computer-based technology), the two-dimensional nature
of the monitor or screen limits the ability to properly display depth.
[0005]      Depth is an important aspect of operating an industrial machine in a
real-world environment. For example, when operating a shovel, an operator must
properly position the dipper with respect to the bank to prevent digging beneath
the level-grade plane of the bank. In addition, an operator must properly position
the dipper over the bed of the haul truck to ensure materials in the dipper are
deposited into the truck. Similarly, when operating a wheel loader, an operator
must properly position the wheel loader's bucket with respect to a haul truck and
must keep a level when digging. Furthermore, when operating the wheel loader,
an operator controls various operations of the bucket (e.g., height, position, angle,
etc.) that must be performed properly to ensure proper operation of the wheel
loader.   Without having proper depth perspectives for these tasks, a training
simulator may not properly train an operator to perform these and other tasks with
a shovel or a wheel loader.
[0006]      Therefore, embodiments of the invention provide methods for training
an operator of a shovel.     One method includes generating, with a processor, a
simulated training environment including a simulated shovel having a simulated
dipper and displaying an indicator within the simulated training environment
marking at least a portion of a low-grade plane.          The method also includes
determining if at least a portion of the simulated dipper is below the low-grade
plane based on a position of the dipper within the simulated training environment,
and, when at least a portion of the simulated dipper is below the low-grade plane,
providing at least one warning to an operator of the simulated shovel.
                                                                       10216656_1 (GHMatters) P94396.AU.5

                                           -3
[0007]      Another method includes generating, with a processor, a simulated
training environment including a simulated haul truck and a simulated shovel
having a simulated dipper and displaying an indicator within the simulated
training environment of at least a portion of a swing path of the simulated dipper.
The method also includes determining if the simulated dipper is positioned within
a predetermined distance from the simulated haul truck, and alerting the operator
when the simulated dipper is positioned within the predetermined distance from
the simulated haul truck.
[0008]      A further embodiment of the invention provides a system for training
an operator. The system includes a computing device including a processing unit
and computer-readable medium. The computer-readable medium stores a training
simulator application. The training simulator application, when executed by the
processing unit, is configured to (i) receive an operating command from the
operator, (ii) generate a simulated working environment and a simulated shovel
having a simulated dipper, the simulated shovel and the simulated dipper
positioned within the simulated working environment based on the operating
command, (iii) generate an indicator providing depth-related information to an
operator relating to a position of the simulated dipper with respect to a point-of
reference within the simulated working environment, and (iv) output the
simulated working environment and the indicator to at least one output device for
display to the operator.
[0009]      Yet another embodiment of the invention provides a method for
training an operator of a wheel loader. The method includes generating, with a
processor, a two-dimensional simulated training environment representative of a
three-dimensional working environment, the simulated working environment
including a simulated haul truck and a simulated wheel loader having a simulated
bucket, detecting the position of at least a portion of the simulated wheel loader
with respect to a reference within the two-dimensional simulated working
environment, determining depth-related information corresponding to the detected
position, and generating and displaying an indicator within the simulated training
                                                                     10216656_1 (GHMatters) P94396.AU.5

                                           -4
environment marking a recommended maneuver of the simulated wheel loader to
interact with the simulated bucket based on the depth-related information. The
method also includes determining if the simulated wheel loader is following the
recommended maneuver, and when the simulated wheel loader is not following
the recommended maneuver, providing at least one warning to an operator of the
simulated wheel loader.
[0010]     An embodiment of the invention also provides a method for training an
operator of a wheel loader that includes generating, with a processor, a two
dimensional simulated training environment representative of a three-dimensional
working environment, the simulated working environment including a simulated
haul truck and a simulated wheel loader having a simulated bucket, the simulated
wheel loader and the simulated bucket positioned and movable within the
simulated working environment in response to operating commands issued by the
operator through use of an input device, and, when an operator operates the input
device to cause the simulated wheel loader to load material into the simulated
bucket, detecting the position of at least a portion of the simulated wheel loader
with respect to a reference within the two-dimensional simulated working
environment, determining depth-related information corresponding to the detected
position, and displaying an indicator within the simulated training environment
marking a recommended angle of the simulated bucket based on the depth-related
information. The method also includes determining if the simulated bucket is
positioned at the recommended angle, and alerting the operator when the
simulated bucket is not positioned at the recommended angle.
[0011]     In addition, an embodiment of the invention provides a system for
training an operator. The system includes a computing device that includes a
processing unit, computer-readable medium that stores a training simulator
application, a display device, and an input device in communication with the
computing device and controllable by an operator for issuing operating commands
in the training simulator application. The training simulator application, when
executed by the processing unit, is configured generate a two-dimensional
                                                                     10216656_1 (GHMatters) P94396.AU.5

                                             -5
simulated working environment representative of a three-dimensional working
environment on the display device, the simulated working environment including
a simulated wheel loader having a simulated bucket, the simulated wheel loader
and the simulated bucket positioned and movable within the simulated working
environment in response to operating commands issued by the operator through
use of the input device. The training simulator application is further configured to
detect the position of at least a portion of the simulated wheel loader with respect
to   a   point-of-reference    within   the   two-dimensional    simulated       working
environment, determine depth-related information corresponding to the detected
position, generate and display an indicator having a physical attribute to convey
the depth-related information, and automatically modify at least one selected from
the group comprising a color, size, shape, pattern, and animation of the indicator
when the position of at least the portion of the simulated wheel loader with respect
to the point-of-reference changes to convey a corresponding change in depth.
[0012]      Other aspects of the invention will become apparent by consideration
of the detailed description and accompanying drawings.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0013]       The patent or application file contains at least one drawing executed in
color. Copies of this patent or patent application publication with color drawing(s)
will be provided by the Office upon request and payment of the necessary fee.
[0014]       FIG. 1 illustrates a system for training an operator according to an
embodiment of the invention.
[0015]       FIGS.    2-4   are  screen shots    illustrating  a simulated         training
environment generated by the system of FIG. 1.
[0016]       FIGS. 5a-c and 6a-b are screen shots illustrating a level-grade
detection function generated by the system of FIG. 1.
                                                                        10216656_1 (GHMatters) P94396.AU.5

                                           -6
[00171      FIGS. 7a-b, 8a-c, and 9a-d are screen shots illustrating a shovel-to
truck alignment function generated by the system of FIG. 1.
[00181      FIGS. 1Oa-d are screen shots illustrating a bucket-height help function
generated by the system of FIG. 1.
[0019]      FIGS. 11 a-c are screen shots illustrating a loader-turn help function
generated by the system of FIG. 1.
[0020]      FIGS. 12a-b are screen shots illustrating a loader-to-truck alignment
function generated by the system of FIG. 1.
[0021]      FIGS. 13a-b are screen shots illustrating a level-grade help function
generated by the system of FIG. 1.
[0022]      FIGS. 14a-b are screen shots illustrating a bucket-angle help function
generated by the system of FIG. 1.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION
[00231      Before any embodiments of the invention are explained in detail, it is
to be understood that the invention is not limited in its application to the details of
construction and the arrangement of components set forth in the following
description or illustrated in the following drawings. The invention is capable of
other embodiments and of being practiced or of being carried out in various
ways. Also, the methods, operations, and sequences described herein can be
performed in various orders. Therefore, unless otherwise indicated herein, no
required order is to be implied from the order in which elements, steps, or
limitations are presented in the detailed description or claims of the present
application. Also unless otherwise indicated herein, the method and process steps
described herein can be combined into fewer steps or separated into additional
steps.
                                                                        10216656_1 (GHMatters) P94396.AU.5

                                            -7
[00241      In addition, it is to be understood that the phraseology and
terminology used herein is for the purpose of description and should not be
regarded as limited. The use of "including," "comprising" or "having" and
variations thereof herein is meant to encompass the items listed thereafter and
equivalents thereof as well as additional items.            The terms "mounted,"
"connected" and "coupled" are used broadly and encompass both direct and
indirect mounting, connecting and coupling. Further, "connected" and "coupled"
are not restricted to physical or mechanical connections or couplings, and can
include electrical connections or couplings, whether direct or indirect. Also,
electronic communications and notifications may be performed using any known
means including direct connections, wireless connections, etc.
[0025]      It should also be noted that a plurality of hardware and software based
devices, as well as a plurality of different structural components may be used to
implement the invention. In addition, it should be understood that embodiments
of the invention may include hardware, software, and electronic components or
modules that, for purposes of discussion, may be illustrated and described as if the
majority of the components were implemented solely in hardware. However, one
of ordinary skill in the art, and based on a reading of this detailed description,
would recognize that, in at least one embodiment, the electronic based aspects of
the invention may be implemented in software (e.g., stored on non-transitory
computer-readable medium) executable by one or more processors. As such, it
should be noted that a plurality of hardware and software based devices, as well as
a plurality of different structural components may be utilized to implement the
invention. For example, "controllers" described in the specification can include
standard processing components, such as one or more processors, one or more
computer-readable medium modules, one or more input/output interfaces, and
various connections (e.g., a system bus) connecting the components.
[0026]      FIG. 1 illustrates a system for training an operator according to an
embodiment of the invention.        The system includes a computing device 10
including combinations of hardware and software operable to, among other things,
                                                                      10216656_1 (GHMatters) P94396.AU.5

                                             -8
generate a simulated training environment that provides a simulated shovel and a
simulated working environment. As illustrated in FIG. 1, the computing device
 10 includes, among other things, a processing unit 12 (e.g., a microprocessor, a
microcontroller,   or another suitable programmable device), non-transitory
computer-readable medium 14, and an input/output interface 16. The processing
unit 12, the medium 14, and the input/output interface 16 are connected by one or
more control and/or data buses (e.g., a common bus 18). The control and/or data
buses are shown generally in FIG. 1 for illustrative purposes.
[00271       It should be understood that in other constructions, the computing
device 10 includes additional, fewer, or different components. It should also be
understood that the computing device 10 can include a general purpose computer
that executes various modules or applications stored in the medium 14. In other
embodiments, the computing device 10 includes a server that executes various
modules or applications, and other devices connect to the server (e.g., over at least
one network) to provide input to and access output from the server. In still other
embodiments, the computing device 10 is a dedicated device providing simulated
training and is included as part of a console that includes mock shovel interiors
mounted on a platform to simulate an actual shovel.
[0028]       The computer-readable medium 14 stores program instructions and
data and, in particular, stores a training simulator application 19. The processing
unit 12 is configured to retrieve the application 19 from the medium 14 and
execute the application 19 to generate a simulated training environment that
includes a simulated machine, such as a shovel and/or a wheel loader, and a
simulated working environment as described below. The input/output interface
 16 transmits data from the computing device 10 to external systems, networks,
and/or devices and receives data from external systems, networks, and/or devices.
The input/output interface 16 can also store data received from external sources to
the medium 14 and/or provide the data to the processing unit 12.
                                                                      10216656_1 (GHMatters) P94396.AU.5

                                             -9
[00291        As illustrated in FIG. 1, the input/output interface 16 communicates
with at least one input device 20.        The input device 20 can include a device
controlled by an operator to issue operating commands for the simulated machine
(e.g., propel shovel, swing dipper, hoist dipper, crowd dipper, dump materials
from dipper, etc.) and/or select operating parameters for the simulated working
environment (e.g., camera view, shovel type, mine type, weather, time of day,
etc.).  For example, the input device 20 can include a keyboard, a joystick, a
mouse, a touchscreen, a trackball, tactile buttons, a pedal, etc.               In some
embodiments, the input device 20 includes similar control devices as included in
an actual machine. The input device 20 can be connected to the computing device
 10 via one or more wired connections (e.g., a universal serial bus ("USB") cable)
and/or wireless connections. In some embodiments, when the computing device
 10 acts as a server that hosts the training simulator, the input device 20 includes a
computing device that accesses the server over at least one network (e.g., a local
area network ("LAN") or the Internet).
[0030]        The input/output interface 16 also communicates with at least one
output device 22. The output device 22 can include at least one monitor or screen
(e.g., a liquid crystal display ("LCD") monitor) that displays the generated
simulated training environment to the operator. In some embodiments, the output
device 22 includes multiple screens that provide the operator with a wide view of
the training environment. The output device 22 can also include a projector that
projects the generated training environment on at least one surface. The output
device 22 can also include a device that provides audible or tactile feedback to the
operator. For example, the output device 22 can include one or more speakers
that provide audible warnings or realistic worksite sounds to the operator. The
output device 22 can also include a vibration device that provides tactile feedback
to the operator (e.g., indicating a collision or impact). In some embodiments, the
output device 22 also includes a movable chair that moves (e.g., using hydraulic
mechanisms) to provide the operator with a realistic training experience.                   As
described above for the input device, the output device 22 can be connected to the
                                                                        10216656_1 (GHMatters) P94396.AU.5

                                           -10
computing device 10 via one or more wired connections and/or wireless
connections.
[0031]        It should be understood that in some embodiments a device can be
connected to the input/output interface 16 that operates as both an input device 20
and an output device 22. For example, a touchscreen can be used that displays a
simulated training environment to an operator and receives commands or
selections from the operator. In addition, when the computing device 10 operates
as a server that hosts the training simulator application 19, devices accessing the
server operate as both an input device 20 and an output device 22.
[0032]        As mentioned above, the computing device 10 executes the training
simulator application 19 to generate a simulated training environment. FIGS. 2-4
are screen shots illustrating a simulated training environment generated by the
application 19 according to embodiments of the invention. As illustrated in FIGS.
2-4, the training environment can include a simulated shovel 50, which includes a
simulated dipper 55.     The simulated shovel 50 is displayed within a simulated
working environment (e.g., a simulated surface mine), which can include other
vehicles and objects, such as a simulated haul truck 60. As illustrated in FIGS. 2
4, the application 19 can display the simulated training environment from multiple
camera views or perspectives.
[0033]        To provide    depth perspectives     within the simulated training
environment, the application 19 includes instructions and data for providing
various depth-related help functions.        The help functions provide various
indicators (e.g., visual, audible, tactile, etc.) within the simulated training
environment to aid the operator in judging depth and operating the shovel 50
accordingly. One help function provided by the application 19 includes a level
grade detection function.     The level-grade detection function detects when an
operator is digging with the simulated dipper 55 beneath the level-grade plane 65
(e.g., the ground the shovel 50 sits on) within the simulated training environment.
In a real-world situation, if an operator digs lower than the level-grade plane, a
                                                                      10216656_1 (GHMatters) P94396.AU.5

                                             - 11
ditch is formed in the ground supporting the shovel and the shovel can sink into
the ditch, which creates an unsafe situation for the operator and the shovel.
[0034]        As illustrated in FIGS. 5a-c, the level-grade detection function
provided by the application 19 displays an indicator 80 within the simulated
environment marking at least a portion of the level-grade plane 65.               In some
embodiments, the application 19 displays the indicator 80 adjacent to a side wall
or bank 90 where an operator should dig. The indicator 80 helps operators gain
perspective when trying to place teeth of the dipper 55 in the appropriate area of
the bank 90. As illustrated in FIGS. 5a-c, the indicator 80 can include an area of
colored highlighting overlaying or replacing a portion of the ground or surface
where the shovel 50 is digging (e.g., in a color different from the color of the
ground or surface).    In other embodiments, the indicator 80 can include a marker
or symbol, an outline or line, or animation (e.g., flashing colors, lines, or shapes)
in place of or in addition to the highlighted area.
[0035]        As the    operator    moves the      dipper   55 within   the     simulated
environment (e.g., using one or more input devices 20), the application 19 detects
whether a portion of the dipper 55 (e.g., a teeth of the dipper 55) is positioned
lower or beneath the level-grade plane 65.       If the operator moves a portion of the
simulated dipper 55 beneath the level-grade plane 65, the application 19 provides
a warning to the operator. In some embodiments, the application 19 changes the
indicator 80 (e.g., color, size, shape, pattern, or animation) to provide a warning to
the operator. For example, if the dipper 55 is not positioned beneath the level
grade plane 65, the application 19 displays the indicator 80 in a first color (e.g.,
green) (see FIGS. 5a-c). If at least a portion of the dipper 55 is positioned beneath
the level-grade plane 65, the application 19 displays the indicator 80 in a second
color (e.g., red) (see FIGS. 6a-b). Also, in some embodiments, the application 19
gradually fades the indicator 80 from one color to another depending on the
position of the dipper 55 relative to the level-grade plane 65.      For example, the
application 19 can gradually fade the indicator 80 from a first color into a second
color such that the color of the indicator 80 approaches the second color the lower
                                                                         10216656_1 (GHMatters) P94396.AU.5

                                             -12
the operator positions the dipper 55 beneath the level-grade plane 65.                     The
application 19 can also use multiple colors to inform the operator of how far the
dipper 55 is positioned above, at, or beneath the level-grade plane. Therefore, one
of the operator's goals can be to keep the indicator 80 as close to a particular color
as possible by placing the dipper's teeth at the seam of the level-ground plane 65
and the bank 90.
[0036]       Alternatively or in addition, the application 19 can be configured to
use features of the indicator 80 other than color to alert an operator when the
dipper 55 is positioned lower than the plane 65. For example, the application 19
can be configured to change the size, pattern, shape, or animation (e.g., flash or
pulse the indicator) of the indicator 80 when the dipper 55 is positioned lower
than the plane 65.     In addition to or alternatively to using the indicator 80 to
provide a warning to the operator, the application 19 can be configured to display
a visual warning within the simulated environment (e.g., text-based warnings,
additional color highlighting of the dipper 55, shovel 50, and/or environment)
and/or generate an audible or tactile warning to alert the operator that the dipper
55 is positioned below grade.
[00371       It should be understood that in some embodiments, the application 19
only provides the indicator 80 (or otherwise provides the operator with a warning
or other feedback) when the operator positions the simulated dipper 55 beneath
the level-grade plane 65. For example, if the dipper 55 is not positioned below
grade, the application 19 may not display the indicator 80.
[0038]       In addition to or alternatively to the level-grade detection function, the
application 19 can provide a shovel-alignment depth-related function.                    This
function helps an operator align the dipper 55 with other objects in the simulated
working environment or to avoid other objects in the simulated working
environment as the dipper 55 swings. For example, an operator can use the shovel
alignment function to align the dipper 55 with a simulated haul truck 60 to ensure
that materials from the dipper 55 are properly deposited into the truck 60. As
                                                                         10216656_1 (GHMatters) P94396.AU.5

                                            - 13
illustrated in FIGS. 7a-b, to provide this function, the application 19 displays an
indicator 100. The indicator 100 marks at least a portion of a swing path of the
dipper 55 (e.g., a path of the center of the dipper 55).         If the indicator 100
intersects or overlaps with an object within the simulated working environment,
an operator knows that the object will overlap with the dipper 55 in at least one
dimension (e.g., depth) if the dipper 55 is swung to that location (e.g., without
otherwise moving the shovel 50). As illustrated in FIGS. 7a-b, the indicator 100
can be a circular outline. In still other embodiments, the indicator 100 can include
a marker or symbol, a shape or area, or animation (e.g., flashing colors, lines, or
shapes) in place of or in addition to the circular outline.
[0039]        The application 19 can alert the operator when the dipper 55 is
aligned with another object in the simulated working environment. For example,
the application 19 can modify the indicator 100 (e.g., color, size, shape, pattern, or
animation) depending on the position of the dipper 55 with respect to other
objects in the simulated working environment.               In one embodiment, the
application 19 displays the indicator 100 in a first color (e.g., green) when the
operator positions the dipper 55 within a predetermined distance from the center
of the truck bed of a simulated haul truck 60 (see FIGS. 8a-c). If the dipper 55 is
not positioned within the predetermined distance from the center of the truck bed,
the application 19 displays the indicator 100 in a second color (e.g., red) (see
FIGS. 9a-d).
[0040]        In some embodiments, the application 19 uses multiple thresholds and
multiple colors to convey depth information to the operator using the indicator
 100. For example, if the dipper 55 is not within a first predetermined distance
from the center of the truck bed (e.g., approximately 50 feet), the application 19
displays the indicator 100 in a first color (e.g., red).      When the dipper 55 is
positioned within a second predetermined distance from the center of the truck
(e.g., approximately 25 feet) but not within a third, shorter predetermined distance
from the center of the truck bed (e.g., approximately 2 feet), the application 19
displays the indicator 100 in a second color (e.g., yellow).        Finally, when the
                                                                        10216656_1 (GHMatters) P94396.AU.5

                                           - 14
dipper 55 is positioned within the third predetermined distance from the center of
the truck bed, the application 19 displays the indicator 100 in a third color (e.g.,
green). Similarly, the application 19 may use the color of the indicator 100 to
convey to the operator whether the dipper 55 needs to be moved forward or
backward to be properly aligned with the center of the truck bed. The application
 19 may also display one or more indicators (e.g., arrows or text-based messages)
in addition to the indicator 100 to inform the operator whether the dipper 55 needs
to be moved forward or backward to be properly aligned with the center of the
truck bed.
[0041]       In some embodiments, the application 19 also changes the dipper 55
or other portions of the shovel 50 to further emphasize the current relationship
between the dipper 55 and the truck 60. For example, as illustrated in FIGS. 8a-c
and 9a-d, the application 19 can change the color of the dipper 55 to match the
current color of the indicator 100. Alternatively or in addition, the application 19
can be configured to use features other than a color of the indicator 100 to inform
the operator when the dipper 55 is properly and/or improperly positioned to load a
truck 60 (e.g., using flashing or other animation, text-based messages, audible
feedback, tactile feedback, etc).      Also, as illustrated in FIG. 9a, in some
embodiments, the application 19 displays a centerline 120 on the truck 60, which
the operator can align with the indicator 100 to position the dipper 55 over a
center of the truck 60. The application 19 can also change the color or other
features of the centerline 120 based on whether or not the dipper 55 is positioned
within a predetermined distance from the centerline 120.
[0042]       In some embodiments, the computing device 10 (e.g., the application
 19) can be configured to provide training for wheel loaders. In particular, the
application 19 can generate a simulated training environment including a
simulated wheel loader 200 having a simulated bucket 202.           As part of this
training, the application 19 can be configured to provide one or more help
functions (e.g., depth-related help functions). The help functions provide various
indicators (e.g., visual, audible, tactile, etc.) within the simulated training
                                                                      10216656_1 (GHMatters) P94396.AU.5

                                            - 15
environment to aid the operator in judging depth and operating the wheel loader
200 accordingly.     For example, the application 19 can provide a bucket-height
help function.    As illustrated in FIGS. 10a-d, the application 19 can display a
height line 203. In some embodiments, the height line 203 is superimposed on the
top of a side of a simulated haul truck 60 (e.g., the side closest the wheel loader
200) (see, e.g., FIG. 10a) or on the underside of lift arms 204 supporting the
bucket 202 (see, e.g., FIGS. 10b-d). The application 19 can change the color or
other features (e.g., animation, brightness, size, shape, etc.) of the height line 203
based on whether the bucket 202 (e.g., the parallel lift arms 204) are at or above
the height of a simulated haul truck 60. For example, when the lift arms 204 are
not above the height, the application 19 displays the height line 203 in a first color
(e.g., red, see FIG. 10d) and changes the line 203 to a second color (e.g., green,
see FIGS. 10a-b) when the lift arms 204 are at or above the height. Also, in some
embodiments, when the lift arms 204 are close to the appropriate height, the line
203 changes to a third color (e.g., orange, see FIG. 10c). Ensuring the lift arms
204 are at least at the height of the truck 60 helps ensure that material included in
the bucket 202 is properly deposited into the truck 60.
[00431        The application 19 can also provide a loader-turn help function. After
a wheel loader scoops materials with the bucket, the wheel loader backups and
turns to face the haul truck. There is an optimal path for performing this backup
and-turn maneuver (e.g., to ensure that the wheel loader (e.g., the bucket) does not
impact the ground, the bank, the truck, etc.). Therefore, in some embodiments,
the loader-turn help function helps an operator learn how far to back-up and/or
when to turn to face the haul truck after digging.        In some embodiments, to
provide the loader-turn help function, the application 19 generates one or more
direction markers 210 that appear and/or change (e.g., color, animation,
brightness, size, shape, etc.) to inform an operator of the simulated wheel loader
202 when to move the loader 200 in a particular direction (e.g., informing the
operator to back-up the loader 200 until the loader 200 is positioned at least
halfway down the length of the truck 60). For example, as illustrated in FIGS.
                                                                        10216656_1 (GHMatters) P94396.AU.5

                                            -16
 1 la and c, the application 19 can generate a first direction marker 210a and a
second marker 210b. Each marker 210a and 210b can be a first color (e.g., red)
when the operator should not move the loader 200 in the direction indicated by the
marker 210 and a second color (e.g., green) when the operator should move the
loader 200 in the direction indicated by the marker 210.             Also, in some
embodiments, as illustrated in FIG. 1 Ib, a direction marker 210 can change to a
third color (e.g., yellow or orange) to indicate when the wheel loader 200 is close
to the optimal position (i.e., informing the operator that he or she should slow
movement of the wheel loader 200 to prepare to stop the wheel loader 200).
Using a third color to inform an operator when a position is close to a desired or
approved position can allow the operator to adjust the speed of operation of the
wheel loader 200 to ensure that the desired position is obtained.
[0044]       In some embodiments, the application 19 also provides an approach
help function. For example, when the wheel loader approaches the haul truck, it
may be desirable that a spill guard weld on the bucket 202 is no higher than the
height of the haul truck side rail (see FIG. 10, the marker 203 is superimposed
over at least a portion of the haul truck side rail). For example, suspending a load
contained in the bucket 202 too high while approaching the haul truck can cause
the wheel loader 200 to tip over. Therefore, as part of this help function, the
application 19 can provide a marker that appears and/or changes (e.g., color,
animation, brightness, size, shape, etc.) to inform an operator of the simulated
wheel loader 200 when the weld is above the height of the haul truck side rail.
For example, in some embodiments, the marker is superimposed on the weld
and/or the side rail and changes colors based on the height of the weld with
respect to the side rail.
[0045]       The application 19 can also be configured to provide a loader-to-truck
alignment help function.       To provide this help function, the application 19
generates a position marker 230. The position marker 230 helps the operator align
the wheel loader 200 with the truck 60 to ensure the operator dumps the contents
of the bucket 202 into the proper position within the truck 60.                 In some
                                                                       10216656_1 (GHMatters) P94396.AU.5

                                           - 17
embodiments, the application 19 changes the marker 230 (e.g., color, animation,
brightness, size, shape, etc.) to inform the operator whether the wheel loader 200
is properly or improperly aligned with the truck 60 for performing a dump. For
example, in some embodiments, an operator should dump the contents of the
bucket in a particular position of the haul truck to ensure efficient use of the haul
truck and stability of the contents contained in the haul truck. Aligning the center
of the wheel loader with the front half of the back tire of the haul truck positions
the wheel loader can be considered an optimal position for dumping contents into
the haul truck. Therefore, in some embodiments, as illustrated in FIG. 12a-b, the
position marker 230 highlights the front half of the back tire of the haul truck 60.
The application 19 can change the position marker 230 from a first color (e.g.,
red, see FIG. 12b) to a second color (e.g., green, see FIG. 12a) when the wheel
loader is optimally positioned for dumping.           In some embodiments, the
application 19 also generates a graphical line that marks the center of the wheel
loader 200. Therefore, an operator can align the graphical line with the position
marker 230 to learn how to properly align the wheel loader with the truck for
dumping.
[00461        Similar to the level-grade detection function described above, the
application 19 can also provide a level-grade help function for a simulated wheel
loader 200 that detects when an operator is digging with the simulated bucket 202
beneath a level-grade plane 240 (e.g., the ground the wheel loader 200 sits on)
within the simulated training environment.         In a real-world situation, if an
operator digs lower than the level-grade plane, a ditch is formed in the ground
supporting the wheel loader and the wheel loader can sink into the ditch.                  As
illustrated in FIG. 14, the application 19 can display an indicator 242 within the
simulated environment that marks at least a portion of the level-grade plane 240.
In some embodiments, the application 19 displays the indicator 242 adjacent to a
side wall or bank where an operator should dig.         The indicator 240 helps an
operator gain perspective when trying to place teeth of the bucket 202 in the
appropriate area of the bank. As illustrated in FIGS. 13a-b, the indicator 242 can
                                                                       10216656_1 (GHMatters) P94396.AU.5

                                            -  18
include an area of colored highlighting overlaying or replacing a portion of the
ground or surface where the wheel loader 200 is digging (e.g., in a color different
from the color of the ground or surface).        The indicator 242 can change color
based on whether the operator is digging or positioning the bucket 202 for digging
beneath the level-grade plane 240.      In other embodiments, the indicator 242 can
include a marker or symbol, an outline or line, or animation (e.g., flashing colors,
lines, or shapes) in place of or in addition to the highlighted area.
[00471        In some embodiments, the application 19 also provides a bucket-angle
help function. The bucket-angle help function helps an operator properly angle
the bucket 202 while digging or scoping.         For example, as illustrated in FIGS.
 14a-b, the application 19 can overlay an indicator 250 on the bucket 202 that
changes color based on whether the bucket is properly angled.                    In other
embodiments, the application 19 is configured to generate an indicator that
includes a graphical coordinate axis (e.g., on each side of the bucket 202) that
indicates a current angle that the bucket 202 is positioned at.          In still other
embodiments, the indicator can include an angled line, and the operator can
attempt to angle the bucket 202 at the same angle as the angled line. In yet other
embodiments, indicator can include an arrow that instructs the operator what
direction to angle the bucket 202 toward. The application 19 can stop displaying
the arrow when the bucket 202 is positioned at the appropriate angle. In all of the
above embodiments, the application 19 can also change features of the indicator
(e.g., color, animation, brightness, size, shape, etc.) based on whether the bucket
202 is angled at a proper or improper angle for digging or scoping.
[0048]        Therefore, embodiments of the invention provide depth-related help
functions within a simulated training environment for shovels, wheel loaders, and
other industrial machinery. In particular, embodiments of the invention provide
systems and methods for generating a simulated training environment including a
simulated shovel having a simulated dipper or a simulated wheel loader having a
simulated bucket, and displaying at least one indicator in the simulated training
providing depth information to an operator relating to the position of the
                                                                        10216656_1 (GHMatters) P94396.AU.5

                                            -19
simulated dipper or the simulated bucket with respect to a point-of-reference
within the simulated training environment.       As described above, the point-of
reference can include a particular horizontal or vertical plane or a particular
position of a truck bed on a simulated haul truck.            However, it should be
understood that the point of reference can include any position or object within
the simulated environment that the operator must align the simulated machine
with, such as a digging depth, a shutdown or maintenance height of the dipper, a
stopping position of the shovel or wheel loader, etc. In some embodiments, the
point-of-reference can also be selected or set by an operator. The systems and
methods can also alert or warn the operator when the operator is operating the
industrial machinery properly or improperly.             Furthermore, it should be
understood that the depth-related help functions described in the present
application can be used in simulated training environments for other types of
industrial equipment to provide depth information to an operator for a particular
point-of-reference.     Therefore, embodiments of the present invention are not
limited to simulated training environments for shovels and wheel loaders.
[0049]        Various features of the invention are set forth in the following claims.
In the claims which follow and in the preceding description of the invention,
except where the context requires otherwise due to express language or necessary
implication, the word "comprise"          or variations such as "comprises"                    or
"comprising" is used in an inclusive sense, i.e. to specify the presence of the
stated features but not to preclude the presence or addition of further features in
various embodiments of the invention.
[0050]       It is to be understood that, if any prior art publication is referred to
herein, such reference does not constitute an admission that the publication forms
a part of the common general knowledge in the art, in Australia or any other
country.
                                                                          10216656_1 (GHMatters) P94396.AU.5

                                             -20
THE CLAIMS DEFINING THE INVENTION ARE AS FOLLOWS:
 1.       A system for training an operator, the system comprising:
          a computing device including a processing unit and computer-readable
medium, the computer-readable medium storing a training simulator application;
          a display device, and an input device in communication with the
computing device and controllable by an operator for issuing operating commands
in the training simulator application;
          wherein the training simulator application, when executed by the
processing unit, is configured to generate a two-dimensional simulated working
environment representative of a three-dimensional working environment on the
display device, the simulated working environment including a simulated wheel
loader having a simulated bucket, the simulated wheel loader and the simulated
bucket positioned and movable within the simulated working environment in
response to operating commands issued by the operator through use of the input
device,
          the application further configured to:
          detect the position of at least a portion of the simulated wheel loader with
respect to a point-of-reference within the two-dimensional simulated working
environment, determine depth-related information corresponding to the detected
position, generate and display an indicator having a physical attribute to convey
the depth-related information; and
           automatically modify at least one selected from the group comprising a
color, size, shape, pattern, and animation of the indicator when the position of at
least the portion of the simulated wheel loader with respect to the point-of
reference changes to convey a corresponding change in depth.
2.        The system of Claim 1, wherein the point-of-reference includes a level
grade plane.
                                                                        10216656_1 (GHMatters) P94396.AU.5

                                            - 21
3.        The system of Claim 1, wherein the point-of-reference includes height of
a simulated haul truck within the simulated training environment.
4.        The system of Claim 1, wherein the point-of-reference includes position
of a simulated haul truck within the simulated training environment.
5.        The system of Claim 1, wherein the point-of-reference includes a
centerline of a tire of a simulated haul truck within the simulated training
environment.
6.        The system of Claim 1, wherein the point-of-reference includes a height
of a side rail of a simulated haul truck within the simulated training environment.
7.        The system of Claim 1, wherein the point-of-reference includes a height
of a guard weld of the simulated bucket.
8.        The system of Claim 1, wherein the point-of-reference includes an angle
of the simulated bucket.
9.        A method for training an operator of a wheel loader, the method
comprising:
          generating, with a processor, a two-dimensional simulated training
environment representative of a three-dimensional working environment, the
simulated working environment including a simulated haul truck and a simulated
wheel loader having a simulated bucket;
          detecting the position of at least a portion of the simulated wheel loader
with respect to a reference within the two-dimensional simulated working
environment;
          determining depth-related information corresponding to the detected
position;
                                                                        10216656_1 (GHMatters) P94396.AU.5

                                           -22
          generating and displaying an indicator within the simulated training
environment marking a recommended maneuver of the simulated wheel loader to
interact with the simulated bucket based on the depth-related information;
          determining if the simulated wheel loader is following the recommended
maneuver; and
          when the simulated wheel loader is not following the recommended
maneuver, providing at least one warning to an operator of the simulated wheel
loader.
 10.      The method of Claim 9, wherein displaying the indicator includes
displaying an indicator within the simulated training environment marking a
height of the simulated haul truck.
 11.      The method of Claim 10, wherein displaying the indicator includes
displaying the indicator on at least one selected from a group comprising a top
side of the simulated haul truck and an underside of simulated lift arms supporting
the simulated bucket.
 12.      The method of Claim 9, wherein displaying the indicator includes
displaying an indicator within the simulated training environment marking a
direction of travel of the simulated wheel loader to reach the simulated haul truck.
 13.      The method of Claim 12, wherein displaying the indicator includes
displaying a second indicator within the simulated training environment marking a
second direction of travel of the simulated wheel loader to reach the simulated
haul truck, wherein the first direction of travel represents a backward direction of
travel until the simulated wheel loader is positioned approximately halfway down
a length of the simulated haul truck and the second direction of travel represents a
turning direction of travel until the simulated wheel loader is facing simulated
haul truck for depositing material in the simulated bucket within the simulated
haul truck.
                                                                       10216656_1 (GHMatters) P94396.AU.5

                                           -23
 14.      The method of Claim 9, wherein displaying the indicator includes
displaying an indicator within the simulated training environment marking a
height of a side rail of the simulated haul truck with respect to a height of a guard
weld of the simulated bucket.
 15.      The method of Claim 14, wherein displaying the indicator includes
displaying the indicator on at least one selected from a group comprising the side
rail and the guard weld.
 16.      The method of Claim 9, wherein displaying the indicator includes
displaying an indicator within the simulated training environment marking
position within the simulated haul truck where the simulated wheel loader should
deposit materials in the simulated bucket.
 17.      The method of Claim 16, wherein displaying the indicator includes
displaying the indicator to mark a front half of a back tire of the simulated haul
truck.
 18.      The method of Claim 17, wherein determining if the simulated wheel
loader is following the recommended maneuver includes determining if a center
of the simulated wheel loader is aligned with the front half of the back tire of the
simulated haul truck.
 19.      The method of any one of Claims 9 to 18, wherein providing the at least
one warning to the operator includes changing a color of the indicator from a first
color to a second color.
20.       The method of Claim 19, further comprising changing the color of the
indicator from the second color to the first color when the simulated wheel loader
is following the recommended maneuver.
                                                                       10216656_1 (GHMatters) P94396.AU.5

                                           -24
21.      The method of Claim 20, further comprising changing the color of the
indicator from the second color to a third color when the simulated wheel loader is
not following the recommended maneuver but is within a predetermined distance
of following the recommended maneuver.
22.      The method of any one of Claims 9 to 21, wherein providing the at least
one warning to the operator includes changing at least one selected from the
grouping comprising a color, size, shape, pattern, and animation of the indicator.
23.      The method of any one of Claims 9 to 22, wherein providing the at least
one warning to the operator includes providing at least one selected from the
group comprising a text-based warning, an audible warning, and a tactile warning.
24.      A method for training an operator of a wheel loader, the method
comprising:
         generating, with a processor, a two-dimensional simulated training
environment representative of a three-dimensional working environment, the
simulated working environment including a simulated haul truck and a simulated
wheel loader having a simulated bucket, the simulated wheel loader and the
simulated bucket positioned and movable           within   the simulated working
environment in response to operating commands issued by the operator through
use of an input device;
         when an operator operates the input device to cause the simulated wheel
loader to load material into the simulated bucket, detecting the position of at least
a portion of the simulated wheel loader with respect to a reference within the two
dimensional     simulated   working     environment,    determining    depth-related
information corresponding to the detected position, and displaying an indicator
within the simulated training environment marking a recommended angle of the
simulated bucket based on the depth-related information;
                                                                      10216656_1 (GHMatters) P94396.AU.5

                                          -25
         determining if the simulated bucket is positioned at the recommended
angle; and
         alerting the operator when the simulated bucket is not positioned at the
recommended angle.
25.      The method of Claim 24, wherein displaying the indicator includes
displaying the indicator superimposed on the simulated bucket.
26.      The method of Claim 24, wherein displaying the indicator includes
displaying an angled line within the simulated training environment.
27.      The method of Claim 24, wherein displaying the indicator includes
displaying at least on arrow indicating a direction of movement of the simulated
bucket to reach the recommended angle.
28.      The method of any one of Claims 24 to 27, wherein providing the at least
one warning to the operator includes changing at least one selected from the
grouping comprising a color, size, shape, pattern, and animation of the indicator.
29.      The method of any one of Claims 24 to 28, wherein providing the at least
one warning to the operator includes providing at least one selected from the
group comprising a text-based warning, an audible warning, and a tactile warning.
                                                                      10216656_1 (GHMatters) P94396.AU.5

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
