                                      ABSTRACT
Waste malted barley grist is cooked in a vacuum kettle at 40 degrees C. The end
solution can be used for a separate whisky wash product or beer. Hops is also low
temperature vacuum cooked.
Vacuum technology can be used with fresh grist allowing lower temperatures to be
used to obtain a fuller flavour from the malt, and the same principle can be extended
to other fermented fruits such as apple cider.
Low temperature vacuum treated beer or cider extractions should be sterilised with
UV irradiation to avoid destroying flavour with high temperature sterilisation
processes.

    Editorial Note
      <removed-apn>
There is one page of description only

 The vacuum extraction of soluble products from gristed grain and/or other botanical flavourings, to
manufacture alcoholic distilled and non-distilled beverages.
The principle and outcome of sous vide cooking is well established.
My application involves the use of vacuum kettles to extract soluble fermentable and flavouring
matter, at considerably lower temperatures than used by the current brewing and distilling
industries. I maintain that under low temperatures and approximately -1 atmosphere of vacuum, I
will achieve more efficient flavour and product extraction at only 40 C.
I'm a potable drinks distiller (Alcohol Manufacture License 10091) with access to two 500 litre
(approx.) capacity vacuum cookers. Our waste gristed malt after several hot water soaks and
sparges (incremental 65 C to 75 C) in our mash tun, still contains fermentable products.
Currently, after sparging the waste grist is sent for composting. We could boil it at 100 C to remove
all soluble products, but this would be detrimental to taste, plus malted grain enzymes are
destroyed above approximately 70 C.
I intend to place this waste malted barley grist in a vacuum kettle at 40 C with -1 atm and cook the
grist similar to sous-vide. The end solution to be used either for a separate whisky wash product line
or beer. Hops will also be low temperature vacuum cooked.
It would also be possible to use vacuum technology with fresh grist and allow low temperature
vacuum extraction sparges to obtain a fuller richer flavour from the malt in our whisky.
The same principle could be extended to other fermented fruits such as apple cider.
I propose that such low temperature vacuum treated beer, or cider soluble extractions be made
food safe by sterilising them with ULTRA-VIOLET irradiation. This would negate the requirement for
flavour destroying 100 C boiling sterilisation.

 Editorial Note
   <removed-apn>
There is one page of claims only

Low temperature vacuum extracted flavours will be improved over traditional extraction methods
