ABSTRACT
         A multi-use intravenous infusion assembly is presented which includes a
septum actuator having various features to prevent over-insertion of the septum actuator
through a slit in a blood control septum. By preventing over-insertion of the septum actuator,
the slit of the septum is able to repeatedly self-close following removal of an external Luer
device. Thus, the intravenous infusion assembly may be used repeatedly without exposing a
clinician to blood and other infusion fluids.
                                            -Pci 1,4-

    117
N4m

      SEPTUM ACTUATOR WITH INSERTION DEPTH LIMITER AND
                             COMPRESSION COMPENSATOR
The present applications is a divisional application of Australian Application No. 2014216568 which
is the national phase entry of PCT/US2014/015618 filed 10 February 2014 and claiming priority
from US 13/766543 dated 13 February 2013. The entire content of each of these applications is
hereby incorporated by reference.
BACKGROUND
[0001]          Intravenous infusion systems are commonly used to access the vasculature of a patient
as part of an infusion therapy procedure. An intravenous infusion system generally includes a fluid
reservoir of IV bag that is connected to the patient via an intravenous catheter.        The catheter is
commonly coupled to a catheter adapter having a Luer-lock connector, or other connector-type for
coupling the catheter adapter to a syringe, a section of intravenous tubing, or some other external
Luer device. Fluid from the IV bag flow into the patient via the catheter adapter and the intravenous
catheter.
[0002]          In some instances, the catheter adapter further includes a blood control septum that is
positioned within a fluid pathway running though the catheter adapter. The blood control septum is
provided to allow selective flow of fluid through the fluid pathway. For example, the blood control
septum may include a slit that may be bypassed when an external Luer device is coupled to the
catheter adapter and directly engaging the septum. Upon removing the external Luer device, the slit
is closed to prevent blood from leaking out of the catheter adapter.
[00031          In some instances, the catheter adapter further includes a septum actuator that is
contacted by the external Luer device and advanced through the slit of the septum. The septum
actuator is generally advanced through the septum to provide a permanent bypass or pathway
through the septum. Thus, upon removal of the external Luer device, blood may freely flow out of
the catheter adapter. Accordingly, many intravenous infusion systems which incorporate a septum
actuator are intended for single use. For example, following catheterization of the patient, the
septum is closed and blood is prevented from flowing out of the catheter adapter. However, once a
clinician attaches an external Luer device to the catheter adapter, the septum actuator is advanced
through the slit of the septum and fluid communication is established between the vasculature of the
patient and the external Luer device. If the clinician wishes to remove the external Luer device, the
clinician must either remove the entire intravenous infusion system from the patient, or must
temporarily occlude the catheter in the patient's vein while the external Luer device is replaced with
a new external Luer device or a cap. This limitation on some of the blood control catheter is due to
the large variation of insertion depth in the existing external Luer devices. The distance the
                                                     1

actuator is advanced depends on the insertion depth of the external Luer device. When the
insertion depth is too low the actuator may not even open the septum slit to provide proper
flow. At some minimum required insertion depth, the actuator will open up the septum slit
just enough to provide adequate flow rate. If the external Luer device is removed at this
insertion depth, the septum would push the actuator back out and close by itself. Further
increase in insertion depth would not benefit the flow rate at all except pushing the actuator
further into the septum slit. There exists a critical insertion depth beyond which the septum
would not close by itself upon removal of the external Luer device. The difference between
the critical insertion depth and the minimum required insertion depth is called the working
distance of a self-sealing design and is dependent on the design of the septum, slit and the tip
of the actuator. There is a very large variation in the insertion depth of the external Luer
device, larger than the working distance of many blood control catheters. Such large variation
in the insertion depth is largely due to the variation in the physical design of various Luer
device and partly due to the variation in how tightly a Luer connection is made by clinician.
In a typical catheter with blood control valve and septum actuator, the minimum required
insertion depth is set to be equal or less than the minimum insertion depth of all existing
external Luer device. However, when the insertion depth of the external Luer device is at the
maximum of all existing external Luer device, the actuator will be pushed beyond the critical
insertion depth making a reliable multi-use blood control catheter difficult to achieve.
 [0004]         Thus, while systems and methods currently exist to bypass a blood control
 septum as part of an infusion procedure, challenges still remain. Accordingly, it would be an
improvement in the art to augment or replace current techniques with the system and methods
discussed herein.
BRIEF SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
 [0005]         The present invention has been developed in response to problems and needs in
the art that have not yet been fully resolved by currently available systems and methods.
Thus, these systems and methods are developed to provide a septum actuator having various
features to prevent over-insertion of the septum actuator through the slit of the blood control
 septum. Thus, the systems and methods of the present invention provide an intravenous
infusion assembly incorporating a septum actuator with insertion depth controls thereby
ensuring that the blood control septum will consistently self-close following removal of an
external Luer device from the assembly.
 [0006]         In some implementations, a septum actuator is provided having a body which
includes a tip, a base, and a lumen extending therebetween.        The septum actuator further
                                               2

includes a compression compensator which comprises a compressible and resilient material.
The compression compensator is positioned between the base and the tip of the septum
actuator.    The compression compensator is compressed as the septum actuator is pushed
through a slit of a blood control septum. A spring constant of the compression compensator
is selected such that the compression of the compression compensator absorbs variations in
the insertion depth of the tip through the slit in the septum due to variation in insertion depth
of external Luer devices. Thus, the compression compensator achieves consistent insertion
depths of the tip through the slit of the blood control septum.
[0007]          The septum actuator may further include an insertion depth limiter to prevent
over-insertion of the tip through a slit in a blood control septum. The insertion depth limiter
generally comprises a physical feature on the outer surface of the septum actuator body,
wherein the insertion depth limiter contacts a surface of the blood control septum, or another
surface of the intravenous infusion assembly to arrest further movement of the tip through the
slit. In this manner, over-insertion of the tip is prevented and the slit is able to self-close and
push the tip out of the blood control septum.
[0008]          In some instances, various features of the present invention provide an
intravenous infusion assembly that prevents over-insertion of a septum actuator through a
blood control septum of the assembly.          Further, the septum actuator comprises various
features to achieve consistent minimum and maximum insertion depths of the septum
actuator tip through the slit of the blood control septum. Thus, various combinations of the
features of the present invention provide an intravenous infusion system that may be used
repeatedly to access the vasculature of a patient without exposing a clinician to blood and
other infusion fluids.
[0009]          These and other features and advantages of the present invention may be
incorporated into certain embodiments of the invention and will become more fully apparent
from the following description and appended claims, or may be learned by the practice of the
invention as set forth hereinafter.       The present invention does not require that all the
advantageous features and all the advantages described herein be incorporated into every
embodiment of the invention.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE SEVERAL VIEWS OF THE DRAWINGS
[0010]          In order that the manner in which the above-recited and other features and
advantages of the invention are obtained will be readily understood, a more particular
description of the invention briefly described above will be rendered by reference to specific
embodiments thereof that are illustrated in the appended drawings. These drawings depict
                                                 3

only typical embodiments of the invention and are not therefore to be considered to limit the
scope of the invention.
[0011]         Figure 1 is a perspective view of a septum actuator having an insertion depth
limiter and a compression compensator in accordance with a representative embodiment of
the present invention.
[0012]         Figure 2A is a cross-section, side view of a catheter assembly having a blood
control septum and septum actuator in an inactivate configuration in accordance with a
representative embodiment of the present invention.
[0013] Figure 2B is a cross-section, side view of a catheter assembly having a blood control
septum and septum actuator in an activated configuration, wherein the compression
compensator of the septum actuator is compressed in accordance with a representative
embodiment of the present invention.
[0014] Figure 3A is a cross-section, side view of a catheter assembly having a septum
actuator inserted through a slit of a blood control septum at a minimum insertion depth,
wherein the compression compensator of the septum actuator is slightly compressed in
accordance with a representative embodiment of the present invention.
[0015] Figure 3B is a cross-section, side view of a catheter assembly having a septum
actuator inserted through a slit of a blood control septum at a maximum insertion depth
wherein the compression compensator of the septum actuator is further compressed in
accordance with a representative embodiment of the present invention.
[0016]         Figure 4 is a cross-section, side view of a catheter assembly having a catheter
adapter which includes a stop feature which limits the distal movement of the septum actuator
tip through the slit of the blood control septum to a maximum insertion depth in accordance
with a representative embodiment of the present invention.
[0017]         Figure 5 is a cross-section, side view of a catheter assembly following removal
of an external Luer device, wherein the slit has resumed its closed position thereby pushing
the septum actuator out of the slit and the compression compensator resuming a relaxed
configuration in accordance with a representative embodiment of the present invention.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
[0018]         The presently preferred embodiments of the present invention can be
understood by reference to the drawings, wherein like reference numbers indicate identical or
functionally similar elements.     It will be readily understood that the components of the
present invention, as generally described and illustrated in the figures herein, could be
arranged and designed in a wide variety of different configurations.       Thus, the following
                                                4

more detailed description, as represented in the figures, is not intended to limit the scope of
the invention as claimed, but is merely representative of presently preferred embodiments of
the invention.
[0019]          Moreover, the Figures may show simplified or partial views, and the
dimensions of elements in the Figures may be exaggerated or otherwise not in proportion for
clarity. In addition, the singular forms "a," "an," and "the" include plural referents unless the
context clearly dictates otherwise.      Thus, for example, reference to a terminal includes
reference to one or more terminals. In addition, where reference is made to a list of elements
(e.g., elements a, b, c), such reference is intended to include any one of the listed elements by
itself, any combination of less than all of the listed elements, and/or a combination of all of
the listed elements.
[0020]          The term "substantially" means that the recited characteristic, parameter, or
value need not be achieved exactly, but that deviations or variations, including for example,
tolerances, measurement error, measurement accuracy limitations and other factors known to
those of skill in the art, may occur in amounts that do not preclude the effect the characteristic
was intended to provide.
[0021]          As used herein, the term "proximal", "top", "up" or "upwardly" refers to a
location on the device that is closest to the clinician using the device and farthest from the
patient in connection with whom the device is used when the device is used in its normal
operation. Conversely, the term "distal", "bottom", "down" or "downwardly" refers to a
location on the device that is farthest from the clinician using the device and closest to the
patient in connection with whom the device is used when the device is used in its normal
operation.
[0022]          As used herein, the term "in" or "inwardly" refers to a location with respect to
the device that, during normal use, is toward the inside of the device. Conversely, as used
herein, the term "out" or "outwardly" refers to a location with respect to the device that,
during normal use, is toward the outside of the device.
[0023]          Referring now to Figure 1, a septum actuator 10 is illustrated. Septum actuator
10 is commonly included as a component of an intravenous infusion assembly to assist in
providing a pathway though a blood control septum. For example, in some instances an
intravenous catheter (not shown) is coupled to a catheter adapter 20 having a fluid pathway
22 in which is positioned a blood control septum 30, as shown in Figures 2A through 5. In
some instances, the blood control septum 30 divides fluid pathway 22 into a forward chamber
24 and a rearward chamber 26, thereby preventing uncontrolled flow of a fluid between
                                                 5

forward and rearward chambers 24 and 26. This is commonly desired to prevent a clinician
from being exposed to blood during a catheterization procedure.           Upon accessing the
patient's vasculature, blood flow through the catheter and into forward chamber 24. Without
blood control septum 30, the blood would flow into rearward chamber 26 and out of the
proximal opening 28 of catheter adapter 20.         Accordingly, blood control septum 30 is
provided as a means for controlling fluid flow through fluid pathway 22.
[0024]         Septum actuator 10 may comprise various features to facilitate flow of fluid
through blood control septum 30. For example, septum actuator 10 may comprise various
vents and flow diverters to prevent stagnation of fluids flowing through fluid pathway 22.
Septum actuator 10 may further include features for centering septum actuator 10 within fluid
pathway 22.     Further still, septum actuator 10 may comprise an antimicrobial coating to
prevent growth and colonization of pathogens within fluid pathway 22.
[0025]         In some embodiments, septum actuator 10 comprises a tip 11 having a
chamfered surface to assist in biasing open a slit 32 of blood control septum 30. In some
embodiments, the chamfered surface of tip 11 reduced the angular friction between tip 11 and
slit 32 when tip 11 is inserted therein. Thus, when septum actuator 10 is released from being
advanced through slit 32, slit 32 self-closes thereby pushing against the chamfered surface to
move septum actuator 10 in a proximal direction 23 so that septum actuator 10 is again
positioned in rearward chamber 26. The chamfered surface of tip 11 may be desirable to
reduce the force needed to move septum actuator 10 when slit 32 self-closes.
[0026]         Septum actuator 10 further includes a base 12 that is configured to be
positioned near proximal opening 28 of catheter adapter 20. Base 12 generally comprises a
rigid polymer material that is configured to be contacted by an external device that is inserted
into proximal opening 28.      When contacted by the external device, septum actuator 10 is
advanced in a distal direction 21through rearward chamber 26. As the external device is
further inserted into proximal opening 28, tip 11 is forced through slit 32 of blood control
septum 30 to provide a pathway therethrough.
[0027]         In some embodiments, septum actuator 10 further comprises a compression
compensator 40 that is positioned between tip 11 and base 12. Compression compensator 40
comprises a compressible material that is resilient following compression. For example, in
some embodiments compression compensator 40 comprises a synthetic rubber material, a
hydrogel, an elastomeric polymer, and other polymeric materials such as viscoelastic
polymers and foam polyurethane. Compression compensator may include any density and
compression properties in accordance with the uses and functions described herein.
                                               6

[0028]         In some instances, compression compensator 40 prevents over-insertion of tip
11 through slit 32 of blood control septum 30.        For example, in some embodiments an
external Luer device is inserted into proximal opening 28 to advance tip 11 through slit 32 of
septum 30. The septum would resist the axial motion depending on the axial spring constant
of the septum design.      In some embodiments, the spring constant of the compression
compensator is designed to be the same as the axial spring constant of the septum. In such
cases, half of the insertion depth of the external Luer devices is absorbed through
deformation of the compression compensator. The tip of the actuator only advances half of
the distance of the insertion depth. Therefore the actuator effectively reduces the insertion
depth variation of the existing external Luer device by 50%. At a minimum insertion depth,
the compression compensator is slightly compressed and the blood control septum is just
opened enough to have adequate flow rate. At maximum insertion depth the compression
compensator is compressed about 50% of the insertion depth and the tip of the actuator is
advanced less than the critical insertion depth.     In both cases, the septum will push the
actuator out upon the removal of the external Luer device.
[0029]         In other embodiments, the spring constant of the compression compensator is
designed to be 50% less than the axial spring constant of the septum. In such cases, two third
of the insertion depth of the external Luer devices is absorbed through deformation of the
compression compensator. The tip of the actuator only advances one third of the distance of
the insertion depth. Therefore the actuator effectively reduces the insertion depth variation of
the existing external Luer device by 67%. Ideally, the spring constant of the compression
compensator is chosen such that the ratio of the working distance of the self-sealing design of
the septum to the insertion depth variation of the existing external Luer device is greater than
the ratio of the spring constant of the compression compensator to the sum of the spring
constant of the compression compensator and the axial spring constant of the septum.
[0030]         In some instances, the working distance of the self-sealing design of the septum
is very small such that the target spring constant of the compression compensator is too low
to be practical.    Thus, in some embodiments septum actuator 10 further comprises an
insertion depth limiter 50 that is coupled to the body of septum actuator 10 at a position
between tip 11 and base 12. Insertion depth limiter 50 is provided to prevent over-insertion
of tip 11 through slit 32.
[0031]         Insertion depth limiter 50 generally comprises a rigid member that is fixedly
coupled to septum actuator 10 at a determined distance 52 from tip 11. In some instances,
insertion depth limiter comprises a molded surface of septum actuator 10.              In other
                                               7

embodiments, insertion depth limiter 50 comprises a rigid ring member that is fitted onto the
body of septum actuator and secured via a know method. For example, insertion depth
limiter 50 may be secured to septum actuator via an adhesive, a plastic weld, or a friction fit.
[0032]           Distance 52 is largely determined based upon the critical insertion depth of tip
11 through slit 32 of blood control septum 30. The critical insertion depth of tip 11 is
understood as the maximum depth of tip 11 into slit 32 that still permits slit 32 to self-close
and thereby push tip 11 out of slit 32. A minimum insertion depth of tip 11 is understood to
be the minimum depth of tip 11 through slit 32 of septum 30 that permits fluid to flow
through slit 32 at a desired flow rate. As with the critical insertion depth, the minimum
insertion depth also permits slit 32 to self-close thereby pushing tip 11 out of slit 32. As slit
32 self-closes, septum actuator 10 is moved in a proximal direction 23. For example, upon
removal of an external Luer device, septum actuator 10 is pushed in proximal direction 23 by
the act of slit 32 self-closing. The result of slit 32 self-closing provides the configuration of
blood control septum 30 and septum actuator 10, as shown in Figure 2.
[0033]           Referring now to Figures 2A and 2B, in some embodiments the critical
insertion depth of tip 11 through slit 32 of blood control septum 30 is controlled via an
insertion depth limiter 50. In some instances, insertion depth limiter 50 comprises an outer
diameter 80 that is approximately equal to or smaller than the inner diameter of rearward
chamber 26. In some embodiments, forward chamber 24 further comprises a reduced inner
diameter 70, such that outer diameter 80 is greater than inner diameter 70. As such, inner
diameter 70 provides a physical barrier that prevents or limits movement of septum actuator
10 in distal direction 21.      The interaction between insertion depth limiter 50 and inner
diameter 70 prevents over-insertion of septum actuator 10 through blood control septum 30,
as shown in Figure 2B. In some embodiments, septum 30 is pinched between insertion depth
limiter 50 and inner diameter 70 as septum actuator 10 is advanced through septum 30 to a
maximum insertion depth.
[0034]           Upon insertion of external Luer device 16 into proximal opening 28, base 12 is
contacted and septum actuator 10 advanced in distal direction 21. In some embodiments,
compression compensator 40 is compressed as tip 11 contacts membrane 34 of septum 30.
Tip 11 may also be inserted through slit 32 to a minimum required insertion depth, as shown
in Figure 3A. A minimum required insertion depth of tip 11 is understood as the minimum
depth of tip 11 into slit 32 that permits a proper flow rate of fluid through slit 32. As with the
critical insertion depth, the minimum required insertion depth permits slit 32 to self-close and
thereby push tip 11 out of slit 32 upon removal of an external Luer device.               In some
                                                8

instances, a minimum insertion depth is achieved as an external Luer device 16 with a short
Luer is partially inserted into proximal opening 28 of catheter adapter 20. The short Luer and
a not tightly made connection would compress the compression compensator 40 slightly, and
the tip 11 is advanced through slit 32 to a minimum insertion depth, as shown.
[0035]           Upon further insertion of external Luer device 16 into proximal opening 28 of
catheter adapter 20, septum actuator 10 is further advanced through septum 30. In some
instances, a critical insertion depth of septum actuator 10 through slit 32 is achieved when an
external Luer device with a very long probe 17 is fully inserted into the proximal opening 28
of catheter adapter 20, as shown in Figure 3B. The long probe 17 and a tightly made
connection between catheter adapter 20 and external Luer device 16 maximally compresses
compression compensator 40 and the tip 11 is advanced through slit 32 to a critical insertion
depth, as shown. In some embodiments, over-insertion of external Luer device 16 into
proximal opening 28 results in additional compression of compression compensator 40, rather
than additional insertion of septum actuator 10 through blood control septum 30 through the
use of an insertion depth limiter 50, as shown above.
[0036]          Referring now to Figure 4, in some embodiments septum actuator 10 an
insertion depth limiter 50 that is configured to prevent over-insertion of septum actuator 10
through blood control septum 30. In some embodiments, an inner surface of catheter adapter
20 comprises a stop 25 that is configured to contact insertion depth limiter 50 to limit
movement of septum actuator 10 in distal direction 21. In some instances, stop 25 is placed
in proximal chamber 26 at a distance 52 from septum membrane 34. Thus, as tip 11 is
advance through slit 32, insertion depth limiter 50 contacts the annular ridge 120 thereby
limiting further movement of tip 11 in distal direction 21. Distance 52 may also comprise a
critical insertion depth of tip 11, wherein the critical insertion depth comprises a depth of
insertion for tip 11 whereby slit 32 is still capable of self-closing when external Luer device
16 is removed from proximal opening 28. Upon removal of external Luer device 16, septum
actuator 10 is slid in proximal direction 23 as slit 32 self-closes.
[0037]          Upon further insertion of external Luer device 16 into proximal opening 28,
compression compensator 40 may be further compressed without resulting in additional
insertion of tip 11 through slit 32. Alternatively, the spring constant of the compression
compensator 40 may be larger than the axial spring constant of the septum. In such cases, the
compression compensator will compressed less than the advancement of the tip of the
actuator into the septum. When the spring constant of the compression compensator 40 is
sufficiently larger than the axial spring constant of the septum, the compression compensator
                                                9

may not be compressed practically until an insertion depth limiter on the actuator has
engaged with a stop feature. The compression compensator is only compressed upon further
insertion of the external Luer device.
[0038]          Stop 25 may comprise any feature of combinations of features to contact
insertion depth limiter 50 and arrest distal movement of septum actuator 10.           In some
embodiments, stop 25 comprises an annular ring having an inner diameter that is less than an
outer diameter of insertion depth limiter.      As septum actuator 50 is advanced in distal
direction 21, insertion depth limiter 50 contacts stop 25 to prevent over-insertion of tip 11
through slit 32. Thus, in some instances distance 52 comprises the distance at which critical
insertion of tip 11 is achieved when insertion depth limiter 50 contacts stop 25.
[0039]          Upon removal of external Luer device 16 from proximal opening 28, septum
30 undergoes self-closure thereby pushing tip 11 out of slit 32 and into rearward chamber 26,
as shown in Figure 5. In some embodiments, septum 30 comprises resilient polymer material
have elastic properties. For example, in some embodiments septum 30 comprises silicon. In
other embodiments, septum 30 comprises polytetrafluoroethylene. Further, upon removal of
external Luer device       16, compression compensator 40 is released and resumes it
uncompressed state and formation. The sealed configuration of slit 32 prevents leakage of
fluids between forward and rearward chambers 24 and 26. The vasculature of the patient
may be accessed again by reconnecting external Luer device 16, as discussed above.
[0040]          The present invention may be embodied in other specific forms without
departing from its structures, methods, or other essential characteristics as broadly described
herein and claimed hereinafter.     The described embodiments are to be considered in all
respects only as illustrative, and not restrictive.  The scope of the invention is, therefore,
indicated by the appended claims, rather than by the foregoing description. All changes that
come within the meaning and range of equivalency of the claims are to be embraced within
their scope.
                                               10

Claims
 1.       A catheter assembly comprising:
         a catheter adapter having a proximal end, a distal end, and a first lumen extending from
 the proximal end to the distal end;
         a septum positioned within the first lumen;
         a septum actuator slidably positioned within the first lumen proximal to the septum, the
 septum actuator configured to insert into a slit of the septum when separate devices are inserted
 into the proximal end of the catheter adapter, the septum actuator having a tip at a distal end, a
 base at a proximal end, and a compression compensator which is formed from a different
 material than the tip and the base, the compression compensator positioned between the tip and
 the base, the septum actuator including a second lumen that extends through the base, the
 compression compensator, and the tip, wherein the compression compensator defines a portion
 of the second lumen such that fluid flowing through the second lumen contacts an inner surface
 of the compression compensator;
         wherein, when the separate devices are inserted into the proximal end of the catheter
 adapter, the compression compensator compresses thereby compensating for variations in an
 insertion depth of the separate devices.
 2.       The catheter assembly of claim 1, wherein the septum actuator further includes an
 insertion depth limiter that contacts a surface of the septum or the catheter adapter to limit a
 depth of insertion of the septum actuator with respect to the septum.
 3.       The catheter assembly of claim 2, wherein the insertion depth limiter is positioned at a
 distance from the tip that prevents the tip from being inserted beyond a critical insertion depth.
 4.       The catheter assembly of claim 2, wherein the surface of the septum of the catheter
 adapter comprises a stop feature.
 5.       The catheter assembly of claim 1, wherein the tip is chamfered.
 6.       The catheter assembly of claim 1, wherein the compression compensator and the septum
 each have an axial spring constant that is substantially equal.
                                                11

7.      The catheter assembly of claim 1, wherein the compression compensator has an axial
spring constant that is less than an axial spring constant of the septum.
8.      The catheter assembly of claim 1, wherein the compression compensator has an axial
spring constant that is approximately 50% less than an axial spring constant of the septum.
                                                12

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
