                                       ABSTRACT
              A shade structure includes a shading member (1) having a first
   section (13), a second section (14) and a plurality of successive sections (15), a
   first figure face (2) mounted on the first section, a second figure face (3)
 5 mounted on the second section and presenting a determined figure related to
   that of the first figure face, a plurality of successive figure faces (4) mounted
   on the successive sections and presenting a determined figure related to that of
   the first figure face and the second figure face, and a plurality of connecting
   units (5) arranged between the first section, the successive sections and the
10 second section and connected mutually to overlap and fold the shading
   member which has different folded states.
              (FIG. 4)

          4/9
   21
                       131
 5
51
3T2
      FI4.
                     15
                  14
              141
      F I G.4

       SHADE STRUCTURE WITH RELATED COMBINATION FIGURES
              The present innovation relates to a covering and, more particularly,
   to a shade structure for a window, a door, a bathroom or the like.
              A conventional    foldable shade structure, such as a cordless
 5 magnetically attractive shade, comprises a shading face and a plurality of
   magnetic units mounted on the shading face. In use, when the bottom of the
   shading face is lifted to overlap the shading face, the magnetic units are
   attracted magnetically, so that the shading face is partially folded, half folded
   or fully folded to adjust the incident sunlight so as to regulate the shading
10 effect and the indoor brightness according to the user's requirement, thereby
   providing a comfortable sensation to the user. The shading face is made of
   cloth that presents figures so as to enhance the outer appearance of the shade
   structure. However, when the shading face is folded upward, the shading face
   overlaps so that the figures of the shading face have an unexpected break,
15 thereby decreasing the aesthetic quality of the shade structure when the
   shading face is folded upward.
              The primary objective of the present innovation is to provide a shade
   structure with interrelated combination figures that are consistent when the
   shade structure is folded partially.
20            In accordance with the present innovation, there is provided a shade
   structure comprising a shading member, a first figure face, a second figure face,
   a plurality of successive figure faces and a plurality of connecting units. The
                                           1

   shading member includes an outer face and an inner face. The shading member
   has an upper end provided with a first section, a lower end provided with a
   second section, and a mediate position provided with a plurality of successive
   sections. The first section, the second section and the successive sections of the
 5 shading member are folded to overlap mutually so as to fold the shading
   member. The first figure face is mounted on the first section of the shading
   member. The second figure face is mounted on the second section of the
   shading member and presents a determined figure related to that of a lower end
   of the first figure face. The successive figure faces are mounted on the
10 successive sections of the shading member. The successive figure faces are
   interrelated and connected mutually. The successive figure faces present a
   determined figure related to that of the first figure face and the second figure
   face. The connecting units are arranged at junctions between the first section
   and the successive sections, between the successive sections, and between the
15 successive sections and the second section. Each of the connecting units
   includes a first connector and a second connector. The first connector of one of
   the connecting units is connected with the second connector of another one of
   the connecting units, so that the two of the connecting units are connected. The
   connecting units are connected mutually to overlap and fold the shading
20 member, so as to change a relative position between the first section, the
   second section and the successive sections of the shading member, and to
                                            2

   change a relative position between the first figure face, the second figure face
   and the successive figure faces.
              According to the primary advantage of the present innovation, the
   figures of the first figure face, the second figure face and the successive figure
 5 faces are interrelated, so that when the first figure face, the second figure face
   and the successive figure faces are disposed at different overlapping states, the
   first figure face, the second figure face and the successive figure faces still
   keep a consistent figure without incurring an abrupt break, thereby enhancing
   the aesthetic quality and visible effect of the shading member.
10            Further benefits and advantages of the present innovation will
   become apparent after a careful reading of the detailed description with
   appropriate reference to the accompanying drawings.
              In the drawings:
              FIG. 1 is a perspective view of a shade structure in accordance with
15 the preferred embodiment of the present innovation.
              FIG. 2 is a front view of the shade structure as shown in FIG. 1.
              FIG. 3 is a partially exploded view of the shade structure as shown in
   FIG. 2.
              FIG. 4 is a schematic operational view of the shade structure as
20 shown in FIG. 1 in use.
              FIG. 5 is another schematic operational view of the shade structure as
   shown in FIG. 1 in use.
                                             3

             FIG. 6 is a locally enlarged view of the shade structure as shown in
   FIG. 5.
             FIG. 7 is a perspective view of a shade structure in accordance with
   another preferred embodiment of the present innovation.
 5           FIG. 8 is a schematic operational view of the shade structure as
   shown in FIG. 7 in use.
             FIG. 9 is another schematic operational view of the shade structure as
   shown in FIG. 7 in use.
             Referring to the drawings and initially to FIGS. 1-6, a shade structure
10 in accordance with the preferred embodiment of the present innovation
   comprises a shading member 1, a first figure face 2, a second figure face 3, a
   plurality of successive figure faces 4 and a plurality of connecting units 5.
             The shading member 1 includes an outer face 11 and an inner face 12.
   The shading member 1 has an upper end provided with a first section 13, a
15 lower end provided with a second section 14, and a mediate position provided
   with a plurality of successive sections 15. The first section 13, the second
   section 14 and the successive sections 15 of the shading member 1 are folded
   to overlap mutually so as to fold the shading member 1.
             The first figure face 2 is mounted on the first section 13 of the
20 shading member 1.
                                           4

              The second figure face 3 is mounted on the second section 14 of the
   shading member 1. The second figure face 3 presents a determined figure
   related to that of a lower end of the first figure face 2.
              The successive figure faces 4 are mounted on the successive sections
 5  15 of the shading member 1. The successive figure faces 4 are interrelated and
   connected mutually. The successive figure faces 4 present a determined figure
   related to that of the first figure face 2 and the second figure face 3.
              The connecting units 5 are arranged at junctions between the first
   section 13 and the successive sections 15, between the successive sections 15,
10 and between the successive sections 15 and the second section 14. Each of the
   connecting units 5 includes a first connector 51 and a second connector 52.
   Preferably, the connecting units 5 are secured to the inner face 12 of the
   shading member 1 or sandwiched between the outer face 11 and the inner face
    12 of the shading member 1 by sewing, without interfering with the figures.
15            In practice, the first connector 51 of one of the connecting units 5 is
   connected with the second connector 52 of another one of the connecting units
   5, so that the two of the connecting units 5 are connected. In such a manner, the
   connecting units 5 are connected mutually to overlap and fold the shading
   member 1 as shown in FIGS. 4-6, so as to change a relative position between
20 the first section 13, the second section 14 and the successive sections 15 of the
   shading member 1, and to change a relative position between the first figure
   face 2, the second figure face 3 and the successive figure faces 4. Thus, the
                                              5

   shading member 1 presents different types of figures that are changed by
   connecting the connecting units 5 partially or wholly. As shown in FIG. 4,
   when the successive figure faces 4 overlap partially by connecting the
   connecting units 5 partially, the first figure face 2, the second figure face 3 and
 5 the successive figure faces 4 that are not covered, still keep a consistent figure
   without incurring an abrupt break, thereby enhancing the aesthetic quality of
   the shading member 1. As shown in FIG. 5, the successive figure faces 4
   overlap wholly, so that the first figure face 2 and the second figure face 3 are
   connected.
10           In the preferred embodiment of the present innovation, the shading
   member 1 is made of cloth, silk, paper, plastic sheet, yarn or artificial fiber.
             In the preferred embodiment of the present innovation, the first
   figure face 2, the second figure face 3 and the successive figure faces 4 are
   located at the outer face 11 or the inner face 12 of the shading member 1.
15           In the preferred embodiment of the present innovation, the first
   figure face 2, the second figure face 3 and the successive figure faces 4 present
   successive and extendable figures or successive and non-extendable figures.
             In the preferred embodiment of the present innovation, the first
   connector 51 and the second connector 52 of the connecting units 5 are
20 connected by magnetically attracting, loop-and-hook closure, snap-fastening
   or hooking.
                                             6

              In the preferred embodiment of the present innovation, the first
   section 13 of the shading member 1 has an upper end provided with a mounting
   portion 131 that is attached by hanging, screwing or adhering to an object, such
   as a window, a door, a bathroom or the like.
 5            In the preferred embodiment of the present innovation, the second
   section 14 of the shading member 1 has a lower end provided with a weight
   portion 141 to pull the shading member 1 downward by the gravity of the
   weight portion 141, so that the shading member 1 is kept at a flat state.
              In the preferred embodiment of the present innovation, the first
10 section 13, the second section 14 and the successive sections 15 of the shading
   member 1 are made of different material and are assembled together, to
   enhance the visible effect of the shading member 1.
              In the preferred embodiment of the present innovation, the shading
   member 1 is made of transparent or translucent material (such as plastic cloth),
15 so that the figures of the first figure face 2, the second figure face 3 and the
   successive figure faces 4 form an overlapping effect when the first figure face
   2, the second figure face 3 and the successive figure faces 4 overlap. In
   addition, the user can draw on the shading member 1 by water-based paints that
   are erased easily.
20            In the preferred embodiment of the present innovation, the first
   figure face 2, the second figure face 3 and the successive figure faces 4 form an
                                            7

   integral figure that is presented by multiple lines for coloring of the user, to
   enhance the interactive effect of the shading member 1.
              Referring to FIGS. 7-9, the shade structure further comprises a third
   figure face 6 mounted on the first section 13, the second section 14 and the
 5 successive sections 15 of the shading member 1. The third figure face 6
   presents a figure (such as seagulls) unrelated to that of the first figure face 2,
   the second figure face 3 and the successive figure faces 4, to enhance the
   amusement of the shading member 1. Preferably, the connecting units 5 are
   snap fasteners. The first figure face 2, the second figure face 3 and the
10 successive figure faces 4 present successive and extendable figures (such as
   tree branches). Alternatively, the first figure face 2, the second figure face 3
   and the successive figure faces 4 present successive and non-extendable
   figures (such as clouds). As shown in FIG. 8, when the successive figure faces
   4 overlap partially, the first figure face 2, the second figure face 3 and the
15 successive figure faces 4 that are not covered, still keep a consistent figure. In
   addition, the third figure face 6 is covered and hidden by the successive figure
   faces 4. As shown in FIG. 9, the successive figure faces 4 overlap wholly, so
   that the first figure face 2 and the second figure face 3 are connected. At this
   time, the first figure face 2 and the second figure face 3 still keep a consistent
20 figure.
              Accordingly, the figures of the first figure face 2, the second figure
   face 3 and the successive figure faces 4 are interrelated, so that when the first
                                            8

   figure face 2, the second figure face 3 and the successive figure faces 4 are
   disposed at different overlapping states, the first figure face 2, the second
   figure face 3 and the successive figure faces 4 still keep a consistent figure
   without incurring an abrupt break, thereby enhancing the aesthetic quality and
 5 visible effect of the shading member 1.
              The terms     "comprise(s)"   and "comprising"      as used in the
   specification and claims mean "consisting at least in part of', that is to say
   when interpreting statements in the specification and claims which include any
   of those terms, the features, prefaced by any of those terms in each statement,
10 all need to be present but other features can also be present.
              Throughout the specification, unless the context requires otherwise,
   the word "comprise" or variations such as "comprises" or "comprising", will
   be understood to imply the inclusion of a stated integer or group of integers but
   not the exclusion of any other integer or group of integers.
15            Although the innovation has been explained in relation to its
   preferred embodiment(s) as mentioned above, it is to be understood that many
   other possible modifications and variations can be made without departing
   from the scope of the present innovation. It is, therefore, contemplated that the
   appended claim or claims will cover such modifications and variations that fall
20 within the scope of the innovation.
                                           9

                The claims defining the innovation are as followings:
               1. A shade structure comprising:
              a shading member, a first figure face, a second figure face, a plurality
   of successive figure faces and a plurality of connecting units;
 5            wherein:
              the shading member includes an outer face and an inner face;
              the shading member has an upper end provided with a first section, a
   lower end provided with a second section, and a mediate position provided
   with a plurality of successive sections;
10            the first section, the second section and the successive sections of the
   shading member are folded to overlap mutually so as to fold the shading
   member;
              the first figure face is mounted on the first section of the shading
   member;
15            the second figure face is mounted on the second section of the
   shading member and presents a determined figure related to that of a lower end
   of the first figure face;
              the successive figure faces are mounted on the successive sections of
   the shading member;
20            the successive figure faces are interrelated and connected mutually;
              the successive figure faces present a determined figure related to that
   of the first figure face and the second figure face;
                                             10

             the connecting units are arranged at junctions between the first
   section and the successive sections, between the successive sections, and
   between the successive sections and the second section;
             each of the connecting units includes a first connector and a second
 5 connector;
             the first connector of one of the connecting units is connected with
   the second connector of another one of the connecting units, so that the two of
   the connecting units are connected; and
             the connecting units are connected mutually to overlap and fold the
10 shading member, so as to change a relative position between the first section,
   the second section and the successive sections of the shading member, and to
   change a relative position between the first figure face, the second figure face
   and the successive figure faces.
             2. The shade structure of claim 1, wherein the shading member is
15 made of cloth, silk, paper, plastic sheet, yarn or artificial fiber.
             3. The shade structure of claim 1, wherein the first figure face, the
   second figure face and the successive figure faces are located at the outer face
   or the inner face of the shading member.
             4. The shade structure of claim 1, wherein the first figure face, the
20 second figure face and the successive figure faces present successive and
   extendable figures or successive and non-extendable figures.
             5. The shade structure of claim 1, further comprising:
                                           11

           a third figure face mounted on the first section, the second section
  and the successive sections of the shading member and presenting a figure
  unrelated to that of the first figure face, the second figure face and the
  successive figure faces.
5
                                        12

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           1/9

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           2/9

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           3/9

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           4/9

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           5/9

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           6/9

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           7/9

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           8/9

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           9/9

