Abstract
A floating liquid intake for a liquid suction removal system comprises a generally planar
upper portion; and a smaller generally planar lower portion substantially parallel to the
upper portion and suspended from the upper portion so as to provide a cavity
therebetween. A floatation portion is arranged around the periphery of the upper portion
and has sufficient positive buoyancy such that the intake will float in a liquid. An open pipe
is within the cavity for connection to a liquid suction removal system.

                                             -1
                                  Floating Liquid Intake
[0001] The present application is a divisional application from International PCT patent
application PCT/AU2017/050697, the entire disclosure of which is incorporated herein by
reference.
Field of the Invention
[0002] The present invention relates to a floating liquid intake for a liquid suction removal
system.
Background
[0003] Settling ponds are known for separating solids or immiscible liquids from water.
Settling ponds have found uses in mining sites where the tailings by-products entrained in
water is separated in the pond water, with the by-product settled out as sediment, the
water is then able to be pumped from the pond for reuse.
[0004] In one liquid removal system a pump inlet is positioned at the base of the settling
pond and water is pumped from there. A stalk structure can be used to raise the pump
inlet from the base to space the pump intake from the actual sediment so as to prevent
the sediment from being sucked into the pump. This system has disadvantages in that if
the pump inlet is too close to the base, sediment will be sucked into the pump, while the
pump inlet is not at the surface of the pond where the cleanest water is located.
Moreover, in dams and other water bodies with salty water, the salty water gravitates to
the bottom, leaving the less salty water at the top. Thus, in this form of liquid removal
system, because the pump inlet is positioned at the base of the dam or other water body,
the system draws the salty water rather than the less salty water that is present at or
towards the top of the dam or other water body.
[0005] Another approach is to provide a float which suspends the pump inlet into the
pond. This system advantageously at least initially locates the pump inlet away from the
base, however a strong suction from the pump can create a vortex in the water which can
allow air to enter the pump system through the pump inlet which can lead to significantly
lower pumping performance and damage to the pumps of the system, principally through
cavitation. Thus, the pump inlet needs to be positioned under the level of what is known
as "critical submergence" to prevent the formation of vortices, but this can mean that the
pump inlet is located at a level where sediment, foreign objects, fish and other fauna are
entrained in the pump inlet, leading to clogged pump filters and the need for frequent

                                                 -2
cleaning (backflushing) of the filters. Placing screens across pump inlets does not
necessarily solve this issue as the approach speed of the water towards the pump inlets is
often sufficient to drag foreign objects, fish and other fauna to the screen and to hold them
against the screen, thus clogging the screen. There is thus a tension between placing the
pump inlets at a position where the cleanest water is located and a position at which the
generation of vortexes is avoided.
[0006] Another issue with the above approach is that as the water level reduces in the
settling pond or other water body, the suspended pump inlet moves closer to the base and
thus to the sediment, debris, fish and other fauna, which as a result are more likely to be
entrained into the pumping system through the pump inlet.
[0007] The tension mentioned above means that the pump inlet of a pumping system is
often placed at the deepest section of the settling pond so that the pump inlet can be
placed shallow enough to entrain relatively clean water, but deep enough to prevent the
generation of vortexes. This often means that a significant length of pipe must be used to
position the pump inlet thus increasing line losses caused by friction between the water
and the pipe and thus reducing pump efficiency.
[0008] The present invention seeks to overcome or at least substantially ameliorate, the
disadvantages and/or shortcomings of prior systems.
[0009] References herein to prior art are not intended to be an admission that the
information of those references forms part of the common general knowledge known to a
person skilled in the field of the invention.
Summary of the Invention
[0010] According to an aspect of the invention, there is provided a floating liquid intake for
a liquid suction removal system, said intake comprising: an upper portion and a lower
portion connected to the upper portion, a cavity between the upper and lower portions for
receipt of liquid, an opening that opens into the cavity for ingress of liquid into the cavity, a
floatation portion arranged around the periphery of the upper portion and having sufficient
positive buoyancy such that the intake will float in a liquid; a pipe extending into the cavity
and including an inlet that in use is open below the surface of the liquid within the cavity
and substantially centrally of the cavity , the pipe being for connection to a liquid suction
removal system.

                                                 -3
[0011] A floating liquid intake according to the invention advantageously can be arranged
to float on the surface of a body of liquid and so the opening that opens into the cavity for
ingress of liquid into the cavity can be at or adjacent to the surface of the liquid where the
cleanest water is located. Also, by this position, the likelihood of sediment being sucked
into the pump is negligible unless the liquid level is very low.
[0012] In some forms of the invention, one or both of the upper and lower portions can be
dome shaped. Where both of the upper and lower portions are dome shaped, the upper
and lower portions are arranged inversely to each other to form the cavity therebetween.
This allows the liquid intake to be disc shaped which can provide for stability when the
liquid intake is located on the surface of a body of liquid. That is, by virtue of being disc
shaped in which the width of the liquid intake is much greater than its height or depth, the
liquid intake can assume a very stable condition on the surface of a body of liquid.
[0013] The opening into the cavity can be positioned so as to in use, liquid can be drawn
from beneath, but near to the surface of the liquid within the cavity. This again takes
advantage of the position in which the cleanest water is located. In a specific form of the
invention, the upper and lower portions each have a circular periphery whereby the
diameter of the periphery of the upper portion is greater than the diameter of the periphery
of the lower portion and in this form of the invention, the axes of the upper and lower
portions can be substantially coaxial and the peripheries of the upper and lower portions
can be positioned in substantially parallel planes. The planes in which the upper and
lower portions are located can be spaced apart to form the opening that opens into the
cavity for ingress of liquid into the cavity. In this form of the invention, the opening can be
substantially annular and the floatation portion can have a buoyancy sufficient for the
opening to be fully or substantially submerged, so that the feed of liquid into the cavity is
substantially uninterrupted.
[0014] In some forms of the invention, the upper portion can comprise coplanar inner and
outer rings, and the floatation portion can extend between the inner and outer rings. This
arrangement provides a convenient location for the floatation portion, placing it at the
periphery of the upper portion and the liquid intake and so providing a position for the
floatation portion that provides the liquid intake with stable floatation. The inner and outer
rings can be connected together such as by spokes.
[0015] The floatation portion provides a barrier against a suction vortex forming between
the open pipe and a surface of the liquid in which the intake is placed in use.          This is

                                                 -4
partly because the approach velocity of liquid arriving at the pipe inlet is slower than if the
flotation portion was not in place, as the flotation portion forms an impediment to the flow
of the upper layer of liquid within which the liquid intake is positioned.          The central
positioning of the pipe inlet relative to the flotation portion is important for this as the
approach velocity of liquid arriving at the pipe inlet will be substantially uniform from all
directions. As such, the flotation portion influences the manner in which the water flows
into the cavity and to the pipe inlet in such a way as to either prevent vortices forming, or
even if they do form, from being able to continue to exist. This disruption to the formation
of vortices means that the liquid intake of the present invention can be used to extract
water from close to the surface of the settling pond and because the liquid intake floats on
the surface of the settling pond, the changing level of the settling pond does not affect the
position of the pipe inlet relative to the surface of the settling pond.
[0016] A further benefit of the present invention is that debris, fish and other fauna are
more likely to float past the pipe inlet than to be entrained into the inlet and subsequently
being sucked into the pumping system given the relatively slow flow of liquid past or to the
pipe inlet.
[0017] A column portion can extend between the upper portion and the pipe and in some
forms of the invention, the upper portion can be supported above the pipe by a column
portion. The column portion can be hollow and can have an opening into an upper region
of the cavity and an opening into the open pipe so that air within the cavity can escape
into the column portion and then into the pipe during flooding of liquid into the cavity when
the intake is first placed into the liquid.
[0018] The inlet of the pipe faces downwardly towards the lower portion. The inlet of the
pipe should be lower than the opening into the cavity so that the inlet in use is open below
the surface of the liquid within the cavity. The inlet of the pipe is preferably also below the
floatation portion such that liquid will enter the pipe as the liquid intake is submerged into
the body of liquid sufficiently for the pipe to be primed. The inlet of the pipe is preferably
positioned substantially centrally within the cavity but with the inlet positioned to be open
below the surface of the liquid within the cavity.
[0019] In some forms of the invention, the floatation portion is positively buoyant to an
extent that when the cavity of the liquid intake is flooded the upper surface of the floatation
portion is substantially level with the surface of the liquid within which the liquid intake is
submerged.

                                                -5
[0020] According to another aspect of the present invention a floating liquid intake for a
liquid suction removal system is provided, said intake comprising: a hollow disc shaped
body with a cavity inside the body; an opening that opens into the cavity for ingress of
liquid into the cavity; a floatation portion arranged around the periphery of the body and
having sufficient positive buoyancy such that the intake will float in a liquid; a pipe
extending into the cavity and including an inlet that in use is open below the surface of the
liquid within the cavity and faces downwardly toward a bottom of the cavity, the pipe being
for connection to a liquid suction removal system.
[0021] In the above liquid intake, the inlet of the pipe preferably faces downwardly toward
a bottom of the cavity, and is preferably positioned substantially centrally within the cavity.
Description of Drawings
[0022] In order to provide a better understanding of the present invention embodiments
will now be described, by way of example only, with reference to the drawings, in which:
[0023] Figure 1 is a conceptual isometric view of the floating liquid intake for a liquid
suction removal system according to an embodiment of the present invention;
[0024] Figure 2 is a horizontal cross sectional view of the floating liquid intake of Figure 1;
[0025] Figure 3 is a vertical cross-section view of the floating liquid intake according to
another embodiment of the present invention;
[0026] Figure 4 is an underside view of the intake of Figure 3; and
[0027] Figure 5 is a top plan view of the intake of Figure 4.
Detailed Description
[0028] Referring to the figures, there is illustrated a floating liquid intake 10 for a liquid
suction removal system comprising a pipe 12 with a downwardly directed inlet opening 52.
The opening 52 defines a centre point of a generally disc shaped body 14 (Figure 3) body
having an in internal cavity 60. The pipe 12 extends sideways or generally horizontally
from the centre point.

                                               -6
[0029] The disc shaped body 14 is defined by a generally dome shaped upper portion 30
and a generally dome shaped lower portion 32. The upper and lower portions 30 and 32
have circular rings (described later herein) that are coaxial and substantially parallel. The
dome shape of the lower portion 32 is inverted relative to the dome shape of the upper
portion 30 to form the cavity 60 therebetween. The lower portion 32 is connected to or
suspended from the upper portion 30. A floatation portion 28 is provided around the
periphery of the upper portion 30 and has sufficient positive buoyancy such that the intake
10 will float in a liquid, which is typically water.   The pipe 12 has an opening 52 for
communication with the cavity 60, and facilitates connection to a liquid suction removal
system, such as or including a pump.
[0030] There is an opening 36 into the cavity between the periphery of the lower portion
32 and the upper portion 30 and more specifically between the lower portion 32 and the
floatation portion 28. This allows the ingress of liquid into the cavity 60 from beneath the
floatation portion 28 during operation.
[0031] In some forms of the invention, the upper portion 30 comprises an inner circular
frame member 16 with a plurality of radially extending spokes 20 connected to or
supporting an outer circular frame member 18.         In one embodiment the inner circular
frame 16 is formed of 110mm PN16 Polyethylene (PE) pipe. In the example of Figure 3
the 16 frame has a pipe centre to pipe centre diameter of 2140mm, although other
dimensions are possible. In a different embodiment the outer circular frame 18 is formed
of 160mm PN16 PE pipe. In the example of Figure 3 the frame 18 has a pipe centre to
pipe centre diameter of 2830mm, although other dimensions are possible. The outer
circular frame 18 may be filled with closed cell foam. The annulus formed between the
inner circular frame 16 and the outer circular frame 18 may be provided with closed cell
foam so as to form the floatation portion 28.
[0032] In an embodiment of the invention the frame 16 has a covering 70 that forms the
dome shape of the upper portion 30. The cover 70 is preferably substantially rigid and
preferably formed of 10 mm thick high density polyethylene (HDPE), or other appropriate
material.
[0033] In some forms of the invention, the lower portion 32 comprises a circular frame
24that is substantially the same diameter as the inner circular frame 16 of the upper
portion 30. The lower portion 32 also has a covering 72 that forms the dome shape of the
lower portion 32 and is preferably formed of 10 mm thick HDPE, or other appropriate

                                                 -7
material.    In some forms of the invention, the covering 72 has holes 34 thereinto allow
liquid to flood into the lower portion 32 so that inlet 10 is able to sink into liquid to bring the
floatation portion 28 into contact with the surface of the liquid when the intake 10 is first
placed into the liquid. In Figures 1 and 2 the holes 34 are on the sloped portion of the
covering 72 and in Figures 3 and 4 the holes are on the flat portion of the covering 72.
[0034] As shown in Figure 3, the opening 52 of the pipe is below the lower surface or
underneath surface of the floatation portion 28 such that liquid will enter the pipe 12 during
initial submersion of the liquid intake 10 for the pipe 12 to be primed with liquid.
[0035] The covering 70 of the upper portion 30 is supported above the pipe 12 by a
hollow column portion 40, preferably in the form of a 110mm PN16 PE pipe. The column
portion 40 has an opening 42 into an upper region of the cavity 60 and an opening 44 into
the pipe 12. The holes 42 and 44 in the column portion 40 allow air to escape the cavity
60 into the pipe 12 during flooding of the liquid into the cavity 60. Preferably the holes 42
and 44 are 20mm in diameter. The holes 42 and 44 are for flooding of the upper portion
of the cavity 60 via a dry prime system.
[0036] The floatation portion 28 provides a barrier against a suction vortex forming
between the pipe opening 52 and a surface of the liquid in which the intake 10 is placed in
use. The larger diameter of the pipe of frame 18 provides a downwardly directed lip into
the body of liquid.
[0037] The floatation portion 28 is positively buoyant to an extent that when the cavity 60
is flooded the upper surface of the floatation portion 28 is substantially level with the
surface of the liquid.
[0038] The outer circular frame 18 of the upper portion 30 is connected to the circular
frame 24 of the lower portion 32 by a brace connection 38. These sections are preferably
formed of 20mm thick PE section. Preferably the brace connections 38 are aligned with
the spokes 20.
[0039] Preferably the pipe 12 is 315mm PN16 PE pipe. The pipe 12 terminates in a stub
flange 54 for connection to another pipe forming part of or leading to the liquid suction
removal system.
[0040] In an example the relative sizes of the intake may be as described, but other
dimensions are possible. The centre to centre diameter of the outer circular frame 18 of

                                                -8
Figure 2 is about 3190mm; the centre to centre diameter of the inner circular frame 16 is
about 2110mm; the inner circular frame 16 is spaced from the circular frame 24 by about
50mm; the dome height of the covers 70 and 72 are each about 300mm; and the height of
the cover 70 is about 410mm.
[0041] The method of operation and use of the present invention will now be described.
[0042] The intake 10 is attached to a boom or rigid section of pipe via the stub flange 54
for manipulation, the stub flange 54 is also connected to the pipe 12 connected to a self
priming pump. The intake 10 can then be lowered into a liquid, such as water in a settling
pond or a dam.      The liquid can then enter to cavity 60 via the flood holes 34. Air will
initially escape via the opening 36, and via column 40 and pipe 12 until the underside of
the floatation portion 28 seals with the surface of the liquid.
[0043] Liquid will then enter the cavity mostly through the opening 36. Air remaining in
the cavity will escape via column 40 and pipe 12 until the cavity is substantially full of
liquid.   Floatation portion 28 provides positive buoyancy sufficient for the intake 10 to
remain floating. It is desirable that the intake sink to the point where the upper surface of
the floatation portion 28 is at the surface of the liquid or just submerged so that the
floatation portion 28 provides a barrier to prevent formation of a suction vortex in the liquid
when pumping commences.
[0044] When pumping commences liquid enters the cavity substantially via the opening
36 and is sucked into the pipe 12.         The shape of the body 14 substantially evenly
distributes the suction negative pressure out to the substantially annulus shaped opening
36 so that liquid is drawn in, in a relatively non-turbulent flow.         The intake 10 can
accommodate flow rates from 1 cubic meter to 1000 cubic meters per hour in depth of at
least 450mm.
[0045] The holes 34 also allow the lower portion 32 to drain as it is lifted from the liquid.
[0046] Throughout the specification and claims, unless the context requires otherwise, the
word "comprise" or variations such as "comprises" or "comprising", will be understood to
imply the inclusion of a stated integer or group of integers but not the exclusion of any
other integer or group of integers.

                                           -9
[0047] Modifications may be made to the present invention within the context of that
described and shown in the drawings. Such modifications are intended to form part of the
invention described in this specification.

                                                 - 10
Claims
1. A floating liquid intake for a liquid suction removal system, said intake comprising:
an upper portion and a lower portion connected to the upper portion, a cavity between the
upper and lower portions for receipt of liquid, an opening that opens into the cavity for
ingress of liquid into the cavity, a floatation portion arranged around the periphery of the
upper portion and having sufficient positive buoyancy such that the intake will float in a
liquid; a pipe extending into the cavity and including an inlet that in use is open below the
surface of the liquid within the cavity and faces downwardly toward a bottom of the cavity,
the pipe being for connection to a liquid suction removal system.
2.       A floating liquid intake according to claim 1, wherein the upper portion is
substantially dome shaped.
3.       A floating liquid intake according to claim 1 or 2, wherein the lower portion is
substantially dome shaped and the upper and lower portions are arranged inversely to
each other to form the cavity therebetween.
4.       A floating liquid intake according to any one of claims 1 to 3, wherein the opening
into the cavity is positioned so as to in use, enable liquid to be drawn from beneath, but
near to the surface of the liquid within the cavity.
5.       A floating liquid intake according to any one of claims 1 to 4, the upper and lower
portions each having a circular periphery whereby the diameter of the periphery of the
upper portion is greater than the diameter of the periphery of the lower portion.
6.       A floating liquid intake according to any one of claims 1 to 5, the axes of the upper
and lower portions being substantially coaxial and the peripheries of the upper and lower
portions being positioned in substantially parallel planes that are spaced apart to form the
opening that opens into the cavity for ingress of liquid into the cavity.
7.       A floating liquid intake according to any one of claims 1 to 6, the upper portion
comprising coplanar inner and outer rings, and the floatation portion extending between
the inner and outer rings.
8.       A floating liquid intake according to claim 7, the inner and outer rings being
connected by spokes.

                                                  - 11
9.       A floating liquid intake according to any one of claims 1 to 8, wherein the floatation
portion provides a barrier against a suction vortex forming between the open pipe and a
surface of the liquid in which the intake is placed in use.
10.      A floating liquid intake according to any one of claims 1 to 9, the inlet of the pipe
facing downwardly toward the lower portion.
11.      A floating liquid intake according to any one of claims 1 to 10, the inlet of the pipe
being positioned substantially centrally within the cavity.
12.      A floating liquid intake according to claim 6, the inlet of the pipe being positioned
substantially coaxially of the upper and lower portions.
13.      A floating liquid intake according to any one of claims 1 to 12, wherein the upper
portion is supported above the pipe by a column portion.
14.      A floating liquid intake according to claim 13, wherein the column portion is hollow
and has an opening into an upper region of the cavity and an opening into the pipe, so
that air can escape into the column portion and then into the pipe during flooding of liquid
into the cavity when the intake is first placed into the liquid.
15.      A floating liquid intake according to claim 15, wherein the lower portion includes
holes to allow liquid to flood into the cavity so that the liquid intake is able to sink into
liquid to bring the floatation portion into contact with the surface of the liquid when the
intake is first placed into the liquid.
16.      A floating liquid intake according to any one of claims 1 to 15, the connection
between the upper portion and the lower portion being that the lower portion is suspended
from the upper portion.
17. A floating liquid intake for a liquid suction removal system, said intake comprising:
a hollow disc shaped body with a cavity inside the body; an opening that opens into the
cavity for ingress of liquid into the cavity; a floatation portion arranged around the
periphery of the body and having sufficient positive buoyancy such that the intake will float
in a liquid; an pipe extending into the cavity for connection to a liquid suction removal
system and including an inlet that in use is open below the surface of the liquid within the
cavity, the pipe being for connection to a liquid suction removal system.

                                               -12
18.     A floating liquid intake according to claim 17, the inlet of the pipe facing
downwardly toward a bottom of the cavity.
19.     A floating liquid intake according to claim 17 or 18, the inlet of the pipe being
positioned substantially centrally within the cavity.

1/3
2/3
3/3
