ANTIBODY PURIFICATION
ABSTRACT
The invention provides a method for producing a host cell protein-(HCP) reduced antibody
preparation from a mixture comprising an antibody and at least one HCP, comprising an ion
exchange separation step wherein the mixture is subjected to a first ion exchange material, such
that the HCP-reduced antibody preparation is obtained.

                                                       I
                                       ANTIBODY PURIFICATION
\1
   RELATED APPLICATIONS
           This application claims priority to U.S. provisional application Serial No. 60/789,725,
   filed on April 5, 2006 and to U.S. provisional application Serial No. 60/790,414, filed on April
   6, 2006, the contents of each of which are hereby incorporated in their entirety. The present
   application is a divisional application of<removed-apn>, which is in turn a divisional of
   2013202811, which is in tun a divisional of 2007235484, which is the Australian National
   Phase of PCT/US2007/008359, the contents of each of which are hereby incorporated in their
   entirety.
     BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
             Large-scale, economic pmification of proteins is increasingly an important
     problem for the biotechnologyindustry. Generally, proteins areproduced by cell
     culture,using either mammalian or bacterial cell lines engineered to produce the protein
     of interest by insertion of a recombinant plasmid comprising the gene for that protein.
     Since the cell lines used am living organisms, they must be fed with a complex growth
     medium, comprising sugars, amino acids, and growth factors, usually supplied fInn
     preparations of animal senum. Separation of the desired protein firm the nixtrce of
     compounds fed to the cells and fron the by-products of the cells themselves to a purity
     sufficient for use as a human therapeutic poses a formidable challenge.
     SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
             There is a need for improved methods of obtaining antibody preparations
     comprising a reduced amount of host cell protein, including procathepsin L. The
     invention provides a method for purifying antibodies expressed in a host cell expression
     system, wherein the resulting antibody preparation comprises a reduced amount of host
     cell protein, including procathepsinL. The improved method of the invention also
     includes the the development of reproducible methods ofaccuratelydetecting host cell
     proteins, and a kinetic assay

                                                la
           The invention provides a method for producing a host cell protein-(HCP)
  reduced antibody preparation from a mixture comprising an antibody and at least one
  HCP, comprising an ion exchange separation step wherein the mixture is subjected to a
  first ion exchange material, such that the HCP-reduced antibody preparation is obtained.
  In one embodiment, the ion exchange separation step comprises passing the mixture
  over the first ion exchange material such that a first eluate having a reduced level of
  HCP is obtained. In one embodiment, the method of the invention further comprises a
  second ion exchange separation step wherein the first eluate is subjected to a second ion
  exchange material such that a first flowthrough having a reduced level of HCP is
9 obtained. In another embodiment; the method of the invention further comprises a
  hydrophobic interaction separation step wherein the first flowthrough is subjected to a

                                           2
   first hydrophobic interaction material such that a second eluate having a reduced level of
   HCP is obtained.
            In one embodiment of the invention, the ion exchange separation step comprises
   a first ion exchange chromatography step, wherein the mixture is loaded onto a column
 5 comprising the first ion exchange material, such that a first eluate having a reduced level
   of HCP is obtained. In one embodiment, the invention further comprises a second ion
   exchange chromatography step comprising loading the first eluate onto a column
   comprising a second ion exchange material, such that a first flowthrough is obtained.
            In one embodiment, the invention further comprises a hydrophobic interaction
10 separation step comprising loading the first flowthrough onto a column comprising a
   first hydrophobic interaction material, such that a second eluate is obtained. In one
   embodiment, the hydrophobic interaction separation step comprises hydrophobic
   interaction chromatography. In one embodiment, the hydrophobic interaction.
   chromatography is phenyl sepharose chromatography. In still another embodiment, the
15 amount of antibody loaded on to the hydrophobic interaction material ranges from about
   20 to about 40 grams of antibody per liter of hydrophobic interaction material. In yet
   another embodiment, the amount of antibody loaded on to the hydrophobic interaction
   material ranges from about 30 to about 36 grams of antibody per liter of hydrophobic
   interaction material.
20           In one embodiment, the ion exchange chromatography step is cation exchange
   chromatography. In another embodiment, the cation exchange chromatography is a
   synthetic methacrylate based polymeric resin attached to a sulfonate group. In still
   another embodiment, the invention further comprises washing the ion exchange material
   with a plurality of wash steps. In one embodiment, the plurality of wash steps comprises
25 an increase in conductivity. In one embodiment, the ion exchange material is washed
   with a wash comprising about 40-50% elution buffer and about 50-60% water (e.g.,
   water for injection (WFI)). In one embodiment, the elution buffer is 20 mM Na 2PO 4 , 150
   mM sodium chloride, pH 7.
             In one embodiment, the first eluate is subjected to viral inactivation prior to the
30 first ion exchange chromatography step. In one embodiment, the viral inactivation is
   achieved through pH viral inactivation (e.g., lower the pH of the first eluate to thereby
   inactivate viruses).
             In one embodiment of the invention, the second ion exchange chromatography
   step comprises anion exchange chromatography. In one embodiment, the anion
35 exchange chromatography is      Q sepharose  chromatography.
             The invention also provides a method method for producing a host cell protein
   (HCP) reduced antibody preparation from a mixture comprising an antibody and at least
   one HCP, wherein the reduced level of HCP is achieved by altering the pH and

                                           3
   conductivity of the first eluate such that the pH and conductivity of the first eluate is
   substantially similar to the pH and conductivity of the second ion exchange material. In
   one embodiment, the pH of the second ion exchange material ranges from about 7.7 to
   about 8.3. In another embodiment, the pH of the first eluate is altered to range from
 5 about 7.7 to about 8.3. In still another embodiment, the pH of the first eluate is altered
   to about 8.0. In one embodiment, the conductivity of the second ion exchange material
   ranges from about 3.5 mS/cm to about 5.2 mS/cm, or from about 3.5 mS/cm to about 4.9
   mS/cm. In one embodiment, the conductivity of the first eluate is altered to range from
   about 3.5 mS/cm to about 5.2 mS/cm or from about 3.5 mS/cm to about 4.9 mS/cm.
10         In one embodiment of the invention, the first eluate comprises a range of about
   90 to about 100 fold less HCP than the mixture as determined by a HCP ELISA. In
   another embodiment, the first flowthrough comprises a range of about 840 to about 850
   fold less HCP than the first eluate as determined by a HCP ELISA. In yet another
   embodiment, the second eluate comprises a range of about 3 to about 5 fold less HCP
15 than the first flowthrough as determined by a HCP ELISA.
           The invention provides a method for producing a procathepsin L-reduced
   antibody preparation from a mixture comprising an antibody and procathepsin L,
   comprising an ion exchange separation step wherein the mixture is subjected to a first
   ion exchange material, such that the procathepsin L-reduced antibody preparation is
20 obtained.
           In one embodiment, the ion exchange separation step comprises passing the
   mixture over the first ion exchange material such that a first eluate having a reduced
   level of procathepsin L is obtained. In one embodiment, the ion exchange separation
   step comprises a first ion exchange chromatography step, wherein the mixture is loaded
25 onto a column comprising the first ion exchange material, such that a first eluate having
   a reduced level of procathepsin L is obtained.
           In one embodiment, the invention further comprises a second ion exchange
   separation step wherein the first eluate is subjected to a second ion exchange material
   such that a first flowthrough having a reduced level of procathepsin L is obtained. In
30 one embodiment, the invention further comprises a second ion exchange
   chromatography step comprising loading the first eluate onto a column comprising a
   second ion exchange material, such that a first flowthrough is obtained.
           In one embodiment, the invention further comprises a hydrophobic interaction
   separation step wherein the first flowthrough is subjected to a first hydrophobic
35 interaction material such that a second eluate having a reduced level of procathepsin L is
   obtained. In another embodiment, the invention further comprises a hydrophobic
   interaction separation step comprising loading the first flowthrough onto a column

                                            4
   comprising a first hydrophobic interaction material, such that a second eluate is
   obtained.
            In one embodiment, the ion exchange chromatography step is cation exchange
   chromatography, including, but not limited to a synthetic methacrylate based polymeric
 5 resin attached to a sulfonate group.
            In another embodiment, the ion exchange chromatography step further comprises
   washing the ion exchange material with a plurality of wash steps. In one embodiment,
   the plurality of wash steps comprises an increase in conductivity. In one embodiment,
   the ion exchange material is washed with a wash buffer comprising about 40-50%
10 elution buffer and about 50-60% water (e.g., water for injection (WFI)). In still another
   embodiment, the elution buffer is 20 mM Na2PO 4 , 150 mM sodium chloride, pH 7.
            In one embodiment of the invention, the first eluate is subjected to viral
   inactivation prior to ion exchange chromatography step. In one embodiment, the viral
   inactivation is achieved through pH viral inactivation (e.g., lowering of the pH of the
15 first eluate to thereby inactive viruses).
            In one embodiment, the ion exchange chromatography step comprises anion
   exchange chromatography. In one embodiment, the anion exchange chromatography is
   Q sepharose chromatography.
            The invention also describes a method wherein the reduced level of procathepsin
20 L is attained by altering the pH and conductivity of the first eluate such that the pH and
   conductivity of the first eluate is substantially similar to the pH and conductivity of the
   second ion exchange material. In one embodiment, the pH of the second ion exchange
   material ranges from about 7.7 to about 8.3. In another embodiment the pH of the first
   eluate is altered to range from about 7.7 to about 8.3. In still another embodiment
25 wherein the pH of the first eluate is altered to about 8.0. In yet another embodiment, the
   conductivity of the second ion exchange material ranges from about 3.5 mS/cm to about
    5.2 mS/cm, or from about 3.5 mS/cm to about 4.9 mS/cm. In one embodiment, the
   conductivity of the first eluate is altered to range from about 3.5 mS/cm to about 5.2
   mS/cm, or from about 3.5 mS/cm to about 4.9 mS/cm.
30          in one embodiment of the invention, the hydrophobic interaction separation step
   comprises hydrophobic interaction chromatography. In one embodiment, the
   hydrophobic interaction chromatography is phenyl sepharose chromatography. In still
    another embodiment, the amount of antibody loaded on to the hydrophobic interaction
   material ranges from about 20 to about 40 grams of antibody per liter of hydrophobic
35 interaction material. In yet another embodiment, the amount of antibody loaded on to
   the hydrophobic interaction material ranges from about 30 to about 36 grams of antibody
   per liter of hydrophobic interaction material.

                                             5
           In one embodiment, the first eluate comprises cathepsin L activity ranging from
   between about 25 to about 60 RFU/s/mg of antibody as measured by a cathepsin L
   kinetic assay.
           In another embodiment, the first flowthrough comprises cathepsin L activity
 5 ranging from between about 0.4 to about 4 RFU/s/mg of antibody as measured by a
   cathepsin L kinetic assay.
           In still another embodiment, the second eluate comprises cathepsin L activity
   ranging from between about 0.5 to about 1.5 RFU/s/mg of antibody as measured by a
   cathepsin L kinetic assay.
10         In one embodiment of the invention, the level of procathepsin L is reproducibly
   low.
           In a particularly preferred aspect, the invention provides antibody purification
   methods in which high amounts of an antibody-HCP mixture can be loaded onto an ion
   exchange resin to achieve reduction in HCP in the mixture. This methodology has the
15 advantage that it can be used with antibody-HCP mixtures that have not been subjected
   to protein A capture prior to application of the antibody-HCP mixture to the ion
   exchange resin. Protein A capture, in which an antibody-HCP mixture is applied to a
   protein A column such that the antibody binds to protein A and HCPs flow through,
   typically is used as an initial purification step in antibody purification procedures as a
20 means to remove HCPs. Thus, the methods of the invention are useful for purifying
   large loads of antibody-HCP mixtures without the need to carry out a protein A
   chromatography as an initial step.
           Thus, in one embodiment, the invention provides a method for producing a host
   cell protein-(HCP) reduced antibody preparation from a mixture comprising an antibody
25 and at least one HCP, the method comprising:
           (a) applying the mixture to a first ion exchange resin in an equilibration buffer,
   wherein greater than 30 grams of antibody per liter of resin are applied;
           (b) washing HCP from the resin with a plurality of wash steps; and
           (c) eluting the antibody from the resin with an elution buffer to form a first
30 eluate,
           such that the HCP-reduced antibody preparation is obtained.
   In another embodiment, about 35-70 grams of antibody per liter of resin are applied. In
   yet another embodiment, about 70 grams of antibody per liter of resin are applied. In a
   preferred embodiment, the mixture comprising an antibody and at least one HCP is not
35 subjected to protein A capture (e.g., is not applied to protein A column) prior to applying
   the mixture to the first ion exchange resin.

                                            6
           Preferably, the plurality of wash steps comprises at least a first wash and a
   second wash, wherein there is an increase in conductivity from the first wash to the
   second wash. More preferably, the first wash is with equilibration buffer and the second
   wash is with a mixture of elution buffer and water (e.g.,WFI). For example, the mixture
 5 of elution buffer and water can comprise about 40-50% elution buffer and about 50-60%
   water. More preferably, the mixture of elution buffer and water can comprise about
   45% elution buffer and about 55% water. In a preferred embodiment, the elution buffer
   comprises 20 mM sodium phosphate and 150 mM sodium chloride. In this situation, a
   mixture of elution buffer and water that is 45% elution buffer and about 55% water is 9
10 mM sodium phosphate and 68 mM sodium chloride. In a preferred embodiment, the
   first wash is with an equilibrium buffer comprising 20 mM phosphate, 25 mM sodium
   chloride, the second wash is with a buffer comprising 9 mM phosphate, 68 mM sodium
   chloride (45% elution buffer, 55% water) and the elution buffer comprises 20 mM
   sodium phosphate and 150 mM sodium chloride.
15          In one embodiment, the method using the first ion exchange resin is carried out
   at pH 7. In another embodiment, the method using the first ion exchange resin is carried
   out at pH 5. In yet another embodiment, the method using the first ion exchange resin is
   carried out at a pH in a range of about pH 5 to about pH 7, or a range of pH 5 to pH 7.
   When pH 7 is used, preferably about 35 grams of antibody per liter of resin is applied.
20 When pH 5 is used, preferably about 70 grams of antibody per liter of resin is applied.
   When a pH in the range of about pH 5 to about pH 7 (e.g., pH 5 to pH 7) is used,
   preferably an amount of antibody from about 35 to about 70 grams of antibody per liter
   of resin (e.g., 35-70 grams of antibody per liter of resin) is applied.
            In a preferred embodiment, better HCP clearance from the antibody-HCP
25 mixture is achieved (e.g., at pH 5) by loading more antibody onto the resin (e.g., about
   70 grams of antibody per liter of resin) than is achieved when less antibody (e.g., about
   30 grams of antibody per liter of resin) is loaded onto the resin. This is thought to be the
   result of displacement of HCP from the resin by the antibody when conditions are used
   at which the binding affinity of the antibody for the resin is significantly greater than
30 that of HCP for the resin.
            Preferably, the first ion exchange resin is a cation exchange resin. Preferably,
   the cation exchange resin is formed into a column and the mixture comprising the
    antibody and at least one HCP is applied to the column. Preferably, the cation exchange

                                           7
   resin comprises a synthetic methacrylate based polymeric resin attached to a sulfonate
   group (e.g., Fractogel S). Alternatively, the cation exchange resin can comprise, for
   example, methacrylate or polystyrene based synthetic polymers, silica, highly cross
   linked agarose with dextran surface extender, cross-linked copolymer of allyl dextran
 5 and N. N. methylene bisacryla resins attached to a sulfonate group, such as sulfonium
   ions or sulfoethyl.
           In another aspect of the invention, after the method using the first ion exchange
   resin described above is carried out, the method further comprises subjecting the first
   eluate to a viral inactivation step. For example, wherein viral inactivation can be
10 achieved by pH viral inactivation to form a virally-inactived preparation (e.g., the first
   eluate is subjected to low pH conditions, such as pH of about 3.5, to thereby inactivate
   viruses). Preferably, the virally-inactivated preparation is applied to a second ion
   exchange resin, wherein, prior to applying the virally-inactivated preparation to the
   second ion exchange resin, pH and conductivity of the virally-inactivated preparation is
15 adjusted to be substantially similar to pH and conductivity of the second ion exchange
   resin. For example, the pH of the second ion exchange resin can be in a range of about
   pH 7.7 to about pH 8.3 and the pH of the virally-inactivated preparation is adjusted to be
   in a range of about pH 7.7 to about pH 8.3. In another embodiment, the pH of the
   second ion exchange resin can be in a range of about pH 7.8 to about pH 8.2 and the pH
20 of the virally-inactivated preparation is adjusted to be in a range of about pH 7.8 to about
   pH 8.2. More preferably, the pH of the second ion exchange resin is about pH 8.0 and
   the pH of the virally-inactivated preparation is adjusted to be about pH 8.0.
   Furthermore, the conductivity of the second ion exchange resin can be in a range of
   about 3.5 mS/cm to about 5.2 mS/cm and the conductivity of the virally-inactivated
25 preparation is adjusted to be in a range of about 3.5 mS/cm to about 5.2 mS/cm.
   Preferably, the conductivity of the second ion exchange resin is about 5.0 mS/cm and the
   conductivity of the virally-inactivated preparation is adjusted to be about 5.0 mS/cm.
           In a preferred embodiment, the second ion exchange resin is an anion exchange
   resin. For example, the anion exchange resin can be a       Q sepharose resin.  Preferably,
30 the second ion exchange resin is formed into a column and the virally-inactivated
   preparation is applied to the column such that a first flow through is obtained.
            In another aspect of the invention , after the first through is obtained from the
    second ion exchange resin, the first flow through can be applied to a hydrophobic

                                             8
   interaction column such that a second eluate is obtained. In a preferred embodiment, the
   hydrophobic interaction column is a phenyl sepharose column. In one embodiment, the
   first flow through applied to the hydrophobic interaction column comprises about 20 to
   about 40 grams of antibody per liter of hydrophobic interaction column material. In
 5 another embodiment, the first flow through applied to the hydrophobic interaction
   column comprises about 30 to about 36 grams of antibody per liter of hydrophobic
   interaction column material. Due to the efficiency of the prior steps in the purification
   process, it has been found that it is not necessary to subject the second eluate, obtained
   from the hydrophobic interaction column, to product peak fractionation. Thus, in one
10 embodiment, the second eluate is not subjected to product peak fractionation.
            In a particularly preferred embodiment, the method of the invention for
   producing a host cell protein-(HCP) reduced antibody preparation from a mixture
   comprising an antibody and at least one HCP comprises:
            (a) applying the mixture to a cation exchange resin in an equilibration buffer,
15 wherein the mixture has not been subjected to protein A capture prior to applying to the
   cation exchange resin and wherein greater than 30 grams of antibody per liter of resin
    are applied;
            (b) washing HCP from the cation exchange resin with a plurality of wash steps;
             (c) eluting the antibody from the cation exchange resin with an elution buffer to
20  form a first eluate;
            (d) subjecting the first eluate to a viral inactivation step;
            (e) applying the virally-inactivated preparation to an anion exchange resin to
    obtain a first flow through; and
             (f) applying the first flow through to a hydrophobic interaction column such that
25  a second eluate is obtained;
             such that the HCP-reduced antibody preparation is obtained.
             In one embodiment, the cation exchange resin is at pH 7 and about 35 grams of
    antibody per liter of resin are applied. In another embodiment, the cation exchange resin
    is at pH 5 and about 70 grams of antibody per liter of resin are applied. In yet another
30  embodiment, the pH is in a range of about pH 5 to about pH 7 (e.g., pH 5 to pH 7) and
    an amount of antibody from about 35 to about 70 grams of antibody per liter of resin
    (e.g., 35-70 grams of antibody per liter of resin) is applied.

                                            9
            Preferably, the plurality of wash steps comprises washing the resin with a first
   wash using the equilibration buffer and a second wash using a mixture of the elution
   buffer and water. For example, the mixture of elution buffer and water can comprise
   about 40-50% elution buffer and about 50-60% water (e.g., WFI), more prefably about
 5 45% elution buffer and about 55% water (e.g., WFI). In a preferred embodiment, the
   elution buffer comprises 20 mM sodium phosphate and 150 mM sodium chloride. In
   this situation, a mixture of elution buffer and water that is 45% elution buffer and about
   55% water is 9 mM sodium phosphate and 68 mM sodium chloride. In a preferred
   embodiment, the first wash is with an equilibrium buffer comprising 20 mM phosphate,
10 25 mM sodium chloride, the second wash is with a buffer comprising 9 mM phosphate,
   68 mM sodium chloride (45% elution buffer, 55% water) and the elution buffer
   comprises 20 mM sodium phosphate and 150 mM sodium chloride.
            Preferably, in the above-described method with steps (a) through (f), prior to
   applying the virally-inactivated preparation to the anion ion exchange resin (i.e.,
15 between steps (d) and (e)), pH and conductivity of the virally-inactivated preparation is
   adjusted to be substantially similar to pH and conductivity of the anion exchange resin.
   For example, the pH of the second ion exchange resin can be in a range of about pH 7.7
   to about pH 8.3 and the pH of the virally-inactivated preparation is adjusted to be in a
   range of about pH 7.7 to about pH 8.3. In another embodiment, the pH of the second ion
20 exchange resin can be in a range of about pH 7.8 to about pH 8.2 and the pH of the
   virally-inactivated preparation is adjusted to be in a range of about pH 7.8 to about pH
   8.2. More preferably, the pH of the second ion exchange resin is about pH 8.0 and the
   pH of the virally-inactivated preparation is adjusted to be about pH 8:0. Furthermore,
   the conductivity of the second ion exchange resin can be in a range of about 3.5 mS/cm
25 to about 5.2 mS/cm and the conductivity of the virally-inactivated preparation is
   adjusted to be in a range of about 3.5 mS/cm to about 5.2 mS/cm. Preferably, the
   conductivity of the second ion exchange resin is about 5.0 mS/cm and the conductivity
   of the virally-inactivated preparation is adjusted to be about 5.0 mS/cm.
            In the above-described method with steps (a) through (f), preferably the cation
30 exchange resin is a synthetic methacrylate-based polymeric resin attached to a sulfonate
   group (e.g., Fractogel), the anion exchange resin is a Q sepharose resin and the
   hydrophobic interaction column is a phenyl sepharose column.

                                            10
           Prferably, the first eluate comprises a range of about 90 to about 100 fold less
   HCP than the mixture as determined by a HCP ELISA. Preferably, the first flowthrough
   comprises a range of about 840 to about 850 fold less HCP than the first eluate as
   determined by a HCP ELISA. Preferably, the second eluate comprises a range of about
 5 3 to about 5 fold less HCP than the first flowthrough as determined by a HCP ELISA.
           In a particularly preferred embodiment, the method of the invention for
   producing a host cell protein-(HCP) reduced antibody preparation from a mixture
   comprising an antibody and at least one HCP comprises:
           (a) applying the mixture to a cation exchange resin in an equilibration buffer,
10 wherein the cation exchange resin is at pH 7 and about 35 grams of antibody per liter of
   resin are applied, or the cation exchange resin is at a pH in a range of pH 5 to pH 7 and
   about 35 to about 70 grams of antibody per liter of resin are applied, or the cation
   exchange resin is at pH 5 and about 70 grams of antibody per liter of resin are applied;
            (b) washing HCP from the cation exchange resin with wash steps comprising a
15 first wash using the equilibration buffer and a second wash using a mixture of an elution
   buffer and water;
           (c) eluting the antibody from the cation exchange resin with the elution buffer to
   form a first eluate;
           (d) subjecting the first eluate to a viral inactivation step, wherein viral
20 inactivation is achieved by pH viral inactivation to -form a virally-inactived preparation;
           (e) applying the virally-inactivated preparation to an anion exchange resin,
   wherein, prior to applying the virally-inactivated preparation to the anion ion exchange
   resin, pH and conductivity of the virally-inactivated preparation is adjusted to be
   substantially similar to pH and conductivity of the anion exchange resin, such that a first
25 flow through is obtained; and
           (f) applying the first flow through to a hydrophobic interaction column such that
   a second eluate is obtained;
           such that the HCP-reduced antibody preparation is obtained.
           Preferably, the antibody mixture has not been subjected to protein A capture
30 prior to applying to the cation exchange resin. Preferably, the mixture of elution buffer
   and water comprises about 40-50% elution buffer and about 50-60% water, more
   prefably about 45% elution buffer and about 55% water (e.g., WFI). In a preferred
   embodiment, the elution buffer comprises 20 mM sodium phosphate and 150 mM

                                           11
   sodium chloride. In this situation, a mixture of elution buffer and water that is 45%
   elution buffer and about 55% water is 9 mM sodium phosphate and 68 mM sodium
   chloride. In a preferred embodiment, the first wash is with an equilibrium buffer
   comprising 20 mM phosphate, 25 mM sodium chloride, the second wash is with a buffer
 5 comprising 9 mM phosphate, 68 mM sodium chloride (45% elution buffer, 55% water)
   and the elution buffer comprises 20 mM sodium phosphate and 150 mM sodium
   chloride. Preferably, the first eluate comprises a range of about 90 to about 100 fold less
   HCP than the mixture as determined by a HCP ELISA. Preferably, the first flowthrough
   comprises a range of about 840 to about 850 fold less HCP than the first eluate as
10 determined by a HCP ELISA. Preferably, the second eluate comprises a range of about
   3 to about 5 fold less HCP than the first flowthrough as determined by a HCP ELISA.
            In a.preferred aspect of any of the above-described purification methods, the
   HCP comprises procathepsin L such that a procathepsin L-reduced antibody preparation
   is obtained. Prefeably, the eluate comprises cathepsin L activity ranging from between
15 about 25 to about 60 RFU/s/mg of antibody as measured by a cathepsin L kinetic assay.
   Preferably, the first flowthrough comprises cathepsin L activity ranging from between
   about 0.4 to about 4 RFU/s/mg of antibody as measured by a cathepsin L kinetic assay.
    Preferably, the second eluate comprises cathepsin L activity ranging from between
   about 0.5 to about 1.5 RFU/s/mg of antibody as measured by a cathepsin L kinetic assay
20 Preferably, the level of procathepsin L is reproducibly low.
           -In yet another aspect, the invention pertains to a method for producing a host cell
   protein-(HCP) reduced antibody preparation from a mixture comprising an antibody and
   at least one HCP, the method comprising:
            (a) applying the mixture to a cation exchange resin to obtain a first eluate;
25          (b) applying the first eluate to an anion ion exchange resin to obtain a first flow
   through; and
            (c) applying the first flow through to a hydrophobic interaction column such that
   a second eluate is obtained;
            such that the HCP-reduced antibody preparation is obtained.
30          Preferably, the mixture comprising an antibody and at least one HCP is not
   subjected to protein A capture prior to applying the mixture to the first ion exchange
   resin. Preferably, the method further comprises subjecting the first eluate to a viral

                                             12
    inactivation step prior to applying the first eluate to the anion exchange resin. For
    example, viral inactivation can be achieved by pH viral inactivation.
            Preferably, the cation exchange resin comprises a synthetic methacrylate based
   polymeric resin attached to a sulfonate group (e.g., the the cation exchange resin can be
 5  a Fractogel S column). For example, a Fractogel S column can be equilibrated with an
   equilibration buffer comprising 20 mM sodium phosphate, 25 mM sodium chloride, the
   mixture can be applied to the column, the column can be at least washed once with
    equilibration buffer and the first eluate can be obtained by eluting with an elution buffer
   comprising 20 mM sodium phosphate, 150 mM sodium chloride.
10          Preferably, the anion exchange resin is a    Q sepharose  column. For example, a  Q
   sepharose column can be equilibrated with an equilibratoin buffer comprising 25 mM
   trolamine, 40 mM sodium chloride, pH 7.6.
            Preferably, the hydrophobic interaction column is a phenyl sepharose column.
   For example, a phenyl sepharose column can be equilibrated with an equilibriation
15 buffer comprising 20 mM sodium phosphate, 1.1 M (NH4 ) 2 SO 4 , pH 7, the first
   flowthrough can be applied to the column, the column can be at least washed once with
   equilibration buffer and the second eluate can be obtained by performing a salt step
   gradient to 11 mM sodium phosphate, 0.625 M (NH4 ) 2 SO 4 , pH 7.0.
            Preferably, pH viral inactivation is achieved by maintaining the first eluate at pH
20 3.5 for approximately one hour.
            In yet another aspect, the invention pertains to a method for producing a host cell
   protein-(HCP) reduced adalimumab preparation from a mixture comprising adalimumab
   and at least one HCP, the method comprising:
            (a) applying the mixture to a cation exchange resin, wherein the mixture is not
25 subjected to protein A capture prior to applying the mixture to the first ion exchange
   resin, to obtain a first eluate;
            (b) subjecting the first eluate to pH viral inactivation to obtain a virally
   inactivated preparation;
            (c) applying the virally inactivated preparation to an anion ion exchange resin to
30 obtain a first flow through; and
            (c) applying the first flow through to a hydrophobic interaction column such that
   a second eluate is obtained;
            such that the HCP-reduced adalimumab preparation is obtained.

                                            13
           Preferably, the cation exchange resin is a Fractogel S column, the anion
   exchange resin is a Q sepharose column and the hydrophobic interaction column is a
   phenyl sepharose column. For example, a Fractogel S column can be equilibrated with
   an equilibration buffer comprising 20 mM sodium phosphate, 25 mM sodium chloride,
 5 the mixture can be applied to the column, the column can be at least washed once with
   equilibration buffer and the first eluate can be obtained by eluting with an elution buffer
   comprising 20 mM sodium phosphate, 150 mM sodium chloride. Also for example, a
   Q sepharose column can      be equilibrated with an equilibration buffer comprising 25 mM
   trolamine, 40 mM sodium chloride, pH 7.6. Also for example, a phenyl sepharose
10 column can be equilibrated with an equilibriation buffer comprising 20 mM sodium
   phosphate, 1.1 M (NH4 ) 2 SO 4 , pH 7, the first flowthrough can be applied to the column,
   the column can be at least washed once with equilibration buffer and the second eluate
   can be obtained by performing a salt step-gradient to 11 mM sodium phosphate,
   0.625 M (NH 4 ) 2 SO 4 , pH 7.0. Also for example, pH viral inactivation can be achieved by
15 maintaining the first eluate at pH 3.5 for approximately one hour.
           With respect to all of the above-described purification methods, in a preferred
   embodiment of the invention, the antibody is an anti-tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNFa)
   antibody, or antigen-binding portion thereof. In one embodiment, the anti-TNFa
   antibody, or antigen-binding portion thereof, is a chimeric antibody, a humanized
20 antibody or a multivalent antibody. In one embodiment, the anti-TNFca antibody, or
   antigen-binding portion thereof, is infliximab or golimumab.
           In another embodiment, the anti-TNFaantibody, or antigen-binding portion
   thereof, is a human antibody. In one embodiment, the anti-TNFa antibody, or antigen
   binding portion thereof, is an isolated human antibody that dissociates from human
25 TNFa with a Kd of I x 10-8 M or less and a Koff rate constant of 1 x 10-3 s-1 or less,
   both determined by surface plasmon resonance, and neutralizes human TNFa
   cytotoxicity in a standard in vitro L929 assay with an IC50 of 1 x 10-7 M or less.
           In another embodiment, the anti-TNFat antibody, or antigen-binding portion
   thereof, is an isolated human antibody with the following characteristics:
30         a) dissociates from human TNFca with a Koff rate constant of 1 x 10-3 s-I or less,
   as determined by surface plasmon resonance;
           b) has a light chain CDR3 domain comprising the amino acid sequence of
   SEQ ID NO: 3, or modified from SEQ ID NO: 3 by a single alanine substitution at
   position 1, 4, 5, 7 or 8 or by one to five conservative amino acid substitutions at
35 positions 1, 3, 4, 6, 7, 8 and/or 9;
          c)    has a heavy chain CDR3 domain comprising the amino acid sequence

                                            14
   of SEQ ID NO: 4, or modified from SEQ ID NO: 4 by a single alanine substitution at
   position 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 8, 9, 10 or 11 or by one to five conservative amino acid
   substitutions at positions 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 8, 9, 10, 11 and/or 12.
           In still another embodiment, the anti-TNFL antibody, or antigen-binding portion
 5 thereof, is an isolated human antibody with a light chain variable region (LCVR)
   comprising the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 1 and a heavy chain variable region
   (HCVR) comprising the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 2
           In yet another embodiment, the anti-TNFa antibody, or antigen-binding portion
   thereof, is adalimumab.
10         The invention provides an antibody preparation which is substantially free of
   HCP as measured by a HCP ELISA produced using any of the methods of the invention.
   The invention also provides a pharmaceutical composition comprising an HCP-reduced
   antibody preparation produced using any of the methods of of the invention, and a
   pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.
15         The invention includes a pharmaceutical composition comprising an antibody an
   HCP-reduced antibody, wherein the level of HCP comprises no greater than about 70 ng
   of HCP per mg of antibody as measured by a HCP ELISA, and a pharmaceutically
   acceptable carrier. In one embodiment, the level of HCP comprises no greater than
   about 13 ng of HCP per mg of antibody as measured by a HCP ELISA. In another
20 emdboiment, the level of HCP comprises no greater than about 5 ng of HCP per mg of
   antibody as measured by a HCP ELISA.
           The invention provides a composition comprising an antibody, wherein said
   composition has no detectable level of HCP as determined by a HCP ELISA assay.
           The invention also provides an antibody preparation which is substantially free
25 of procathepsin L produced using any of the methods described herein. The invention
   also includes a pharmaceutical composition comprising a procathepsin L-reduced
   antibody preparation produced using any of the methods described herein, and a
   pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.
           The invention provides a pharmaceutical composition comprising an antibody a
30 procathepsin L-reduced antibody and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier, wherein the
   level of procathepsin L is no greater than a cathepsin activity of about 3.0 RFU/s/mg of
   antibody.
           With respect to all of the above-described antibody preparations and
   pharmaceutical compositions, preferably the antibody is an anti-tumor necrosis factor
35 alpha (TNFa) antibody, or antigen-binding portion thereof In one embodiment, the
   anti-TNFa antibody, or antigen-binding portion thereof, is an antibody selected from the
   group consisting of humanized, chimeric or multivalent. In one embodiment, the anti
   TNFa antibody, or antigen-binding portion thereof, is infliximab or golimumab.

                                            15
            In another embodiment, the anti-TNFaantibody, or antigen-binding portion
   thereof, is a human antibody. In one embodiment, the anti-TNFo%antibody, or antigen
   binding portion thereof, is an isolated human antibody that dissociates from human
   TNFa with a Kd of 1 x 10-8 M or less and a Koff rate constant of 1 x 10-3 s-1 or less,
 5 both determined by surface plasmon resonance, and neutralizes human TNFc
   cytotoxicity in a standard in vitro L929 assay with an IC5 0 ~of 1 x 10-7 M or less.
            In another embodiment, the anti-TNFa antibody, or antigen-binding portion
   thereof, is an isolated human antibody with the following characteristics:
            a) dissociates from human TNFa with a Kff rate constant of 1 x 10- s- or less,
10 as determined by surface plasmon resonance;
            b) has a light chain CDR3 domain comprising the amino acid sequence of
   SEQ ID NO: 3, or modified from SEQ ID NO: 3 by a single alanine substitution at
   position 1, 4, 5, 7 or 8 or by one to five conservative amino acid substitutions at
   positions 1, 3, 4, 6, 7, 8 and/or 9;
15         c)   has a heavy chain CDR3 domain comprising the amino acid sequence
   of SEQ ID NO: 4, or modified from SEQ ID NO: 4 by a single alanine substitution at
   position 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 8, 9, 10 or 11 or by one to five conservative amino acid
   substitutions at positions 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 8, 9, 10, 11 and/or 12.
            In still another embodiment, the anti-TNFa antibody, or antigen-binding portion
20 thereof, is an isolated human antibody with a light chain variable region (LCVR)
   comprising the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 1 and a heavy chain variable region
   (HCVR) comprising the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 2
            In yet another embodiment, the anti-TNFax antib6dy, or antigen-binding portion
   thereof, is adalimumab.
25          The invention includes a method of treating a disorder in which TNFa activity is
   detrimental comprising administering to a human subject a pharmaceutical compositions
   comprising an antbody obtained using any of the methods of the invention. In one
   embodiment, the preparation is administering to the human subject over a prolonged
   period of time. In one embodiment, the prolonged period of time includes at least about
30 3 months, at least about 4 months or at least about 5 months.
            In one embodiment, the disorder in which TNFa activity is detrimental is
   selected from the group consisting of an autoimmune disorder, an intestinal disorder,
   and a skin disease. In one embodiment, the autoimmune disorder is selected from the
   group consisting of rheumatoid arthritis, rheumatoid spondylitis, osteoarthritis, gouty
35 arthritis, an allergy, multiple sclerosis, psoriatic arthritis, autoimmune diabetes,
   autoimmune uveitis, nephrotic syndrome, and juvenile rheumatoid arthritis. In another
   embodiment,the intestinal disorder is Crohn's disease. In still another emdbodiment, the
   skin disease is psoriasis.

                                            16
           In one embodiment, the pharmaceutical composition is administering in
   combination with an additional therapeutic agent. In one embodiment, the additional
   therapeutic agent is methotrexate.
           The invention includes a method of treating a disorder in which TNF' activity is
 5 detrimental comprising administering to a human subject the pharmaceutical
   composition comprising an antbody obtained using any of the methods of the invention.
   In one embodiment, the preparation is administering to a human subject over a
   prolonged period of time. In one embodiment, the prolonged period of time includes at
   least about 3 months, at least about 4 months or at least about 5 months. In one
10 embodiment, the disorder in which TNFx activity is detrimental is selected from the
   group consisting of an autoimmune disorder, an intestinal disorder, and a skin disease.
   In one embodiment, the autoimmune disorder is selected from the group consisting of
   rheumatoid arthritis, rheumatoid spondylitis, osteoarthritis, gouty arthritis, an allergy,
   multiple sclerosis, psoriatic arthritis, autoimmune diabetes, autoimmune uveitis,
15 nephrotic syndrome and juvenile rheumatoid arthritis. In one embodiment, the intestinal
   disorder is Crohn's disease. In one embodiment, the skin disease is psoriasis.
           In one embodiment, the pharmaceutical composition is administered in
   combination with an additional therapeutic agent. In one embodiment, the additional
   therapeutic agent is methotrexate.
20         The invention provides an article of manufacture comprising a packaging
   material, adalimumab, and a label or package insert contained within the packaging
   material indicating that the adalimumab formulation comprises no greater than about 70
   ng of HCP per mg of adalimumab. In one embodiment, the about 70 ng of HCP per mg
   of adalimumab is measured by a HCP ELISA.
25         The invention also provides an article of manufacture comprising a packaging
   material, adalimumab, and a label or package insert contained within the packaging
   material indicating that the adalimumab formulation comprises no greater than about 13
   ng of HCP per mg of adalimumab. In one embodiment, the about 13 ng of HCP per mg
   of adalimumab is measured by a HCP ELISA.
30         The invention includes an article of manufacture comprising a packaging
   material, adalimumab, and a label or package insert contained within the packaging
   material indicating that the adalimumab formulation comprises no greater than about 5
   ng of HCP per mg of adalimumab. In one embodiment, the about 5 ng of HCP per mg
   of adalimumab is measured by a HCP ELISA.
35         The invention includes an article of manufacture comprising a packaging
   material, adalimumab, and a label or package insert contained within the packaging
   material indicating that the adalimumab formulation comprises no greater a level of
   procathepsin L than that indicated by a cathepsin L activity of about 3.0 RFU/s/mg

                                          17
   adalimumab. In one embodiment, cathepsin L activity is measured by a cathepsin L
   kinetic assay.
           The invention further provides a kinetic assay for determining the amount of
   procathepsin L in a material derived from a mammalian cell expression system
 5 comprising contacting the material derived from a mammalian cell expression system
   with an enzyme to process procathepsin L to an active cathepsin L form, such that a
   cathepsin L sample is obtained; contacting the cathepsin L sample with a substrate for
   cathepsin L; and -determining the cathepsin L activity in the cathepsin L sample as an
   indication of the amount procathepsin L in the material derived from the mammalian cell
10 expression system. In one embodiment, the mammalian cell expression system is
   Chinese Hamster Ovary (CHO) cells. In another embodiment, the enzyme to process
   procathepsin L is an endopeptidase. In still another embodiment, the substrate for
   cathepsin L comprises a label. In still another embodiment, the label is a fluorescent
   agent. In one embodiment, the fluorescent agent comprises a fluorescent 7-amino-4
15 methyl coumarin (AMC) group. In one embodiment, the substrate for cathepsin L
   comprises Z-leucine-arginine. In still another embodiment, the Z-leucine-arginine
   comprises an AMC group.
   BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
20 Figures IA and 1B show the typical elution profiles for the Fractogel S chromatography
   step for each process, including the process of the invention (Figure 1A) and process A
   (Figure 1B).
   Figures2A and 2B show a comparison of the flow-through wash profile of Q Sepharose
   FF chromatography step, including the process of the invention (Figure 2A) and process
25 A (Figure 2B).
   Figures3A and 3B show a comparison of the elution profile of Phenyl Sepharose HP
   chromatography step, including process B (Figure 3A) and process A (Figure 3B).
   Figure4 shows a graphic depiction of a stepwise reduction in procathepsin L for the
   average process B (diamond shape) and average process A (square shape).
30 Figure 5 shows a graphic depiction of the stepwise reduction in HCP for the average
   process B (diamond shape) and process A (square shape).
   Figure 6 shows that kinetic readings of activated in-process samples indicated the linear
   relationship of reaction time versus fluorescent signal.
35

                                            18
     DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
    I.        Definitions
              In order that the present invention may be more readily understood, certain terms
  5  are first defined.
              The term "mixture", as used herein, refers to a material having viscosity which is
    to be purified comprising at least one antibody of interest which is sought to be purified
    from other substances which may also be present. Mixtures can, for example, be
    aqueous solutions, organic solvent systems, or aqueous/organic solvent mixtures or
 10 solutions. The mixtures are often complex mixtures or solutions comprising many
    biological molecules (such as proteins, antibodies, hormones, and viruses), small
    molecules (such as salts, sugars, lipids, etc.) and even particulate matter. While a typical
    mixture of biological origin may begin as an aqueous solution or suspension, it may also
    contain organic solvents used in earlier separation steps such as solvent precipitations,
 15 extractions, and the like. Examples of mixtures that may contain valuable biological
    substances amenable to the purification by various embodiments the present invention
    include, but are not limited to, a culture supernatant from a bioreactor, a homogenized
    cell suspension, plasma, plasma fractions, and milk.
              By "purifying" an antibody from a mixture comprising the antibody and one or
20  more substances is meant increasing the degree of purity of the antibody in the mixture
    by removing (completely or partially) at least one substance from the composition. The
    substance may be an impurity or contaminant, such as, but not limited to, a host cell
    protein (HCP).
              The term "host cell protein(s)" or "HCP(s)" refers to proteins in the mixture that
25  are different from the antibody of interest and typically originate from the source of the
    antibody production. HCPs are desirably excluded from the final antibody preparation.
              The term "reduced" refers to the lessening or diminishing the amount of a
    substance. A reduced preparation includes a preparation which has less of a substance,
    such as HCPs or procathepsin L, relative to an initial amount. In one embodiment, the
30  substance is an impurity or contaminant. In one embodiment, the term "reduced" means
    substantially less of the substance. In another embodiment, the term "reduced" means
    no amount of the substance. In one embodiment, no amount of a substance includes "no
    detectable amount" using assays described herein.
              The term "substantially free" includes no amount of a substance, but can also
35  include a minimal amount of a substance. In one embodiment, no amount of a substance
    includes "no detectable amount" using assays described herein.
             The term "host cell protein- (HCP-) reduced" refers to a composition, including,
    but not limited to, an eluate, an preparation, a flowthrough, comprising an antibody and

                                             19
      a lessened or diminished amount of HCP(s) following one or more purification steps. In
      one embodiment, the term "HCP-reduced" means substantially less of the HCP(s) in the
     composition comprising an antibody. In another embodiment, the term "HCP-reduced"
     means no amount of the HCP(s) in the composition comprising an antibody. In one
  5   embodiment, the term "HCP-reduced" means no detectable amount using assays
      described herein in the composition comprising an antibody.
              The term "procathepsin L-reduced" refers to a composition, including, but not
     limited to, an eluate, an preparation, a flowthrough, comprising an antibody and a
     lessened or diminished amount of procathepsin L following one or more purification
 10   steps. In one embodiment, the term "procathepsin L-reduced" means substantially less
     of the HCP(s) in the composition comprising an antibody. In another embodiment, the
     term "procathepsin L-reduced" means no amount of the HCP(s) in the composition
     comprising an antibody. In one embodiment, the term "procathepsin L-reduced" means
     no detectable amount using assays described herein in the composition comprising an
 15  antibody.
              The term "reproducibly low" refers to an ability to consistently achieve a
     lessened or diminished amount, such as an ability to achieve a lessened or dimished
     amount at least 80% of the time, more preferably at least 90% of the time, more
     preferably at least 95% of the time and even more preferably at least 98% of the time.
20            The term "ion exchange separation step" refers to a step where undesired
     substances or impurities, e.g., HCPs or procathepsin L, are set apart from an antibody of
     interest based on differences in the ionic interactions of the antibody of interest and the
    -undesired substance with a charged material. An example of an ion exchange separation
     step includes, but is not limited to, ion exchange chromatography, including anion
25   exchange chromatography and cation exchange chromatography.
               "Ion exchange material" refers to an ionic material which is used as the basis for
     the separation of the undesired substances or impurities, e.g., HCPs or procathepsin L,
     from the antibody. Examples of ion exchange materials include anionic and cationic
     resins.
30            "Cation exchange material" refers to an ion exchange resin with covalently
     bound negatively charged ligands, and which thus has free cations for exchange with
     cations in a solution with which the resin is contacted. A wide variety of cation
     exchange resins are known in the art, for example, those wherein the covalently bound
     groups are carboxylate or sulfonate. Commercially available cation exchange resins
35   include CMC-cellulose, SP-SephadexTM, and Fast S-SepharoseTM (the latter two being
     commercially available from Pharmacia).
              "Anion exchange material" refers to an ion exchange resin with covalently bound
     positively charged groups, such as quaternary amino groups. Commercially available

                                            20
     anion exchange resins include DEAE cellulose, TMAE, QAE SephadexTm, and Fast Q
     SepharoseTM (the latter two being commercially available from Pharnacia).
             By "binding" a molecule to an ion exchange material is meant exposing the
     molecule to the ion exchange material under appropriate conditions (pH/conductivity)
 5   such that the molecule is reversibly immobilized in or on the ion exchange material by
     virtue of ionic interactions between the molecule and a charged group or charged groups
     of the ion exchange material.
          - The term "hydrophobic interaction step" refers to a step where undesired
     substances, e.g., HCPs or procathepsin L, are set apart from an antibody of interest based
10   on the differences in the hydrophobic interactions of the antibody of interest and the
     undesired substance with a hydrophobic material.
              The term "hydrophobic interaction material" refers to a hydrophobic material
     which is used as the basis for the separation of the undesired substances, e.g., HCPs or
     procathepsin L, and the antibody. Examples of hydrophobic interaction materials
15   include hydrophobic ligands such as alkyl groups having from about 2 to about 8 carbon
   . atoms, or aryl groups such as phenyl.
             The term "washing" or "wash step" includes passing an appropriate buffer
     through or over a given material, e.g., ion exchange material or hydrophobic interaction
     material.
20           The term "plurality of wash steps" includes more than one successive wash steps
     The successive buffers may have varying properties such as pH, conductivity, solvent
     concentration, etc., designed to dissociate and remove varying types of impurities that
     are non-specifically associated with the given material, e.g., ion exchange material or
     hydrophobic interaction material. In one embodiment, the plurality of wash steps
25   includes an intermediate wash, further comprising about 40-50% elution buffer.
             To "elute" a molecule (e.g. antibody or contaminant substance) from a material is
     meant to remove the molecule there from by altering the buffer surrounding the material
     and thereby decreasing the interaction of the molecule and the material. In one
     embodiment, an antibody is eluted from an ion exchange column wherein the buffer
30   competes with the antibody for the charged sites on the ion exchange material.
             The term "eluate" refers to liquid comprising the molecule, (e.g. antibody or
     contaminant substance) which was obtained subsequent to the binding of the antibody of
     interest to a chromatography material and addition of an elution buffer to dissociate the
     antibody. Eluates may be referred to with respect to the step in the purification process.
35   For example, the term "first eluate" refers to the eluate from the first chromatographic
     step, the term "second eluate" refers to the eluate from the second chromatographic step,
     etc.

                                           21
            The term "flowthrough" refers to a liquid comprising a molecule (e.g. antibody
   or contaminant substance) which was obtained by passing a mixture comprising the
   molecule over a chromatography material such that the molecule passes over the
   material without binding.
 5          A "buffer" refers to a substance which, by its presence in solution, increases the
   amount of acid or alkali that must be added to cause unit change in pH. A buffered
   solution resists changes in pH by the action of its acid-base conjugate components.
   Buffered solutions for use with biological reagents are generally capable of maintaining
   a constant concentration of hydrogen ions such that the pH of the solution is within a
10 physiological range. Traditional buffer components include, but are not limited to,
   organic and inorganic salts, acids and bases. Exemplary buffers for use in purification
   of biological molecules (e.g., antibodies) inlcude the zwitterlonic or "Good" Buffers, see
   e.g., Good et al. (1966) Biochemistry 5:467 and Good and Izawa (1972) Methods
   Enzymol. 24:62. Exemplary buffers include but are not limited to TES, MES, PIPES,
15 HEPES, MOPS, MOPSO, TRICINE and BICINE.
            "Wash buffer" as used herein all refer herein to the substance used to carry away
   impurities from the given.material, e.g., ion exchange material or hydrophobic
   interaction material, to which the antibody is bound.
            The "elution buffer" refers to a substance that is used to dissociate the antibody
20 from the given material, e.g., ion exchange material or hydrophobic interaction material,
   after it has been washed with one or more wash substances. The elution buffer acts to
   dissociate the antibody. Typical elution substances are well known in the art and may
   have higher concentrations of salts, free affinity ligands or analogs, or other substances
   that promote dissociation of the target substance, e.g., antibody from the given material.
25 The conductivity and/or pH of the elution buffer is/are such that the antibody is eluted
   from the ion exchange or hydrophobic interaction material.
            The term "conductivity" refers to the ability of an aqueous solution to conduct an
   electric current between two electrodes. In solution, the current flows by ion transport.
   Therefore, with an increasing amount of ions present in the aqueous solution, the
30 solution will have a higher conductivity. The unit of measurement for conductivity is
   mmhos (mS/cm), and can be measured using a conductivity meter sold, e.g., by Orion.
   The conductivity of a solution may be altered by changing the concentration of ions
   therein. For example, the concentration of a buffering agent and/or concentration of a
   salt (e.g. NaCl or KCI) in the solution may be altered in order to achieve the desired
35 conductivity. In one embodiment, the salt concentration of a wash buffer or any other
   aqueous solution used in chromatography is modified to achieve the desired
   conductivity.

                                           22
           The "pI"or "isoelectric point" of a polypeptide, such as an antibody, refers to the
   pH at which the polypeptide's positive charge balances its negative charge. pI can be
   calculated from the net charge of the amino acid residues of the polypeptide or can be
   determined by isoelectric focusing.
 5         The term "viral inactivation" includes rendering a virus contained in the mixture
   nonfunctional or removing a virus from the mixture to be purified. The virus may
   originate from the source of antibody production, downstream processing steps or
   manufacturing conditions. Methods of rendering a virus nonfunctional or removing a
   virus include heat activation, pH inactivation, chemical inactivating agents, etc. The
10 term "pH viral inactivation" includes subjecting a virus to a pH sufficient to render the
   virus nonfunctional.
           The term "human TNFa" (abbreviated herein as hTNFa, or simply hTNF), as
   used herein, is intended to refer to a human cytokine that exists as a 17 kD secreted form
   and a 26 kD membrane associated form, the biologically active form of which is
15 composed of a trimer of noncovalently bound 17 kD molecules. The structure of
   hTNFa is described further in, for example, Pennica, D., et aL. (1984) Nature 312:724
   729; Davis, J.M., et aL. (1987) Biochemistry 26:1322-1326; and Jones, E.Y., et al. (1989)
   Nature338:225-228. The term human TNFa is intended to include recombinant human
   TNFca (rhTNFa), which can be prepared by standard recombinant expression methods
20 or purchased commercially (R & D Systems, Catalog No. 210-TA, Minneapolis, MN).
   TNFa is also referred to as TNF.
           The term "antibody", as used herein, is intended to refer to immunoglobulin
   molecules comprised of four polypeptide chains, two heavy (H) chains and two light (L)
   chains inter-connected by disulfide bonds. Each heavy chain is comprised of a heavy
25 chain variable region (abbreviated herein as HCVR or VH) and a heavy chain constant
   region. The heavy chain constant region is comprised of three domains, CHI, CH2 and
   CH3. Each light chain is comprised of a light chain variable region (abbreviated herein
   as LCVR or VL) and a light chain constant region. The light chain constant region is
   comprised of one domain, CL. The VH and VL regions can be further subdivided into
30 regions of hypervariability, termed complementarity determining regions (CDR),
   interspersed with regions that are more conserved, termed framework regions (FR);
   Each VH and VL is composed of three CDRs and four FRs, arranged from amino
   terminus to carboxy-terminus in the following order: FRI, CDRI, FR2, CDR2, FR3,
   CDR3, FR4. The antibodies of the invention are described in further detail in U.S. Patent
35 Nos. 6,090,382; 6,258,562; and 6,509,015, each of which is incorporated herein by
   reference in its entirety. In one embodiment, the antibody of the invention is an anti
   TNFa which interfere with TNFa activity. Examples of anti- TNFca antibodies include,
   but are not limited to, anti-TNFa human antibodies and antibody portions described

                                            23
   herein as well as those described in U.S. Patent Nos. 6,090,382; 6,258,562; 6,509,015,
   and in U.S. Patent Application Serial Nos. 09/801185 and 10/302356, each of which is
   incorporated by reference herein. In one embodiment, the TNFa inhibitor used in the
   invention is an anti-TNFa antibody, or a fragment thereof, including infliximab
 5 (Remicade*, Johnson and Johnson; described in U.S. Patent No. 5,656,272, incorporated
   by reference herein), CDP571 (a humanized monoclonal anti-TNF-alpha IgG4
   antibody), CDP 870 (a humanized monoclonal anti-TNF-alpha antibody fragment), an
   anti-TNF dAb (Peptech), CNTO 148 (golimumab; Medarex and Centocor), antibodies
   described in WO 02/12502, and adalimumab (Humira* Abbott Laboratories, a human
10 anti-TNF mAb, described in US 6,090,382 as D2E7). Additional antibodies, or
   fragments thereof, which may be used in the invention are described in U.S. Patent Nos.
   6,593,458; 6,498,237; 6,451,983; and 6,448,380, each of which is incorporated by
   reference herein. The term includes the "antibody of interest" which is the antibody
   which is the target of the process of the invention.
15           The term "antigen-binding portion" of an antibody (or simply "antibody
   portion"), as used herein, refers to one or more fragments of an antibody that retain the
    ability to specifically bind to an antigen (e.g., hTNFoc). It has been shown that the
    antigen-binding function of an antibody can be performed by fragments of a full-length
    antibody. Examples of binding fragments encompassed within the term "antigen
20 binding portion" of an antibody include (i) a Fab fragment, a monovalent fragment
    consisting of the VL, VH, CL and CHI domains; (ii) a F(ab') 2 fragment, a bivalent
    fragment comprising two Fab fragments linked by a disulfide bridge at the hinge region;
    (iii) a Fd fragment consisting of the VH and CHi domains; (iv) a Fv fragment consisting
    of the VL and VH domains of a single arm of an antibody, (v) a dAb fragment (Ward et
25 al. (1989) Nature 341:544-546 ), which consists of a VH domain; and (vi) an isolated
    complementarity determining region (CDR). Furthermore, although the two domains of
    the Fv fragment, VL and VH, are coded for by separate genes, they can be joined, using
    recombinant methods, by a synthetic linker that enables them to be made as a single
    protein chain in which the VL and VH regions pair to form monovalent molecules
30 (known as single chain Fv (scFv); see e.g., Bird et al. (1988) Science 242:423-426; and
    Huston et aL (1988) Proc.NatL Acad. Sci. USA 85:5879-5883). Such single chain
    antibodies are also intended to be encompassed within the term "antigen-binding
    portion" of an antibody. Other forms of single chain antibodies, such as diabodies are
    also encompassed. Diabodies are bivalent, bispecific antibodies in which VH and VL
35 domains are expressed on a single polypeptide chain, but using a linker that is too short
    to allow for pairing between the two domains on the same chain, thereby forcing the
    domains to pair with complementary domains of another chain and creating two antigen
    binding sites (see e.g., Holliger et al. (1993) Proc.NatL. Acad. Sci. USA 90:6444-6448;

                                            24
   Poljak et al. (1994) Structure 2:1121-1123). The antibody portions of the invention are
   described in further detail in U.S. Patent Nos. 6,090,382, 6,258,562, 6,509,015, each of
   which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.
            Binding fragments are produced by recombinant DNA techniques, or by
 5 enzymatic or chemical cleavage of intact immunoglobulins. Binding fragments include
   Fab, Fab', F(ab') 2 , Fabe, Fv, single chains, and single-chain antibodies. Other than
   "bispecific" or "bifunctional" immunoglobulins or antibodies, an immunoglobulin or
   antibody is understood to have each of its binding sites identical. A "bispecific" or
   "bifunctional antibody" is an artificial hybrid antibody having two different heavy/light
10 chain pairs and two different binding sites. Bispecific antibodies can be produced by a
   variety of methods including fusion of hybridomas or linking of Fab' fragments. See,
   e.g., Songsivilai & Lachmann, Clin. Exp. Immunl. 79:315-321 (1990); Kostelny et al.,
   J.Immunol. 148, 1547-1553 (1992).
            A "conservative amino acid substitution", as used herein, is one in which one
15 amino acid residue is replaced with another amino acid residue having a similar side
   chain. Families of amino acid residues having similar side chains have been defined in
   the art, including basic side chains (e.g., lysine, arginine, histidine), acidic side chains
   (e.g., aspartic acid, glutamic acid), uncharged polar side chains (e.g., glycine,
   asparagine, glutamine, seine, threonine, tyrosine, cysteine), nonpolar side chains (e.g.,
20 alanine, valine, leucine, isoleucine, proline, phenylalanine, methionine, tryptophan),
   beta-branched side chains (e.g., threonine, valine, isoleucine) and aromatic side chains
   (e.g., tyrosine, phenylalanine, tryptophan, histidine).
            "Chimeric antibodies" refers to antibodies wherein one portion of each of the
   amino acid sequences of heavy and light chains is homologous to corresponding
25 sequences in antibodies derived from a particular species or belonging to a particular
   class, while the remaining segment of the chains is homologous to corresponding
   sequences from another species. In one embodiment, the invention features a chimeric
   antibody or antigen-binding fragment, in which the variable regions of both light and
   heavy chains mimics the variable regions of antibodies derived from one species of
30 mammals, while the constant portions are homologous to the sequences in antibodies
   derived from another species. In a preferred embodiment of the invention, chimeric
   antibodies are made by grafting CDRs from a mouse antibody onto the framework
   regions of a human antibody.
            "Humanized antibodies" refer to antibodies which comprise at least one chain
35 comprising variable region framework residues substantially from a human antibody
   chain (referred to as the acceptor immunoglobulin or antibody) and at least one
   complementarity determining region (CDR) substantially from a non-human-antibody

                                           25
   (e.g., mouse). In addition to the grafting of the CDRs, humanized antibodies typically
   undergo further alterations in order to improve affinity and/or immmunogenicity.
            The term "multivalent antibody" refers to an antibody comprising more than one
   antigen recognition site. For example, a "bivalent" antibody has two antigen recognition
 5 sites, whereas a "tetravalent" antibody has four antigen recognition sites. The terms
   "monospecific", "bispecific", "trispecific", "tetraspecific", etc. refer to the number of
   different antigen recognition site specificities (as opposed to the number of antigen
   recognition sites) present in a multivalent antibody. For example, a "monospecific"
   antibody's antigen recognition sites all bind the same epitope. A "bispecific" or "dual
10 specific" antibody has at least one antigen recognition site that binds a first epitope and
   at least one antigen recognition site that binds a second epitope that is different from the
   first epitope. A "multivalent monospecific" antibody has multiple antigen recognition
   sites that all bind the same epitope. A "multivalent bispecific" antibody has multiple
   antigen recognition sites, some number of which bind a first epitope and some number
15 of which bind a second epitope that is different from the first epitope
            The term "human antibody", as used herein, is intended to include antibodies
   having variable and constant regions derived from human germline immunoglobulin
   sequences. The human antibodies of the invention may include amino acid residues not
   encoded by human germline immunoglobulin sequences (e.g., mutations introduced by
20 random or site-specific mutagenesis in vitro or by somatic mutation in vivo), for
   example in the CDRs and in particular CDR3. However, the term "human antibody", as
   used herein, is not intended to include antibodies in which CDR sequences derived from
   the germline of another mammalian species, such as a mouse, have been grafted onto
   human framework sequences.
25          The term "recombinant human antibody", as used herein, is intended to include
   all human antibodies that are prepared, expressed, created or isolated by recombinant
   means, such as antibodies expressed using a recombinant expression vector transfected
   into a host cell (described further below), antibodies isolated from a recombinant,
   combinatorial human antibody library (described further below), antibodies isolated
30 from an animal (e.g., a mouse) that is transgenic for human immunoglobulin genes (see
   e.g., Taylor et al. (1992) Nucl. Acids Res. 20:6287) or antibodies prepared, expressed,
   created or isolated by any other means that involves splicing of human immunoglobulin
   gene sequences to other DNA sequences. Such recombinant human antibodies have
   variable and constant regions derived from human germline immunoglobulin sequences.
35 In certain embodiments, however, such recombinant human antibodies are subjected to
    in vitro mutagenesis (or, when an animal transgenic for human Ig sequences is used, in
   vivo somatic mutagenesis) and thus the amino acid sequences of the VH and VL regions
    of the recombinant antibodies are sequences that, while derived from and related to

                                          26
   human germline VH and VL sequences, may not naturally exist within the human
   antibody germline repertoire in vivo.
           Such chimeric, humanized, human, and dual specific antibodies can be produced
   by recombinant DNA techniques known in the art, for example using methods described
 5 in PCT International Application No. PCT/US86/02269; European Patent Application
   No. 184,187; European Patent Application No. 171,496; European Patent Application
   No. 173,494; PCT International Publication No. WO 86/01533; U.S. Pat. No. 4,816,567;
   European Patent Application No. 125,023; Better et al. (1988) Science 240:1041-1043;
   Liu et al. (1987) Proc.Natd. Acad. Sci. USA 84:3439-3443; Liu et al. (1987) J. Immunol.
10 139:3521-3526; Sun et al. (1987) Proc.Nati. Acad. Sci. USA 84:214-218; Nishimura et
   al. (1987) CancerRes. 47:999-1005; Wood et al. (1985) Nature 314:446-449; Shaw et
   al. (1988) J. Natl. CancerInst. 80:1553-1559); Morrison (1985) Science 229:1202
   1207; Oi et al. (1986) BioTechniques 4:214; U.S. Pat. No. 5,225,539; Jones et al. (1986)
   Nature 321:552-525; Verhoeyan et al. (1988) Science 239:1534; and Beidler et al.
15 (1988) J. Immunol. 141:4053-4060, Queen et al., Proc.Nat. Acad. Sci. USA 86:10029
   10033 (1989), US 5,530,101, US 5,585,089, US 5,693,761, US 5,693,762, Selick et al.,
   WO 90/07861, and Winter, US 5,225,539.
           An "isolated antibody", as used herein, is intended to refer to an antibody that is
   substantially free of other antibodies having different antigenic specificities (e.g., an
20 isolated antibody that specifically binds hTNFa is substantially free of antibodies that
   specificallybind antigens other than hTNFa). An isolated antibody that specifically
   binds hTNFa may, however, have cross-reactivity to other antigens, such as TNFa
   molecules from other species (discussed in further detail below). Moreover, an isolated
   antibody may be substantially free of other cellular material and/or chemicals.
25         A "neutralizing antibody", as used herein (or an "antibody that neutralized
   hTNFca activity"), is intended to refer to an antibody whose binding to hTNFa results in
   inhibition of the biological activity of hTNFa. This inhibition of the biological activity
   of hTNFa can be assessed by measuring one or more indicators of hTNFae biological
   activity, such as hTNFa-induced cytotoxicity (either in vitro or in vivo), hTNFa-induced
30 cellular activation and hTNFca binding to hTNFa receptors. These indicators of hTNFL
   biological activity can be assessed by one or more of several standard in vitro or in vivo
   assays known in the art (see U.S. Patent No. 6,090,382). Preferably, the ability of an
   antibody to neutralize hTNFa activity is assessed by inhibition of hTNFcx-induced
   cytotoxicity of L929 cells. As an additional or alternative parameter of hTNFa activity,
35 the ability of an antibody to inhibit hTNFa-induced expression of ELAM-1 on HUVEC,
   as a measure of hTNFcL-induced cellular activation, can be assessed.
           The term "surface plasmon resonance", as used herein, refers to an optical
   phenomenon that allows for the analysis of real-time biospecific interactions by

                                            27
   detection of alterations in protein concentrations within a biosensor matrix, for example
   using the BlAcore system (Pharmacia Biosensor AB, Uppsala, Sweden and Piscataway,
   NJ). For further descriptions, see Example 1 of U.S. Patent 6,258,562 and Junsson et aL.
   (1993) Ann. BioL. Clin. 51:19; J6nsson et al. (1991) Biotechniques 11:620-627; Johnsson
 5 et al.(1995) J Mol. Recognit. 8:125; and Johnnson et al.(1991) Anal.Biochem.198:268.
            The term "Koff, as used herein, is intended to refer to the off rate constant for
   dissociation of an antibody from the antibody/antigen complex.
            The term "Kd", as used herein, is intended to refer to the dissociation constant of
   a particular antibody-antigen interaction.
10          The term "IC5 0 " as used herein, is intended to refer to the concentration of the
   inhibitor required to inhibit the biological endpoint of interest, e.g., neutralize
   cytotoxicity activity.
            The term "nucleic acid molecule", as used herein, is intended to include DNA
   molecules and RNA molecules. A nucleic acid molecule may be single-stranded or
15 double-stranded, but preferably is double-stranded DNA.
            The term "isolated nucleic acid molecule", as used herein in reference to nucleic
   acids encoding antibodies or antibody portions (e.g., VH, VL, CDR3) that bind hTNFx,
   is intended to refer to a nucleic acid molecule in which the nucleotide sequences
   encoding the antibody or antibody portion are free of other nucleotide sequences
20 encoding antibodies or antibody portions that bind antigens other than hTNFa, which
   other sequences may naturally flank the nucleic acid in human genomic DNA. Thus, for
   example, an isolated nucleic acid of the invention encoding a VH region of an anti
   hTNFa antibody contains no other sequences encoding other VH regions that bind
    antigens other than hTNFa.
25          The term "vector", as used herein, is intended to refer to a nucleic acid molecule
   capable of transporting another nucleic acid to which it has been linked. One type of
    vector is a "plasmid", which refers to a circular double stranded DNA loop into which
    additional DNA segments may be ligated. Another type of vector is a viral vector,
    wherein additional DNA segments may be ligated into the viral genome. Certain vectors
30  are capable of autonomous replication in a host cell into which they are introduced (e.g.,
    bacterial vectors having a bacterial origin of replication and episomal mammalian
    vectors). Other vectors (e.g., non-episomal mammalian vectors) can be integrated into
    the genome of a host cell upon introduction into the host cell, and thereby are replicated
    along with the host genome. Moreover, certain vectors are capable of directing the
35  expression of genes to which they are operatively linked. Such vectors are referred to
    herein as "recombinant expression vectors" (or simply, "expression vectors"). In
    general, expression vectors of utility in recombinant DNA techniques are often in the
    form of plasmids. In the present specification, "plasmid" and "vector" may be used

                                          28
   interchangeably as the plasmid is the most commonly used form of vector. However,
   the invention is intended to include such other forms of expression vectors, such as viral
   vectors (e.g., replication defective retroviruses, adenoviruses and adeno-associated
   viruses), which serve equivalent functions.
 5         The term "recombinant host cell" (or simply "host cell"), as used herein, is
   intended to refer to a cell into which a recombinant expression vector has been
   introduced. It should be understood that such terms are intended to refer not only to the
   particular subject cell but to the progeny of such a cell. Because certain modifications
   may occur in succeeding generations due to either mutation or environmental influences,
10 such progeny may not, in fact, be identical to the parent cell, but are still included within
   the scope of the term "host cell" as used herein.
           The term "kit" as used herein refers to a packaged product or article of
   manufacture comprising components. The kit preferably comprises a box or container
   that holds the components of the kit. The box or container is affixed with a label or a
15 Food and Drug Administration approved protocol. The box or container holds
   components of the invention which are preferably contained within plastic,
   polyethylene, polypropylene, ethylene, or propylene vessels. The vessels can be capped
   tubes or bottles. The kit can also include instructions for administering the TNFct
   antibody of the invention. In one embodiment the kit of the invention includes the
20 formulation comprising the human antibody D2E7, as described in PCT/IB03/04502 and
   U.S. Appln. No. 10/222140.
           Various aspects of the invention are described in further detail herein.
   1H.     Antibody production
25         The invention herein provides methods for purifying an antibody from a mixture
   comprising the antibody and one or more HCPs. The initial mixture is generally one
   resulting from the recombinant production of the antibody. Alternatively, the initial
   mixture may result from production of the antibody by peptide synthesis (or other
   synthetic means) or the antibody may be purified from a native source of the antibody.
30         To express the antibodies, or antibody portions of the invention, DNAs encoding
   partial or full-length light and heavy chains are inserted into expression vectors such that
   the genes are operatively linked to transcriptional and translational control sequences. In
   this context, the term "operatively linked" is intended to mean that an antibody gene is
   ligated into a vector such that transcriptional and translational control sequences within
35 the vector serve their intended function of regulating the transcription and translation of
   the antibody gene. The expression vector and expression control sequences are chosen
   to be compatible with the expression host cell used. The antibody light chain gene and
   the antibody heavy chain gene can be inserted into separate vector or, more typically,

                                           29
   both genes are inserted into the same expression vector. The antibody genes are inserted
   into the expression vector by standard methods (e.g., ligation of complementary
   restriction sites on the antibody gene fragment and vector, or blunt end ligation if no
   restriction sites are present). Prior to insertion of the antibody or antibody-related light
 5 or heavy chain sequences, the expression vector may already carry antibody constant
   region sequences. For example, one approach to converting the adalimumab or
   adalimumab-related VH and VL sequences to full-length antibody genes is to insert
   them into expression vectors already encoding heavy chain constant and light chain
   constant regions, respectively, such that the VH segment is operatively linked to the CH
10 segment(s) within the vector and the VL segment is operatively linked to the CL
   segment within the vector. Additionally or alternatively, the recombinant expression
   vector can encode a signal peptide that facilitates secretion of the antibody chain from a
   host cell. The antibody chain gene can be cloned into the vector such that the signal
   peptide is linked in-frame to the amino terminus of the antibody chain gene. The signal
15 peptide can be an immunoglobulin signal peptide or a heterologous signal peptide (i.e., a
   signal peptide from a non-immunoglobulin protein).
            In addition to the antibody chain genes, the recombinant expression vectors of
   the invention carry regulatory sequences that control the expression of the antibody
   chain genes in a host cell. The term "regulatory sequence" is intended to include
20 promoters, enhancers and other expression control elements (e.g., polyadenylation
   signals) that control the transcription or translation of the antibody chain genes. Such
   regulatory sequences are described, for example, in Goeddel; Gene Expression
   Technology: Methods in Enzymology 185, Academic Press, San Diego, CA (1990). It
   will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that the design of the expression vector,
25 including the selection of regulatory sequences may depend on such factors as the choice
   of the host cell to be transformed, the level of expression of protein desired, etc.
   Preferred regulatory sequences for mammalian host cell expression include viral
   elements that direct high levels of protein expression in mammalian cells, such as
   promoters and/or enhancers derived from cytomegalovirus (CMV) (such as the CMV
30 promoter/enhancer), Simian Virus 40 (SV40) (such as the SV40 promoter/enhancer),
   adenovirus, (e.g., the adenovirus major late promoter (AdMLP)) and polyoma. For
   further description of viral regulatory elements, and sequences thereof, see e.g., U.S.
   Patent No. 5,168,062 by Stinski, U.S. Patent No. 4,510,245 by Bell et al. and U.S. Patent
   No. 4,968,615 by Schaffner et al.
35          In addition to the antibody chain genes and regulatory sequences, the
   recombinant expression vectors of the invention may carry additional sequences, such as
   sequences that regulate replication of the vector in host cells (e.g., origins of replication)
   and selectable marker genes. The selectable marker gene facilitates selection of host

                                           30
   cells into which the vector has been introduced (see e.g., U.S. Patents Nos. 4,399,216,
   4,634,665 and 5,179,017, all by Axel et al.). For example, typically the selectable
   marker gene confers resistance to drugs, such as G418, hygromycin or methotrexate, on
   a host cell into which the vector has been introduced. Preferred selectable marker genes
 5 include the dihydrofolate reductase (DHFR) gene (for use in dhfr- host cells with
   methotrexate selection/amplification) and the neo gene (for G418 selection).
            For expression of the light and heavy chains, the expression vector(s) encoding
   the heavy and light chains is transfected into a host cell by standard techniques. The
   various forms of the term "transfection" are intended to encompass a wide variety of
10 techniques commonly used for the introduction of exogenous DNA into a prokaryotic or
   eukaryotic host cell, e.g., electroporation, calcium-phosphate precipitation, DEAE
   dextran transfection and the like. Although it is theoretically possible to express the
   antibodies of the invention in either prokaryotic or eukaryotic host cells, expression of
   antibodies in eukaryotic cells, and most preferably mammalian host cells, is the most
15 preferred because such eukaryotic cells, and in particular mammalian cells, are more
   likely than prokaryotic cells to assemble and secrete a properly folded and
   immunologically active antibody. Prokaryotic expression of antibody genes has been
   reported to be ineffective for production of high yields of active antibody (Boss and
   Wood (1985) Immunology Today 6:12-13).
20          Suitable host cells for cloning or expressing the DNA in the vectors herein are
   the prokaryote, yeast, or higher eukaryote cells described above. Suitable prokaryotes
   for this purpose include eubacteria, such as Gram-negative or Gram-positive organisms,
   for example, Enterobacteriaceae such as Escherichia, e.g., E. coli, Enterobacter, Erwinia,
   Klebsiella, Proteus, Salmonella, e.g., Salmonella typhimurium, Serratia, e.g., Serratia
25 marcescans, and Shigella, as well as Bacilli such as B. subtilis and B. licheniformis (e.g.,
   B. licheniformis 41P disclosed in DD 266,710 published Apr. 12, 1989), Pseudomonas
   such as P. aeruginosa, and Streptomyces. One preferred E. coli cloning host is E. coli
   294 (ATCC 31,446), although other strains such as E. coli B, E. coli X1776 (ATCC
   31,537), and E. coli W31 10 (ATCC 27,325) are suitable. These examples are illustrative
30 rather than limiting.
            In addition to prokaryotes, eukaryotic microbes such as filamentous fungi or
   yeast are suitable cloning or expression hosts for polypeptide encoding vectors.
   Saccharomyces cerevisiae, or common baker's yeast, is the most commonly used among
   lower eukaryotic host microorganisms. However, a number of other genera, species, and
35 strains are commonly available and useful herein, such as Schizosaccharomyces pombe;
   Kluyveromyces hosts such as, e.g., K. lactis, K. fragilis (ATCC 12,424), K. bulgaricus
   (ATCC 16,045), K. wickeramii (ATCC 24,178), K. waltii (ATCC 56,500), K.
   drosophilarum (ATCC 36,906), K. thermotolerans, and K. marxianus; yarrowia (EP

                                             31
      402,226); Pichia pastoris (EP 183,070); Candida; Trichoderma reesia (EP 244,234);
      Neurospora crassa; Schwanniomyces such as Schwanniomyces occidentalis; and
      filamentous fungi such as, e.g., Neurospora, Penicillium, Tolypocladium, and
      Aspergillus hosts such as A. nidulans and A. niger.
  5            Suitable host cells for the expression of glycosylated antibodies are derived from
      multicellular organisms. Examples of invertebrate cells include plant and insect cells.
     Numerous baculoviral strains and variants and corresponding permissive insect host
      cells from hosts such as Spodoptera fragiperda (caterpillar), Aedes aegypti (mosquito),
     Aedes albopictus (mosquito), Drosophila melanogaster (fruitfly), and Bombyx mori
 10  have been identified. A variety of viral strains for transfection are publicly available,
      e.g., the L-1 variant of Autographa californica NPV and the Bn-5 strain of Bombyx
     mori NPV, and such viruses may be used as the virus herein according to the present
     invention, particularly for transfection of Spodoptera frugiperda cells. Plant cell cultures
     of cotton, corn, potato, soybean, petunia, tomato, and tobacco can also be utilized as
 15  hosts.
              Preferred mammalian host cells for expressing the recombinant antibodies of the
     invention include Chinese Hamster Ovary (CHO cells) (including dhfr- CHO
                                                                                       cells,
     described in Urlaub and Chasin, (1980) PNAS USA 77:4216-4220, used with a DHFR
     selectable marker, e.g., as described in Kaufman and Sharp (1982) Mo. Biol 159:601
20   621), NSO myeloma cells, COS cells and SP2 cells. When recombinant expression
     vectors encoding antibody genes are introduced into mammalian host cells, the
     antibodies are produced by culturing the host cells for a period of time sufficient to
     allow for expression of the antibody in the host cells or, more preferably, secretion of the
     antibody into the culture medium in which the host cells are grown. Other examples of
25  useful mammalian host cell lines are monkey kidney CVI line transformed by SV40
    (COS-7, ATCC CRL 1651); human embryonic kidney line (293 or 293 cells subcloned
    for growth in suspension culture, Graham et al., J. Gen Virol. 36:59 (1977)); baby
    hamster kidney cells (BHK, ATCC CCL 10); Chinese hamster ovary cells/-DHFR
    (CHO, Urlaub et al., Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 77:4216 (1980)); mouse sertoli cells
30  (TM4, Mather, Biol. Reprod. 23:243-251 (1980)); monkey kidney cells (CV1 ATCC
    CCL 70); African green monkey kidney cells (VERO-76, ATCC CRL-1587); human
    cervical carcinoma cells (HELA, ATCC CCL 2); canine kidney cells (MDCK, ATCC
    CCL 34); buffalo rat liver cells (BRL 3A, ATCC CRL 1442); human lung cells (W138,
    ATCC CCL 75); human liver cells (Hep G2, HB 8065); mouse mammary tumor (MMT
35  060562, ATCC CCL51); TRI cells (Mather et al., Annals N.Y. Acad. Sci. 383:44-68
    (1982)); MRC 5 cells; FS4 cells; and a human hepatoma line (Hep G2).
              Host cells are transformed with the above-described expression or cloning
    vectors for antibody production and cultured in conventional nutrient media modified as

                                          32
   appropriate for inducing promoters, selecting transformants, or amplifying the genes
   encoding the desired sequences.
           The host cells used to produce an antibody may be cultured in a variety of media.
   Commercially available media such as Ham's F10 (Sigma), Minimal Essential Medium
 5 ((MEM), (Sigma), RPMI-1640 (Sigma), and Dulbecco's Modified Eagle's Medium
   ((DMEM), Sigma) are suitable for culturing the host cells. In addition, any of the media
   described in Ham et al., Meth. Enz. 58:44 (1979), Barnes et al., Anal. Biochem. 102:255
   (1980), U.S. Pat. Nos. 4,767,704; 4,657,866; 4,927,762; 4,560,655; or 5,122,469; WO
   90/03430; WO 87/00195; or U.S. Pat. No. Re. 30,985 may be used as culture media for
10 the host cells. Any of these media may be supplemented as necessary with hormones
   and/or other growth factors (such as insulin, transferrin, or epidermal growth factor),
   salts (such as sodium chloride, calcium, magnesium, and phosphate), buffers (such as
   HEPES), nucleotides (such as adenosine and thymidine), antibiotics (such as gentamycin
   drug), trace elements (defined as inorganic compounds usually present at final
15 concentrations in the micromolar range), and glucose or an equivalent energy source.
   Any other necessary supplements may also be included at appropriate concentrations
   that would be known to those skilled in the art. The culture conditions, such as
   temperature, pH, and the like, are those previously used -with the host cell selected for
   expression, and will be apparent to the ordinarily skilled artisan.
20          Host cells can also be used to produce portions of intact antibodies, such as Fab
   fragments or scFv molecules. It is understood that variations on the above procedure are
   within the scope of the present invention. For example, it may be desirable to transfect a
   host cell with DNA encoding either the light chain or the heavy chain (but not both) of
   an antibody of this invention. Recombinant DNA technology may also be used to
25 remove some or all of the DNA encoding either or both of the light and heavy chains
   that is not necessary for binding to hTNFa. The molecules expressed from such
   truncated DNA molecules are also encompassed by the antibodies of the invention. In
   addition, bifunctional antibodies may be produced in which one heavy and one light
   chain are an antibody of the invention and the other heavy and light chain are specific
30 for an antigen other than hTNFa by crosslinking an antibody of the invention to a
   second antibody by standard chemical crosslinking methods.
            In a preferred system for recombinant expression of an antibody, or antigen
   binding portion thereof, of the invention, a recombinant expression vector encoding both
   the antibody heavy chain and the antibody light chain is introduced into dhfr-CHO cells
35 by calcium phosphate-mediated transfection. Within the recombinant expression vector,
   the antibody heavy and light chain genes are each operatively linked to CMV
   enhancer/AdMLP promoter regulatory elements to drive high levels of transcription of
    the genes. The recombinant expression vector also carries a DHFR gene, which allows

                                            33
   for selection of CHO cells that have been transfected with the vector using methotrexate
   selection/amplification. The selected transformant host cells are culture to allow for
   expression of the antibody heavy and light chains and intact antibody is recovered from
   the culture medium. Standard molecular biology techniques are used to prepare the
 5 recombinant expression vector, transfect the host cells, select for transformants, culture
   the host cells and recover the antibody from the culture medium.
            Recombinant human antibodies of the invention, including adalimumab or an
   antigen binding portion thereof, or adalimumab-related antibodies disclosed herein can
   be isolated by screening of a recombinant combinatorial antibody library, preferably a
10 scFv phage display library, prepared using human VL and VH cDNAs prepared from
   mRNA derived from human lymphocytes. Methodologies for preparing and screening
   such libraries are known in the art. In addition to commercially available kits for
   generating phage display libraries (e.g., the Phannacia Recombinant PhageAntibody
   System, catalog no. 27-9400-01; and the Stratagene SurZAPTM phage display kit,
15 catalog no. 240612), examples of methods and reagents particularly amenable for use in
   generating and screening antibody display libraries can be found in, for example, Ladner
   et al. U.S. Patent No. 5,223,409; Kang et al. PCT Publication No. WO 92/18619; Dower
   et al.PCT Publication No. WO 91/17271; Winter et al. PCT Publication No. WO
    92/20791; Markland et al. PCT Publication No. WO 92/15679; Breitling et al. PCT
20 Publication No. WO 93/01288; McCafferty et al. PCT Publication No. WO 92/01047;
    Garrard et al. PCT Publication No. WO 92/09690; Fuchs et al. (1991) BiolTechnology
    9:1370-1372; Hay et al.(1992) Hum AntibodHybridomas3:81-85; Huse et al (1989)
   Science 246:1275-1281; McCafferty et al., Nature (1990) 348:552-554; Griffiths et al.
    (1993) EMBO J 12:725-734; Hawkins et al. (1992) JMol Biol 226:889-896; Clackson et
25  al. (1991) Nature 352:624-628; Gram et al. (1992) PNAS.89:3576-3580; Garrard et al.
    (1991) Bio/Technology 2:1373-1377; Hoogenboom et al. (1991) Nuc AcidRes 19:4133
    4137; and Barbas et al. (1991) PNAS 88:7978-7982.
            When using recombinant techniques, the antibody can be produced
    intracellularly, in the periplasmic space, or directly secreted into the medium. If the
30  antibody is produced intracellularly, as a first step, the particulate debris, either host
    cells or lysed cells (e.g. resulting from homogenization), is removed, for example, by
    centrifugation or ultrafiltration. Where the antibody is secreted into the medium,
    supernatants from such expression systems are generally first concentrated using a
    commercially available protein concentration filter, for example, an Amicon or
35 Millipore Pellicon ultrafiltration unit.
            Prior to the process of the invention, procedures for purification of antibodies
    from cell debris initially depend on the site of expression of the antibody. Some
    antibodies can be caused to be secreted directly from the cell into the surrounding

                                              34
   growth media; others are made intracellularly. For the latter antibodies, the first step of a
   purification process involves: lysis of the cell, which can be done by a variety of
   methods, including mechanical shear, osmotic shock, or enzymatic treatments. Such
   disruption releases the entire contents of the cell into the homogenate, and in addition
 5 produces subcellular fragments that are difficult to remove due to their small size. These
   are generally removed by differential centrifugation or by filtration. Where the antibody
   is secreted it not he medium, supernatants from such expression systems are generally
   first concentrated using a commercially available protein concentration filter, for
   example, an Amicon or Millipore Pellicon ultrafiltration unit. Where the antibody is
10 secreted into the medium, the recombinant host cells can also be separated from the cell
   culture medium, for example, by tangential flow filtration. Antibodies can be further
   recovered from the culture medium using the antibody purification methods of the
   invention.
            In one embodiment, the process of the invention includes human antibodies, or
15 antigen-binding portions thereof, that bind to human TNFca with high affinity and a low
   off rate, and have a high neutralizing capacity. Preferably, the human antibodies are
   recombinant, neutralizing human anti-hTNFa antibodies. The most preferred
   recombinant, neutralizing antibody used in the method of the invention is referred to
   herein as adalimumab, also referred to as adalimumab, Humira*, and D2E7 (the amino
20 acid sequence of the D2E7 VL region is shown in SEQ ID NO: 1; the amino acid
   sequence of the D2E7 VH region is shown in.SEQ ID NO: 2). The properties of D2E7
   (adalimumab; Humira*) have been described in Salfeld et al., U.S. Patent Nos.
   6,090,382, 6,258,562, and 6,509,015, which are each incorporated by reference herein.
   Other examples of TNFa antibodies include chimeric and humanized murine anti
25 hTNFc antibodies which have undergone clinical testing for treatment of rheumatoid
   arthritis (see e.g., Elliott et al. (1994) Lancet 344:1125-1127; Elliot et al. (1994) Lancet
   344:1105-1110; Rankin et al. (1995) Br. J. Rheumatol. 34:334-342). In another
   embodiment, the TNFa antibody used in the invention is infliximab (Remicade*,
   Johnson and Johnson; described in U.S. Patent No. 5,656,272, incorporated by reference
30 herein), CDP571 (a humanized monoclonal anti-TNF-alpha IgG4 antibody), CDP 870 (a
   humanized monoclonal anti-TNF-alpha antibody fragment), an anti-TNF dAb (Peptech),
   and CNTO 148 (golimumab; Medarex and Centocor, see also WO 02/12502).
             In one embodiment, the methods of the invention include adalimumab
   antibodies and antibody portions, adalimumab-related antibodies and antibody portions,
35 and other human antibodies and antibody portions with equivalent properties to
   adalimumab, such as high affinity binding to hTNFcx with low dissociation kinetics and
   high neutralizing capacity. In one embodiment, the invention provides treatment with an
   isolated human antibody, or an antigen-binding portion thereof, that dissociates from

                                            35
   human TNFawith a Kd of 1 x 10-8 M or less and a Koffrate constant of 1 x 10-3 s- 1 or
   less, both determined by surface plasmon resonance, and neutralizes human TNFa
   cytotoxicity in a standard in vitro L929 assay with an IC5 0 of 1 x 10-7 M or less. More
   preferably, the isolated human antibody, or antigen-binding portion thereof, dissociates
 5 from human TNFx with a Koff of 5 x 1 0 -4 s-1 or less, or even more preferably, with a
   Koff of I x 10-4 s-1 or less. More preferably, the isolated human antibody, or antigen
   binding portion thereof, neutralizes human TNFa cytotoxicity in a standard in vitro
   L929 assay with an IC 5 0 of 1 x 10-8 M or less, even more preferably with an IC5 0 of I
   x 10-9 M or less and still more preferably with an IC5 0 of I x 10-10 M or less. In a
10 preferred embodiment, the antibody is an isolated human recombinant antibody, or an
   antigen-binding portion thereof.
            It is well known in the art that antibody heavy and light chain CDR3 domains
   play an important role in the binding specificity/affinity of an antibody for an antigen.
   Accordingly, in another aspect, the invention pertains to methods of treating rheumatoid
15 arthritis by administering human antibodies obtained using the methods of the invention,
   wherein the antibodies have slow dissociation kinetics for association with hTNFa and
   that have light and heavy chain CDR3 domains that structurally are identical to or
   related to those of adalimumab. Position 9 of the adalimumab VL CDR3 can be
   occupied by Ala or Thr without substantially affecting the Koff. Accordingly, a
20 consensus motif for the adalimumab VL CDR3 comprises the amino acid sequence:             Q
   R-Y-N-R-A-P-Y-(T/A) (SEQ ID NO: 3). Additionally, position 12 of the adalimumab
   VH CDR3 can be occupied by Tyr or Asn, without substantially affecting the Koff.
   Accordingly, a consensus motif for the adalimumab VH CDR3 comprises the amino
    acid sequence: V-S-Y-L-S-T-A-S-S-L-D-(Y/N) (SEQ ID NO: 4). Moreover, as
25 demonstrated in Example 2 of U.S. Patent No. 6,090,382, the CDR3 domain of the
   adalimumab heavy and light chains is amenable to substitution with a single alanine
   residue (at position 1, 4, 5, 7 or 8 within the VL CDR3 or at position 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 8, 9,
    10 or 11 within the VH CDR3) without substantially affecting the Koff. Still further, the
   skilled artisan will appreciate that, given the amenability of the adalimumab VL and VH
30  CDR3 domains to substitutions by alanine, substitution of other amino acids within the
    CDR3 domains may be possible while still retaining the low off rate constant of the
    antibody, in particular substitutions with conservative amino acids. Preferably, no more
   than one to five conservative amino acid substitutions are made within the adalimumab
   VL and/or VH CDR3 domains. More preferably, no more than one to three conservative
35  amino acid substitutions are made within the adalimumab VL and/or VH CDR3
    domains. Additionally, conservative amino acid substitutions should not be made at
    amino acid positions critical for binding to hTNFa. Positions 2 and 5 of the
    adalimumab VL CDR3 and positions 1 and 7 of the adalimumab VH CDR3 appear to be

                                            36
   critical for interaction with hTNFa and thus, conservative amino acid substitutions
   preferably are not made at these positions (although an alanine substitution at position 5
   of the adalimumab VL CDR3 is acceptable, as described above) (see U.S. Patent No.
   6,090,382).
 5          Accordingly, in another embodiment, the antibody or antigen-binding portion
   thereof preferably contains the following characteristics:
            a) dissociates from human TNFa with a Koff rate constant of 1 x 10-3 S-1 or
   less, as determined by surface plasmon resonance;
            b) has a light chain CDR3 domain comprising the amino acid sequence of SEQ
10 ID NO: 3, or modified from SEQ ID NO: 3 by a single alanine substitution at position 1,
   4, 5, 7 or 8 or by one to five conservative amino acid substitutions at positions 1, 3, 4, 6,
   7, 8 and/or 9;
            c) has a heavy chain CDR3 domain comprising the amino acid sequence of SEQ
   ID NO: 4, or modified from SEQ ID NO: 4 by a single alanine substitution at position 2,
15 3, 4, 5, 6, 8, 9, 10 or 11 or by one to five conservative amino acid substitutions at
   positions 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 8, 9, 10, 11 and/or 12.
            More preferably, the antibody, or antigen-binding portion thereof, dissociates
   from human TNFa with a Koff of 5 x 10-4 s-1 or less. Even more preferably, the
   antibody, or antigen-binding portion thereof, dissociates from human TNFa with a Koff
20 of lx 10-4 s- or less.
            In yet another embodiment, the antibody or antigen-binding portion thereof
   preferably contains a light chain variable region (LCVR) having a CDR3 domain
   comprising the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 3, or modified from SEQ ID NO: 3
   by a single alanine substitution at position 1, 4, 5, 7 or 8, and with a heavy chain variable
25 region (HCVR) having a CDR3 domain comprising the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID
   NO: 4, or modified from SEQ ID NO: 4 by a single alanine substitution at position 2, 3,
   4, 5, 6, 8, 9, 10 or 11. Preferably, the LCVR further has a CDR2 domain comprising the
   amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 5 (i.e., the adalimumab VL CDR2) and the HCVR
   further has a CDR2 domain comprising the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 6 (i.e.,
30 the adalimumab VH CDR2). Even more preferably, the LCVR further has CDR1
   domain comprising the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 7 (i.e., the adalimumab VL
   CDRI) and the HCVR has a CDR1 domain comprising the amino acid sequence of SEQ
   ID NO: 8 (i.e., the adalimumab VH CDR1). The framework regions for VL preferably
   are from the VKI human germline family, more preferably from the A20 human
35 germline Vk gene. and most preferably from the adalimumab VL framework sequences
   shown in Figures 1A and 1B of U.S. Patent No. 6,090,382. The framework regions for
   VH preferably are from the VH3 human germline family, more preferably from the DP-

                                            37
     31 human germline VH gene and most preferably from the adalimumab VH framework
     sequences shown in Figures 2A and 2B of U.S. Patent No. 6,090,382.
              Accordingly, in another embodiment, the antibody or antigen-binding portion
     thereof preferably contains a light chain variable region (LCVR) comprising the amino
  5  acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 1 (i.e., the adalimumab VL) and a heavy chain variable
    region (HCVR) comprising the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 2 (i.e., the
     adalimumab VH). In certain embodiments, the antibody comprises a heavy chain
    constant region, such as an IgGI, IgG2, IgG3, IgG4, IgA, IgE, IgM or IgD constant
    region. Preferably, the heavy chain constant region is an IgGI heavy chain constant
 10 region or an IgG4 heavy chain constant region. Furthermore, the antibody can comprise
     a light chain constant region, either a kappa light chain constant region or a lambda light
    chain constant region. Preferably, the antibody comprises a kappa light chain constant
    region. Alternatively, the antibody portion can be, for example, a Fab fragment or a
    single chain Fv fragment.
 15          In still other embodiments, the antibody or antigen-binding portion thereof
    preferably contains adalimumab-related VL and VH CDR3 domains, for example,
    antibodies, or antigen-binding portions thereof, with a light chain variable region
    (LCVR) having a CDR3 domain comprising an amino acid sequence selected from the
    group consisting of SEQ ID NO: 3, SEQ ID NO: 11, SEQ ID NO: 12, SEQ ID NO: 13,
20  SEQ ID NO: 14, SEQ ID NO: 15, SEQ ID NO: 16, SEQ ID NO: 17, SEQ ID NO: 18,
    SEQ ID NO: 19, SEQ ID NO: 20, SEQ ID NO: 21, SEQ ID NO: 22, SEQ ID NO: 23,
    SEQ ID NO: 24, SEQ ID NO: 25 and SEQ ID NO: 26 or with a heavy chain variable
    region (HCVR) having a CDR3 domain comprising an amino acid sequence selected
    from the group consisting of SEQ ID NO: 4, SEQ ID NO: 27, SEQ ID NO: 28, SEQ ID
25  NO: 29, SEQ ID NO: 30, SEQ ID NO: 31, SEQ ID NO: 32, SEQ ID NO: 33, SEQ ID
    NO: 34 and SEQ ID NO: 35.
             The TNFa antibody used in the invention can be modified. In some
    embodiments, the TNFa antibody or antigen binding fragments thereof, is chemically
    modified to provide a desired effect. For example, pegylation of antibodies and
30  antibody fragments of the invention may be carried out by any of the pegylation
    reactions known in the art, as described, for example, in the following references: Focus
    on Growth Factors3:4410 (1992); EP 0 154 316; and EP 0 401 384 (each of which is
    incorporated by reference herein in its entirety). Preferably, the pegylation is carried out
    via an acylation reaction or an alkylation reaction with a reactive polyethylene glycol
35  molecule (or an analogous reactive water-soluble polymer). A preferred water-soluble
    polymer for pegylation of the antibodies and antibody fragments of the invention is
    polyethylene glycol (PEG). As used herein, "polyethylene glycol" is meant to

                                            38
   encompass any of the forms of PEG that have been used to derivatize other proteins,
   such as mono (C1-C1O) alkoxy- or aryloxy-polyethylene glycol.
            Methods for preparing pegylated antibodies and antibody fragments of the
   invention will generally comprise the steps of (a) reacting the antibody or antibody
 5 fragment with polyethylene glycol, such as a reactive ester or aldehyde derivative of
   PEG, under conditions whereby the antibody or antibody fragment becomes attached to
   one or more PEG groups, and (b) obtaining the reaction products. It will be apparent to
   one of ordinary skill in the art to select the optimal reaction conditions or the acylation
   reactions based on known parameters and the desired result.
10          Pegylated antibodies and antibody fragments may generally be used to treat
   TNFcc-related disorders of the invention by administration of the TNFa antibodies and
   antibody fragments described herein. Generally the pegylated antibodies and antibody
   fragments have increased half-life, as compared to the nonpegylated antibodies and
   antibody fragments. The pegylated antibodies and antibody fragments may be employed
15  alone, together, or in combination with other pharmaceutical compositions.
             In yet another embodiment of the invention, TNFac antibodies or fragments
    thereof can be altered wherein the constant region of the antibody is modified to reduce
    at least one constant region-mediated biological effector function relative to an
    unmodified antibody. To modify an antibody of the invention such that it exhibits
20  reduced binding to the Fc receptor, the immunoglobulin constant region segment of the
    antibody can be mutated at particular regions necessary for Fc receptor (FcR)
    interactions (see e.g., Canfield and Morrison (1991) J. Exp. Med. 173:1483-1491; and
    Lund et aL. (1991) J. ofImmunol. 147:2657-2662). Reduction in FcR binding ability of
    the antibody may also reduce other effector functions which rely on FcR interactions,
25  such as opsonization and phagocytosis and antigen-dependent cellular cytotoxicity.
             An antibody or antibody portion of the invention can be derivatized or linked to
    another functional molecule (e.g., another peptide or protein). Accordingly, the
    antibodies and antibody portions of the invention are intended to include derivatized and
    otherwise modified forms of the human anti-hTNFa antibodies described herein,
30  including immunoadhesion molecules. For example, an antibody or antibody portion of
    the invention can be functionally linked (by chemical coupling, genetic fusion,
    noncovalent association or otherwise) to one or more other molecular entities, such as
     another antibody (e.g., a bispecific antibody or a diabody), a detectable agent, a
     cytotoxic agent, a pharmaceutical agent, and/or a protein or peptide that can mediate
35   associate of the antibody or antibody portion with another molecule (such as a
     streptavidin core region or a polyhistidine tag).
              One type of derivatized antibody is produced by crosslinking two or more
     antibodies (of the same type or of different types, e.g., to create bispecific antibodies).

                                          39
   Suitable crosslinkers include those that are heterobifimctional, having two distinctly
   reactive groups separated by an appropriate spacer (e.g., m-maleimidobenzoyl-N
   hydroxysuccinimide ester) or homobifunctional (e.g., disuccinimidyl suberate). Such
   linkers are available from Pierce Chemical Company, Rockford, IL.
 5         Useful detectable agents with which an antibody or antibody portion of the
   invention may be derivatized include fluorescent compounds. Exemplary fluorescent
   detectable agents include fluorescein, fluorescein isothiocyanate, rhodamine, 5
   dimethylamine-1-napthalenesulfonyl chloride, phycoerythrin and the like. An antibody
   may also be derivatized with detectable enzymes, such as alkaline phosphatase,
10 horseradish peroxidase, glucose oxidase and the like. When an antibody is derivatized
   with a detectable enzyme, it is detected by adding additional reagents that the enzyme
   uses to produce a detectable reaction product. For example, when the detectable agent
   horseradish peroxidase is present, the addition of hydrogen peroxide and
   diaminobenzidine leads to a colored reaction product, which is detectable. An antibody
15 may also be derivatized with biotin, and detected through indirect measurement of
   avidin or streptavidin binding.
           An antibody, or antibody portion, of the invention can be prepared by
   recombinant expression of immunoglobulin light and heavy chain genes in a host cell.
   To express an antibody recombinantly, a host cell is transfected with one or more
20 recombinant expression vectors carrying DNA fragments encoding the immunoglobulin
   light and heavy chains of the antibody such that the light and heavy chains are expressed
   in the host cell and, preferably, secreted into the medium in which the host cells are
   cultured, from which medium the antibodies can be recovered. Standard recombinant
   DNA methodologies are used to obtain antibody heavy and light chain genes,
25 incorporate these genes into recombinant expression vectors and introduce the vectors
   into host cells, such as those described in Sambrook, Fritsch and Maniatis (eds),
   Molecular Cloning;A LaboratoryManual,Second Edition, Cold Spring Harbor, N.Y.,
   (1989), Ausubel et al. (eds.) CurrentProtocolsin MolecularBiology, Greene Publishing
   Associates, (1989) and in U.S. Patent No. 4,816,397 by Boss et al.
30         To express adalimumab or a adalimumab-related antibody, DNA fragments
   encoding the light and heavy chain variable regions are first obtained. These DNAs can
   be obtained by amplification and modification of germline light and heavy chain
   variable sequences using the polymerase chain reaction (PCR). Germline DNA
   sequences for human heavy and light chain variable region genes are known in the art
35 (see e.g., the "Vbase" human germline sequence database; see also Kabat et al (1991)
   Sequences of ProteinsofImmunologicalInterest, Fifth Edition, U.S. Department of
   Health and Human Services, NIH Publication No. 91-3242; Tomlinson et al. (1992)
   "The Repertoire of Human Germline VH Sequences Reveals about Fifty Groups of VH

                                         40
   Segments with Different Hypervariable Loops" J. Mol. Bio. 227:776-798; and Cox et
   al. (1994) "A Directory of Human Germ-line V 7 8 Segments Reveals a Strong Bias in
   their Usage" Eur.J. Immunol. 24:827-836; the contents of each of which are expressly
   incorporated herein by reference). To obtain a DNA fragment encoding the heavy chain
 5 variable region of adalimumab, or a adalimumab-related antibody, a member of the VH3
   family of human germline VH genes is amplified by standard PCR. Most preferably, the
   DP-31 VH germline sequence is amplified. To obtain a DNA fragment encoding the
   light chain variable region of adalimumab, or a adalimumab-related antibody, a member
   of the VKI family of human germline VL genes is amplified by standard PCR. Most
10 preferably, the A20 VL germline sequence is amplified. PCR primers suitable for use in
   amplifying the DP-31 gernline VH and A20 germline VL sequences can be designed
   based on the nucleotide sequences disclosed in the references cited supra, using standard
   methods.
           Once the germline VH and VL fragments are obtained, these sequences can be
15 mutated to encode the adalimumab or adalimumab-related amino acid sequences
   disclosed herein. The amino acid sequences encoded by the germline VH and VL DNA
   sequences are first compared to the adalimumab or adalimumab-related VH and VL
   amino acid sequences to identify amino acid residues in the adalimumab or adalimumab
   related sequence that differ from germline. Then, the appropriate nucleotides of the
20 germline DNA sequences are mutated such that the mutated germline sequence encodes
   the adalimumab or adalimumab-related amino acid sequence, using the genetic code to
   determine which nucleotide changes should be made. Mutagenesis of the germline
   sequences is carried out by standard methods, such as PCR-mediated mutagenesis (in
   which the mutated nucleotides are incorporated into the PCR primers such that the PCR
25 product contains the mutations) or site-directed mutagenesis.
           Once DNA fragments encoding adalimurnab or adalimumab-related VH and VL
   segments are obtained (by amplification and mutagenesis of germline VH and VL genes,
   as described above), these DNA fragments can be further manipulated by standard
   recombinant DNA techniques, for example to convert the variable region genes to full
30 length antibody chain genes, to Fab fragment genes or to a scFv gene. In these
   manipulations, a VL- or VH-encoding DNA fragment is operatively linked to another
   DNA fragment encoding another protein, such as an antibody constant region or a
   flexible linker. The term "operatively linked", as used in this context, is intended to
   mean that the two DNA fragments are joined such that the amino acid sequences
35 encoded by the two DNA fragments remain in-frame.
           The isolated DNA encoding the VH region can be converted to a full-length
   heavy chain gene by operatively linking the VH-encoding DNA to another DNA
   molecule encoding heavy chain constant regions (CHI, CH2 and CH3). The sequences

                                           41
   of human heavy chain constant region genes are known in the art (see e.g., Kabat et al.
   (1991) Sequences ofProteins ofImmunologicalInterest, Fifth Edition, U.S. Department
   of Health and Human Services, NIH Publication No. 91-3242) and DNA fragments
   encompassing these regions can be obtained by standard PCR amplification. The heavy
 5 chain constant region can be an IgG1, IgG2, IgG3, IgG4, IgA, IgE, IgM or IgD constant
   region, but most preferably is an IgGI or IgG4 constant region. For a Fab fragment
   heavy chain gene, the VH-encoding DNA can be operatively linked to another DNA
   molecule encoding only the heavy chain CH1 constant region.
           The isolated DNA encoding the VL region can be converted to a full-length light
10 chain gene (as well as a Fab light chain gene) by operatively linking the VL-encoding
   DNA to another DNA molecule encoding the light chain constant region, CL. The
   sequences of human light chain constant region genes are known in the art (see e.g.,
   Kabat et al. (1991) Sequences ofProteinsof ImmunologicalInterest, Fifth Edition, U.S.
   Department of Health and Human Services, NIH Publication No. 91-3242) and DNA
15 fragments encompassing these regions can be obtained by standard PCR amplification.
   The light chain constant region can be a kappa or lambda constant region, but most
   preferably is a kappa constant region.
           To create a scFv gene, the VH- and VL-encoding DNA fragments are operatively
   linked to another fragment encoding a flexible linker, e.g., encoding the amino acid
20 sequence (Gly 4 -Ser) 3 , such that the VH and VL sequences can be expressed as a
   contiguous single-chain protein, with the VL and VH regions joined by the flexible
   linker (see e.g., Bird et al. (1988) Science 242:423-426; Huston et aL. (1988) Proc.Natl.
   Acad. Sci. USA 85:5879-5883; McCafferty et al., Nature (1990) 348:552-554).
           To express the antibodies, or antibody portions of the invention, DNAs encoding
25 partial or full-length light and heavy chains, obtained as described above, are inserted
   into expression vectors such that the genes are operatively linked to transcriptional and
   translational control sequences. In this context, the term "operatively linked" is intended
   to mean that an antibody gene is ligated into a vector such that transcriptional and
   translational control sequences within the vector serve their intended function of
30 regulating the transcription and translation of the antibody gene. The expression vector
   and expression control sequences are chosen to be compatible with the expression host
   cell used. The antibody light chain gene and the antibody heavy chain gene can be
   inserted into separate vector or, more typically, both genes are inserted into the same
   expression vector. The antibody genes are inserted into the expression vector by
35 standard methods (e.g., ligation of complementary restriction sites on the antibody gene
   fragment and vector, or blunt end ligation if no restriction sites are present). Prior to
   insertion of the adalimumab or adalimumab-related light or heavy chain sequences, the
   expression vector may already carry antibody constant region sequences. For example,

                                            42
     one approach to converting the adalimunab or adalimumab-related VH and VL
     sequences to full-length antibody genes is to insert them into expression vectors already
     encoding heavy chain constant and light chain constant regions, respectively, such that
     the VH segment is operatively linked to the CH segment(s) within the vector and the VL
  5  segment is operatively linked to the CL segment within the vector. Additionally or
     alternatively, the recombinant expression vector can encode a signal peptide that
     facilitates secretion of the antibody chain from a host cell. The antibody chain gene can
     be cloned into the vector such that the signal peptide is linked in-frame to the amino
     terminus of the antibody chain gene. The signal peptide can be an immunoglobulin
 10  signal peptide or a heterologous signal peptide (i.e., a signal peptide from a non
     immunoglobulin protein).
              In addition to the antibody chain genes, the recombinant expression vectors of
    the invention carry regulatory sequences that control the expression of the antibody
    chain genes in a host cell. The term "regulatory sequence" is intended to include
 15 promoters, enhancers and other expression control elements (e.g., polyadenylation
    signals) that control the transcription or translation of the antibody chain genes. Such
    regulatory sequences are described, for example, in Goeddel; Gene Expression
    Technology: Methods in Enzymology 185, Academic Press, San Diego, CA (1990). It
    will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that the design of the expression vector,
20  including the selection of regulatory sequences may depend on such factors as the choice
    of the host cell to be transformed, the level of expression of protein desired, etc.
    Preferred regulatory sequences for mammalian host cell expression include viral
    elements that direct high levels of protein expression in mammalian cells, such as
    promoters and/or enhancers derived from cytomegalovirus (CMV) (such as the CMV
25  promoter/enhancer), Simian Virus 40 (SV40) (such as the SV40 promoter/enhancer),
    adenovirus, (e.g., the adenovirus major late promoter (AdMLP)) and polyoma. For
    further description of viral regulatory elements, and sequences thereof, see e.g., U.S.
    Patent No. 5,168,062 by Stinski, U.S. Patent No. 4,510,245 by Bell et al. and U.S. Patent
    No. 4,968,615 by Schaffner et al.
30           In addition to the antibody chain genes and regulatory sequences, the
    recombinant expression vectors of the invention may carry additional sequences, such as
    sequences that regulate replication of the vector in host cells (e.g., origins of replication)
    and selectable marker genes. The selectable marker gene facilitates selection of host
    cells into which the vector has been introduced (see e.g., U.S. Patents Nos. 4,399,216,
35  4,634,665 and 5,179,017, all by Axel et al.). For example, typically the selectable
    marker gene confers resistance to drugs, such as G418, hygromycin or methotrexate, on
    a host cell into which the vector has been introduced. Preferred selectable marker genes

                                            43
   include the dihydrofolate reductase (DHFR) gene (for use in dhfr- host cells with
   methotrexate selection/amplification) and the neo gene (for G418 selection).
            For expression of the light and heavy chains, the expression vector(s) encoding
   the heavy and light chains is transfected into a host cell by standard techniques. The
 5 various forms of the term "transfection" are intended to encompass a wide variety of
   techniques commonly used for the introduction of exogenous DNA into a prokaryotic or
   eukaryotic host cell, e.g., electroporation, calcium-phosphate precipitation, DEAE
   dextran transfection and the like. Although it is theoretically possible to express the
   antibodies of the invention in either prokaryotic or eukaryotic host cells, expression of
10 antibodies in eukaryotic cells, and most preferably mammalian host cells, is the most
   preferred because such eukaryotic cells, and in particular mammalian cells, are more
   likely than prokaryotic cells to assemble and secrete a properly folded and
   immunologically active antibody. Prokaryotic expression of antibody genes has been
   reported to be ineffective for production of high yields of active antibody (Boss and
15  Wood (1985) Immunology Today 6:12-13).
             Preferred mammalian host cells for expressing the recombinant antibodies of the
    invention include Chinese Hamster Ovary (CHO.cells) (including dhfr- CHO cells,
    described in Urlaub and Chasin, (1980) PNAS USA 77:4216-4220, used with a DHFR
    selectable marker, e.g., as described in Kaufman and Sharp (1982) Mol. Biol. 159:601
20  621), NSO myeloma cells, COS cells and SP2 cells. When recombinant expression
    vectors encoding antibody genes are introduced into mammalian host cells, the
    antibodies are produced by culturing the host cells for a period of time sufficient to
    allow for expression of the antibody in the host cells or, more preferably, secretion of the
    antibody into the culture medium in which the host cells are grown. Antibodies can be
25  recovered from the culture medium using protein purification methods.
             Host cells can also be used to produce portions of intact antibodies, such as Fab
    fragments or scFv molecules. It is understood that variations on the above procedure are
    within the scope of the present invention. For example, it may be desirable to transfect a
    host cell with DNA encoding either the light chain or the heavy chain (but not both) of
30  an antibody of this invention. Recombinant DNA technology may also be used to
    remove some or all of the DNA encoding either or both of the light and heavy chains
    that is not necessary for binding to hTNFct. The molecules expressed from such
    truncated DNA molecules are also encompassed by the antibodies of the invention. In
     addition, bifunctional antibodies may be produced in which one heavy and one light
35   chain are an antibody of the invention and the other heavy and light chain are specific
     for an antigen other than hTNFx by crosslinking an antibody of the invention to a
     second antibody by standard chemical crosslinking methods.

                                           44
             In a preferred system for recombinant expression of an antibody, or antigen
     binding portion thereof, of the invention, a recombinant expression vector encoding both
     the antibody heavy chain and the antibody light chain is introduced into dhfr-CHO cells
     by calcium phosphate-mediated transfection. Within the recombinant expression vector,
  5  the antibody heavy and light chain genes are each operatively linked to CMV
     enhancer/AdMLP promoter regulatory elements to drive high levels of transcription of
     the genes. The recombinant expression vector also carries a DHFR gene, which allows
     for selection of CHO cells that have been transfected with the vector using methotrexate
     selection/amplification. The selected transformant host cells are culture to allow for
 10  expression of the antibody heavy and light chains and intact antibody is recovered from
     the culture medium. Standard molecular biology techniques are used to prepare the
     recombinant expression vector, transfect the host cells, select for transformants, culture
     the host cells and recover the antibody from the culture medium.
             Recombinant human antibodies of the invention in addition to adalimumab or an
 15  antigen binding portion thereof, or adalimumab-related antibodies disclosed herein can
    be isolated by screening of a recombinant combinatorial antibody library, preferably a
     scFv phage display library, prepared using human VL and VH cDNAs prepared from
    mRNA derived from human lymphocytes. Methodologies for preparing and screening
     such libraries are known in the art. In addition to commercially available kits for
20   generating phage display libraries (e.g., the Pharmacia Recombinant PhageAntibody
    System, catalog no. 27-9400-01; and the Stratagene SurZAPTM phage display kit,
    catalog no. 240612), examples of methods and reagents particularly amenable for use in
    generating and screening antibody display libraries can be found in, for example, Ladner
    et aL. U.S. Patent No. 5,223,409; Kang et aL. PCT Publication No. WO 92/18619; Dower
25  et al.PCT Publication No. WO 91/17271; Winter et aL. PCT Publication No. WO
    92/20791; Markland et al.PCT Publication No. WO 92/15679; Breitling et al. PCT
    Publication No. WO 93/01288; McCafferty et aL. PCT Publication No. WO 92/01047;
    Garrard et al.PCT Publication No. WO 92/09690; Fuchs et al. (1991) Bio/Technology
    9:1370-1372; Hay et aL. (1992) Hum Antibod Hybridomas 3:81-85; Huse et aL. (1989)
30  Science 246:1275-128 1; McCafferty et al., Nature (1990) 348:552-554; Griffiths et aL.
    (1993) EMBO J 12:725-734; Hawkins et aL. (1992) J Mol Biol 226:889-896; Clackson et
    aL. (1991) Nature 352:624-628; Gram et aL. (1992) PNAS 89:3576-3580; Garrard et aL.
    (1991) BiolTechnology 9:1373-1377; Hoogenboom et aL. (1991) Nuc Acid Res 19:4133
    4137; and Barbas et aL. (1991) PNAS 88:7978-7982.
35           In a preferred embodiment, to isolate human antibodies with high affinity and a
    low off rate constant for hTNFa, a murine anti-hTNFx antibody having high affinity
    and a low off rate constant for hTNFa (e.g., MAK 195, the hybridoma for which has
    deposit number ECACC 87 050801) is first used to select human heavy and light chain

                                          45
   sequences having similar binding activity toward hTNFa, using the epitope imprinting
   methods described in Hoogenboom et aL, PCT Publication No. WO 93/06213. The
   antibody libraries used in this method are preferably scFv libraries prepared and
   screened as described in McCafferty et al., PCT Publication No. WO 92/01047,
 5 McCafferty et al.Nature (1990) 348:552-554; and Griffiths et aL. (1993) EMBO J
   12:725-734. The scFv antibody libraries preferably are screened using recombinant
   human TNFa as the antigen.
           Once initial human VL and VH segments are selected, "mix and match"
   experiments, in which different pairs of the initially selected VL and VH segments are
10 screened for hTNFa binding, are performed to select preferred VL/VH pair
   combinations. Additionally, to further improve the affinity and/or lower the off rate
   constant for hTNFax binding, the VL and VH segments of the preferred VL/VH pair(s)
   can be randomly mutated, preferably within the CDR3 region of VH and/or VL, in a
   process analogous to the in vivo somatic mutation process responsible for affinity
15 maturation of antibodies during a natural immune response. This in vitro affinity
   maturation can be accomplished by amplifying VH and VL regions using PCR primers
   complimentary to the VH CDR3 or VL CDR3, respectively, which primers have been
   "spiked" with a random mixture of the four nucleotide bases at certain positions such
   that the resultant PCR products encode VH and VL segments into which random
20 mutations have been introduced into the VH and/or VL CDR3 regions. These randomly
   mutated VH and VL segments can be rescreened for binding to hTNFa and sequences
   that exhibit high affinity and a low off rate for hTNFa binding can be selected.
           Following screening and isolation of an anti-hTNFa antibody of the invention
   from a recombinant immunoglobulin display library, nucleic acid encoding the selected
25 antibody can be recovered from the display package (e.g., from the phage genome) and
   subcloned into other expression vectors by standard recombinant DNA techniques. If
   desired, the nucleic acid can be further manipulated to create other antibody forms of the
   invention (e.g., linked to nucleic acid encoding additional immunoglobulin domains,
   such as additional constant regions). To express a recombinant human antibody isolated
30 by screening of a combinatorial library, the DNA encoding the antibody is cloned into a
   recombinant expression vector and introduced into a mammalian host cells, as described
   in further detail in above.
           Methods of isolating human antibodies with high affinity and a low off rate
   constant for hTNFax are also described in U.S. Patent Nos. 6,090,382, 6,258,562, and
35  6,509,015, each of which is incorporated by reference herein.
   III.    Antibody purification

                                          46
            The invention provides an method for producing an HCP-reduced antibody
   preparation from a mixture comprising an antibody and at least one HCP. The
   invention also provides a method for producing a procathepsin L-reduced antibody
   preparation from a mixture comprising an antibody and at least one procathepsin L. The
 5 purification process of the invention begins at the separation step when the antibody has
   been produced using methods described in Section II and conventional methods in the
   art. Typically in the art, antibody-HCP mixtures are subjected to protein A capture (e.g.,
   a protein A column) as an initial purification step, since the antibody binds to protein A
   whereas HCP will flow through. The purification methods of the invention have the
10 advantage that it is not necessary to subject the mixture comprising an antibody and at
   least one HCP to protein A capture (e.g., a protein A column) as an initial step, or as any
   step in the purification method.
            Once a clarified solution or mixture comprising the antibody has been obtained,
   separation of the antibody from the other proteins produced by the cell, such as HCPs, is
15 performed using a combination of different purification techniques, including ion
   exchange separation step(s) and hydrophobic interaction separation step(s). The
   separation steps separate mixtures of proteins on the basis of their charge, degree of
   hydrophobicity, and/or size. In one embodiment of the invention, separation is
   performed using chromatography, including cationic, anionic, and hydrophobic. Several
20 different chromatography resins are available for each of these techniques, allowing
   accurate tailoring of the purification scheme to the particular protein involved. The
   essence of each of the separation methods is that proteins can be caused either to move
   at different rates down a long column, achieving a physical separation that increases as
   they pass further down the column, or to adhere selectively to the separation medium,
25 being then differentially eluted by different solvents. In some cases, the antibody is
   separated from impurities when the impurities specifically adhere to the column, and the
   antibody does not, that is, the antibody is present in the flowthrough.
            Methods of purifying antibodies from undesired proteins are provided below,
   e.g., process A. In one embodiment, the invention includes the steps, individually or in
30 combination, described below in Process A. Process A provides a method of purifying a
   mixture comprising an antibody using ion exchange separation (cation exchange
   chromatography and anion exchange chromatography) and hydrophobic interaction
   separation, resulting in an antibody preparation suitable for use in a pharmaceutical
   composition. Process A has the advantage that it can be carried out without the need to
35 perform protein A capture as an initial step in antibody purification. In one
   embodiment, the antibody purified using process A is adalimumab. Process A generally
   comprises the following:

                                             47
              A mixture comprising an antibody and impurities, e.g., HCP(s), is loaded onto an
      ion exchange column, such as a cation exchange column. The mixture may be loaded at
      a load of about < 30 g antibody/L per cycle. The mixture loaded onto the cation column
      is subsequently washed with wash buffer (equilibration buffer). The antibody is then
  5 eluted from the column, and a first eluate is obtained.
              The first eluate is then often virally inactivated and pH adjusted in preparation
      for anion exchange chromatography. The first eluate is virally inactivated by adjusting
      the pH to a low pH relative to the elution buffer (described further in section HIC). The
     pH of the virally inactivated eluate is subsequently adjusted in more than one step to a
 10 final pH of about 7.6, which is the pH of the anion exchange column which follows in
      sequence.
              Following viral inactivation, the first eluate is often subjected to a second ion
     exchange separation step, where the first eluate is loaded onto an anion exchange
     column (e.g., a Q Sepharose column). The column is washed with a wash buffer, and a
 15 first flowthrough comprising the antibody is obtained.
              The flowthrough is further purified by loading it onto a hydrophobic interaction
     column (phenyl sepharose). The column is washed, and the antibody is eluted from the
     column such that a second eluate is obtained.
              Process B is described below and provides an improved method for producing a
20 host cell protein-(HCP) reduced antibody preparation from a mixture comprising an
     antibody. The language "reduced" when referring to HCP or procathepsin L, includes
     improvements over levels, e.g., concentration or activity, of HCP or procathepsin L at
     comparable points in process A. In one embodiment, the first cluate of process B
     comprises a reduced level of HCP or procathepsin L in comparison to the first eluate of
25 process A. In one embodiment, the first flowthrough of process B comprises a reduced
     level of HCP or procathepsin L in comparison to the first flowthrough of process A. In
     one embodiment, the second eluate of process B comprises a reduced level of HCP or
    procathepsin L in comparison to the second eluate of process A. In another
    embodiment, the antibody preparation resulting from process B comprises a reduced
30 level of HCP or procathepsin L in comparison the antibody preparation resulting from
    process A.
             Process B generally comprises the following:
             A mixture comprising an antibody and impurities, e.g., HCP(s), is loaded onto an
    ion exchange column, such as a cation exchange column. The mixture may be loaded at
35 a load of about < 35 g antibody/L per cycle at pH 7 or at a load of about < 70 g
    antibody/L per cycle at pH 5. The mixture loaded onto the cation column is
    subsequently washed with wash buffer (equilibration buffer). Following the
    equilibration wash buffer, an intermediate wash step is performed, wherein the column

                                              48
   is washed with an intermediate buffer which has similar conductivity to the elution
   buffer. This intermediate wash step improves clearance of process-related impurities.
   The antibody is then eluted from the column using elution buffer, and a first eluate is
   obtained.
 5          The first eluate is then virally inactivated and pH adjusted in preparation for
   anion exchange chromatography. The first eluate is virally inactivated by adjusting the
   pH to a low pH relative to the elution buffer. The pH and conductivity of the virally
   inactivated eluate is subsequently adjusted in one step to a final pH of about 7.8-8.2,
   which is the pH of the equilibrated anion exchange column which follows in sequence.
10          Following viral inactivation, the first eluate is subjected to a second ion exchange
   separation step, where the first eluate is loaded onto an anion exchange column (e.g., a Q
   Sepharose column). The column is washed with a wash buffer, and a first flowthrough
   comprising the antibody is obtained.
             The flowthrough is further purified by loading it onto a hydrophobic interaction
15 column (phenyl sepharose). The column is washed, and the antibody is eluted from the
    column such that a second eluate is obtained. The result of process B is a preparation
   having reduced HCPs, including procathepsin L. Further results of process B include
    the removal of process bottlenecks, e.g., higher productivity created in cell culture scale
    up, by moving HCP clearance to the front part of the process and an overall
20  improvement in antibody yield. Additional details regarding the improved process of the
    invention are provided below.
             IH.A. Ion exchange separation
25           The present invention features methods for producing a HCP-reduced antibody
    preparation from a mixture comprising an antibody and at least one HCP by subjecting
    the mixture to at least one ion exchange separation step such that a first eluate
    comprising the antibody is obtained. Ion exchange separation includes any method by
    which two substances are separated based on the difference in their respective ionic
30  charges.
             In performing the separation, the antibody mixture may be contacted with the ion
     exchange material, e.g., using a batch purification technique or chromatography.
    For example, for batch purification, ion exchange material is prepared in or equilibrated
     to the desired starting buffer. A slurry of the ion exchange material is obtained. The
35   antibody solution is contacted with the slurry to adsorb the antibody to be separated to
     the ion exchange material. The solution comprising the HCP(s) that do not bind to the
     ion exchange material is separated from the slurry, e.g., by allowing the slurry to settle
     and removing the supernatant. The slurry can be subjected to one or more wash steps. If

                                            49
     desired, the slurry can be contacted with a solution of higher conductivity to desorb
     HCPs that have bound to the ion exchange material. In order to elute bound
     polypeptides, the salt concentration may be increased.
             Ion exchange chromatography may also be used as an ion exchange separation
  5  technique. Ion exchange chromatography separates molecules based on differences
     between the overall charge of the molecules. For the purification of an antibody, the
     antibody must have a charge opposite to that of the functional group attached to the ion
     exchange material, e.g., resin, in order to bind. For example, antibodies, which
     generally have an overall positive charge in the buffer pH below its pI, will bind well to
 10  cation exchange material, which contain negatively charged functional groups.
             In ion exchange chromatography, charged patches on the surface of the solute are
     attracted by opposite charges attached to a chromatography matrix, provided the ionic
     strength of the surrounding buffer is low. Elution is generally achieved by increasing
     the ionic strength (i.e., conductivity) of the buffer to compete with the solute for the
 15  charged sites of the ion exchange matrix. Changing the pH and thereby altering the
     charge of the solute is another way to achieve elution of the solute. The change in
     conductivity or pH may be gradual (gradient elution) or stepwise (step elution).
             Anionic or cationic substituents may be attached to matrices in order to form
     anionic or cationic supports for chromatography. Anionic exchange substituents include
20  diethylaminoethyl(DEAE), quaternary aminoethyl(QAE) and quaternary amine(Q)
    groups. Cationic'substitutents include carboxymethyl (CM), sulfoethyl(SE),
    sulfopropyl(SP), phosphate(P) and sulfonate(S). Cellulose ion exchange resins such as
    DE23, DE32, DE52, CM-23, CM-32 and CM-52 are available from Whatman Ltd.
    Maidstone, Kent, U.K. SEPHADEX@-based and -locross-linked ion exchangers are also
25  known. For example, DEAE-, QAE-, CM-, and SP- SEPHADEX@ and DEAE-, Q-,
    CM-and S-SEPHAROSE@ and SEPHAROSE@ Fast Flow are all available from
    Pharmacia AB. Further, both DEAE and CM derivitized ethylene glycol-methacrylate
    copolymer such as TOYOPEARL DEAE-650S or M and TOYOPEARL CM-650S or M
    are available from Toso Haas Co., Philadelphia, Pa.
30           In one embodiment of the invention, the mixture comprising an antibody and at
    least one HCP is loaded onto a cation exchange (CEX) chromatography column. The
    mixture is loaded onto the CEX column in a loading buffer which may be the same as
    the equilibration buffer used to equilibrate the column. As the HCP-comprising mixture
    passes over the CEX column, the target protein is adsorbed to the CEX resin and various
35  HCPs (such as host cell proteins, where the target protein is produced in a recombinant
    host cell, or other process-derived impurities) flowthrough or bind weakly or
    nonspecifically to the CEX resin. In various embodiments, the CEX resin is a synthetic
    methacrylate based polymeric resin attached to a sulfonate group (Fractogel SO .
                                                                                        3

                                               50
   (Fractogel S)). In one embodiment, the equilibration buffer comprises 20 mM Na2 PO4 ,
   25 mM NaCl, pH 6.8. Other suitable equilibration buffers include, for example, BIS and
   HEPES at physiological concentrations, for example, concentrations in the range
   between about 0.5 mM and about 100 mM (e.g., 10 mM, 20 mM, 50 mM, etc.), and
 5 physiological salt concentrations (e.g., about 0.15 mM NaCl), and at pH from 5.0-9.0.
            In exemplary embodiments, the CEX chromatography is a Fractogel S column.
   In one embodiment, about 30 gram (g) antibody per liter (L) resin to about 40 g antibody
   per L resin is loaded onto the Fractogel S column. In another embodiment, about 35 g
   antibody per L resin is loaded onto the Fractogel S column at pH 7. It has been
10 discovered that a loading amount of about 35 g antibody per L resin at pH 7 increases
   the clearance of impurities, e.g., HCP(s) and procathepsin L. The acceptable operating
   ranges of a Fractogel S column to be used in the method of the invention are described
   in Table 1 below.
15                  Table 1: Acceptable operating ranges for Fractogel S chromatography at
                    pH 7
                       Operating parameter          AOR
                       Resin capacity               s  35 g protein/L resin
                       Load sample pH               6.5-7.5
                       Effective load dilution       1:1 - 1:2
                       Wash 2 elution buffer         1:3 - 1:4
                       concentrate to WFI ratio
                       Linear velocity              75-300 cm/hr
            It further has been discovered that the loading capacity of the column can be
   increased by carrying out the chromatography at pH 5. In particular, it has been
20 discovered that a loading amount of about 70 g antibody per L resin at pH 5 increases
   the clearance of impurities, e.g., HCP(s) and procathepsin L. Accordingly, in a pH
   range of about pH 5 to about pH 7, a loading amount of about 35g to about 70g antibody
   per L of resin can be used.
            Following the loading of the antibody mixture onto the column, the CEX resin is
25 then washed with a wash buffer. In particular, it has been discovered that a plurality of
   wash steps with different wash buffers results in a further HCP-reduced antibody
   preparation. Specifically, it has been discovered that procathepsin L levels can be
   reduced by the use of a first wash step and an intermediate wash step using a wash
   buffer and an intermediate wash buffer, respectively. In one embodiment, the CEX resin
30 is first washed with a wash buffer which is the same as the equilibration buffer. In
   certain embodiments, the wash buffer is 20 mM Na2PO 4 , 25 mM NaCl, pH 6.8. Other
   suitable wash buffers include, for example, BIS and HEPES at physiological
   concentrations, for example, concentration in the range between about 0.5 mM and

                                           51
   about 100 mM (e.g., 10 mM, 20 mM, 50 mM, etc.), and physiological salt
   concentrations (e.g., about 0.15 mM NaCl), and at pH from 5.0-9.0.
            In a preferred embodiment of the invention, an intermediate wash step is
   performed. It has been discovered that reduced levels of HCP in general, and in
 5 particular, procathepsin L, can be achieved by using an intermediate wash buffer
   comprising, in part, the same buffer as the CEX elution buffer. The improved reduction
   of HCP in general, and in particular procathepsin L, results in part, from the increased
   conductivity in the intermediate wash buffer. Increasing the conductivity of the
   intermediate wash buffer causes charge displacement of the HCP(s), which has a lower
10 pl relative to the that of the antibody, thus causing the weaker binding HCP(s) to wash
   through the column. Increased clearance of the weaker binding impuities, e.g., HCP(s)
   including procathepsin L, in turn provides more binding area for the target substance,
   e.g., the antibody. In other embodiments, the intermediate wash buffer contains from
   about 40% to about 50% elution buffer and from about 50% to about 60% water for
15 injection. In further embodiments, the intermediate wash buffer contains 45% elution
   buffer and 55% water for injection. In one embodiment, the wash buffer used in the
   intermediate wash is 20 mM Na2 PO 4 , 150 mM sodium chloride, pH 7.
            Following a plurality of washes, the antibody is eluted from the first cationic
   exchange material such that a first eluate having a reduced level of HCP is obtained.
20 The first eluate also has a reduced level of procathepsin L in view of the intermediate
   wash step. In one embodiment, the first eluate obtained using the method of the
   invention comprises an about 3 to an about 5 fold decrease in HCP levels in comparison
   to a comparable step of process A. In another embodiment, the first eluate obtained
   using the method of the invention comprises an about 2 to an about 3 fold decrease in
25  cathepsin L activity in comparison to a comparable step of process A. In one
    embodiment, the first eluate comprises a range of about 90 to about 100 fold less HCP
    than the mixture as determined by a HCP ELISA. In another embodiment, the first
    eluate comprises cathepsin L activity ranging from between about 25 to about 60
    RFU/s/mg of antibody as measured by a cathepsin L kinetic assay
30           In a preferred embodiment, the initial eluate comprising the antibody is passed
    over a second lE material and a flowthrough comprising a further reduced level of HCP
    is obtained. In some embodiments, the second IE step may be batch purification as
    described infra. In other embodiments, the second IE step comprises loading the first
    eluate onto a second ion exchange chromatography column, washing the column and
35  obtaining a first flowthrough. The second IE material may be anion exchange (AEX)
    resin, e.g., Q sepharose column. In some embodiments, between about 30 g antibody
    per L resin and about 40 g antibody per L or resin is loaded onto the anion exchange
    column. Increasing the loading amount between about 40 g antibody per L resin and

                                         52
   about 50 g antibody per L resin causes a decrease in clearance of impurities, e.g.,
   HCP(s). As the HCP-comprising mixture passes over the AEX column, the various
   HCP(s) bind to the AEX resin, and the antibody passes through or binds nonspecifically
   to the AEX resin. In certain embodiments, the anion exchange resin is Q Sepharose.
 5         Often, the antibody mixture to be purified will be present in a buffer from the
   previous purification step. Many buffers are available and can be selected by routine
   experimentation. For example, an equilibration buffer of 25 mM trolamine, 40 mM
   NaCl, pH 8 may be used. In one embodiment, prior to passing the initial eluate over the
   second IE material, the second IE material may be equilibrated with equilibration buffer.
10 This may be done, for example, by altering the pH and conductivity of the first eluate
   such that the pH and conductivity of the first eluate is substantially similar or
   corresponds to the pH and conductivity of the equilibrated second IE material, i.e.,
   altering the pH and conductivity of the first eluate such that it corresponds to that of the
   equilibrated second ion exchange material. In some embodiments, the pH of the AEX
15 material (e.g. Q Sepharose) is adjusted with equilibration buffer to range from about 7.7
   to about 8.3. In further embodiments, the pH of the CEX eluate (e.g., initial eluate) is
   adjusted to range about 7.7 to about 8.3. In certain embodiments, the pH of both the
   AEX material and the initial eluate is about 8. In some embodiments, the conductivity
   of the AEX material ranges from about 3.5 mS/cm to about 4.9 mS/cm. In further
20 embodiments, the conductivity of the initial eluate ranges from about 3.5 mS/cm to
   about 4.9 mS/cm. It has been discovered that adjustment of the load conductivity and
   pH to that of the conductivity and pH of the second ion exchange material enhances
   impurity clearance. In relation to process A, it has been discovered that an overall
   decrease in conductivity and/or an increase in pH of the first eluate and/or equilibrated
25 second ion exchange material results in increased HCP(s) clearance.
           Following the loading of the antibody mixture onto the column, the AEX resin is
   then washed with a wash buffer. The wash buffer may be the same as the equilibration
   buffer, e.g., 25 mM trolamine, 40 mM NaCl, pH 8. In one embodiment, the wash may
   be pooled with the flowthrough such that a first flowthrough comprising the antibody
30 and having a reduced level of HCP is obtained. In further embodiments, the first
   flowthrough has a reduced level of procathepsin L. In one embodiment, the first
   flowthrough obtained using the method of the invention comprises an about 7 to an
   about 700 fold decrease in HCP levels in comparison to a comparable step of process A.
   In another embodiment, the first flowthrough obtained using the method of the invention
35 comprises an about 6 to an about 25 fold decrease in cathepsin L activity in comparison
   to a comparable step of process A. In other embodiments, the first flowthrough
   comprises a range of about 840 to about 850 fold less HCP than the first eluate as
   determined by a HCP ELISA. In yet another embodiment, the first flowthrough

                                              53
   comprises cathepsin L activity ranging from between about 0.4 to about 4 RFU/s/mg of
   antibody as measured by a cathepsin L kinetic assay
            Acceptable operating ranges for Q sepharose chromatography to be used in the
   method of the invention are described below in Table 2:
 5
   Table 2: Acceptable operating ranges for Q Sepharose FF chromatography
                            Parameter               AOR
                            Load conductivity      4.0 - 5.5 mS/cm
                            Load pH                 7.8 -8.2
                            Colunm loading          s 40 g/L
                            Linear velocity         150-300 cm/hr
            The use of a cationic exchange material versus an anionic exchange material is
   based on the overall charge of the protein as discussed supra. Therefore, it is within the
10 scope of this invention to employ an anionic exchange material prior to the use of a
   cationic exchange material. Furthermore, it is within the scope of this invention to
   employ only a cationic exchange material or only an anionic exchange material.
            The methods of the present invention can optionally include further purification
   steps. Examples of additional purification procedures which may be performed prior to,
15 during, or following the ion exchange chromatography method include fractionation on
   a hydrophobic interaction chromatography (e.g. on phenyl sepharose), ethanol
   precipitation, isoelectric focusing, Reverse Phase HPLC, chromatography on silica,
   chromatography on heparin sepharose, further anion exchange chromatography and/or
    further cation exchange chromatography, chromatofocusing, SDS-PAGE, ammonium
20  sulfate precipitation, hydroxylapatite chromatography, gel electrophoresis, dialysis, and
    affinity chromatography (e.g. using protein A, protein G, an antibody, a specific
    substrate, ligand or antigen as the capture reagent).
            IILB. Hydrophobic interaction separation
25           The present invention also features methods for producing a HCP-reduced
    antibody preparation from a mixture comprising an antibody and at least one HCP
    further comprising a hydrophobic interaction separation step wherein the first
    flowthrough is subjected to a first hydrophobic interaction material such that a second
    eluate having a reduced level of HCP is obtained.
30           In performing the separation, the polypeptide mixture may be contacted with the
    HIC material, e.g., using a batch purification technique or using a column. Prior to HIC
    purification it may be desirable to remove any chaotropic agents or very hydrophobic
    substances, e.g., by passing the mixture through a precolumn.

                                          54
            For example, for batch purification, HIC material is prepared in or equilibrated to
   the desired equilibration buffer. A slurry of the HIC material is obtained. The antibody
   solution is contacted with the slurry to adsorb the antibody to be separated to the HIC
   material. The solution comprising the HCPs that do not bind to the HIC material is
 5 separated from the slurry, e.g., by allowing the slurry to settle and removing the
   supernatant. The slurry can be subjected to one or more washing steps. If desired, the
   slurry can be contacted with a solution of lower conductivity to desorb antibodies that
   have bound to the HIC material. In order to elute bound antibodies, the salt
   concentration can be decreased.
10          In other embodiments, the hydrophobic interaction separation step comprises
   loading the first flowthrough onto a column comprising a first hydrophobic interaction
   material and washing the first hydrophobic interaction material such that a second eluate
   is obtained.
            The hydrophobic interaction separation step may include a hydrophobic
15 interaction chromatography (HIC) step. Whereas ion exchange chromatography relies
   on the charges of proteins, e.g., antibodies, to isolate them, hydrophobic interaction
   chromatography uses the hydrophobic properties of some proteins, e.g., antibodies.
   Hydrophobic groups on the antibody bind to hydrophillic groups on the column. The
   more hydrophobic a protein is, the stronger it will bind to the column. The HIC step
20 removes, for example, host cell derived impurities (e.g., DNA and other high and low
   molecular weight product-related species).
             Hydrophobic interactions are strongest at high ionic strength, therefore, this form
   of separation is conveniently performed following salt precipitations or ion exchange
   procedures. Adsorption of the antibody to a HIC column is favored by high salt
25 concentrations, but the actual concentrations can vary over a wide range depending on
   the nature of the antibody and the particular HIC ligand chosen. Various ions can be
   arranged in a so-called soluphobic series depending on whether they promote
   hydrophobic interactions (salting-out effects) or disrupt the structure of water
    (chaotropic effect) and lead to the weakening of the hydrophobic interaction. Cations are
30 ranked in terms of increasing salting out effect as Ba"<; Ca"<; Mg"' <; Li' <; Cs* <; Na
    <; K* <; Rb* <; NH4*, while anions may be ranked in terms of increasing chaotropic effect
   as PO~- <; SO4 ~ <; CH3 COOO- <; Cl- <; Bf <; N0 3 ~<; C10 4 <; 1~ <; SCN~
             In general, Na, K or NH4 sulfates effectively promote ligand-protein interaction
   in HIC. Salts may be formulated that influence the strength of the interaction as given
35 by the following relationship: (NH4 ) 2 SO 4 ; Na2 SO 4 >; NaCl ;NH 4 Cl >; NaBr >; NaSCN.
   In general, salt concentrations of between about 0.75 and about 2M ammonium sulfate
   or between about I and 4M NaCl are useful.

                                               55
           HIC columns normally comprise a base matrix (e.g. cross-linked agarose or
   synthetic copolymer material) to which hydrobobic ligands (e.g. alkyl or aryl groups) are
   coupled. The preferred HIC column comprises an agarose resin substituted with phenyl
   groups (e.g. a Phenyl SepharoseTM column). Many HIC columns are available
 5 commercially. Examples include, but are not limited to, Phenyl SepharoseTM 6 Fast Flow
   column with low or high substitution (Pharmacia LKB Biotechnology, AB, Sweden);
   Phenyl SepharoseT M High Performance column (Pharmacia LKB Biotechnology, AB,
   Sweden); Octyl SepharoseTM High Performance column (Pharmacia LKB
   Biotechnology, AB, Sweden); FractogelTM EMD Propyl or FractogelTM EMD Phenyl
10 columns (E. Merck, Germany); Macro-PrepTM Mehyl or Macro-PrepTM t-Butyl Supports
   (Bio-Rad, California); WP HI-Propyl (C.sub.3)Tm column (J. T. Baker, New Jersey); and
   ToyopearlTM ether, phenyl or butyl columns (TosoHaas, PA).
            Following any preliminary purification step(s), the mixture comprising the
   antibody of interest and HCP(s) may be subjected to HIC. Often, the antibody
15 composition to be purified will be present in a buffer from the previous purification step.
   However, it may be necessary to add a buffer to the antibody composition prior to the
   HIC step. Many buffers are available and can be selected by routine experimentation. In
   one embodiment, the pH of the mixture comprising the antibody to be purified and at
   least one HCP in a loading buffer is adjusted to a pH of about 7 using either an acid or
20 base, depending on the starting pH, and a conductivity of about 136 to about 158
   mS/cm. In one embodiment, the antibody mixture is diluted with a buffer comprising 40
   mM sodium phosphate, 2.2 M (NH 4 ) 2 SO 4 , pH 7.
            Prior to loading the antibody mixture, the column may be equilibrated with
   equilibration buffer. In some embodiments, the equilibration buffer is 20 mM sodium
25 phosphate, 1.1 M (NH 4 ) 2 SO 4 , pH 7.
            In one embodiment, the mixture, e.g., first flowthrough comprising the antibody,
   is loaded onto a phenyl sepharose HIC column. In certain embodiments, the protein
    loading for this step ranges between about 20 and about 40 g protein per L of resin. In
    other embodiments, the protein loading for this step is about 35 g protein per L of resin.
30  In some embodiments, two or three chromatography cycles may be required to process
    the entire quantity of available material.
            Following binding of the protein to the hydrophobic interaction column, the
    column may be washed with a wash buffer that may be the same as the equilibration
    buffer, e.g., 1.1 M (NH 4 ) 2 SO 4 , pH 7.
35          The antibody is eluted from the column using an elution buffer such that a
    second eluate is obtained. The elution buffer can be selected using routine
    experimentation. The pH of the elution buffer ranges between about 6 and about 8 and
    has a low ammonium sulfate concentration (i.e., less than about 1 M (NH 4 ) 2 SO 4 ). The

                                            56
   conductivity of the elation buffer ranges from about 87 to about 101 mS/cm. In one
   embodiment, the elution buffer contains 11 mM sodium phosphate, 0.625 M
   (NH4)2SO4), pH 7. It has been discovered that lower salt concentrations result in less
   adalimumab binding to the resin. The antibody is eluted from the second ion exchange
 5 material such that a second eluate having a reduced level of HCP is obtained. The
   second eluate also has a reduced level of procathepsin L. In one embodiment, the
   second obtained using the method of the invention comprises an about 10 to an about 96
   fold decrease in HCP levels in comparison to a comparable step of process A. In
   another embodiment, the second eluate obtained using the method of the invention
10 comprises an about 5 to an about 15 fold decrease in cathepsin L activity in comparison
   to a comparable step of process A. In one embodiment, the second elu ate comprises a
   range of about 3 to about 5 fold less HCP than the first flowthrough as determined by a
   HCP ELISA. In another embodiment, the second eluate comprises cathepsin L activity
   ranging from between about 0.5 to about 1.5 RFU/s/mg of antibody as measured by a
15 cathepsin L kinetic assay.
            Acceptable operating ranges for the phenyl sepharose chromatography column
    used in the methods of the invention are shown below in Table 3.
    Table 3: Acceptable operating ranges for Phenyl Sepharose HP chromatography
                          Operating parameter           AOR
                          Column loading                20-40 g/L
                          Load sample dilution          0.9:1 to 1.1:1
                           Linear velocity              25-125 cm/hr
20          Further purification steps can include virus removing steps as well as
    nanofiltration, ultrafiltration and/or diafiltration steps, as described herein.
            iH. C. Viral inactivation
            In order to provide a margin of safety, potential undetected viruses are
25  inactivated during the purification process. Methods of viral inactivation are known in
    the art and include heat inactivation (pasteurization), pH inactivation, solvent/ detergent
    treatment, UV and gamma ray irradiation and the addition of certain chemical
    inactivating agents such as 0-propiolactone or e.g. copper phenanthroline as in U.S. Pat.
    No. 4,534,972, etc. In some embodiments, subjecting the mixture to viral inactivation
30  can include pH viral inactivation. Methods of pH viral inactivation techniques are also
    well known in the art. For instance, typical methods of viral inactivation include
    incubating the mixture for a period of time at low pH, subsequently neutralizing the pH
    and removing particulates by filtration. The choice of pH level largely depends on the
    stability profile of the antibody product and buffer components. It is known that the

                                               57
     quality of the target antibody during low pH virus inactivation is affected by pH and the
     duration of the low pH incubation. Virus inactivation is dependent on these same
     parameters in addition to protein concentration, which may reduce inactivation at high
     concentrations. Thus, the proper parameters of protein concentration, pH and duration
  5  of inactivation may be selected by routine experimentation.
             The pH of the mixture may be lowered by any suitable acid including, but not
     limited to, citric acid, acetic acid, caprylic acid, or other suitable acids. In preferred
     embodiments, the pH of the mixture is adjusted with 1 M citric acid.
             In some embodiments, the mixture is incubated at pH from about 2.9 to about 3.9
 10  for about 15 minutes to about 180 minutes. In further embodiments, the mixture is
     incubated at about pH 3.5 for about 60 minutes to about 120 minutes. In still further
     embodiments, the mixture is incubated at about pH 3.5 for about 60 minutes to about
     180 minutes.
             In one embodiment, the mixture comprising the antibody and HCPs is subjected
 15 to viral inactivation prior to IE separation. In other embodiments, the initial eluate is
     subjected to viral inactivation prior to IE separation. In certain embodiments, the initial
    eluate is subjected to viral inactivation prior to anion exchange chromatography.
             Following viral inactivation, the mixture is adjusted as needed for further
    purification steps. For example, the pH-adjusted pool may be subjected to filtration. In
20  one embodiment, following low pH viral inactivation and/or filtration, the pH of the
    mixture is typically adjusted to a more neutral pH, e.g., from about 6.5 to about 8.5. For
    example, the mixture may be flushed with water for injection (WFI) to obtain the desired
    pH.
             The low pH virus inactivation parameters used in the method of the invention are
25  shown in Table 4 below.
    Table 4: Acceptable operating parameters for low pH virus inactivation
                           Operating parameter                AOR
                           Incubation pH                     3.0-3.7
                           Incubation time                60 - 180 min
                           Protein concentration            s 33 g/L
            The invention includes a method where the first eluate from the ion exchange
30  column is subjected to viral inactivation prior to the second ion exchange
    chromatography step. In one embodiment, viral inactivation is achieved through pH
    viral inactivation.
    IV.     Method for determining host cell protein (HCP) levels

                                            58
            The present invention also provides methods for determining the residual levels
   of Host Cell Protein (HCP) concentration in the purified antibody composition. As
   described above, HCPs are desirably excluded from the final target substance product,
   e.g., the antibody. Exemplary HCPs include proteins originating from the source of the
 5 antibody production. Failure to identify and sufficiently remove HCPs from the target
   antibody may lead to reduced efficacy and/or adverse patient reactions.
            As used herein, the term "HCP ELISA" refers to an ELISA where the second
   antibody used in the assay is specific to the HCPs produced from cells, e.g., CHO cells,
   used to generate the antibody, e.g., adalimumab. The second antibody may be produced
10 according to conventional methods known to those of skill in the art. For example, the
   second antibody may be produced using HCPs obtained by sham production and
   purification runs, i.e., the same cell line used to produce the antibody of interest is used,
   but the cell line is not transfected with antibody DNA. In an exemplary embodiment,
   the second antibody is produced using HPCs similar to those expressed in the cell
15 expression system of choice, i.e., the cell expression system used to produce the target
   antibody.
         . Generally, HCP ELISA comprises sandwiching a liquid sample comprising
   HCPs between two layers of antibodies, i.e., a first antibody and a second antibody. The
   sample is incubated during which time the HCPs in the sample are captured by the first
20 antibody, e.g., goat anti-CHO, affinity purified (Cygnus). A labeled second antibody
   specific to the HCPs produced from the cells used to generate the antibody, e.g., anti
   CHO HCP Biotinylated, is added, and binds to the HCPs within the sample. The
    amount of HCP contained in the sample is determined using the appropriate test based
    on the label of the second antibody.
25          HCP ELISA may be used for determining the level of HCPs in an antibody
    composition, such as an eluate or flowthrough obtained using the process described in
    section III above. The present invention also provides a composition comprising an
    antibody, wherein the composition has no detectable level of HCPs as determined by an
    HCP Enzyme Linked Immunosorbent Assay ("ELISA"). In one embodiment, the first
30  eluate comprises between about 12,000 to about 19,500 ng/mg of HCP. In one
    embodiment, the second eluate comprises between about 1.0 and about 0.0 ng/mg of
    HCP.
    V.       Method for determining procathepsin L levels
35           The invention provides a kinetic assay (or cathepsin L kinetic assay) for
    determining the amount of procathepsin L in a sample. Procathepsin L is a host cell
    protein derived from certain expression systems and, upon activation to cathepsin L, is
    known to cause fragmentation of proteins, including antibodies such as adalimumab.

                                            59
      Studies have demonstrated that procathepsin L is synthesized as an inactive zymogen
      and later processed to the active cathepsin L form. Activation of procathepsin L occurs
     by proteolytic removal of the N-terminal pro-peptide region by either other proteases
     such as cathepsin D or-by autocatalytic activation within the acidic conditions of the
  5   lysosome (Turk et al. (1999) EurJBiochem 259:929). Furthermore, Mason et al, (see
     Mason et al. (1992) Biochem Biophysical Res Comm 189: 1659) report the activation of
     cathepsin L can be achieved to a higher degree at pH 5.5 with the addition of negatively
     charged molecules, such as dextran sulfate, at lower pH conditions.
             Previous methods of detecting levels of procathepsin L (or the active form
 10  cathepsin L) included analytical methods such as weak anion exchange chromatography.
     Such methods are limited, however, when testing in-process samples, i.e., samples
     obtained from the process described above in section III, due to buffer system
     interference and matrix effects. Thus, the invention provides a high throughput
     fluorescent enzymatic method to better monitor procathepsin L, for example, for the
 15 purpose of process monitoring.
             The kinetic assay of the invention provides a method of determining
    procathepsin L at levels which cannot be readily detected by standard end point assays.
    The kinetic assay also provides a means of determining whether the level of
    procathepsin L is reproducibly low. In one embodiment, samples may be obtained from
20  any point in the process described in Section III, in order to confirm or determine that
    the level of procathepsin L is being reduced in the overall process. Procathepsin L is
    activated by removing the amino terminal from the protein. In one embodiment,
    activation is achieved using a peptidase, such as, but not limited to, cathepsin D. Once
    activated, cathepsin L can selectively hydrolyze substrates. A substrate is contacted
25  with the sample and monitored for cathepsin L activity based on changes to the
    substrate.
             In a preferred embodiment, the substrate for cathepsin L comprises a label. The
    label may include any agent which allows the cathepsin activity to be determined.
    Examples of labeled substrates which cathepsin L can selectively hydrolyze include
30  synthetic substrates such as Z-leucine-arginine-AMC (R & D Systems). The peptide
    substrate may contain a fluorescent 7-amino-4-methyl coumarin (AMC) group that is
    quenched by the amide bond between the amino group of the AMC and the carboxyl
    group of the arginine. Upon cleavage of the amide bond by cathepsin L, the released
    AMC group is fluorescent and can be measured by excitation and emission wavelengths
35  of 380 nmn and 460 nm respectively. This excitation may be measured and used to
    determine the level of cathepsin L activity. The rate of substrate turnover is directly
    proportional to the amount of cathepsin L present in the sample. This measurement is
    used in combination with a reference sample having known cathepsin L activity and

                                           60
   known amount of cathepsin L. The cathepsin L activity in the sample is then correlated
   to the amount of antibody present in the sample. In one embodiment, the first eluate
   comprises cathepsin L activity ranging from between about 25 to about 60 RFU/s/mg
   antibody. In another embodiment, the first flowthrough comprises cathepsin L activity
 5 ranging from between about 0.4 to about 4 RFU/s/mg antibody. In one embodiment, the
   second eluate comprises cathepsin L activity ranging from between about 0.5 to about
    1.5 RFU/s/mg antibody.
            In one embodiment, the kinetic assay comprises determining the amount of
   procathepsin L in a material derived from a mammalian cell expression system
10 comprising by contacting the material with an enzyme to process procathepsin L to the
    active cathepsin L form, such that a cathepsin L sample is obtained. Once activated,
    cathepsin L can selectively hydrolyze substrates, including synthetic substrates such as
   Z-leucine-arginine-AMC. A substrate is then added to the sample, including, for
    example Z-leucine-arginine-AMC, which contains a fluorescent 7-amino-4-methyl
15  coumarin (AMC) group that is quenched by the amide bond between the amino group of
    the AMC and the carboxyl group of the arginine. Upon cleavage of the amide bond by
    cathepsin L, the released AMC group is fluorescent and can be measured by excitation
    and emission wavelengths of 380 nm and 460 rim respectively. The determined
    cathepsin L activity is used as an indication of the amount of procathepsin L in the
20  material derived from the mammalian cell expression system, e.g., Chinese Hamster
    Ovary (CHO) cells.
            In one embodiment, the first eluate comprises cathepsin L activity ranging from
    between about 25 to about 60 RFU/s/mg antibody. In another embodiment, the first
    flowthrough comprises cathepsin L activity ranging from between about 0.4 to about 4
25  RFU/s/mg antibody. In one embodiment, the second eluate comprises cathepsin L
    activity ranging from between about 0.5 to about 1.5 RFU/s/mg antibody.
            The invention also encompasses ranges intermediate to the above recited
    amounts are also intended to be part of this invention. For example, ranges of values
30  using a combination of any of the above recited values as upper and/or lower limits are
    intended to be included, as well as any number between the described range.
            The invention includes any of the above-mentioned modifications, alone or in
     combination with one another.
35  VI.      Pharmaceutical compositions
             Antibodies obtained using the process of the invention may be incorporated into
    pharmaceutical compositions suitable for administration to a subject. Typically, the
     pharmaceutical composition comprises an antibody, or antigen-binding portion thereof,

                                              61
        and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. As used herein, "pharmaceutically acceptable
        carrier" includes any and all solvents, dispersion media, coatings, antibacterial and
        antifungal agents, isotonic and absorption delaying agents, and the like that are
        physiologically compatible. Examples of pharmaceutically acceptable carriers include
   5    one or more of water, saline, phosphate buffered saline, dextrose, glycerol, ethanol and
        the like, as well as combinations thereof. In many cases, it is preferable to include
        isotonic agents, for example, sugars, polyalcohols such as mannitol, sorbitol, or sodium
        chloride in the composition. Pharmaceutically acceptable carriers may further comprise
       minor amounts of auxiliary substances such as wetting or emulsifying
                                                                                 agents,
 10    preservatives or buffers, which enhance the shelf life or effectiveness of antibody, or
       antigen-binding portion thereof.
                Pharmaceutical compositions comprising antibodies, or antigen-binding portions
       thereof, purified using the methods of the invention may be found in a variety of forms.
       These include, for example, liquid, semi-solid and solid dosage forms, such as liquid
 15    solutions (e.g., injectable and infusible solutions), dispersions or suspensions, tablets,
       pills, powders, liposomes and suppositories. The preferred form depends on the
       intended mode of administration and therapeutic application. Typical preferred
       compositions are in the form of injectable or infusible solutions, such as compositions
       similar to those used for passive immunization of humans with other antibodies or other
 20   TNFc      inhibitors. The preferred mode of administration is parenteral (e.g.,
                                                                                      intravenous,
      subcutaneous, intraperitoneal, intramuscular). In a preferred embodiment, the antibody
      is administered by intravenous infusion or injection. In another preferred embodiment,
      the antibody is administered by intramuscular or subcutaneous injection.
               Therapeutic compositions typically must be sterile and stable under the conditions
25    of manufacture and storage. The composition can be formulated as a solution,
      microemulsion, dispersion, liposome, or other ordered structure suitable to high drug
      concentration. Sterile injectable solutions can be prepared by incorporating the active
      compound (i.e., antibody, or antigen-binding portion thereof) in the required amount in an
      appropriate solvent with one or a combination of ingredients enumerated above, as
30    required, followed by filtered sterilization. Generally, dispersions are prepared by
      incorporating the active compound into a sterile vehicle that contains a basic dispersion
     medium and the required other ingredients from those enumerated above. In the case of
     sterile powders for the preparation of sterile injectable solutions, the preferred methods
                                                                                                  of
     preparation are vacuum drying and freeze-drying that yields a powder of the active
35   ingredient plus any additional desired ingredient from a previously sterile-filtered solution
     thereof. The proper fluidity of a solution can be maintained, for example, by the use of a
     coating such as lecithin, by the maintenance of the required particle size in the case of
     dispersion and by the use of surfactants. Prolonged absorption of injectable compositions

                                          62
   can be brought about by including in the composition an agent that delays absorption, for
   example, monostearate salts and gelatin.
           Supplementary active compounds can also be incorporated into the compositions.
   In certain embodiments, an antibody, or antigen-binding portion thereof, for use in the
 5 methods of the invention is coformulated with and/or coadministered with one or more
   additional therapeutic agents. For example, an anti-hTNFca antibody or antibody portion
   of the invention may be coformulated and/or coadministered with one or more DMARD
   or one or more NSAJD or one or more additional antibodies that bind other targets (e.g.,
   antibodies that bind other cytokines or that bind cell surface molecules), one or more
10 cytokines, soluble TNFa receptor (see e.g., PCT Publication No. WO 94/06476) and/or
   one or more chemical agents that inhibit hTNFa production or activity (such as
   cyclohexane-ylidene derivatives as described in PCT Publication No. WO 93/19751) or
   any combination thereof. Furthermore, one or more antibodies of the invention may be
   used in combination with two or more of the foregoing therapeutic agents. Such
15 combination therapies may advantageously utilize lower dosages of the administered
   therapeutic agents, thus avoiding possible side effects, complications or low level of
   response by the patient associated with the various monotherapies.
           In one embodiment, the invention includes pharmaceutical compositions
   comprising an effective amount of a TNFa antibody, or antigen-binding portion thereof,
20 and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier, wherein the effective amount of the TNFa
   antibody may be effective to treat a TNFcc-related disorder, including, for example,
   Crohn's disease. In one embodiment, the antibody or antibody portion is incorporated
   into a pharmaceutical formulation as described in PCT/IB03/04502 and U.S. Appln. No.
   10/222140, incorporated by reference herein. This formulation includes a concentration
25 50 mg/ml of the antibody adalimumab, wherein one pre-filled syringe contains 40 mg of
   antibody for subcutaneous injection.
           The antibodies, or antibody-portions, obtained using the methods of the present
   invention can be administered by a variety of methods known in the art, although for
   many therapeutic applications, the preferred route/mode of administration is subcutaneous
30 injection. In another embodiment, administration is via intravenous injection or infusion.
   As will be appreciated by the skilled artisan, the route and/or mode of administration will
   vary depending upon the desired results. In certain embodiments, the active compound
   may be prepared with a carrier that will protect the compound against rapid release, such
   as a controlled release formulation, including implants, transdermal patches, and
35 microencapsulated delivery systems. Biodegradable, biocompatible polymers can be
   used, such as ethylene vinyl acetate, polyanhydrides, polyglycolic acid, collagen,
   polyorthoesters, and polylactic acid. Many methods for the preparation of such
   formulations are patented or generally known to those skilled in the art. See, e.g.,

                                          63
   Sustainedand ControlledReleaseDrugDelivery Systems, J.R. Robinson, ed., Marcel
   Dekker, Inc., New York, 1978.
            The antibodies, or antigen-binding portion thereof, obtained using the methods of
   the invention can also be administered in the form of protein crystal formulations which
 5 include a combination of protein crystals encapsulated within a polymeric carrier to form
   coated particles. The coated particles of the protein crystal formulation may have a
   spherical morphology and be microspheres of up to 500 micro meters in diameter or they
   -mayhave some other morphology and be microparticulates. The enhanced concentration
   of protein crystals allows the antibody of the invention to be delivered subcutaneously. In
10 one embodiment, the antibodies of the invention are delivered via a protein delivery
   system, wherein one or more of a protein crystal formulation or composition, is
   administered to a subject with a TNFa-related disorder. Compositions and methods of
   preparing stabilized formulations of whole antibody crystals or antibody fragment crystals
   are also described in WO 02/072636, which is incorporated by reference herein. In one
15 embodiment, a formulation comprising the crystallized antibody fragments described in
   PCT/1B03/04502 and U.S. Appln. No. 10/222140, incorporated by reference herein, are
   used to treat a TNFca-related disorder using the multiple-variable dose methods of the
   invention..
            In certain embodiments, an antibodies, or antigen-binding portion thereof,
20 obtained using the methods of the invention may be orally administered, for example,
   with an inert diluent or an assimilable edible carrier. The compound (and other
   ingredients, if desired) may also be enclosed in a hard or soft shell gelatin capsule,
    compressed into tablets, or incorporated directly into the subject's diet. For oral
   therapeutic administration, the compounds may be incorporated with excipients and used
25 in the form of ingestible tablets, buccal tablets, troches, capsules, elixirs, suspensions,
    syrups, wafers, and the like. To administer a compound of the invention by other than
   parenteral administration, it may be necessary to coat the compound with, or co
    administer the compound with, a material to prevent its inactivation.
            The pharmaceutical compositions of the invention may include a "therapeutically
30  effective amount" or a "prophylactically effective amount" of an antibody or or antigen
    binding portion thereof of the invention. A "therapeutically effective amount" refers to
    an amount effective, at dosages and for periods of time necessary, to achieve the desired
    therapeutic result. A therapeutically effective amount of the antibody, or antigen
   binding portion thereof, may vary according to factors such as the disease state, age, sex,
35  and weight of the individual, and the ability of the antibody, antibody portion, other
    TNFa inhibitor to elicit a desired response in the individual. A therapeutically effective
    amount is also one in which any toxic or detrimental effects of the antibody, or antigen
    binding portion thereof, are outweighed by the therapeutically beneficial effects. A

                                           64
   "prophylactically effective amount" refers to an amount effective, at dosages and for
   periods of time necessary, to achieve the desired prophylactic result. Typically, since a
   prophylactic dose is used in subjects prior to or at an earlier stage of disease, the
   prophylactically effective amount will be less than the therapeutically effective amount.
 5         Dosage regimens may be adjusted to provide the optimum desired response (e.g.,
   a therapeutic or prophylactic response). For example, a single bolus may be
   administered, several divided doses may be administered over time or the dose may be
   proportionally reduced or increased as indicated by the exigencies of the therapeutic
   situation. It is especially advantageous to formulate parenteral compositions in dosage
10 unit form for ease of administration and uniformity of dosage. Dosage unit form as used
   herein refers to physically discrete units suited as unitary dosages for the mammalian
   subjects to be treated; each unit comprising a predetermined quantity of active
   compound calculated to produce the desired therapeutic effect in association with the
   required pharmaceutical carrier. The specification for the dosage unit forms of the
15 invention are dictated by and directly dependent on (a) the unique characteristics of the
   active compound and the particular therapeutic or prophylactic effect to be achieved, and
   (b) the limitations inherent in the art of compounding such an active compound for the
   treatment of sensitivity in individuals.
           An exemplary, non-limiting range for a therapeutically or prophylactically
20 effective amount of an antibody, or antigen-binding portion thereof, is 10 to 200 mg,
   more preferably 20 to 160 mg, more preferably 40 to 80 mg, and most preferably 80 mg.
   In one embodiment, the therapeutically effective amount of an antibody or, antigen
   binding portion thereof, is about 20 mg. In another embodiment, the therapeutically
   effective amount of an antibody or portion thereof is about 40 mg. In still another
25 embodiment, the therapeutically effective amount of an antibody or, antigen-binding
   portion thereof, is about 80 mg. In one embodiment, the therapeutically effective
   amount of an antibody or portion thereof for use in the methods of the invention is about
   120 mg. In yet another embodiment, the therapeutically effective amount of an
   antibody, or antigen-binding portion thereof, is about 160 mg. Ranges intermediate to
30 the above recited dosages, e.g. about 78.5 to about 81.5; about 15 to about 25; about 30
   to about 50; about 60 to about 100; about 90 to about 150; about 120 to about 200, are
   also intended to be part of this invention. For example, ranges of values using a
   combination of any of the above recited values as upper and/or lower limits are intended
   to be included.
35         It is to be noted that dosage values may vary with the type and severity of the
   condition to be alleviated. It is to be further understood that for any particular subject,
   specific dosage regimens should be adjusted over time according to the individual need
   and the professional judgment of the person administering or supervising the

                                          65
    administration of the compositions, and that dosage ranges set forth herein are
    exemplary only and are not intended to limit the scope or practice of the claimed
   composition.
            Antibodies, or antibody-portions thereof, obtained using the methods of the
 5 invention may be administered on a biweekly dosing regimen as described in WO
    02/100330, a low dose regimen as described in WO 04/037205, and a multiple variable
   dosing regimen as described in WO 05/110452, each of which is incorporated by
   reference herein.
            The invention also pertains to packaged pharmaceutical compositions, articles of
10 manufacture, or kits comprising the antibody, or antigen-binding portion thereof,
   obtained using the process of the invention. The article of manufacture may comprise an
   antibody, or antigen-binging portion thereof, obtained using the method of the invention
   and packaging material. The article of manufacture may also comprise label or package
   insert indicating the formulation or composition comprising the antibody, or antigen
15 binding portion thereof, has a reduced level of HCP and/or procathepsin L. The article
   of manufacture may comprise a label or package insert contained within the packaging
   material indicating that the adalimumab formulation comprises no greater than about 70
   ng/mg ofHCP or a label or package insert contained within the packaging material
   indicating that the adalimumab formulation comprises no greater than about 13 ng/mg.
20 The article of manufacture may comprise a label or package insert contained within the
   packaging material indicating that the adalimumab formulation comprises no greater
   than about 5 ng HCP/mg adalimumab. The article of manufacture may also comprise
   packaging material indicating that the adalimumab formulation comprises no greater a
   level of procathepsin L than that indicated by a cathepsin L activity of about 3.0
25 RFU/s/mg adalimumab.
   VI.      Methods of treatment
            The invention a method of producing an HCP- or procathepsin L-reduced
   antibody preparation which can be used for inhibiting TNFa activity in a subject
30 suffering from a disorder in which TNFa activity is detrimental. TNFa has been
   implicated in the pathophysiology of a wide variety of disorders (see e.g., Moeller, A., et
   al. (1990) Cytokine 2:162-169; U.S. Patent No. 5,231,024 to Moeller et al.; European
   Patent Publication No. 260 610 BI by Moeller, A.). TNFa has been implicated in the
   pathophysiology of a wide variety of a TNFct-related disorders including sepsis,
35 infections, autoimmune diseases, transplant rejection and graft-versus-host disease (see
   e.g., Moeller, A., et al. (1990) Cytokine 2:162-169; U.S. Patent No. 5,231,024 to Moeller
   et al.; European Patent Publication No. 260 610 BI by Moeller, A., et al.Vasilli, P.
   (1992) Annu. Rev. Immunol. 10:411-452; Tracey, K.J. and Cerami, A. (1994) Annu. Rev.

                                             66
   Med. 45:491-503). The invention a method of producing an HCP- or procathepsin L
   reduced antibody preparation methods which are beneficial for inhibiting TNFa activity
   in a subject suffering from a TNFca-related disorder, which method comprises
   administering to a subject an initial induction dose and subsequently administering a
 5 treatment dose of an antibody, or antigen-binding fragment thereof, such that TNFa
   activity is inhibited. Preferably, the TNFa is human TNFc and the subject is a human
   subject. In one embodiment, the TNFa inhibitor is adalimumab, also referred to as
   HUMIRA* (D2E7).
           As used herein, the term "a disorder in which TNFa activity is detrimental" is
10 intended to include diseases and other disorders in which the presence of TNFot in a
   subject suffering from the disorder has been shown to be or is suspected of being either
   responsible for the pathophysiology of the disorder or a factor that contributes to a
   worsening of the disorder. Accordingly, a disorder in which TNFa activity is
   detrimental is a disorder in which inhibition of TNFct activity is expected to alleviate the
15 symptoms and/or progression of the disorder. Such disorders may be evidenced, for
   example, by an increase in the concentration of TNFa in a biological fluid of a subject
   suffering from the disorder (e.g., an increase in the concentration of TNFa in serum,
   plasma, synovial fluid, etc. of the subject), which can be detected, for example, using an
   anti-TNFa antibody as described above. There are numerous examples of disorders in
20 which TNFa activity is detrimental. The use of TNFx antibodies and antibody portions
   obtained using methods of the invention for the treatment of specific disorders is
   discussed further below:
   A. Sepsis
25         Tumor necrosis factor has an established role in the pathophysiology of sepsis,
   with biological effects that include hypotension, myocardial suppression, vascular
   leakage syndrome, organ necrosis, stimulation of the release of toxic secondary
   mediators and activation of the clotting cascade (see e.g., Moeller, A., et al.(1990)
   Cytokine 2:162-169; U.S. Patent No. 5,231,024 to Moeller et aL.; European Patent
30 Publication No. 260 610 B1 by Moeller, A.; Tracey, K.J. and Cerami, A. (1994) Annu.
   Rev. Med. 45:491-503; Russell, D and Thompson, R.C. (1993) Curr.Opin. Biotech.
   4:714-721). The multiple-variable dose methods of the invention can be used to treat
   sepsis in any of its clinical settings, including septic shock, endotoxic shock, gram
   negative sepsis and toxic shock syndrome.
35         Furthermore, to treat sepsis, an anti-hTNFoc antibody, or antibody portion,
   obtained using the process of the invention can be coadministered with one or more
   additional therapeutic agents that may further alleviate sepsis, such as an interleukin-1
   inhibitor (such as those described in PCT Publication Nos. WO 92/16221 and WO

                                               67
       92/17583), the cytokine interleukin-6 (see e.g., PCT Publication No. WO 93/11793) or
       an antagonist of platelet activating factor (see e.g., European Patent Application
       Publication No. EP 374 510). In a preferred embodiment, an anti-TNFa antibody or
       antibody portion is administered to a human subject within a subgroup of sepsis patients
   5   having a serum or plasma concentration of IL-6 above 500 pg/ml, and more preferably
       1000 pg/ml, at the time of treatment (see PCT Publication No. WO 95/20978 by Daum,
       L., et al.).
      B. Autoimmune Diseases
 10             Tumor necrosis factor has been implicated in playing a role in the
      pathophysiology of a variety of autoimmune diseases. For example, TNFa has been
      implicated in activating tissue inflammation and causing joint destruction in rheumatoid
      arthritis (see e.g., Moeller, A., et al. (1990) Cytokine 2:162-169; U.S. Patent No.
      5,231,024 to Moeller et al.; European Patent Publication No. 260 610 BI by Moeller,
 15   A.; Tracey and Cerami, supra; Arend, W.P. and Dayer, J-M. (1995) Arth. Rheum.
      38:151-160; Fava, R.A., et al. (1993) Clin. Exp. Immunol. 94:261-266). TNFa also has
      been implicated in promoting the death of islet cells and in mediating insulin resistance
      in diabetes (see e.g., Tracey and Cerami, supra;PCT Publication No. WO 94/08609).
      TNFa also has been implicated in mediating cytotoxicity to oligodendrocytes and
 20   induction of inflammatory plaques in multiple sclerosis (see e.g., Tracey and Cerami,
     supra). TNFa also has been implicated in mediating cytotoxicity to oligodendrocytes
      and induction of inflammatory plaques in multiple sclerosis (see e.g., Tracey and
      Cerami, supra). Chimeric and humanized murine anti-hTNFa antibodies have
     undergone clinical testing for treatment of rheumatoid arthritis (see e.g., Elliott, M.J., et
25   al. (1994) Lancet 344:1125-1127; Elliot, M.J., et al. (1994) Lancet 344:1105-1110;
     Rankin, E.C., et al. (1995) Br. J Rheumatol. 34:334-342).
               TNFa antibodies, such as adalimumab, may be used to treat autoimmune
     diseases, in particular those associated with inflammation. Examples of such
     autoimmune conditions include rheumatoid arthritis, rheumatoid spondylitis,
30   osteoarthritis and gouty arthritis, allergy, multiple sclerosis, autoimmune diabetes,
     autoimnimune uveitis and nephrotic syndrome. Other examples of autoimmune conditions
     include multisystem autoimmune diseases and autoimmune hearing loss.
               Typically, the antibody, or antibody portion, is administered systemically,
     although for certain disorders, local administration of the antibody or antibody portion at
35   a site of inflammation may be beneficial (e.g., local administration in the joints in
     rheumatoid arthritis or topical application to diabetic ulcers, alone or in combination
     with a cyclohexane-ylidene derivative as described in PCT Publication No. WO
     93/19751). TNFa inhibitors, including human antibodies, and antibody portions such as

                                             68
   D2E7, also car be administered with one or more additional therapeutic agents useful in
   the multiple-variable dose treatment of autoimmune diseases, as discussed further
   below.
            In one embodiment of the invention, a TNFa antibody obtained using the
 5 methods of the invention is used to treat autoimmune disorders such as lupus. Lupus is
   has been shown to be associated with TNF activity (Shvidel et al. (2002) Hematol J.
   3:32; Studnicka-Benke et al. (1996) Br JRheumatol. 35:1067). The term "lupus" as
   used herein refers to a chronic, inflammatory autoinmune disorder called lupus
   erythematosus that may affect many organ systems including the skin, joints and internal
10 organs. Lupus is a general term which includes a number of specific types of lupus,
   including systemic lupus, lupus nephritis, and lupus cerebritis. In systemic lupus (SLE),
   the body's natural defenses are turned against the body and rogue immune cells attack
   the body's tissues. Antibodies may be produced that can react against the body's blood
    cells, organs, and tissues. This reaction leads to immune cells attacking the affected
15  systems, producing a chronic disease. Lupus nephritis, also referred to as lupus
    glomerular disease, is kidney disorder that is usually a complication of SLE, and is
    characterized by damage to the glomerulus and progressive loss of kidney function.
    Lupus cerebritis refers to another complication of SLE, which is inflammation of the
    brain and/or central nervous system.
20           Another autoimmune disease which can be treated using a TNFa antibody is
    Crohn's disease, which is described in more detail below in the Intestinal Disorders
    Section.
    C. Infectious Diseases
25           Tumor necrosis factor has been implicated in mediating biological effects
    observed in a variety of infectious diseases. For example, TNFa has been implicated in
    mediating brain inflammation and capillary thrombosis and infarction in malaria. TNFa.
    also has been implicated in mediating brain inflammation, inducing breakdown of the
    blood-brain barrier, triggering septic shock syndrome and activating venous infarction in
30  meningitis. TNFc also has been implicated in inducing cachexia, stimulating viral
    proliferation and mediating central nervous system injury in acquired immune
    deficiency syndrome (AIDS). Accordingly, antibodies, and antibody portions, directed
    against TNF, can be used for treatment of infectious diseases, including bacterial
    meningitis (see e.g., European Patent Application Publication No. EP 585 705), cerebral
35  malaria, AIDS and AIDS-related complex (ARC) (see e.g., European Patent Application
    Publication No. EP 230 574), as well as cytomegalovirus infection secondary to
     transplantation (see e.g., Fietze et al. (1994) Transplantation58:675). The antibodies,
     and antibody portions, of the invention, also can be used to alleviate symptoms

                                            69
     associated with infectious diseases, including fever and myalgias due to infection (such
     as influenza) and cachexia secondary to infection (e.g., secondary to AIDS or ARC).
     D. Transplantation
  5          Tumor necrosis factor has been implicated as a key mediator of allograft
     rejection and graft versus host disease (GVHD) and in mediating an adverse reaction
     that has been observed when the rat antibody OKT3, directed against the T cell receptor
     CD3 complex, is used to inhibit rejection of-renal transplants (see e.g., Eason et al.
     (1995) Transplantation59:300; Suthanthiran and Strom (1994) New Engl. J Med.
 10  331:365). Accordingly, the antibodies, and antibody portions, of the invention, can be
     used to inhibit transplant rejection using multiple-variable dose treatment, including
     rejections of allografts and xenografts and to inhibit GVHD. Although the antibody or
     antibody portion may be used alone, more preferably it is used in combination with one
     or more other agents that inhibit the immune response against the allograft or inhibit
15   GVHD. For example, in one embodiment, an antibody or antibody portion of the
     invention is used in combination with OKT3 to inhibit OKT3-induced reactions. In
     another embodiment, an antibody or antibody portion of the invention is used in.
     combination with one or more antibodies directed at other targets involved in regulating
     immune responses, such as the cell surface molecules CD25 (interleulin-2 receptor-c),
20   CDIa (LFA-1), CD54 (ICAM-1), CD4, CD45, CD28/CTLA4, CD80 (B7-1) and/or
     CD86 (B7-2). In yet another embodiment, an antibody or antibody portion of the
     invention is used in combination with one or more general immunosuppressive agents,
     such as cyclosporin A or FK506.
25   E. Malignancy
             Tumor necrosis factor has been implicated in inducing cachexia, stimulating
    tumor growth, enhancing metastatic potential and mediating cytotoxicity in
    malignancies. Accordingly, antibodies, and antibody portions, which directed against
    TNF, can be used in the treatment of malignancies, wherein treatment inhibits tumor
30  growth or metastasis and/or alleviates cachexia secondary to malignancy. The antibody,
    or antibody portion, may be administered systemically or locally to the tumor site.
    F. PulmonaryDisorders
             Tumor necrosis factor has been implicated in the pathophysiology of adult
35  respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS), including stimulating leukocyte-endothelial
    activation, directing cytotoxicity to pneumocytes and inducing vascular leakage
    syndrome. The antibody obtained using the methods of the invention may be used to
    treat various pulmonary disorders, including adult respiratory distress syndrome (see

                                             70
   e.g., PCT Publication No. WO 91/04054), shock lung, chronic pulmonary inflammatory
   disease, pulmonary sarcoidosis, pulmonary fibrosis and silicosis. The antibody, or
   antibody portion, may be administered systemically or locally to the lung surface, for
   example as an aerosol. An antibody, or antibody portion, also can be administered with
 5 one or more additional therapeutic agents useful in the treatment of pulmonary disorders,
   as discussed further below.
            Other examples of pulmonary disorders in which TNFa has been implicated in
   the pathophysiology include idiopathic interstitial lung disease and chronic obstructive
   airway disorders (see e.g., Piquet et al.(1989) JExp Med. 170:655; Whyte et al. (2000)
10 Am JRespir Crit Care Med. 162:755; Anticevich et al. (1995) Eur JPharmacol.284
   :221). The invention further provides methods for treating TNFac activity in a subject
   suffering from such a pulmonary disorder, which method comprises administering to the
   subject an antibody, or antibody portion, such that TNFa activity in the subject suffering
   from idiopathic interstitial lung disease or a chronic obstructive airway disorder is
15 inhibited. Examples of idiopathic interstitial lung diseases and chronic obstructive
   airway disorders in which TNFa activity is detrimental are discussed further below.
             1. Idiopathicinterstitiallung disease
             In one embodiment, the TNFa antibody obtained using the method of the
20 invention is used to treat subjects who have an idiopathic interstitial lung disease. The
   term idiopathicc pulmonary fibrosis" or "IPF" refers to a group of disorders
   characterized by inflammation and eventually scarring of the deep lung tissues, leading
    to shortness of breath. The scarring of the alveoli (air sacs) and their supporting
    structures (the interstitium) in IPF eventually leads to a loss of the functional alveolar
25  units and a reduction of the transfer of oxygen from air to blood. IPF is also referred to
    as diffuse parenchymal lung disease; alveolitis; cryptogenic fibrosing alveolitis (CFA);
    idiopathic pulmonary pneumonitis (IPP); and usual interstitial prieumonitis (UIP). 1PF is
    often used synonymously with UIP ("IPF/UIP") because UIP is the most common
    cellular pattern seen in the pathologic diagnosis of IPF.
30           Idiopathic interstitial lung diseases affect the lungs in three ways: first, the lung
    tissue is damaged in some known or unknown way; second, the walls of the air sacs in
    the lung become inflamed; and finally, scarring (or fibrosis) begins in the interstitium (or
    tissue between the air sacs), and the lung becomes stiff. Examples of idiopathic
    interstitial lung diseases include idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF). Tumor necrosis
35  factor has been implicated in the pathophysiology of idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis
    (IPF) (see Piquet et al. (1989) JExp Med. 170:655; Whyte et al. (2000) Am JRespir Crit
    CareMed 162:755 Corbett et al. (2002) Am JRespir Crit Care Med. 165:690). For
    example, it has been found that IPF patients have increased levels of TNF expressiojn in

                                          71
   macrophages and in type II epithelial cells (Piquet et al. (1993) Am JPathol 143:651;
   Nash et al. (1993) Histopathology 22:343; Zhang et al. (1993) JImmunol 150:4188).
   Certain genetic polymorphisms are also associated with increased TNF expression, and
   are implicated in playing a role in IPF and silicosis (Whyte et al., supra; Corbett et aL,
 5 supra). .
            Patients with IPF often exhibit certain symptoms, including a dry cough, chest
   pain, and/or shortness of breath. Commonly used drugs for the treatment of IPF are
   prednisone and cytoxan, although only a fraction of patients improve with continued use
   of these drugs (American Thoracic Society (2000) Am. J. Respir. Crit. CareMed.
10 161:646). Oxygen administration and transplantation of the lung are other choices for
   treatment. In one embodiment, antibodies obtained through the methods of the
   invention may be used in combination with another therapeutic agent, for example
   oxygen, for the treatment of idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis.
            Examples of animal models used to study idiopathic interstitial lung disease and
15 chronic obstructive airway disorders include ovalbumin (OVA) induced allergic asthma
   mice and cigarette smoke induced chronic obstructive pulmonary disease mice (see
   Hessel et a. (1995) Eur JPharmacol.293:401; Keast et al. (1981) J. Pathol. 135:249).
            2. Chronicobstructive airway disorder
20          In one embodiment, a TNFa antibody is used to treat a subject who has a chronic
   obstructive airflow disorder. In these diseases, airflow obstruction may be chronic and
   persistent or episodic and recurrent. Airflow obstruction is usually determined by forced
   expiratory spirometry, which is the recording of exhaled volume against time during a
   maximal expiration. In a subject who does not have an obstructed airflow, a full forced
25 expiration usually takes between 3 and 4 seconds. In a patient with chronic obstructive
   airflow disorder, wherein airflow is obstructed, it usually takes up to 15 to 20 seconds
   and may be limited by breath-holding time. The normal forced expiratory volume in the
   first second of expiration (FEV1 ) is easily measured and accurately predicted on the
   basis of age, sex, and height. The ratio of FEVI to forced vital capacity (FEVI/FVC)
30 normally exceeds 0.75. Recording airflow against volume during forced expiration and a
   subsequent forced inspiration--the flow-volume loop--is also useful, mainly for
   distinguishing upper from lower airway narrowing. Examples of chronic obstructive
   airway disorders are described below.
35
            a. Asthma
            Tumor necrosis factor has been implicated in the pathophysiology of asthma,
   (Anticevich et al. (1995) EurJPharmacol.284:221; Thomas et al. 1995. Am JRespir

                                              72
         Crit CareMed. 152:76; Thomas and Heywood (2002) Thorax.
                                                                          57:774). For example,
         acute asthma attacks have been fouid to be associated with pulmonary neutrophilia
                                                                                                  and
         elevated BAL TNF levels (Ordonez et al. (2000) Am JRespir Crit CareMed
                                                                                            161:1185).
         It has been found that the severity of asthma symptoms correlates with
                                                                                     endotoxin levels
    5 in house dust. In rats, anti-TNF antibodies reduced endotoxin-induced
                                                                                     airway changes
         (Kips et al. (1992) Am Rev RespirDis 145:332).
                 The term "asthma" as used herein, refers to a disorder in which inflammation
                                                                                                   of
        the airways causes airflow into and out of the lungs to be restricted. Asthma
                                                                                          is also
        referred to as bronchial asthma, exercise induced asthma - bronchial,
                                                                                  and reactive
  10 airways disease (RAD). In some instances, asthma is associated
                                                                           with allergies and/or is
        familial. Asthma includes a condition which is characterized by widespread
                                                                                          fluctuations
        in the diameter or caliber of bronchial airways over short periods
                                                                            of time, resulting in
       changes in lung function. The resulting increased resistance to air
                                                                              flow produces
       symptoms in the affected subject, including breathlessness (dyspnea),
                                                                                   chest constriction
  15 or "tightness," and wheezing.
                 Patients with asthma are characterized according to NIH guidelines,
                                                                                         are
       described as mild intermittent, mild persistent, moderate persistent,
                                                                               and severe persistent
       (see NAEPP Expert Panel Report Guidelines for the Diagnosis and
                                                                              Management of
       Asthma-Update on Selected Topics 2002. JACI 2002; 110: S141-S209;
                                                                                     Guidelines for
 20 the Diagnosis and Management of Asthma. NIH Publication
                                                                       97-4051, July 1997).
       Patients diagnosed with moderate persistent asthma are often treated
                                                                                 with inhaled
       corticosteroids. Patients diagnosed with severe persistent asthma are
                                                                                 often treated with
      high dose inhaled corticosteroids and p.o. corticosteroids.
 25             b. Chronicobstructivepulmonary disease (COPD)
                Tumor necrosis factor has been implicated in the pathophysiology
                                                                                      of chronic
      obstructive pulmonary disease, (Keatings (2000) Chest. 118:971;
                                                                           Sakao et al.( 2001) Am
      JRespir Crit CareMed. 163:420; Sakao et al. (2002) Chest. 122:416).
                                                                                    The term
      "chronic obstructive pulmonary disease" or "COPD"
                                                              as used interchangeably herein,
30    refers to a group of lung diseases characterized by limited airflow
                                                                            with variable degrees
      of air sack enlargement and lung tissue destruction. The term COPD
                                                                                includes chronic
      bronchitis (mucous hypersecretion with goblet cell submucosal
                                                                         gland hyperplasia),
     chronic obstructive bronchitis, or emphysema (destruction of
                                                                      airway parenchyma), or
     combinations of these conditions. Emphysema and chronic bronchitis
                                                                                 are the most
35   common forms of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. COPD
                                                                           is defined by
     irreversible airflow obstruction.
                In COPD, chronic inflammation leads to fixed narrowing of
                                                                              small airways and
     lung parenchyma and alveolar wall destruction (emphysema).
                                                                       This is characterized by

                                          73
   increased numbers of alveolar macrophages, neutrophils, and cytotoxic T lymphocytes,
   and the release of multiple inflammatory mediators (lipids, chemokines, cytokines,
   growth factors). This inflammation leads to fibrosis with a narrowing of the small
   airways and lung parenchymal destruction. There is also a high level of oxidative stress,
 5 which may amplify this inflammation.
   G. IntestinalDisorders
           Tumor necrosis factor has been implicated in the pathophysiology of
   inflammatory bowel disorders including Crohn's disease (see e.g., Tracy et al. (1986)
10 Science 234:470; Sun et al. (1988) J. Clin. Invest. 81:1328; MacDonald et al. (1990)
   Clin. Exp. Immunol. 81:301). Chimeric urine anti-hTNFa antibodies have undergone
   clinical testing for treatment of Crohn's disease (van Dullemen et al. (1995)
   Gastroenterology109:129). The invention includes treatment comprising administering
   a TNFa antibody obtained using the method of the invention to treat intestinal disorders,
15 such as idiopathic inflammatory bowel disease, using human antibodies, or antigen
   binding fragments thereof. Idiopathic inflammatory bowel disease includes two
   syndromes, Crohn's disease and ulcerative colitis. In one embodiment, an antibody
   obtained using the method of the invention is also used to treat disorders often
   associated with IBD and Crohn's disease. The term "inflammatory bowel disorder
20 (IBD)-related disorder" or "Crohn's disease-related disorder," as used interchangeably
   herein, is used to describe conditions and complications commonly associated with IBD
   and Crohn's disease.
            The invention includes a multiple-variable dose regimen comprising
   administering a TNFa antobody to treat Crohn's disease. The treatment of Crohn's
25 disease is based on location, extent, and severity of disease. Pharmacologic interventions
   include anti-inflammatory agents (aminosalicylates and corticosteroids) and
   immunomodulatory agents (azathioprine and 6-mercaptopurine [6-MP], cyclosporine,
   methotrexate [MTX], antibiotic agents, and biologic agents).C-reactive protein (CRP)
   and erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR) levels reflect non-specific acute phase
30 reactions. Endoscopy is a primary means of diagnosing Crohn's disease. Radiologic
   features of Crohn's disease are shown by barium examination includes mucosal edema,
   aphthous and linear ulcerations, asymmetrical narrowing and strictures, and separation
   of adjacent loops of bowel caused by mesenteric thickening. Abnormalities are focal and
   asymmetric. The primary histologic lesion is an aphthous ulcer. Subjects with Crohn's
35 disease can be evaluated using the Crohn's Disease Activity Index (CDAI), which is a
   standard measure of the severity of the disease with higher scores indicating more severe
   disease activity.

                                            74
             Examples of Crohn's disease-related disorders which can be treated using the
    methods of the invention include fistulas in the bladder, vagina, and skin; bowel
    obstructions; abscesses; nutritional deficiencies; complications from corticosteroid use;
    inflammation of the joints; erythem nodosum; pyoderma gangrenosum; and lesions of
  5 the eye. Other disorders commonly associated with Crohn's disease include Crohn's
    related arthralgias, fistulizing Crohn's, indeterminant colitis, and pouchitis.
    H. CardiacDisorders
             An antibody, or antigen-binding fragment thereof, obtained using the method of
 10 the invention also can be used to treat in of various cardiac or coronary disorders,
    including ischemia of the heart (see e.g., European Patent Application Publication No.
    EP 453 898) and heart insufficiency (weakness of the heart muscle)(see e.g., PCT
    Publication No. WO 94/20139). TNFL has also been implicated in the pathophysiology
    of restenosis (see e.g., Clausell et al. (1994), supra;Medall et al. (1997) Heart 78:273).
15           As used herein, the term "a cardiac disorder in which TNFct activity is
    detrimental" is intended to include coronary and cardiovascular diseases in which the
    presence of TNFa in a subject suffering from the disorder has been shown to be or is
    suspected of being either responsible for the pathophysiology of the disorder or a factor
    that contributes to a worsening of the disorder, including cardiovascular disorders, e.g.,
20  restenosis. The term "cardiovascular disorder" or "coronary disorder" as used
    interchangeably herein, refers to any disease, disorder, or state involving the
    cardiovascular system, e.g., the heart, the blood vessels, and/or the blood. A coronary
    disorder is generally characterized by a narrowing of the blood vessels that supply blood
    and oxygen to the heart (coronary arteries). Coronary disease may result from the build
25  up of fatty material and plaque. As the coronary arteries narrow, the flow of blood to the
    heart can slow or stop. Coronary disorders of the invention can apply to any
    abnormality of an artery, whether structural, histological, biochemical or any other
    abnormality. An example of coronary heart disease is restenosis. In one embodiment, a
    coronary disorder refers to any disease, disorder, or state involving the cardiovascular
30  system excluding ischemia of the heart and heart insufficiency.
             Coronary disorders in which TNFa activity is detrimental often result from a
    blockage in an artery. Such a blockage can be caused by a clot, which usually forms in a
    coronary artery that has been previously narrowed from changes usually related to
    atherosclerosis. For example, if the atherosclerotic plaque inside the arterial wall cracks,
35  it can trigger the formation of a thrombus, or clot. Such disorders may be evidenced, for
    example, by an increase in the concentration of TNFa in a biological fluid of a subject
    suffering from the disorder (e.g., an increase in the concentration of TNFa in serum,
    plasma, synovial fluid, etc. of the subject), which can be detected, for example, using an

                                           75
   anti-TNFa antibody as described above. A coronary disorder can be also caused by an
   imbalance in arterial pressure, a malfunction of the heart, or an occlusion of a blood
   vessel, e.g., by a thrombus. Coronary disorders includes both coronary artery disease
   and peripheral vascular disease.
 5          There are numerous examples of cardiac disorders in which TNFa activity is
   detrimental, including restenosis. The use of the antibodies, antibody portions, for
   treatment of specific coronary disorders is discussed further below. In certain
   embodiments, an antibody, antibody portion, is administered to the subject in
   combination with another therapeutic agent, as described below.
10          Antibodies obtained using methods of the invention may also be used for
   inhibiting TNFa activity in a subject with a cardiac disorder. The invention provides
   methods for inhibiting or decreasing TNFa activity in a subject with a coronary
   disorder, comprising administering to the subject an antibody, or antibody portion, or
   other TNFa inhibitor of the invention such that TNFa activity in the subject is inhibited
15 or decreased. Preferably, the TNFa is human TNFa and the subject is a human subject.
   Alternatively, the subject can be a mammal expressing a TNFa with which an antibody
   of the invention cross-reacts. Still further the subject can be a mammal into which has
   been introduced hTNFa (e.g., by administration of hTNFac or by expression of an
   hTNFa transgene). An antibody of the invention can be administered to a human
20 subject for therapeutic purposes.
            Moreover, an antibody of the invention can be administered to a non-human
   mammal expressing a TNFct with which the antibody cross-reacts (e.g., a primate, pig or
   mouse) for veterinary purposes or as an animal model of human disease. Regarding the
   latter, such animal models may be useful for evaluating the multiple-variable dose
25 therapeutic efficacy (e.g., testing of dosages and time courses of administration).
   Commonly used animal models for studying coronary disorders, including restenosis,
   include the rat or mouse carotid artery ligation model and the carotid artery injury model
   (Ferns et al. (1991) Science 253:1129; Clowes et al. (1983) Lab. Invest. 49:208;
   Lindner et al. (1993) Circ Res. 73:792). In the carotid artery ligation model, arterial
30 blood flow is disrupted by ligation of the vessel near the distal bifurnation. As described
   in Clowes et al., the carotid artery injury model is performed such that the common
   carotid artery is denuded of endotheliun by the intraluminal passage of a balloon
   catheter introduced through the external carotid artery. At 2 weeks, the carotid artery is
   markedly narrowed due to smooth muscle cell constriction, but between 2 and 12 weeks
35 the intimal doubles in thickness leading to a decrease in luminal size. Any of these
   models can be used to determine the potential therapeutic action of the TNFa antibodies
   of the invention in the prevention and treatment of restenosis in humans.

                                           76
            The invention includes treatment of cardiovascular disorders in which TNFa
   activity is detrimental, wherein inhibition of TNF(x activity is expected to alleviate the
   symptoms and/or progression of the coronary disease or to prevent the coronary disease.
   Subjects suffering from or at risk of developing coronary disorders can be identified
 5 through clinical symptoms. Clinical symptoms in coronary disease often include chest
   pain, shortness of breath, weakness, fainting spells, alterations in consciousness,
   extremity pain, paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea, transient ischemic attacks and other such
   phenomena experienced by the patient. Clinical signs of coronary disease can also
   include EKG abnormalities, altered peripheral pulses, arterial bruits, abnormal heart
10 sounds, rates and wheezes, jugular venous distention, neurological alterations and other
   such findings discerned by the clinician. Coronary disorders may also be evidenced, for
   example, by an increase in the concentration of TNFa in a biological fluid of a subject
   suffering from the disorder (e.g., an increase in the concentration of TNFa in serum,
   plasma, synovial fluid, etc. of the subject).
15          Examples of a cardiovascular disorder include, but are not limited to, coronary
   artery disease, angina pectoris, myocardial infarction, cardiovascular tissue damage
   caused by cardiac arrest, cardiovascular tissue damage caused by cardiac bypass,
   cardiogenic shock, and hypertension, atherosclerosis, coronary artery spasm, coronary
   artery disease, valvular disease, arrhythmias, and cardiomyopathies. The use of the
20 antibodies, antibody portions, for treatment of specific cardiovascular diseases are
   discussed further below. In certain embodiments, the antibody, antibody portion, is
   administered to the subject in combination with another therapeutic agent, as described
   below.
25          1. Restenosis
            The term "restenosis" as used herein refers to the recurrence of stenosis, which is
    the narrowing or constriction of an artery. Restenosis often occurs as a preocclusive
    lesion that develops following a reconstructive procedure in a diseased blood vessel.
    The term is not only applied to the recurrence of a pre-existing stenosis, but also to
30 previously normal vessels that become partially occluded following vascular bypass. In
    another embodiment, the invention provides a method of treating restenosis comprising
    administering the antibody, or antigen binding portion thereof, obtained using the
    invention to a subject who has or is at risk of developing restenosis.
            TNFc has been implicated in the pathophysiology of restenosis (see Zhou et al.
35  (2002) Atherosclerosis. 161:153; Javed et al. (2002) Exp andMol Pathol 73:104). For
    example, in the murine wire carotid model, TNF -/- mice demonstrated a seven-fold
    reduction in initial hyperplasia compared to wild type mice (Zimmerman et at. (2002)
   Am J PhsiolRegul Integr Comp Physiol 283:R505). Restenosis can occur as the result

                                          77
   of any type of vascular reconstruction, whether in the coronary vasculature or in the
   periphery (Colburn and Moore (1998) Myointimal Hyperplasia pp. 690-709 in Vascular
   Surgery: A ComprehensiveReview Philadelphia: Saunders). For example, studies have
   reported symptomatic restenosis rates of 30-50% following coronary angioplasties (see
 5 Berk and Harris (1995) Adv. Intern.Med. 40:455). After carotid endarterectomies, as a
   further example, 20% of patients studied had a luminal narrowing greater than 50%
   (Clagett et al. (1986) J. Vasc. Surg. 3:10). Restenosis is evidenced in different degrees
   of symptomatology which accompany preocclusive lesions in different anatomical
   locations, due to a combination of factors including the nature of the vessels involved,
10 the extent of residual disease, and local hemodynamics.
           "Stenosis," as used herein refers to a narrowing of an artery as seen in occlusive
   disorder or in restenosis. Stenosis can be accompanied by those symptoms reflecting a
   decrease in blood flow past the narrowed arterial segment, in which case the disorder
   giving rise to the stenosis is termed a disease (i.e., occlusive disease or restenosis
15 disease). Stenosis can exist asymptomatically in a vessel, to be detected only by a
   diagnostic intervention such as an angiography or a vascular lab study.
           The antibodies obtained using the method of the invention may be used to treat a
   subject suffering from or at risk of developing restenosis. A subject at risk of
   developing restenosis includes a subject who has undergone PTCA. The subject may
20 have also had a stent inserted to prevent restenosis. The TNFa antibody can be used
   alone or in combination with a stent.to prevent the re-occurrence of stenosis in a subject
   suffering from cardiovascular disease.
           2. Congestive Heart Failure
25         TNFcc has been implicated in the pathophysiology of congestive heart failure
   (see Zhou et al. (2002) Atherosclerosis 161:153). Serum levels of TNFa are elevated in
   patients with congestive heart failure in a manner which is directly proportional to the
   severity of the disease (Levine et al. (1990) NEngl JMed 323:236; Torre-Amione et al.
   (1996) JAm Coll Cardiol27:1201). In addition, inhibitors of TNFc have also been
30 shown to improve congestive heart failure symptoms (Chung et al. (2003) Circulation
   107:3133).
           As used herein, the term "congestive heart failure" includes a condition
   characterized by a diminished capacity of the heart to supply the oxygen demands of the
   body. Symptoms and signs of congestive heart failure include diminished blood flow to
35 the various tissues of the body, accumulation of excess blood in the various organs, e.g.,
   when the heart is unable to pump out the blood returned to it by the great veins,
   exertional dyspnea, fatigue, and/or peripheral edema, e.g., peripheral edema resulting
   from left ventricular dysfunction. Congestive heart failure may be acute or chronic. The

                                           78
   manifestation of congestive heart failure usually occurs secondary to a variety of cardiac
   or systemic disorders that share a temporal or permanent loss of cardiac function.
   Examples of such disorders include hypertension, coronary artery disease, valvular
   disease, and cardiomyopathies, e.g., hypertrophic, dilative, or restrictive
 5 cardiomyopathies.
           A "subject who has or is suffering from congestive heart failure" is a subject who
   has a disorder involving a clinical syndrome of diverse etiologies linked by the common
   denominator of impaired heart pumping in which the heart cannot pump blood
   commensurate with the requirements of the metabolizing tissues, or can do so only from
10 an elevated filling pressure. A "subject at risk of developing congestive heart failure" is
   a subject who has a propensity of developing congestive heart failure because of certain
   factors affecting the cardiovascular system of the subject. It is desirable to reduce the.
   risk of or prevent the development of congestive heart failure in these subjects. The
   phrase "with congestive heart failure" includes patients who are at risk of suffering from
15 this condition relative to the general population, even though they may not have suffered
   from it yet, by virtue of exhibiting risk factors. For example, a patient with untreated
   hypertension may not have suffered from congestive heart failure, but is at risk because
   of his or her hypertensive condition. In one embodiment of the invention, the antibody
   adalimumab is used to treat a subject at risk of developing congestive heart failure.
20
           3. Acute coronary syndromes
           TNFa has been implicated in the pathophysiology-of acute coronary syndromes
   (see Libby (1995) Circulation91:2844 ). Acute coronary syndromes include those'
   disorders wherein the subject experiences pain due to a blood flow restriction resulting
25 in not enough oxygen reaching the heart. Studies have found that TNFax plays a role in
   acute coronary syndromes. For example, in a novel rat heterotropic cardiac
   transplantation-coronary ligation model capable of inducing myocardial infarction in the
   absence of downstream hemodynamic effects, administration of chimeric soluble TNF
   receptor (sTNFR) abolished transient LV remodeling and dysfunction (Nakamura, et al.
30 (2003) J. Cardiol.41:41). It was also found that direct injection of an sTNFR
   expression plasmid to the myocardium, resulted in a reduction in the infarction size in
   acute myocardial infarction (AMI) experimental rats (Sugano et al. (2002) FASEB J
    16:1421).
            In one embodiment, a TNFc antibody is used for the treatment or prevention of
35 an acute coronary syndrome in a subject, wherein the acute coronary syndrome is a
   myocardial infarction or angina.
            As used herein, the term "myocardial infarction" or "MI" refers to a heart attack.
   A myocardial infarction involves the necorsis or permanent damage of a region of the

                                            79
     heart due to an inadequate supply of oxygen to that area. This necrosis is typically
     caused by an obstruction in a coronary artery from either atherosclerosis or an embolis.
     MIs which are treated by the TNFa antibody obtained using the methods of the
     invention include both Q-wave and non-Q-wave myocardial infarction. Most heart
  5  attacks are caused by a clot that blocks one of the coronary arteries (the blood vessels
     that bring blood and oxygen to the heart muscle). For example, a clot in the coronary
     artery interrupts the flow of blood and oxygen to the heart muscle, leading to the death
     of heart cells in that area. The damaged heart muscle permanently loses its ability to
     contract, and the remaining heart muscle needs to compensate for it. An MI can also be
 10  caused by overwhelming stress in the individual.
              The term "angina" refers to spasmodic, choking, or suffocative pain, and
     especially as denoting angina pectoris which is a paroxysmal thoracic pain due, most
     often, to anoxia of the myocardium. Angina includes both variant angina and exertional
     angina. A subject having angina has ischemic heart disease which is manifested by
 15  sudden, severe, pressing substemal pain that often radiates to the left shoulder and along
     the left arm. TNFa has been implicated in angina, as TNFct levels are upregulated in
    patients with both MI and stable angina (Balbay et al. (2001) Angiology 52109).
              4. Artherosclerosis
20            "Atherosclerosis" as used herein refers to a condition in which fatty material is
     deposited along the walls of arteries. This fatty material thickens, hardens, and may
    eventually block the arteries. Atherosclerosis is also referred to arteriosclerosis,
    hardening of the arteries, and arterial plaque buildup. Polyclonal antibodies directed
    against TNFa have been shown to be effective at neutralizing TNFax activity resulting in
25  inflammation and restenosis in the rabbit atherosclerotic model (Zhou et al., supra).
    Accordingly, a TNFo antibody may be used to treat or prevent subjects afflicted with or
    at risk of having atherosclerosis.
              5. Cardiomyopathy.
30           The term "cardiomyopathy" as used herein is used to define diseases of the
    myocardium wherein the heart muscle or myocardium is weakened, usually resulting in
    inadequate heart pumping. Cardiomyopathy can be caused by viral infections, heart
    attacks, alcoholism, long-term, severe hypertension (high blood pressure), or by
    autoimmune causes..
35           In approximately 75-80% of heart failure patients coronary artery disease is the
    underlying cause of the cardiomyopathy and is designated "ischemic cardiomyopathy."
    Ischemic cardiomyopathy is caused by heart attacks, which leave scars in the heart
    muscle or myocardium. The affected myocardium is then unable to contribute to the

                                           80
   heart pumping function. The larger the scars or the more numerous the heart attacks, the
   higher the chance there is of developing ischemic cardiomyopathy.
            Cardiomyopathies that are not attributed to underlying coronary artery disease,
   and are designated "non-ischemic cardiomyopathies." Non-ischemic cardiomyopathies
 5 include, but are not limited to idiopathic cardiomyopathy, hypertrophic cardiomyopathy,
   alcoholic cardiomyopathy, dilated cardiomyopathy, peripartum cardiomyopathy, and
   restrictive cardiomyopathy.
   1. Spondyloarthropathies
10          TNFa has been implicated in the pathophysiology of a wide variety of disorders,
   including inflammatory diseases such as spondyloarthopathies (see e.g., Moeller et al.
   (1990) Cytokine 2:162; U.S. Patent No. 5,231,024; European Patent Publication No. 260
   610). The invention provides multiple-variable dose methods for inhibiting TNFax
   activity in a subject suffering from a spondyloarthropathy, which method comprises
15 administering to the subject an antibody, antibody portion, such that TNFa activity in
   the subject suffering from a spondyloarthropathy is inhibited.
            As used herein, the term "spondyloarthropathy" or "spondyloarthropathies" is
   used to refer to any one of several diseases affecting the joints of the spine, wherein such
   diseases share common clinical, radiological, and histological features. A number of
20 spondyloarthropathies share genetic characteristics, i.e. they are associated with the
   HLA-B27 allele. In one embodiment, the term spondyloarthropathy is used to refer to
   any one of several diseases affecting the joints of the spine, excluding ankylosing
   spondylitis, wherein such diseases share common clinical, radiological, and histological
   features. Examples of spondyloarthropathies include ankylosing spondylitis, psoriatic
25 arthritis/spondylitis, enteropathic arthritis, reactive arthritis or Reiter's syndrome, and
   undifferentiated spondyloarthropathies. Examples of animal models used to study
   spondyloarthropathies include anklanktransgenic mice, HLA-B27 transgenic rats (see
   Taurog et al. (1998) The Spondylarthritides.Oxford:Oxford University Press).
            The multiple-variable dose methods of the invention can also be used to treat
30 subjects who are at risk of developing a spondyloarthropathy using multiple-variable
   dose methods. Examples of subjects who are at risk of having spondyloarthropathies
   include humans suffering from arthritis. Spondyloarthropathies can be associated with
   other forms of arthritis, including rheumatoid arthritis. In one embodiment of the
   invention, antibodies are used in multiple-variable dose methods to treat a subject who
35 suffers from a spondyloarthropathy associated with rheumatoid arthritis. Examples of
   spondyloarthropathies which can be treated with a TNFax antibody are described below:
            1. Ankylosing Spondylitis (AS)

                                              81
                Tumor necrosis factor has been implicated in the pathophysiology of ankylosing
        spondylitis (see Verjans et al. (1991) Arthritis Rheum. 34:486; Verjans et al. (1994) Clin
       Exp Immunol. 97:45; Kaijtzel et al. (1999) Hum Immunol. 60:140). Ankylosing
       spondylitis (AS) is an inflammatory disorder involving inflammation of one or more
   5   vertebrae. AS is a chronic inflammatory disease that affects the axial skeleton and/or
       peripheral joints, including joints between the vertebrae of the spine and sacroiliac joints
       and the joints between the spine and the pelvis. AS can eventually cause the affected
       vertebrae to fuse or grow together. Spondyarthropathies, including AS, can be
       associated with psoriatic arthritis (PsA) and/or inflammatory bowel disease (IBD),
  10   including ulcerative colitis and Crohn's disease.
                Early manifestations of AS can be determined by radiographic tests, including
       CT scans and MRI scans. Early manifestations of AS often include scroiliitis and
      changes in the sacroliac joints as evidenced by the blurring of the cortical margins of the
      subchrondral bone, followed by erosions and sclerosis. Fatigue has also been noted as a
 15   common symptom of AS (Duffy et al. (2002) ACR 66th Annual Scientific Meeting
      Abstract). Accordingly, multiple-variable dose methods comprising administering an
      antibody, or antigen-binding fragment thereof, of the invention can be used to treat AS.
               In one embodiment, the multiple-variable dose method of the invention is used to
      treat a spondyloarthropathy associated with IBD, including AS. AS is often treated with
 20   nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory medications (NSAIDs), such as aspirin or indomethacin.
      Accordingly, a TNFcc antibody used in the multiple-variable dose method of the
      invention may also be administered in combination with agents commonly used to
     reduce inflammation and pain commonly associated with ankylosing spondylitis.
25             2. Psoriaticarthritis
               Tumor necrosis factor has been implicated in the pathophysiology of psoriatic
     arthritis (PsA) (Partsch et al. (1998) Ann Rheum Dis. 57:691; Ritchlin et al. (1998) J
     Rheumatol. 25:1544). As referred to herein, psoriatic arthritis or psoriasis associated
     with the skin, refers to chronic inflammatory arthritis which is associated
                                                                                  with psoriasis,
30   which is a common chronic skin condition that causes red patches on the body. About 1
     in 20 individuals with psoriasis will develop arthritis along with the skin condition, and
     in about 75% of cases, psoriasis precedes the arthritis. PsA exhibits itself in a variety of
     ways, ranging from mild to severe arthritis, wherein the arthritis usually affects the
     fingers and the spine. When the spine is affected, the symptoms are similar to those of
35   ankylosing spondylitis, as described above. The TNFa antibody, or antigen-binding
     fragment thereof, obtained using the invention can be used for treatment of PsA.
              PsA is sometimes associated with arthritis mutilans. Arthritis mutilans refers to a
     disorder which is characterized by excessive bone erosion resulting in a gross, erosive

                                                 82
        deformity which mutilates the joint. In one embodiment, antibodies obtained using the
        method of the invention are used to treat arthritis mutilans.
                 3. Reactive arthritis/Reiter's syndrome
   5             Tumor necrosis factor has been implicated in the pathophysiology of reactive
        arthritis, which is also referred to as Reiter's syndrome (Braun et al. (1999) Arthritis
       Rheum. 42(10):2039). Reactive arthritis (ReA) refers to arthritis which complicates an
        infection elsewhere in the body, often following enteric or urogenital infections. ReA is
       often characterized by certain clinical symptoms, including inflammation of the joints
 10    (arthritis), urethritis, conjunctivitis, and lesions of the skin and mucous membranes. In
       addition, ReA can occurs following infection with a sexually transmitted disease or
       dysenteric infection, including chlamydia, campylobacter, salmonella, or yersinia.
       Accordingly, antibodies obtained using the method of the invention may be used to treat
       ReA.
 15
                 4. Undiferentiatedspondyloarthropathies
                 In one embodiment, antibodies obtained using methods of the invention are used
       to treat subjects suffering from undifferentiated spondyloarthropathies (see Zeidler et al.
       (1992) Rheum Dis Clin North Am. 18:187). Other terms used to describe
 20   undifferentiated spondyloarthropathies include seronegative oligoarthritis and
      undifferentiated oligoarthritis. Undifferentiated spondyloarthropathies, as
                                                                                     used herein,
      refers to a disorder wherein the subject demonstrates only some of the symptoms
      associated with a spondyloarthropathy. This condition is usually observed in young
      adults who do not have IBD, psoriasis, or the classic symptoms of AS or Reiter's
25    syndrome. In some instances, undifferentiated spondyloarthropathies may be an early
      indication of AS. In one embodiment, the invention comprises administering a TNFa
      antibody, or antigen-binding fragment thereof, obtained using the claimed process to
      treat undifferentiated spondyloarthropathies.
30    J. MetabolicDisorders
                TNFca has been implicated in the pathophysiology of a wide variety of disorders,
     including metabolic disorders, such as diabetes and obesity (Spiegelman and
     Hotamisligil (1993) Cell 73:625; Chu et al. (2000) Int JObes Relat Metab Disord.
     24:1085; Ishii et al. (2000) Metabolism. 49:1616). The term "metabolic disorder," as
35   used herein, refers to diseases or disorders which affect how the body processes
     substances needed to carry out physiological functions. Examples of metabolic
     disorders include, but are not limited to, diabetes and obesity. In one embodiment of the
     invention, the term "metabolic disorder" is used to refer to disorders which affect how

                                            83
   the body processes substances needed to carry out physiological functions, excluding
   autoimmune diabetes.
            The invention provides methods for inhibiting TNFax activity in a subject
   suffering from such a metabolic disorder, which method comprises administering to the
 5 subject an antibody, antibody portion, such that TNFa activity in the subject suffering
   from a metabolic disorder is inhibited. TNFa antibodies can also be used to treat
   subjects who are at risk of developing a metabolic disorder.
            Metabolic disorders are often associated with arthritis, including rheumatoid
   arthritis. In one embodiment, a TNFa inhibitor, such as an antibody, is used in a
10 multiple-variable dose regimen in a subject who suffers from a metabolic disorder
   associated with rheumatoid arthritis. In another embodiment, the invention comprises
   administering a TNFct antibody to treat disorders associated with diabetes or obesity.
            Examples of animal models for evaluating the efficacy of a TNFa antibody for
   the treatment of a metabolic disorder include NOD transgenic mice, Akita mice, NSY
15 transgenic mice and ob/ob mice (see Baeder et al. (1992) Clin Exp Immunol. 89:174;
   Haseyama et al. (2002) Tohoku JExp Med. 198:233; Makino et al. (1980): Exp.Anim.
   29:1; Kolb (1987) Diabetes/MetabolismReviews 3:751; Hamada et al.(2001)
   Metabolism. 50:1282; Coleman, (1978) Diabetologia, 14:141; Bailey et aL. (1982)
   Int.J.Obesity 6:11). Examples of animal models used to study vasculitis includes the
20 mouse HSV model (Behcet's disease), the mouse L. casei model (Kawasaki's disease),
   and the mouse ANCA model (Kawasaki's disease). Other models of vasculitis include
   the McH5-lpr/lpr strain (Nose et aL. (1996) Am. J Path. 149:1763) and the SCG/Kj
   strain of mice (Kinjoh et aL. (1993) Proc.Nat. Acad. Sci., USA 90:3413). These mice
   strains spontaneously develop crescentic glomerulonephritis and necrotizing vasculitis
25 of the small arteries and arterioles of the spleen, stomach, heart, uterus and ovaries.
   These animals develop hypergammaglobulinemia and ANCA autoantibodies that react
   with myeloperoxidase (MPO). Additionally, immunization of rats with human MPO
   results in ANCA-associated necrotizing crescentic glomerulonephritis (Brouwer et al.
   (1993) J. Exp. Med. 177:905).
30          Metabolic disorders affect how the body processes substances needed to carry
   out physiological functions. A number of metabolic disorders of the invention share
   certain characteristics, i.e. they are associated the insulin resistance, lack of ability to
   regulate blood sugar, weight gain, and increase in body mass index. Examples of
   metabolic disorders include diabetes and obesity. Examples of diabetes include type 1
35 diabetes mellitus, type 2 diabetes mellitus, diabetic neuropathy, peripheral neuropathy,
   diabetic retinopathy, diabetic ulcerations, retinopathy ulcerations, diabetic
   macrovasculopathy, and obesity. Examples of metabolic disorders which can be treated

                                           84
      using multiple-variable dose methods comprising administration of a TNFca antibody are
      described in more detail below:
              1. Diabetes
  5          Tumor necrosis factor has been implicated in the pathophysiology of diabetes.
     (see e.g., Navarro et al. (2003) Am JKidney Dis. 42:53; Daimon et al. (2003) Diabetes
      Care.26:2015; Zhang et al. (1999) J Tongji Med Univ. 19:203; Barbieri et al.(2003) Am
     JHypertens. 16:537) For example, TNFca is implicated in the pathophysiology for
     insulin resistance. It has been found that serum TNF levels in patients with
 10  gastrointestinal cancer correlates with insulin resistance (see e.g., McCall et aL(1992)
     Br. J. Surg. 79:1361).
             The term "diabetes" or "diabetic disorder" or "diabetes mellitus," as used
     interchangeably herein, refers to a disease which is marked by elevated levels of sugar
     (glucose) in the blood. Diabetes can be caused by too little insulin (a chemical produced
 15  by the pancreas to regulate blood sugar), resistance to insulin, or both. Diabetes includes
     the two most common types of the disorder, namely type I diabetes and type II diabetes,
     which both result from the body's inability to regulate insulin. Insulin is a hormone
     released by the pancreas in response to increased levels of blood sugar (glucose) in the
     blood.
 20          The term "type 1 diabetes," as used herein, refers to a chronic disease that occurs
    when the pancreas produces too little insulin to regulate blood sugar levels
     appropriately. Type 1 diabetes is also referred to as insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus,
     IDMM, juvenile onset diabetes, and diabetes - type I. Type 1 diabetes represents is the
    result of a progressive autoimmune destruction of the pancreatic P-cells with subsequent
25  insulin deficiency.
             The term "type 2 diabetes," refers to a chronic disease that occurs when the
    pancreas does not make enough insulin to keep blood glucose levels normal, often
    because the body does not respond well to the insulin. Type 2 diabetes is also referred
    to as noninsulin-dependent diabetes mellitus, NDDM, and diabetes - type II
30           Diabetes is can be diagnosed by the administration of a glucose tolerance test.
    Clinically, diabetes is often divided into several basic categories. Primary examples of
    these categories include, autoimmune diabetes mellitus, non-insulin-dependent diabetes
    mellitus (type 1 NDDM), insulin-dependant diabetes mellitus (type 2 IDDM), non
    autoimmune diabetes mellitus, non-insulin-dependant diabetes mellitus (type 2
35  NIDDM), and maturity-onset diabetes of the young (MODY). A further category, often
    referred to as secondary, refers to diabetes brought about by some identifiable condition
    which causes or allows a diabetic syndrome to develop. Examples of secondary
    categories include, diabetes caused by pancreatic disease, hormonal abnormalities, drug-

                                          85
   or chemical-induced diabetes, diabetes caused by insulin receptor abnormalities,
   diabetes associated with genetic syndromes, and diabetes of other causes. (see e.g.,
   Harrison's (1996)   14 th ed., New York, McGraw-Hill).
           Diabetes is often treated with diet, insulin dosages, and various medications
 5 described herein. Accordingly, a TNFa antibody may also be administered in
   combination with agents commonly used to treat metabolic disorders and pain
   commonly associated with diabetes.
           In addition, the phrase "disorders associated with diabetes," as used herein, refers
   to conditions and other diseases which are commonly associated with or related to
10 diabetes. Example of disorders associated with diabetes include, for example,
   hyperglycemia, hyperinsulinaemia, hyperlipidaemia, insulin resistance, impaired glucose
   metabolism, obesity, diabetic retinopathy, macular degeneration, cataracts, diabetic
   nephropathy, glomerilosclerosis, diabetic neuropathy, erectile dysfunction, premenstrual
   syndrome, vascular restenosis, ulcerative colitis, coronary heart disease, hypertension,
15 angina pectoris, myocardial infarction, stroke, skin and connective tissue disorders, foot
   ulcerations, metabolic acidosis, arthritis, and osteoporosis.
           Diabetes manifests itself in the foregoing categories and can cause several
   complications that are discussed in the following sections. Accordingly, the antibody, or
   antigen-binding fragment thereof, of the invention can be used to treat diabetes. In one
20 embodiment, a TNFa antibody, or antigen-binding fragment thereof, is used to treat
   diabetes associated with the above identified catagories. In another embodiment, the
   invention includes administering a TNFa antibody to treat disorders associated with
   diabetes. Diabetes manifests itself in many complications and conditions associated
   with diabetes, including the following catagories:
25
           a. DiabeticNeuropathy andPeripheralNeuropathy
           Tumor necrosis factor has been implicated in the pathophysiology of diabetic
   neuropathy and peripheral neuropathy. (See Benj afield et al. (2001) Diabetes Care.
   24:753; Qiang et al. (1998) Diabetologia.41:1321;Pfeiffer et al. (1997) Horm Metab
30 Res. 29:111).
           The term "neuropathy," also referred to as nerve damage-diabetic, as used
   herein, refers to a common complication of diabetes in which nerves are damaged as a
   result of hyperglycemia (high blood sugar levels). A variety of diabetic neuropathies are
   recognized, such as distal sensorimotror polyneuropathy, focal motor neuropathy, and
35 autonomic neuropathy.
           The term "peripheral neuropathy," also known as peripheral neuritis and diabetic
   neuropathy, as used herein, refers to the failure of the nerves to carry information to and
   from the brain and spinal cord. Peripheral neuropathy produces symptoms such as pain,

                                            86
     loss of sensation, and the inability to control muscles. In some cases, the failure of
    nerves to control blood vessels, intestinal function, and other organs results in abnormal
    blood pressure, digestion, and loss of other basic involuntary processes. Peripheral
    neuropathy may involve damage to a single nerve or nerve group (mononeuropathy) or
  5 may affect multiple nerves (polyneuropathy).
             Neuropathies that affect small myelinated and unmyelinated fibers of the
     sympathetic and parasympathetic nerves are known as "peripheral neuropathies."
    Furthermore, the related disorder of peripheral neuropathy, also known as peripheral
    neuritis and diabetic neuropathy, refers to the failure of the nerves to carry information
 10 to and from the brain and spinal cord. This produces symptoms such as pain, loss of
     sensation, and the inability to control muscles. In some cases, failure of nerves
    controlling blood vessels, intestinal function, and other organs results in abnormal blood
    pressure, digestion, and loss of other basic involuntary processes. Peripheral neuropathy
    may involve damage to a single nerve or nerve group (mononeuropathy) or may affect
 15 multiple nerves (polyneuropathy).
             The term "diabetic neuropathy" refers to a common complication of diabetes in
    which nerves are damaged as a result of hyperglycemia (high blood sugar levels).
    Diabetic neuropathy is also referred to as neuropathy and nerve damage-diabetic. A
    variety of diabetic neuropathies are recognized, such as distal sensorimotror
20  polyneuropathy, focal motor neuropathy, and autonomic neuropathy.
             b. DiabeticRetinopathy
             Tumor necrosis factor has been implicated in the pathophysiology of diabetic
    retinopthy (Scholz et al. (2003) Trends Microbiol. 11:171). The term "diabetic
25  retinopathy" as used herein, refers to progressive damage to the eye's retina caused by
    long-term diabetes. Diabetic retinopathy, includes proliferative retinopathy.
    Proliferative neuropathy in turn includes includes neovascularization, pertinal
    henmorrhave and retinal detachement.
             In advanced retinopathy, small vessels proliferate on the surface of the retina.
30  These blood vessels are fragile, tend to bleed and can cause peretinal hemorrhages. The
    hemorrhage can obscure vision, and as the hemorrhage is resorbed fibrous tissue forms
    predisposing to retinal detachments and loss of vision. In addition, diabetic retinopathy
    includes prolferative retinopathy which includes neovascularization, pertinal
    hemmorrhave and retinal detachement. Daibetic retinopathy also includes "background
35  retinopathy" which involves changes occuring with the layers of the retina.
            c. DiabeticUlcerationsand Retinopathy Ulcerations

                                             87
              Tumor necrosis factor has been implicated in the pathophysiology of diabetic
     ulcerations, (see Lee et al. (2003) Hum Immunol. 64:614; Navarro et al. (2003) Am J
     Kidney Dis. 42:53; Daimon et al (2003) Diabetes Care. 26:2015; Zhang et al. (1999) J
     Tongji Med Univ. 19:203; Barbieri et al. (2003) Am JHypertens. 16:537; Venn et al.
  5  (1993) Arthritis Rheum. 36:819; Westacott et al. (1994) JRheumatol.21:1710).
              The term "diabetic ulcerations," as used herein, refers to an ulcer which results as
     a complication of diabetes. An ulcer is a crater-like lesion on the skin or mucous
     membrane caused by an inflammatory, infectious, malignant condition, or metabolic
     disorder. Typically diabetic ulcers can be found on limbs and extremeties, more
 10  typically the feet. These ulcers, caused by diabetic conditions, such as neuropathy and a
     vacualr insufficiency, can lead to ischemia and poor wound healing. More extensive
     ulcerations may progress to ostemyelitis. Once ostemyelitis develops, it may be dificult
     to eradicate with antibotics alone and amputation maybe necessary..
              The term "retinopathy ulcerations," as used herein refers to an ulcer which
 15  causes or results in damages to the eye and the eye's retina. Retinopathy ulcerations
    may include conditions such has retinoathic hemmorages.
              d. DiabeticMacrovasculopathy
              Tumor necrosis factor has been implicated in the pathophysiology of diabetic
20  macrovasculopathy (Devaraj et al. (2000) Circulation. 102:191; Hattori et al. (2000)
    CardiovascRes. 46:188; Clausell et al. (1999) CardiovascPathol.8:145). The term
    "diabetic macrovasculopathy," also referred to as "macrovascular disease," as used
    herein, refers to a disease of the blood vessels that results from diabetes. Diabetic
    macrovasculopathy complication occurs when, for example, fat and blood clots build up
25  in the large blood vessels and stick to the vessel walls. Diabetic macrovasculopathies
    include diseases such as coronary disease, cerebrovascular disease, and peripheral
    vascular disease, hyperglycaemia and cardiovascular disease, and strokes.
             2. Obesity
30             Tumor necrosis factor has been implicated in the pathophysiology of obesity
      (see e.g., Pihlajamaki J et al. (2003) Obes Res. 11:912; Barbieri et aL. (2003) Am J
     Hypertens. 16:537; Tsuda et al. (2003) JNutr. 133:2125). The term "obesity" as used
     herein, refers to a condition in which the subject has an excess of body fat relative to
     lean body mass. In one embodiment, obesity refers to a condition in which an
35   individual weighs at least about 20% or more over the maximum desirable for their
     height. When an adult is more than 100 pounds overweight, he or she is considered to
     be "morbidly.obese." In another embodiment, obesity is defined as a BMI (body mass
     index) over 30 kg/m2. Obesity increases a person's risk of illness and death due to

                                             88
      diabetes, stroke, coronary artery disease, hypertension, high cholesterol, and kidney and
      gallbladder disorders. Obesity may also increase the risk for some types of cancer, and
      may be a risk factor for the development of osteoarthritis and sleep apnea.
 5   K. Anemia
              TNFx has been implicated in the pathophysiology of a wide variety of anemias
     (see e.g., Jongen-Lavrencic et al. (1997) J. Rheumatol.24:1504;Demeter et al. (2002)
    Ann Hematol. 81:566; DiCato (2003) The Oncologist 8 (suppI 1):19). The invention
     provides a method for inhibiting TNFx activity in a subject suffering from anemia,
10   which method comprises administering to the subject an antibody, antibody portion,
     such that TNFx activity in the subject suffering from anemia is inhibited. In one
     embodiment, the anemia is associated with rheumatoid arthritis.
              The term "anemia" as used herein, refers to an abnormally low number of
     circulating red cells or a decreased concentration of hemoglobin in the blood. Examples
15   of anemia related to rheumatoid arthritis include, for example, anemia of chronic
     disease, iron deficiency anemia, and autoimmune hemolytic anemia. In one
     embodiment, the invention provides a method of treating anemias related to, for
     example, anemias related to rheumatoid arthritis, anemias of infection and chronic
     inflammatory diseases, iron deficiency anemia, autoimmune hemolytic anemia,
20   myelophthisic anemia, aplastic anemia, hypoplastic anemia, pure red cell aplasia and
     anemia associated with renal failure or endocrine disorders, megaloblastic anemias,
     defects in heme or globin synthesis, anemia caused by a structural defect in red blood
     cells, e.g., sickle-cell anemia, and anemias of unknown origins such as sideroblastic
     anemia, anemia associated with chronic infections such as malaria, trypanosomiasis,
25 . HIV, hepatitis virus or other viruses, and myelophthisic anemias caused by marrow
     deficiencies.
              Examples of animal models used to study anemia include rats inoculated with
     peptidolglycan-polysaccharide polymers (see Coccia et al., (2001) Exp Hematology.
     29:1201-1209). Examples of animal models used to study pain are well known in the
30   art, and include the rat sciatic nerve ligation model, and the rat segmental spinal nerve
     ligation model (see Bennett and Zie, (1988) Pain.33:87-107; Kim and Chung, (1992)
    Pain 50:355-363).
     L. Pain
35            TNFa has been implicated in the pathophysiology of a wide variety of pain
     syndromes (see e.g., Sorkin et al. (1997) Neuroscience. 81:255; Huygen et al. (2002)
    MediatorsInflamm. 11:47; Parada et al. (2003) EurJ Neurosci.17:1847). The term
     "pain" as used herein, refers to all types of pain. The term shall refer to acute and

                                            89
     chronic pains, such as neuropathic pain and post-operative pain, chronic lower back
     pain, cluster headaches, herpes neuralgia, phantom limb pain, central pain, dental pain,
     opioid-resistant pain, visceral pain, surgical pain, bone injury pain, pain during labor and
     delivery, pain resulting from bums, including sunburn, post partum pain, migraine,
  5  angina pain, and genitourinary tract-related pain including cystitis. The term also
     includes nociceptive pain or nociception.
             The invention provides methods for inhibiting TNFcc activity in a subject
     suffering from such a pain disorder, which method comprises administering to the
     subject an antibody, antibody portion, such that TNFa activity in the subject suffering
 10  from pain is inhibited. Pain has been defined in a variety of ways, including nociceptive
     pain and neuropathic pain. The most commonly experienced form of pain may be
     defined as the effect of a stimulus on nerve endings, which results in the transmission of
     impulses to the cerebrum. Pain is also commonly associated with inflammatory
     disorders, including, for example, rheumatoid arthritis. In one embodiment, the
 15  antibody of the invention is used to treat a subject who suffers from pain associated with
     rheumatoid arthritis. Examples of pain disorders in which TNFa activity is detrimental
     are discussed further below.
             1. NeuropathicPain
 20          Tumor necrosis factor has been implicated in the pathophysiology of neuropathic
    pain (see Sommer (1999) Schmerz. 13:315; Empl et al., (2001) Neurology. 56:1371;
     Schafers et al. (2003) JNeurosci.23:3028). As used herein the term "neuropathic pain"
    refers to pain that results from injury to a nerve, spinal cord, or brain, and often involves
    neural supersensitivity. Examples of neuropathic pain include chronic lower back pain,
25  pain associated with arthritis, cancer-associated pain, herpes neuralgia, phantom limb
    pain, central pain, opioid resistant neuropathic pain, bone injury pain, and pain during
    labor and delivery. Other examples of neuropathic pain include post-operative pain,
    cluster headaches, dental pain, surgical pain, pain resulting from severe, for example
    third degree, bums, post partum pain, angina pain, genitourinary tract related pain, and
30  including cystitis.
            Neuropathic pain is distinguished from nociceptive pain. Pain involving a
    nociceptive mechanism usually is limited in duration to the period of tissue repair and
    generally is alleviated by available analgesic agents or opioids (Myers (1995) Regional
    Anesthesia 20:173). Neuropathic pain typically is long-lasting or chronic and often
35  develops days or months following an initial acute tissue injury. Neuropathic pain can
    involve persistent, spontaneous pain as well as allodynia, which is a painful response to
    a stimulus that normally is not painful. Neuropathic pain also can be characterized by
    hyperalgesia, in which there is an accentuated response to a painful stimulus that usually

                                             90
   is trivial, such as a pin prick. Unlike nociceptive pain, neuropathic pain generally is
   resistant to opioid therapy (Myers, supra, 1995). Accordingly, antibodies obtained using
   methods of the invention can be used to treat neuropathic pain.
 5          2. Nociceptive pain
            As used herein the term "nociceptive pain" refers to pain that is transmitted
   across intact neuronal pathways, i.e., pain caused by injury to the body. Nociceptive
   pain includes somatic sensation and normal function of pain, and informs the subject of
   impending tissue damage. The nociceptive pathway exists for protection of the subject,
10 e.g., the pain experienced in response to a burn). Nociceptive pain includes bone pain,
   visceral pain, and pain associated with soft tissue.
             Tumor necrosis factor has been implicated in the pathophysiology of visceral
   pain (see Coelho et al. (2000) Am JPhysiol GastrointestLiver Physiol. 279:G781;
   Coelho et al. (2000) Brain Res Bull. 52:223). Visceral pain is used to refer to
15 nociceptive pain that is mediated by receptors on A-delta and C nerve fibers. A-delta
    and C-nerve fibers are which are located in skin, bone, connective tissue, muscle and
   viscera. Visceral pain can be vague in distribution, spasmodic in nature and is usually
   described as deep, aching, squeezing and colicky in nature. Examples of visceral pain
    include pain associated with a heart attack, wherein the visceral pain can be felt in the
20  arm, neck and/or back, and liver capsule pain, wherein the visceral pain can be felt in the
   back and/or right shoulder. Accordingly, antibodies obtained using the invention can be
   used to treat visceral pain.
    M. HepaticDisorders
25           TNFa has been implicated in the pathophysiology of a wide variety of hepatic
    disorders (see e.g., Colletti et al. (1990) J Clin Invest. 85:1936; Tiegs (1997) Acta
    GastroenterolBeig. 60:176; Fernandez et al. (2000) JEndotoxin Res. 6:321). The
    invention provides methods for inhibiting TNFa activity in a subject suffering from such
    a hepatic disorder.
30           As used herein, the term "a hepatic disorder in which TNFa activity is
    detrimental" is intended to include diseases and other disorders of the liver or conditions
    associated with hepatocellular injury or a biliary tract disorders in which the presence of
    TNFac in a subject suffering from the disorder has been shown to be or is suspected of
    being either responsible for the pathophysiology of the disorder or a factor that
35  contributes to a worsening of the disorder. Accordingly, a hepatic disorder in which
    TNFa activity is detrimental is a disorder in which inhibition of TNFca activity is
    expected to alleviate the symptoms and/or progression of the hepatic disorder. In one
    embodiment, hepatic disorders refers to a human liver disease or condition associated

                                            91
     with hepatocellular injury or a biliary tract disorder excluding hepatitis, alcoholic
     hepatitis, and viral hepatitis.
             Examples of animal models used for evaluating the therapeutic efficacy of an
     agent for treating a hepatic disorder using multiple-variable dose methods include the
  5  chimpanzee hepatitis C virus model (see Shimizu et al. (1990) Proc Natl Acad Sci. USA
     87:6441). Examples of animal models used to study skin and nail disorder disorders
     include, for example, the severe combined immunodeficient (SCID) mouse model
     (psoriasis) and the Smith line (SL) chicken and depigmenting mouse (vitiligo) (see
    Nickoloff (2000) Investig DermatolSymp Proc.5:67;Austin et al. (1995) Am JPathol.
 10  146:1529; Lerner et al. (1986) JInvest Dermatol.87:299).
             Hepatic disorders include many diseases and disorders wherein the liver
     functions improperly or ceases to function. Hepatocellular injuries can include alcoholic
     cirrhosis, al antitypsin deficiency, autoimmune cirrhosis, cryptogenic cirrhosis,
     fulminant hepatitis, hepatitis B and C, and steatohepatitis. Examples of biliary tract
 15  disorders include cystic fibrosis, primary biliary cirrhosis, sclerosing cholangitis and
    biliary obstruction (Wiesner (1996) "Current Indications, Contra Indications and Timing
     for Liver Transplantation" in Transplantationofthe Liver, Saunders (publ.); Busuttil and
    Klintmalm (eds.) Chapter 6; Klein (1998) Partial Hypertension: The Role of Liver
    Transplantation, Musby (publ.) in CurrentSurgical Therapy 6.sup.th Ed. Cameron, J.
20  (ed).
             The term "hepatitis" refers to inflammation of the liver. Hepatitis can be caused
    by infections with various organisms, including bacteria, viruses (Hepatitis A, B, C,
    etc.), or parasites. Chemical toxins such as alcohol, drugs, or poisonous mushrooms can
    also damage the liver and cause it to become inflamed. A rare but extremely dangerous
25  cause of hepatitis results from overdose of acetaminophen (Tylenol), which can be
    deadly. In addition, immune cells in the body may attack the liver and cause
    autoimmune hepatitis. Hepatitis may resolve quickly (acute hepatitis), or cause long
    term disease (chronic hepatitis). In some instances, progressive liver damage or liver
    failure may result. The incidence and severity of hepatitis vary depending on many
30  factors, including the cause of the liver damage and any underlying illnesses in a patient.
             In one embodiment, the invention features methods for treating a hepatic
    disorder in which TNFa activity is detrimental, comprising administering to a subject an
    effective amount of a TNFc inhibitor in an induction dose and subsequently in a
    treatment dose, such that said disorder is treated. In one embodiment, the hepatic
35  disorder is selected from the group consisting of hepatitis C virus, autoimmune hepatitis,
    fatty-liver disease, hepatitis B virus, hepatotoxicity, and non-alcoholic hepatitis,
    including non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH). Examples of hepatic disorders are
    further described below.

                                            92
             1. Hepatitis C Virus (HCV)
             Tumor necrosis factor has been implicated in the pathophysiology of the hepatitis
     C virus (see Gonzalez-Amaro. (1994) JExp Med. 179:841; Nelson et al. (1997) Dig Dis
  5  Sci 42:2487; Kallinowski et al. (1998) Clin Exp Immunol. 111:269). The term "hepatitis
     C virus" or "HCV" is used to describe the hepatitis virus which is the causative agent of
     non-A, non-B hepatitis. Hepatitis C virus causes an inflammation of the liver. HCV
     infection causes hepatitis C. Hepatitis C in the acute stage is, in general, milder than
    hepatitis B, but a greater proportion of such infections become chronic. HCV is a major
 10  cause of acute hepatitis and chronic liver disease, including cirrhosis and liver cancer.
    HCV is one of the viruses (A, B, C, D, and E), which together account for the vast
    majority of cases of viral hepatitis. It is an enveloped RNA virus in the flaviviridae
    family which appears to have a narrow host range. An important feature of the virus is
    the relative mutability of its genome, which in turn is probably related to the high
15  propensity (80%) of inducing chronic infection. HCV is clustered into several distinct
    genotypes which may be important in determining the severity of the disease and the
    response to treatment. In one embodiment, the invention provides a multiple-variable
    dose method for treating HCV.
20           2. Autoimmune Hepatitis (AIH)
             Tumor necrosis factor has been implicated in the pathophysiology of
    autoimmune hepatitis (see Cookson et aL, (1999) Hepatology 30:85 1; Jazrawi et al.,
    (2003) Liver Transpl. 9:377). As used herein, "autoinimune hepatitis" refers to a hepatic
    disorder characterized by inflammation of the liver caused by rogue immune cells that
25  mistake the liver's normal cells for a foreign tissue or pathogen (disease-causing agent).
    Autoimmune hepatitis is often responsible for a progressive destruction of the hepatic
    parenchyma with a high mortality if left untreated (Johnson et al. (1993) Hepatology,
    18:998). One of the characteristics of autoimmune hepatitis is the presence of circulating
    autoantibodies in almost 90% of patients' sera. Such antibodies can be used to identify
30  subjects who have autoimmune hepatitis.
             Clinical and serological differences between patients have lead to the
    classification of AIH into two types. Type 1 is characterized by the presence of anti
    smooth muscle (SMA) and/or anti-nuclear antibodies (ANA) in patients' sera, while sera
    from Type II patients show anti-liver kidney microsomal antibodies type 1 (LKM1)
35  (Homberg et aL., (1987) Hepatology, 7:1333; Maggiore et al. (1993) J Pediatr.
    GastroenterolNutr. 17:376). A serological marker, anti-liver cytosol type I antibodies
    (LC1), has been identified in 30% of patients with an AIH type I. In addition, LC1
    proved to be the only serological marker in 10% of patients tested (Martini et al. (1988)

                                            93
   Hepatology, 8:1662). In one embodiment, the method of the invention is used to treat
   AIH.
            3. Fatty-liverdisease
 5          Tumor necrosis factor has been implicated in the pathophysiology of fatty-liver
   disease (see Valenti et al., (2002) Gastroenerology 122:274; Li et al., (2003) Hepatology
   37:343). Fatty-liver disease refers to a disease wherein fat (hepatocytes) is excessively
   accumulated in the liver. Fatty liver disease is believed to be caused by supemutrition,
   hyperingestion of alcohol, diabetes and side effects due to administration of
10 pharmaceuticals. Fatty liver disease can cause severe diseases such as chronic hepatitis
   and hepatic cirrhosis. In patients with fatty liver disease, lipids, particularly neutral fat,
   accumulate in hepatocytes to the extent that the amount exceeds the physiologically
   permissible range. From a biochemical point of view, a standard for judgment of fatty
   liver is that the weight of neutral fat is about 10% (100 mg/g wet weight) or more of the
15 wet weight of hepatic tissue. In one embodiment, the method of the invention is used to
   treat fatty liver disease.
            4. Hepatitis B Virus (HBV)
            Tumor necrosis factor has been implicated in the pathophysiology of hepatitis B
20 virus (see Kasahara et al., (2003) J Virol. 77:2469; Wang (2003) World J
   Gastroenterol.9:641;Biermer et al. (2003) J Virol. 77:4033). The term "hepatitis B
   virus" (HBV) is used to describe the virus (serum hepatitis virus) which produces viral
   hepatitis type B in humans. This is a viral disease with a long incubation period (about
   50 to 160 days) in contrast to hepatitis A virus (infectious hepatitis virus) which has a
25 short incubation period. The hepatitis B virus is usually transmitted by injection of
   infected blood or blood derivatives or merely by use of contaminated needles, lancets or
   other instruments. Clinically and pathologically, the disease is similar to viral hepatitis
   type A; however, there is no cross-protective immunity. Viral antigen (HBAg) is found
   in the serum after infection.
30          Hepatitis B virus infects humans at a very high rate. Most people who become
   infected with Hepatitis B get rid of the virus within 6 months, wherein a short infection
   is known as an "acute" case of Hepatitis B. It is estimated that at least about 300 million
   people are chronic carriers of HBV. Infection with the virus results in a range of clinical
   symptoms including minor flu-like symptoms to death. In one embodiment, the
35 multiple-variable dose method of the invention is used to treat HBV infection.
            5. Hepatotoxicity

                                              94
                Tumor necrosis factor has been implicated in the pathophysiology of
       hepatotoxicity (see Bruccoleri et al. (1997) Hepatology 25:133; Luster et al. (2000) Ann
       NYAcad Sci. 919:214; Simeonova et aL. (2001) Toxicol Appl Pharmacol.177:112). The
       term hepatotoxicity refers to liver damage caused by medications and other chemicals or
   5   drugs. The best indicator for identifying liver toxicity in a subject is the elevation of
       certain enzyme measurements in the blood, such as AST (aspartate aminotransferase),
       ALT (alanine aminotransferase), and GOT (glutamate oxalacetate transaminase).
               Hepatotoxicity can cause permanent injury and death. Initial symptoms of
       hepatotoxicity can include acute gastrointestinal symptoms, e.g., severe diarrhea. The
 10    second phase of hepatotoxicity is characterized by abatement of symptoms. During
                                                                                                 this
       apparent subsidence, biochemical evidence of hepatic injury appears. Oliguria
       (decreased urine output) is usual during the second phase. The third phase, that of overt
       hepatic damage, becomes clinically apparent 3 to 5 days after ingestion of the chemical,
       with the appearance ofjaundice. Renal failure may also occur. The symptoms of
 15    chemically-induced (drug-induced) hepatitis are similar to that of infectious hepatitis. In
       one embodiment, the method of the invention is used to treat hepatotoxicity.
               6. Liverfailure (e.g. chronic liverfailure)
               Tumor necrosis factor has been implicated in the pathophysiology of liver failure
-20   (e.g. chronic liver failure) (see Takenaka et al., (1998) Dig
                                                                    Dis Sci. 43:887; Nagaki et al.
      (1999) JHepatol.31:997; Streetz et al., (2000) Gastroenterology.119:446. Liver
      failure, including chronic liver failure, usually develops over a period of years and
                                                                                              is
      caused by a repeated insult to the liver (such as alcohol abuse or infection with hepatitis
      virus) which slowly damages the organ. Less commonly, liver failure is acute, and
25    occurs over a period of days or weeks. Causes of acute liver failure include hepatitis
      virus infections, drugs, pregnancy, autoimmune disease, and sudden low blood flow to
      the liver. In one embodiment, the method of the invention is used to treat liver failure.
              7. Non-alcoholichepatitis, includingNASH
30            Tumor necrosis factor has been implicated in the pathophysiology of non
      alcoholic hepatitis, including nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (see Crespo et al., (2001)
     Hepatology. 34:1158;Pessayre et al. (2002) 282(2):G193). The term "nonalcoholic
     steatohepatitis" or "NASH" refers to the development of histologic changes in the liver
     that are comparable to those induced by excessive alcohol intake, but in the absence
                                                                                                of
35   alcohol abuse. NASH is characterized by macrovesicular and/or microvesicular
     steatosis, lobular and portal inflammation, and occasionally Mallory bodies with fibrosis
     and cirrhosis. NASH is also commonly associated with hyperlipidemia, obesity, and
     type II diabetes mellitus.

                                           95
            Additional clinical conditions which characterize hepatic steatosis and
   inflammation include excessive fasting, jejunoileal bypass, total parental nutrition,
   chronic hepatitis C, Wilson's disease, and adverse drug effects such as those from
   cortico steroids, calcium channel blockers, high dose synthetic estrogens, methotrexate
 5 and amiodarone. Thus, the term "nonalcoholic steatohepatitis" can be used to describe
   those patients who exhibit these biopsy findings, coupled with the absence of (a)
   significant alcohol consumption, (b) previous surgery for weight loss, (c) history of drug
   use associated with steatohepatitis, (d) evidence of genetic liver disease or (e) chronic
   hepatitis C infection (see, e.g., Ludwig et aL, (1980) Mayo Clin. Proc.55:434; Powell et
10 al. (1990) Hepatol. 11:74). In one embodiment, the antibodies obtained using the
   method of the invention are used to treat NASH.
   N. Skin andNail Disorders
            Tumor necrosis factor has been implicated in the pathophysiology of skin and
15 nail disorders. In one embodiment, antibodies obtained using the method of the
   invention are administered to treat skin and nail disorders. The term "skin disorder" or
   "skin disease" as used interchangeably herein, refers to abnormalities, other than injury
   wounds, of the skin which have induced a state of inflammation. In one embodiment,
   the skin disorder of the invention is an inflammatory skin disorder, wherein the skin is
20 characterized by capillary dilatation, leukocytic infiltration, redness, heat, and/or pain.
   Examples of skin disorders include, but are not limited to, psoriasis, pemphigus vulgaris,
   scleroderma, atopic dermatitis, sarcoidosis, erythema nodosum, hidradenitis suppurative,
    lichen planus, Sweet's syndrome, and vitiligo. As used herein, the term "skin and nail
   disorder in which TNFo activity is detrimental" is intended to include skin and/or nail
25 disorders and other disorders in which the presence of TNFax in a subject suffering from
   the disorder has been shown to be or is suspected of being either responsible for the
   pathophysiology of the disorder or a factor that contributes to a worsening of the
    disorder, e.g., psoriasis. Accordingly, skin and nail disorders in which TNFx activity is
   detrimental are disorders in which inhibition of TNFa activity is expected to alleviate
30 the symptoms and/or progression of the disorder. The use of the antibodies, antibody
   portions, and other TNFa inhibitors of the invention in the treatment of specific skin and
   nail disorders is discussed further below. In certain embodiments, the treatment method
    of the invention is performed in combination with another therapeutic agent, as
    described below. In one embodiment, the antibodies obtained using the method of the
35  invention comprising administering a TNFa antibody in combination with another
    therapeutic agent is used for the treatment of psoriasis and the treatment of psoriasis
    associated with arthritis.

                                            96
              1. Psoriasis
             Tumor necrosis factor has been implicated in the pathophysiology of psoriasis
     (Takematsu et al. (1989) Arch DermatolRes. 281:398; Victor and Gottlieb (2002) J
    DrugsDermatol. 1:264). The term "psoriasis" as used herein, refers to skin disorders
  5  associated with epidermal hyperplasia. Example of psoriasis include, but are not limited
    to, chronic plaque psoriasis, guttate psoriasis, inverse psoriasis, pustular psoriasis,
    psoriasis vulgaris, and erythrodermic psoriasis. Psoriasis can also be associated with
    other inflammatory disorders, including inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) and
    rheumatoid arthritis (RA).
 10          Psoriasis is described as a skin inflammation (irritation and redness)
    characterized by frequent episodes of redness, itching, and thick, dry, silvery scales on
    the skin. In particular, lesions are formed which involve primary and secondary
    alterations in epidermal proliferation, inflammatory responses of the skin, and an
    expression of regulatory molecules such as lymphokines and inflammatory factors.
 15 Psoriatic skin is morphologically characterized by an increased turnover of epidermal
    cells, thickened epidermis, abnormal keratinization, inflammatory cell infiltrates into the
    epidermis and polymorphonuclear leukocyte and lymphocyte infiltration into the
    epidermis layer resulting in an increase in the basal cell cycle. Psoriasis often involves
    the nails, which frequently exhibit pitting, separation of the nail, thickening, and
20  discoloration. Psoriasis is often associated with other inflammatory disorders, for
    example arthritis, including rheumatoid arthritis, inflammatory bowel disease (IOBD), and
    Crohn's disease. Approximately one thrid of subjects with psoriasis also have psoriatic
    arthritis (PsA) which, as described above, causes stiffness, swelling of the joints, pain,
    and reducd range of motion (Greaves et al. (1995) N. Eng.J. Med. 332:58 1).
25           Evidence of psoriasis is most commonly seen on the trunk, elbows, knees, scalp,
    skin folds, or fingernails, but it may affect any or all parts of the skin. Normally, it takes
    about a month for new skin cells to move up from the lower layers to the surface. In
    psoriasis, this process takes only a few days, resulting in a build-up of dead skin cells
    and formation of thick scales. Symptoms of psoriasis include: skin patches, that are dry
30  or red, covered with silvery scales, raised patches of skin, accompanied by red borders,
    that may crack and become painful, and that are usually located on the elbows, knees,
    trunk, scalp, and hands; skin lesions, including pustules, cracking of the skin, and skin
    redness; joint pain or aching which may be associated with of arthritis, e.g., psoriatic
    arthritis.
35           Treatment for psoriasis often includes a topical corticosteroids, vitamin D
    analogs, and topical or oral retinoids, or combinations thereof. In one embodiment, the
    TNFct antibody of the invention is administered in combination with or the presence of
    one of these common treatments. Additional therapeutic agents which can be combined

                                             97
       with the TNFc antibody obtained using the methods of the invention for treatment of
      psoriasis are described in more detail below.
               The diagnosis of psoriasis is usually based on the appearance of the skin.
      Additionally a skin biopsy, or scraping and culture of skin patches may be needed to rule
   5  out other skin disorders. An x-ray may be used to check for psoriatic arthritis ifjoint
      pain is present and persistent.
               Improvements in psoriasis in a subject can be monitored by the subject's
      Psoriasis Area and Severity Index Score (PASI). The method for determining the PASI
      has been described in Fredriksson and Pettersson (1978) Dermatologica157:238 and
 10   Marks et al. (1989) Arch Dermatol125:235. Briefly, the index is based on evaluation of
      four anatomic sites, including the head, upper extremities, trunk, and lower extremities,
      for erythema, induration, and desquamation using a 5 point scale (0= no symptoms;
      I=slight; 2= moderate; 3=marked; 4=very marked). Based on the extent of lesions in a
      given anatomic site, the area affected is assigned a numerical value (0=0; 1 =< 10%; 2
 15   10-29%; 3 = 30-49%; 4= 50-69%; 5 = 70=89%; 6 = 90-100%). The PASI score is then
      calculated, wherein the possible range of PASI score is 0.0 to 72.0 with the highest score
      representing complete erythroderma of the severest degree.
              In one embodiment of the invention, a TNFa antibody is used for the treatment
      of psoriasis, including chronic plaque psoriasis, guttate psoriasis, inverse psoriasis,
 20  pustular psoriasis, pemphigus vulgaris, erythrodermic psoriasis, psoriasis associated
     with inflammatory bowel disease (IBD), and psoriasis associated with rheumatoid
     arthritis (RA). In another embodiment, a TNFa antibody, such as adalimumab, is used
     to treat subjects who have psoriasis in combination with PsA. Specific types of psoriasis
     included in the treatment methods of the invention are described in detail below:
25
              a. Chronicplaquepsoriasis
              Tumor necrosis factor has been implicated in the pathophysiology of chronic
     plaque psoriasis (Asadullah et al. (1999) Br JDermatol.141:94). Chronic plaque
     psoriasis (also referred to as psoriasis vulgaris) is the most common form of psoriasis.
30   Chronic plaque psoriasis is characterized by raised reddened patches of skin, ranging
     from coin-sized to much larger. In chronic plaque psoriasis, the plaques may be single
     or multiple, they may vary in size from a few millimeters to several centimete rs. The
     plaques are usually red with a scaly surface, and reflect light when gently
                                                                                    scratched,
     creating a "silvery" effect. Lesions (which are often symmetrical) from chronic plaque
35   psoriasis occur all over body, but with predilection for extensor surfaces, including the
     knees, elbows, lumbosacral regions, scalp, and nails. Occasionally chronic plaque
     psoriasis can occur on the penis, vulva and flexures, but scaling is usually absent.
     Diagnosis of patients with chronic plaque psoriasis is usually based on the clinical

                                           98
   features described above. In particular, the distribution, color and typical silvery scaling
   of the lesion in chronic plaque psoriasis are characteristic of chronic plaque psoriasis.
           b. Guttatepsoriasis
 5         Guttate psoriasis refers to a form of psoriasis with characteristic water drop
   shaped scaly plaques. Flares of guttate psoriasis generally follow an infection, most
   notably a streptococcal throat infection. Diagnosis of guttate psoriasis is usually based
   on the appearance of the skin, and the fact that there is often a history of recent sore
   throat.
10
           c. Inversepsoriasis
           Inverse psoriasis is a form of psoriasis in which the patient has smooth, usually
   moist areas of skin that are red and inflamed, which is unlike the scaling associated
   with plaque psoriasis. Inverse psoriasis is also referred to as intertiginous psoriasis or
15 flexural psoriasis. Inverse psoriasis occurs mostly in the armpits, groin, under the
   breasts and in other skin folds around the genitals and buttocks, and, as a result of the
   locations of presentation, rubbing and sweating can irriate the affected areas.
           d. Pustularpsoriasis
20         Pustular psoriasis, also referred to as palmar plantar psoriasis, is a form of
   psoriasis that causes pus-filled blisters that vary in size and location, but often occur on
   the hands and feet. The blisters may be localized, or spread over large areas of the body.
   Pustular psoriasis can be both tender and painful, can cause fevers.
25         e. Otherpsoriasisdisorders
           Other examples of psoriatic disorders which can be treated with the TNFa
   antibody obtained using the methods of the invention include erythrodermic psoriasis,
   vulgaris, psoriasis associated with IBD, and psoriasis associated with arthritis, including
   rheumatoid arthritis.
30
           2. Pemphigus vulgaris
           Pemphigus vulgaris is a serious autoimmune systemic dermatologic disease that
   often affects the oral mucous membrane and skin. The pathogenesis of pemphigus
   vulgaris is thought to be an autoimmune process that is directed at skin and oral mucous
35 membrane desmosomes. Consequentially, cells do not adhere to each other.            The
   disorder manifests as large fluid-filled, rupture-prone bullae, and has a distinctive
   histologic appearance. Anti-inflammatory agents are the only effective therapy for this
   disease which has a high mortality rate. Complications that arise in patients suffering

                                            99
     from pemphigus vulgaris are intractable pain, interference with nutrition and fluid loss,
     and infections.
             3. Atopic dermatitis/ eczema
  5          Atopic dermatitis (also referred to as eczema) is a chronic skin disorder
     categorized by scaly and itching plaques. People with eczema often have a family
     history of allergic conditions like asthma, hay fever, or eczema. Atopic dermatitis is a
    hypersensitivity reaction (similar to an allergy) which occurs in the skin, causing chronic
    inflammation. The inflammation causes the skin to become itchy and scaly. Chronic
 10 irritation and scratching can cause the skin to thicken and become leathery-textured.
    Exposure to environmental irritants can worsen symptoms, as can dryness of the skin,
     exposure to water, temperature changes, and stress.
             Subjects with atopic dermatitis can be identified by certain symptoms, which
    often include intense itching, blisters with oozing and crusting, skin redness or
 15 inflammation around the blisters, rash, dry, leathery skin areas, raw areas of the skin
    from scratching, and ear discharges/bleeding.
             4. Sarcoidosis
             Sarcoidosis is a.disease in which granulomatous inflammation occurs in the
20  lymph nodes, lungs, liver, eyes, skin, and/or other tissues. Sarcoidosis includes
    cutaneous sarcoidosis (sarcoidosis of the skin) and nodular sarcoidosis (sarcoidosis of
    the lymph nodes). Patients with sarcoidosis can be identified by the symptoms, which
    often include general discomfort, uneasiness, or an ill feeling; fever; skin lesions.
25           5. Erythema nodosum
             Erythema nodosum refers to an inflammatory disorder that is characterized by
    tender, red nodules under the skin, typically on the anterior lower legs. Lesions
    associated with erythema nodosum often begin as flat, but firm, hot red painful lumps
    (approximately an inch across). Within a few days the lesions may become purplish,
30  and then over several weeks fade to a brownish flat patch.
             In some instances, erythema nodosum may be associated with infections
    including, streptococcus, coccidioidomycosis, tuberculosis, hepatitis B, syphilis, cat
    scratch disease, tularemia, yersinia, leptospirosis psittacosis, histoplasmosis,
    mononucleosis (EBV). In other instances, erythema nodosum may be associated with
35  sensitivity to certain medications including, oralcontraceptives, penicillin, sulfonamides,
    sulfones, barbiturates, hydantoin, phenacetin, salicylates, iodides, and progestin.
    Erythema nodosum is often associated with other disorders including, leukemia,
    sarcoidosis, rheumatic fever, and ulcerative colitis.

                                         100
            Symptoms of erythema nodosum usually present themselves on the shins, but
   lesions may also occur on other areas of the body, including the buttocks, calves, ankles,
   thighs and upper extremities. .Other symptoms in subjects with erythema nodosum can
   include fever and malaise.
 5
            6. Hidradenitissuppurative
            Hidradenitis suppurativa refers to a skin disorder in which swollen, painful,
   inflamed lesions or lumps develop in the groin and sometimes under the arms and under
   the breasts. Hidradenitis suppurativa occurs when apocrine gland outlets become
10 blocked by perspiration or are unable to drain normally because of incomplete gland
   development. Secretions trapped in the glands force perspiration and bacteria into
   surrounding tissue, causing subcutaneous induration, inflammation, and infection.
   Hidradenitis suppurativa is confined to areas of the body that contain apocrine glands.
   These areas are the axillae, areola of the nipple, groin, perineum, circumanal, and.
15 periumbilical regions.
            7. Lichen planus
           Tumor necrosis factor has been implicated in the pathophysiology of lichen
   planus (Sklavounou et al. (2000) J Oral PatholMed. 29:370). Lichen planus refers to a
20 disorder of the skin and the mucous membranes resulting in inflammation, itching, and
   distinctive skin lesions. Lichen plans may be associated with hepatitis C or certain
   medications.
            8. Sweet's syndrome
25         Inflammatory cytokines, including tumor necrosis factor, have been implicated in
   the pathophysiology of Sweet's syndrome (Reuss-Borst et al. (1993) Br JHaematol.
   84:356). Sweet's syndrome, which was described by R.D. Sweet in 1964, is
   characterized by the sudden onset of fever, leukocytosis, and cutaneous eruption. The
   eruption consists of tender, erythematous, well-demarcated papules and plaques which
30 show dense neutrophilic infiltrates microscopically. The lesions may appear anywhere,
   but favor the upper body including the face. The individual lesions are often described as
   pseudovesicular or pseudopustular, but may be frankly pustular, bullous, or ulcerative.
   Oral and eye involvement (conjunctivitis or episcleritis) have also been frequently
   reported in patients with Sweet's syndrome. Leukemia has also been associated with
35 Sweet's syndrome.
           9. Vitiligo

                                             101
               Vitiligo refers to a skin condition in which there is loss of pigment from areas of
      skin resulting in irregular white patches with normal skin texture. Lesions characteristic
      of vitiligo appear as flat depigmented areas. The edges of the lesions are sharply defined
      but irregular. Frequently affected areas in subjects with vitiligo include the face, elbows
  5   and knees, hands and feet, and genitalia.
                10. Scleroderna
               Tumor necrosis factor has been implicated in the pathophysiology of
      scleroderma (Tutuncu et aL. (2002) Clin Exp Rheumatol. 20(6 Suppl 28):S 146;
 10  Mackiewicz et aL. (2003) Clin Exp Rheumatol. 21:41; Murota et al. (2003) Arthritis
     Rheum. 48:1117). Scleroderma refers to a a diffuse connective tissue disease
     characterized by changes in the skin, blood vessels, skeletal muscles, and internal
     organs. Scleroderma is also referred to as CREST syndrome or progressive systemic
     sclerosis, and usually affects people between the ages 30-50. Women are affected more
 15  often than men. .
               The cause of scleroderma is unknown. The disease may produce local or
     systemic symptoms. The course and severity of the disease varies widely in those
     affected.Excess collagen deposits in the skin and other organs produce the symptoms.
     Damage to small blood vessels within the skin and affected organs also occurs. In the
20   skin, ulceration, calcification, and changes in pigmentation may occur. Systemic
     features may include fibrosis and degeneration of the heart, lungs, kidneys and
     gastrointestinal tract.
              Patients suffering from scleroderma exhibit certain clinical features, including,
    blanching, blueness, or redness of fingers and toes in response to heat and cold
25   (Raynaud's phenomenon), pain, stiffness, and swelling of fingers and joints, skin
     thickening and shiny hands and forearm, esophageal reflux or heartburn, difficulty
     swallowing, and shortness of breath. Other clinical sypmtoms used to diagnose
     scleroderma include, an elevated erythrocyte sedimentaion rate (ESR), an elevated
    rheumatoid factor (RF), a positive antinuclear antibody test, urinalysis that shows
30  protein and microscopic blood, a chest X-ray that may show fibrosis, and pulmonary
    funtion studies that show restricitive lung disease.
               11. Nail disorders
              Nail disorders include any abnormality of the nail. The term "nail disorder" or
35  "nail disease" as used herein, refers to conditions wherein the fingernails or toenails to
    abnormal color, shape, texture, or thickness. Specific nail disorders include, but are not
    limited to, pitting, koilonychia, Beau's lines, spoon nails, onycholysis, yellow nails,
    pterygium (seen in lichen planus), and leukonychia. Pitting is characterised by the

                                            102
     presence of small depressions on the nail surface. Ridges or linear elevations can
     develop along the nail occurring in a "lengthwise" or "crosswise" direction. Beau's lines
     are linear depressions that occur "crosswise" (transverse) in the fingernail. Leukonychia
     describes white streaks or spots on the nails. Koilonychia is an abnormal shape of the
  5  fingernail where the nail has raised ridges and is thin and concave Koilonychia is often
     associated with iron deficiency.
             Nail disorders which can be treated with the TNFa antibody of the invention also
     include psoriatic nails. Psoriatic nails include changes in nails which are attributable to
     psoriasis. In some instances psoriasis may occur only in the nails and nowhere else on
 10  the body. Psoriatic changes in nails range from mild to severe, generally reflecting the
     extent of psoriatic involvement of the nail plate, nail matrix, i.e.; tissue from which the
     nail grows, nail bed, i.e., tissue under the nail, and skin at the base of the nail. Damage
     to the nail bed by the pustular type of psoriasis can result in loss of the nail. Nail
     changes in psoriasis fall into general categories that may occur singly or all together. In
 15  one category of psoriatic nails, the nail plate is deeply pitted, probably due to defects in
    nail growth caused by psoriasis. In another category, the nail has a yellow to yellow
    pink discoloration, probably due to psoriatic involvement of the nail bed. A third
     subtype of psoriatic nails are characterized by white areas which appear under the nail
    plate. The white areas are actually air bubbles marking spots where the nail plate is
20  becoming detached from the nail bed. There may also be reddened skin around the nail.
    A fourth category is evidenced by the nail plate crumbling in yellowish patches, i.e.,
    onychodystrophy, probably due to psoriatic involvement in the nail matrix. A fifth
    category is characterized by the loss of the nail in its entirety due to psoriatic
    involvement of the nail matrix and nail bed.
25           Antbodies obtained using the method of the invention can also be used to treat
    nail disorders often associated with lichen planus. Nails in subjects with lichen planus
    often show thinning and surface roughness of the nail plate with longitudinal ridges or
    pterygium.
             The antbodies obtained using the invention can be used to treat nail disorders,
30  such as those described herein. Often nail disorders are associated with skin disorders.
    In one embodiment, the invention treatment for nail disorders using a TNFa antibody.
    In another embodiment, the nail disorder is associated with another disorder, including a
    skin disorder such as psoriasis. In another embodiment, the disorder associated with a
    nail disorder is arthritis, including psoriatic arthritis.
35
             12. OtherSkin and Nail Disorders
             Antbodies obtained using the method of the invention can be used to treat other
    skin and nail disorders, such as chronic actinic dermatitis, bullous pemphigoid, and

                                          103
   alopecia areata. Chronic actinic dermatitis (CAD) is also referred to as photosensitivity
   dermatitis/actinic reticuloid syndrome (PD/AR). CAD is a condition in which the skin
   becomes inflamed, particularly in areas that have been exposed to sunlight or artificial
   light. Commonly, CAD patients have allergies to certain substances that come into
 5 contact with their skin, particularly various flowers, woods, perfumes, sunscreens and
   rubber compounds. Bullous pemphigoid refers to a skin disorder characterized by the
   formation of large blisters on the trunk and extremities. Alopecia areata refers to hair
   loss characterized by round patches of complete baldness in the scalp or beard.
10 0. Vasculitides
            TNFca has been implicated in the pathophysiology of a variety of vasculitides,
   (see e.g., Deguchi et aL. (1989) Lancet. 2:745). In one embodiment, the invention
   provides a multiple-variable dose method for inhibiting TNFa activity in a subject
   suffering from a vasculitis in which TNFcc activity is detrimental.
15          The term "vasculitis" or "vasculitides" as used interchangeably herein, refers to a
   group of disorders which are characterized by the inflammation of blood vessels. Blood
   vessels of all sizes may be affected, from the largest vessel in the body (the aorta) to the
   smallest blood vessels in the skin (capillaries). The size of blood vessel affected varies
   according to the specific type of vasculitis. As used herein, the term "a vasculitis in
20 which TNFa activity is detrimental" is intended to include vasculitis in which the
   presence of TNFca in a subject suffering from the disorder has been shown to be or is
   suspected of being either responsible for the pathophysiology of the disorder or a factor
   that contributes to a worsening of the disorder. Such disorders may be evidenced, for
   example, by an increase in the concentration of TNFa in a biological fluid of a subject
25 suffering from the disorder (e.g., an increase in the concentration of TNIFa in serum,
   plasma, synovial fluid, etc. of the subject), which can be detected, for example, using an
   anti-TNFa antibody as described above.
            There are numerous examples of vasculitides in which TNFax activity is
   detrimental, including Behcet's disease. The use of the antibodies, or antigen-binding
30 portions thereof, for treatment of specific vasculitides is discussed further below. In
   certain embodiments, the antibody, or antibody portion, obtained using the invention is
   administered to the subject in combination with another therapeutic agent, as described
   below.
            The antibody, or antibody portion, obtained using the invention may also be used
35 to treat vasculitis in which TNFa activity is detrimental, wherein inhibition of TNFa
   activity is expected to alleviate the symptoms and/or progression of the vasculitis or to
   prevent the vasculitis. Subjects suffering from or at risk of developing vasculitis can be
   identified through clinical symptoms and tests. For example, subjects with vasculitides

                                              104
     often develop antibodies to certain proteins in the cytoplasm of neutrophils,
     antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibodies (ANCA). Thus, in some instances, vasculitides
     may be evidenced by tests (e.g., ELISA), which measure ANCA presence.
              Vasculitis and its consequences may be the sole manifestation of disease or it
  5  may be a secondary component of another primary disease. Vasculitis may be confined
     to a single organ or it may simultaneously affect several organs. and depending on the
     syndrome, arteries and veins of all sizes can be affected. Vasculitis can affect any organ
     in the body.
              In vasculitis, the vessel lumen is usually compromised, which is associated with
 10  ischemia of the tissues supplied by the involved vessel. The broad range of disorders
     that may result from this process is due to the fact that any type, size and location of
     vessel (e.g., artery, vein, arteriole, venule, capillary) can be involved. Vasculitides are
     generally classified according to the size of the affected vessels, as described below. It
     should be noted that some small and large vessel vasculitides may involve medium-sized
 15  arteries; but large and medium-sized vessel vasculitides do not involve vessels smaller
    than arteries. Large vessel disease includes, but is not limited to, giant cell arteritis, also
    known as temporal arteritis or cranial arteritis, polymyalgia rheumatica, and Takayasu's
    disease or arteritis, which is also known as-aortic arch syndrome, young female arteritis
    and Pulseless disease. Medium vessel disease includes, but is not limited to, classic
20  polyarteritis nodosa and Kawasaki's disease, also known as mucocutaneous lymph node
    syndrome. Non-limiting examples of small vessel disease are Behcet's Syndrome,
    Wegner's granulomatosis, microscopic polyangitis, hypersensitivity vasculitis, also
    known as cutaneous vasculitis, small vessel vasculitis, Henoch-Schonlein purpura,
    allergic granulamotosis and vasculitis, also known as Churg Strauss syndrome. Other
25  vasculitides include, but are not limited to, isolated central nervous system vasculitis,
    and thromboangitis obliterans, also known as Buerger's disease. Classic Polyarteritis
    nodosa (PAN), microscopic PAN, and allergic granulomatosis are also often grouped
    together and are called the systemic necrotizing vasculitides. A further description of
    vasculitis is described below:
30            1. Large vessel vasculitis
             In one embodiment, the TNFcx antibody obtained using the invention may be
    used to treat subjects who have large vessel vasculitis. The term "large vessel(s)" as
    used herein, refers to the aorta and the largest branches directed toward major body
    regions. Large vessels include, for example, the aorta, and its branches and
35  corresponding veins, e.g., the subclavian artery; the brachiocephalic artery; the common
    carotid artery; the innonimate vein; internal and external jugular veins; the pulmonary
    arteries and veins; the venae cavae; the renal arteries and veins; the femoral arteries and

                                          105
   veins; and the carotid arteries. Examples of large vessel vasculitides are described
   below.
            a. Giant cell arteritis(GCA)
 5          Tumor necrosis factor has been implicated in the pathophysiology of giant cell
   arteritis (Sneller (2002) Cleve. Clin. J. Med. 69:SII40; Schett et al. (2002) Ann. Rheum.
   Dis. 61:463). Giant cell arteritis (GCA), refers to a vasculitis involving inflammation
   and damage to blood vessels, particularly the large or medium arteries that branch from
   the external carotid artery of the neck. GCA is also referred to as temporal arteritis or
10 cranial arteritis, and is the most common primary vasculitis in the elderly. It almost
   exclusively affects individuals over 50 years of age, however, there are well-documented
   cases of patients 40 years and younger. GCA usually affects extracranial arteries. GCA
   can affect the branches of the carotid arteries, including the temporal artery. GCA is
   also a systemic disease which can involve arteries in multiple locations.
15          Histopathologically, GCA is a panarteritis with inflammatory mononuclear cell
   infiltrates within the vessel wall with frequent Langhans type giant cell formation.
   There is proliferation of the intima, granulomatous inflammation and fragmentation of
   the internal elastic lamina. The pathological findings in organs is the result of ischemia
   related to the involved vessels.
20          Patients suffering from GCA exhibit certain clinical symptoms, including fever,
   headache, anemia and high erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR). Other typical
   indications of GCA include jaw or tongue claudication, scalp tenderness, constitutional
   symptoms, pale optic disc edema (particularly 'chalky white' disc edema), and vision
   disturbances. The diagnosis is confirmed by temporal artery biopsy.
25
            b. Polymyalgia rheumatica
            Tumor necrosis factor has been implicated in the pathophysiology of
   polymyalgia rheumatica (Straub et al. (2002) Rheumatology (Oxford) 41:423;
   Uddhammar et al. (1998) Br. J. Rheumatol.37:766). Polymyalgia rheumatica refers to a
30 rheumatic disorder that is associated with moderate to severe muscle pain and stiffness
   in the neck, shoulder, and hip, most noticeable in the morning. IL-6 and IL
   1 P expression has also been detected in a majority of the circulating monocytes in
   patients with the polymyalgia rheumatica. Polymyalgia rheumatica may occur
   independently, or it may coexist with or precede GCA, which is an inflammation of
35 blood vessels.
            c. Takayasu's Arteritis

                                           106
            Tumor necrosis factor has been implicated in the pathophysiology of Takayasu's
   arteritis (Kobayashi and Numano (2002) Intern. Med. 41:44; Fraga and Medina (2002)
   Curr.Rheumatol. Rep.4:30). Takayasu's arteritis refers to a vasculitis characterized
   by an inflammmation of the aorta and its major branches. Takayasu's arteritis (also
 5 known as Aortic arch syndrome, young female arteritis and Pulseless disease) affects the
   thoracic and abdominal aorta and its main branches or the pulmonary arteries. Fibrotic
   thickening of the aortic wall and its branches (e.g., carotid, inominate, and subclavian
   arteries) can lead to reduction of lumen size of vessels that arise from the aortic arch.
   This condition also typically affects the renal arteries.
10          Takayasu's arteritis primarily affects young women, usually aged 20-40 years
   old, particularly of Asian descent, and may be manifested by malaise, arthralgias and the
   gradual onset of extremity claudication. Most patients have asymmetrically reduced
   pulses, usually along with a blood pressure differential in the arms. Coronary and/or
   renal artery stenosis may occur.
15          The clinical features of Takayasu's arteritis may be divided into the features of
   the early inflammatory disease and the features of the later disease. The clinical features
   of the early inflammatory stage of Takayasu's disease are: malaise, low grade fever,
   weight loss, myalgia, arthralgia, and erythema multiforme. Later stages of Takayasu's
   disease are characterized by fibrotic stenosis of arteries and thrombosis. The main
20 resulting clinical features are ischaemic phenomena, e.g. weak and asymmetrical arterial
   pulses, blood pressure discrepancy between the arms, visual disturbance, e.g. scotomata
   and hemianopia, other neurological features including vertigo and syncope, hemiparesis
   or stroke. The clinical features result from ischaemia due to arterial stenosis and
   thrombosis.
25
            2. Medium Vessel Disease
            In one embodiment, the TNFa antibody obtained using the invention may be
   used to treat subjects who have medium vessel vasculitis. The term "medium vessel(s)"
   is used to refer to those blood vessels which are the main visceral arteries. Examples of
30 medium vessels include the mesenteric arteries and veins, the iliac arteries and veins,
   and the maxillary arteries and veins. Examples of medium vessel vasculitides are
   described below.
            a. PolyarteritisNodosa
35          Tumor necrosis factor has been implicated in the pathophysiology of polyarteritis
   nodosa (DiGirolamo et al. (1997) J. Leukoc. Biol. 61:667). Polyarteritis nodosa, or
   periarteritis nodosa refers to vasculitis which is a serious blood vessel disease in which
   small and medium-sized arteries become swollen and damaged because they are

                                           107
   attacked by rogue immune cells. Polyarteritis nodosa usually affects adults more
   frequently than children. It damages the tissues supplied by the affected arteries because
   they don't receive enough oxygen and nourishment without a proper blood supply.
            Symptoms which are exhibited in patients with polyarteritis nodosa generally
 5 result from damage to affected organs, often the skin, heart, kidneys, and nervous
   system. Generalized symptoms of polyarteritis nodosa include fever, fatigue, weakness,
   loss of appetite, and weight loss. Muscle aches (myalgia) and joint aches(arthralgia) are
   common. The skin of subjects with polyarteritis nodosa may also show rashes, swelling,
   ulcers, and lumps (nodular lesions).
10      .   Classic PAN (polyarteritis nodosa) is a systemic arteritis of small to medium
   muscular arteritis in which involvement of renal and visceral arteries is common.
   Abdominal vessels have aneurysms or occlusions in 50% of PAN patients. Classic PAN
   does not involve the pulmonary arteries although the bronchial vessels may be involved.
   Granulomas, significant eosinophilia and an allergic diathesis are not part of the
15 syndrome. Although any organ system may be involved, the most common
   manifestations include peripheral neuropathy, mononeuritis multiplex, intestinal
   ischemia, renal ischemia, testicular pain and livedo reticularis.
            b. Kawasaki's Disease
20          Tumor necrosis factor has been implicated in the pathophysiology of Kawasaki's
   disease (Sundel (2002) Curr.Rheumatol. Rep. 4:474; Gedalia (2002) Curr. Rheumatol.
   Rep. 4:25). Although the cause of Kawasaki's disease is unknown, it is associated with
    acute inflammation of the coronary arteries, suggesting that the tissue damage associated
   with this disease may be mediated by proinflammatory agents such as TNFc.
25 Kawasaki's disease refers to a vasculitis that affects the mucus membranes, lymph
   nodes, lining of the blood vessels, and the heart. Kawasaki's disease is also often
   referred to as mucocutaneous lymph node syndrome, mucocutaneous lymph node
    disease, and infantile polyarteritis. Subjects afflicted with Kawasaki's disease develop
   vasculitis often involving the coronary arteries which can lead to myocarditis and
30 pericarditis. Often as the acute inflammation diminishes, the coronary arteries may
   develop aneurysm, thrombosis, and lead to myocardial infarction.
            Kawasaki's disease is a febrile systemic vasculitis associated with edema in the
   palms and the soles of the feet, with enlargement of cervical lymph nodes, cracked lips
    and "strawberry tongue". Although the inflammatory response is found in vessels
35  throughout the body, the most common site of end-organ damage is the coronary
    arteries. Kawasaki's Disease predominantly affects children under the age of 5. The
   highest incidence is in Japan but is becoming increasingly recognized in the West and is
   now the leading cause of acquired heart disease in US children. The most serious

                                            108
     complication of Kawasaki disease is coronary arteritis and aneurysm formation that
     occurs in a third of untreated patients.
              3. Small vessel disease
  5          In one embodiment, a TNFa antibody is used to treat subjects who have small
     vessel vasculitis. The term "small vessel(s)" is used to refer to arterioles, venules and
     capillaries. Arterioles are arteries that contain only I or 2 layers of sooth muscle cells
     and are terminal to and continuous with the capillary network. Venules carry blood
     from the capillary network to veins and capillaries connect arterioles and venules.
 10  Examples of small vessel vasculitides are described below.
             a. Behcet 's Disease
             Tumor necrosis factor has been implicated in the pathophysiology of Behcet's
     disease (Sfikakis (2002) Ann. Rheum. Dis. 61:ii5l-3; Dogan and Farah (2002)
 15  Oftalmologia. 52:23). Behcet's disease is a chronic disorder that involves inflammation
     of blood vessels throughout the body. Behcet's disease may also cause various types of
     skin lesions, arthritis, bowel inflammation, and meningitis (inflammation of the
     membranes of the brain and spinal cord). As a result of Behcet's disease, the subject
     with the disorder may have inflammation in tissues and organs throughout the body,
20   including the gastrointestinal tract, central nervous system, vascular system, lungs, and
     kidneys. Beheet's disease is three times more common in males than females and is
    more common in the eastern Mediterranean and Japan.
             Subjects who have Behcet's disease may show clinical symptoms including
    recurrent oral ulcers (resembling canker sores), recurrent genital ulcers, and eye
25  inflammation. Serum levels of TNFa, IL-8, IL-1, IL-6 LNF-y and IL-12 are elevated in
    Beheet's patients, and the production of these factors has been shown to be elevated in
    the monocytes of Behcet's patients (see, e.g., InflammatoryDiseaseofBlood Vessels
     (2001) Marcel Dekker, Inc., eds. G.S. Hoffman and C.M. Weyand, p. 473).
30           b. Wegener's granulomatosis
             Tumor necrosis factor has been implicated in the pathophysiology of Wegener's
    granulomatosis (Marquez et al. (2003) Curr.Rheumatol. Rep. 5:128; Harman and
    Margo (1998) Surv. Ophthalmol.42:458). Wegener's granulomatosis refers to a
    vasculitis that causes inflammation of blood vessels in the upper respiratory tract (nose,
35  sinuses, ears), lungs, and kidneys. Wegener's granulomatosis is also referred to as
    midline granulomatosis. Wegener's granulomatosis includes a granulomatous
    inflammation involving the respiratory tract, and necrotizing vasculitis affecting small to
    medium-sized vessels. Subjects who have Wegener's granulomatosis often also have

                                           109
      arthritis (joint inflammation). Glomerulonephritis may also be present in affected
      subjects, but virtually any organ may be involved.
               Patients affected with Wegener's granulomatosis typically show clinical
      symptoms comprising recurrent sinusitis or epistaxis, mucosal ulcerations, otitis media,
  5   cough, hemoptysis and dyspnea. The first symptoms of Wegener's granulomatosis
      frequently include upper respiratory tract symptoms, joint pains, weakness, and
     tiredness.
               c. Churg-Strausssyndrome
 10            Tumor necrosis factor has been implicated in the pathophysiology of Churg
     Strauss syndrome (Gross (2002) Curr. Opin. Rheumatol. 14:11; Churg (2001) Mod.
     Pathol. 14:1284). Churg-Strauss syndrome refers to a vasculitis that is systemic and
     shows early manifestation signs of asthma and eosinophilia. Churg-Strauss syndrome is
     also referred to as allergic granulomatosis and angiitis, and occurs in the setting of
 15  allergic rhinitis, asthma and eosinophilia. Sinusitis and pulmonary infiltrates also occur
     in Churg-Strauss syndrome, primarily affecting the lung and heart. Peripheral
     neuropathy, coronary arteritis and gastrointestinal involvement are common.
              Patients afflicted with Churg-Strauss syndrome can be diagnosed according to
     criteria established by the American College of Rheumatology (ACR). These criteria
 20 were intended to distinguish CSS from other forms of vasculitis. Not all patients meet
    every criterion. Some, in fact, may have only 2 or 3 criteria, yet they are still classified
    as Churg-Strauss syndrome. The ACR selected 6 disease features (criteria) as being
    those that best distinguished Churg-Strauss syndrome from other vasculitides. -These
    criteria include: 1) asthma; 2) eosinophilia [>10% on differential WBC count]; 3)
25  mononeuropathy; 4) transient pulmonary infiltrates on chest X-rays; 5) paranasal sinus
    abnormalities; and 6) biopsy comprising a blood vessel with extravascular eosinophils.
    P. Other TNFa-RelatedDisorders
              In one embodiment, the invention features a multiple-variable dose method for
30  treating a TNFa-related disorder in which TNFa activity is detrimental, comprising
    administering to a subject a TNFa antibody, such that said TNFa-related disorder is
    treated. Examples of TNFa-related disorders in which TNFa activity is detrimental, are
    discussed further below.
35            1. Juvenile Arthritis
              Tumor necrosis factor has been implicated in the pathophysiology ofjuvenile
    arthritis, including juvenile rheumatoid arthritis (Grom et al. (1996) Arthritis Rheum.

                                            110
    39:1703; Mangge et aL (1995) Arthritis Rheum. 8:211). In one embodiment, the TNFa
    antibody of the invention is used to treat juvenile rheumatoid arthritis.
             The term "juvenile rheumatoid arthritis" or "JRA" as used herein refers to a
    chronic, inflammatory disease which occurs before age 16 that may cause joint or
 5  connective tissue damage. JRA is also referred to as juvenile chronic polyarthritis and
    Still's disease.
             JRA causes joint inflammation and stiffness for more than 6 weeks in a child of
    16 years of age or less. Inflammation causes redness, swelling, warmth, and soreness in
    the joints. Any joint can be affected and inflammation may limit the mobility of
10  affected joints. One type of JRA can also affect the internal organs.
             JRA is often classified into three types by the number ofjoints involved, the
    symptoms, and the presence or absence of certain antibodies found by a blood.test.
    These classifications help the physician determine how the disease will progress and
    whether the internal organs or skin is affected. The classifications of JRA include the
15  following
             a.      Pauciarticular JRA, wherein the patient has four or fewer joints are
    affected. Pauciarticular is the most common form of JRA, and typically affects large
   joints, such as the knees.
20           b.      Polyarticular HRA, wherein five'or more joints are affected. The small
   joints, such as those in the hands and feet, are most commonly involved, but the disease
   may also affect large joints.
             c.      Systemic JRA is characterized by joint swelling, fever, a light skin rash,
   and may also affect internal organs such as the heart, liver, spleen, and lymph nodes.
25  Systemic JRA is also referred to as it Still's disease. A small percentage of these
   children develop arthritis in many joints and can have severe arthritis that continues into
    adulthood.
             2. Endometriosis
30           Tumor necrosis factor has been implicated in the pathophysiology of
   endometriosis, as women with endometriosis have elevated peritoneal levels of TNF
   (Eisermann et al. (1988) FertilSteril 50:573; Halme (1989) Am J Obstet Gynecol
    161:1718; Mori et al. (1991) Am JReprodImmunol 26:62; .Taketani et al. (1992) Am J
   Obstet Gynecol 167:265; Overton et al. (1996) Hum Reprod 1996; 11:380). In one
35 embodiment, the TNFcc antibody may be used to treat endometriosis. The term
   "endometriosis" as used herein refers to a condition in which the tissue that normally
   lines the uterus (endometrium) grows in other areas of the body, causing pain, irregular
   bleeding, and frequently infertility.

                                            111
             3. Prostatitis
             Tumor necrosis factor has been implicated in the pathophysiology of prostatitis,
     as men with chronic prostatitis and chronic pelvic pain have significantly higher levels
  5  of TNF and IL-1 in semen compared to controls (Alexander et al. (1998) Urology
     52:744; Nadler et al. (2000) J Urol 164:214; Orhan et al. (2001) Int J Urol 8:495)
     Furthermore, in a rat model of prostatitis TNF levels were also increased in comparison
     to controls (Asakawa et al. (2001) Hinyokika Kiyo 47:459; Harris et al. (2000) Prostate
     44:25). In one embodiment, the TNFa antibody of the invention is used to treat
 10 prostatitis.
             The term "prostatitis" as used herein refers to an inflammation of the prostate.
    Prostatitis is also referred to as pelvic pain syndrome. Prostatitis manifests itself in a
    variety of forms, including nonbacterial prostatitis, acute prostatitis, bacterial prostatitis,
    and acute prostatitis. Acute prostatitis refers to an inflammation of the prostate gland
 15 that develops suddenly. Acute prostatitis is usually caused by a bacterial infection of the
    prostate gland. Chronic prostatitis is an inflammation of the prostate gland that develops
    gradually, continues for a prolonged period, and typically has subtle symptoms. Chronic
    prostatitis is also usually caused by a bacterial infection
20           4. Choroidalneovascularization
             Tumor necrosis factor has been implicated in the pathophysiology of choroidal
    neovascularization. For example, in surgically excised choroidal neovascular
    membranes, neovascular vessels stained positive for both TNF and IL-1 (Oh H et al.
    (1999) Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci 40:1891), In one embodiment, the TNFc antibody is
25  used to treat choroidal neovascularization. The term "choroidal neovascularization" as
    used herein refers to the growth of new blood vessels that originate from the choroid
    through a break in the Bruch membrane into the sub-retinal pigment epithelium (sub
    RPE) or subretinal space. Choroidal neovascularization (CNV) is a major cause of
    visual loss in patients with the condition.
30
             5. Sciatica
            Tumor necrosis factor has been implicated in the pathophysiology of sciatica
    (Ozaktay et al. (2002) EurSpine J. 11:467; Brisby et al.(2002) Eur Spine J. 11:62). In
    one embodiment, the TNFa antibody of the invention is used to treat sciatica. The term
35  "sciatica" as used herein refers toa condition involving impaired movement and/or
    sensation in the leg, caused by damage to the sciatic nerve. Sciatica is also commonly
    referred to as neuropathy of the sciatic nerve and sciatic nerve dysfunction. Sciatica is a
    form of peripheral neuropathy. It occurs when there is damage to the sciatic nerve,

                                            112
   located in the back of the leg. The sciatic nerve controls the muscles of the back of the
   knee and lower leg and provides sensation to the back of the thigh, part of the lower leg
   and the sole of the foot. Sciatica can be indicative of another disorder, including a
   lumbar herniated disc, spinal stenosis, degenerative disc disease, isthmic
 5 spondyloisthesis and piniformis syndrome.
            6. Sjogren's syndrome
            Tumor necrosis factor has been implicated in the pathophysiology of Sjogren's
   syndrome (Koski et aL. (2001) Clin Exp Rheumatol. 19:13 1). In one embodiment, the
10 TNFa antibody of the invention is used to treat Sjogren's syndrome. The term
   "Sj ogren's syndrome" as used herein refers to a systemic inflammatory disorder
   characterized by dry mouth, decreased tearing, and other dry mucous membranes, and is
   often associated with autoimmune rheumatic disorders, such as rheumatoid arthritis.
   Dryness of the eyes and mouth are the most common symptoms of this syndrome. The
15 symptoms may occur alone, or with symptoms associated with rheumatoid arthritis or
   other connective tissue diseases. There may be an associated enlargement of the
   salivary glands. Other organs may become affected. The syndrome may be associated
   with rheumatoid arthritis, systemic lupus erythematosus, scleroderma, polymyositis, and
   other diseases.
20
            7. Uveitis
            Tumor necrosis factor has been implicated in the pathophysiology of uveitis
25 (Wakefield and Lloyd (1992) Cytokine 4:1; Woon et al. (1998) CurrEye Res. 17:955).
   In one embodiment, the TNFa antibody of the invention is used to treat uveitis. The
   term "uveitis" as used herein refers to an inflammation of the the uvea, which is the
    layer between the sclera and the retina, which includes the iris, ciliary body, and the
    choroid. Uveitis is also commonly referred to as iritis, pars planitis, chroiditis,
30  chorioretinitis, anterior uveitis, and posterior uveitis. The most common form of uveitis
    is anterior uveitis, which involves inflammation in the front part of the eye, which is
    usually isolated to the iris. This condition is often called iritis. In one embodiment, the
    term uveitis refers to an inflammation of the the uvea which excludes inflammation
    associated with an autoimmune disease, i.e., excludes autoimmune uveitis.
35
             8.      Wet macular degeneration
            Tumor necrosis factor has been implicated in the pathophysiology of wet
    macular degeneration. In one embodiment, the TNFa antibody of the invention is used

                                             113
       to treat wet macular degeneration. The term "wet macular degeneration" as used herein
       refers to a disorder that affects the macula (the central part of the retina of the eye) and
       causes decreased visual acuity and possible loss of central vision. Patients with wet
       macular degeneration develop new blood vessels under the retina, which causes
   5   hemorrhage, swelling, and scar tissue.
                9. Osteoporosis
                Tumor necrosis factor has been implicated in the pathophysiology of
       osteoporosis, (Tsutsumimoto et al. (1999) JBone MinerRes. 14:1751). Osteoporosis is
 10   used to refer to a disorder characterized by the progressive loss of bone density and
      thinning of bone tissue. Osteoporosis occurs when the body fails to form enough new
      bone, or when too much old bone is reabsorbed by the body, or both. The TNFct
      antibody, or antigen-binding fragment thereof, of the invention can be used to treat
      osteoporosis.
 15
               10. Osteoarthritis
               Tumor necrosis factor has been implicated in the pathophysiology of
      osteoarthritis, (Venn et al. (1993) ArthritisRheum. 36:819; Westacott et al. (1994) J
      Rheumatol. 21:1710). Osteoarthritis (OA) is also referred to as hypertrophic
 20   osteoarthritis, osteoarthrosis, and degenerative joint disease. OA is a chronic
      degenerative disease of skeletal joints, which affects specific joints, commonly knees,
      hips, hand joints and spine, in adults of all ages. OA is characterized by a number of the
      following manifestations including degeneration and thinning of the articular cartilage
      with associated development of "ulcers" or craters, osteophyte formation, hypertrophy of
25    bone at the margins, and changes in the snyovial membrane and enlargement of affected
     joints. Furthermore, osteoarthritis is accompanied by pain and stiffness, particularly after
     prolonged activity. The antibody, or antigen-binding fragment thereof, of the invention
     can be used to treat osteoarthritis. Characteristic radiographic features of osteoarthritis
     include joint space narrowing, subchondral sclerosis, osteophytosis, subchondral cyst
30   formation, loose osseous body (or "joint mouse").
              Medications used to treat osteoarthritis include a variety of nonsteroidal, anti
     inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). In addition, COX 2 inhibitors, including Celebrex,
     Vioxx, and Bextra, aand Etoricoxib, are also used to treat OA. Steroids, which are
     injected directly into the joint, may also be used to reduce inflammation and pain. In
35   one embodiment of the invention, TNFa antibodies of the invention are administered in
     combination with a NSAIDs, a COX2 inhibitor, and/or steroids.
              11.     Other

                                            114
              The methods of the invention, also can be used to treat various other disorders in
      which TNFa activity is detrimental. Examples of other diseases and disorders in which
      TNFa activity has been implicated in the pathophysiology, and thus which can be
      treated using an antibody, or antibody portion, of the invention, include inflammatory
  5 bone disorders, bone resorption disease, coagulation disturbances, bums, reperfusion
      injury, keloid formation, scar tissue formation, pyrexia, periodontal disease, obesity,
     radiation toxicity, age-related cachexia, Alzheimer's disease, brain edema, inflammatory
     brain injury, cancer, chronic fatigue syndrome, dermatomyositis, drug reactions, such as
     Stevens-Johnson syndrome and Jarisch-Herxheimer reaction, edema in and/or around
 10 the spinal cord, familial periodic fevers, Felty's syndrome, fibrosis, glomerulonephritides
     (e.g. post-streptococcal glomerulonephritis or IgA nephropathy), loosening of
     prostheses, microscopic polyangiitis, mixed connective tissue disorder, multiple
     myeloma, cancer and cachexia, multiple organ disorder, myelo dysplastic syndrome,
     orchitism osteolysis, pancreatitis, including acute, chronic, and pancreatic abscess,
 15 polymyositis, progressive renal failure, pseudogout, pyoderma gangrenosum, relapsing
     polychondritis, rheumatic heart disease, sarcoidosis, sclerosing cholangitis, stroke,
     thoracoabdominal aortic aneurysm repair (TAAA), TNF receptor associated periodic
     syndrome (TRAPS), symptoms related to Yellow Fever vaccination, inflammatory
     diseases associated with the ear, chronic ear inflammation, chronic otitis media with or
20 without cholesteatoma, pediatric ear inflammation, myotosis, ovarian cancer, colorectal
     cancer, therapy associated with induced inflammatory'syndrome (e.g., syndromes
     following IL-2 administration), and a disorder associated with a reperfussion injury.
             It is understood that all of the above-mentioned TNFa-related disorders include
25  both the adult and juvenile forms of the disease where appropriate. It is also understood
    that all of the above-mentioned disorders include both chronic and acute forms of the
    disease. In addition, the multiple-variable dose methods of the invention can be used to
    treat each of the above-mentioned TNFca-related disorders alone or in combination with
    one another, e.g., a subject who is suffering from uveitis and lupus.
30
    Additionaltherapeuticagents
             The invention pertains to pharmaceutical compositions and methods of use
    thereof for the treatment of a TNFa-related disorder using a multiple-variable dose
    regimen. The pharmaceutical compositions comprise a first agent that prevents or
35  inhibits a TNFa-related disorder. The pharmaceutical composition and methods of use
    may comprise a second agent that is an active pharmaceutical ingredient; that is, the
    second agent is therapeutic and its function is beyond that of an inactive ingredient, such
    as a pharmaceutical carrier, preservative, diluent, or buffer. The second agent may be

                                           115
   useful in treating or preventing TNFa-related disorders. The second agent may diminish
   or treat at least one symptom(s) associated with the targeted disease. The first and
   second agents may exert their biological effects by similar or unrelated mechanisms of
   action; or either one or both of the first and second agents may exert their biological
 5 effects by a multiplicity of mechanisms of action. A pharmaceutical composition may
   also comprise a third compound, or even more yet, wherein the third (and fourth, etc.)
   compound has the same characteristics of a second agent.
            It should be understood that the pharmaceutical compositions described herein
   may have the first and second, third, or additional agents in the same pharmaceutically
10 acceptable carrier or in a different pharmaceutically acceptable carrier for each described
   embodiment. It further should be understood that the first, second, third and additional
   agent may be administered simultaneously or sequentially within described
   embodiments. Alternatively, a first and second agent may be administered
   simultaneously, and a third or additional agent may be administered before or after the
15 first two agents.
            The combination of agents used within the methods and pharmaceutical
   compositions described herein may have a therapeutic additive or synergistic effect on
   the condition(s) or disease(s) targeted for treatment. The combination of agents used
   within the methods or pharmaceutical compositions described herein also may reduce a
20 detrimental effect associated with at least one of the agents when administered alone or
   without the other agent(s) of the particular pharmaceutical composition. For example,
   the toxicity of side effects of one agent may be-attenuated by another agent of the
   composition, thus allowing a higher dosage, improving patient compliance, and
   improving therapeutic outcome. The additive or synergistic effects, benefits, and
25 advantages of the compositions apply to classes of therapeutic agents, either structural or
   functional classes, or to individual compounds themselves.
            Supplementary active compounds can also be incorporated into the
   compositions. In certain embodiments, an antibody or antibody portion of the invention
   is coformulated with and/or coadministered with one or more additional therapeutic
30 agents that are useful for treating TNFt-related disorder in which TNFca activity is
   detrimental. For example, an anti-hTNFa antibody, antibody portion, or other TNFa
   inhibitor of the invention may be coformulated and/or coadministered with one or more
   additional antibodies that bind other targets (e.g., antibodies that bind other cytokines or
   that bind cell surface molecules), one or more cytokines, soluble TNFa receptor (see
35 e.g., PCT Publication No. WO 94/06476) and/or one or more chemical agents that
   inhibit hTNFac production or activity (such as cyclohexane-ylidene derivatives as
   described in PCT Publication No. WO 93/19751). Furthermore, one or more antibodies
   or other TNFcL inhibitors of the invention may be used in combination with two or more

                                         116
   of the foregoing therapeutic agents. Such combination therapies may advantageously
   utilize lower dosages of the administered therapeutic agents, thus avoiding possible
   toxicities or complications associated with the various monotherapies. Specific
   therapeutic agent(s) are generally selected based on the particular TNFx-related disorder
 5 being treated, as discussed below.
            Nonlimiting examples of therapeutic agents with which an antibody, antibody
   portion, or other TNFa inhibitor can be combined in a multiple variable dose method of
   treatment of the invention include the following: non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug(s)
   (NSAIDs); cytokine suppressive anti-inflammatory drug(s) (CSA1Ds); CDP-571/BAY
10 10-3356 (humanized anti-TNFa antibody; Celltech/Bayer); cA2/infliximab (chimeric
   anti-TNFet antibody; Centocor); 75 kdTNFR-IgG/etanercept (75 kD TNF receptor-IgG
   fusion protein; Immunex; see e.g., Arthritis & Rheumatism (1994) Vol. 37, S295; J.
   Invest. Med. (1996) Vol. 44, 235A); 55 kdTNF-IgG (55 kD TNF receptor-IgG fusion
   protein; Hoffmann-LaRoche); IDEC-CE9. 1/SB 210396 (non-depleting primatized anti
15 CD4 antibody; IDEC/SmithKline; see e.g., Arthritis & Rheumatism (1995) Vol. 38
   S185); DAB 486-IL-2 and/or DAB 389-IL-2 (IL-2 fusion proteins; Seragen; see e.g.,
   Arthritis & Rheumatism (1993) Vol. 36, 1223); Anti-Tac (humanized anti-IL-2Ra;
   Protein Design Labs/Roche); IL-4 (anti-inflammatory cytokine; DNAX/Schering); IL-10
   (SCH 52000; recombinant IL-10, anti-inflammatory cytokine; DNAX/Schering); IL-4;
20 IL-10 and/or IL-4 agonists (e.g., agonist antibodies); IL-IRA (IL-1 receptor antagonist;
   Synergen/Amgen); anakinra (Kineret*/Amgen); TNF-bp/s-TNF (soluble TNF binding
   protein; see e.g., Arthritis & Rheumatism (1996) Vol. 39, No. 9 (supplement), S284;
   Amer. J. Physiol. - Heart and CirculatoryPhysiology (1995) Vol. 268, pp. 37-42);
   R973401 (phosphodiesterase Type IV inhibitor; see e.g., Arthritis & Rheumatism (1996)
25 Vol. 39, No. 9 (supplement), S282); MK-966 (COX-2 Inhibitor; see e.g., Arthritis &
   Rheumatism (1996) Vol. 39, No. 9 (supplement), S81); Iloprost (see e.g., Arthritis &
   Rheumatism (1996) Vol. 39, No. 9 (supplement), S82); methotrexate; thalidomide (see
   e.g., Arthritis & Rheumatism (1996) Vol. 39, No. 9 (supplement), S282) and
   thalidomide-related drugs (e.g., Celgen); leflunomide (anti-inflammatory and cytokine
30 inhibitor; see e.g., Arthritis & Rheumatism (1996) Vol. 3, No. 9 (supplement), S131;
   Inflammation Research (1996) Vol. 45, pp. 103-107); tranexamic acid (inhibitor of
   plasminogen activation; see e.g., Arthritis & Rheumatism (1996) Vol. 39, No. 9
   (supplement), S284); T-614 (cytokine inhibitor; see e.g., Arthritis & Rheumatism (1996)
   Vol. 39, No. 9 (supplement), S282); prostaglandin El (see e.g., Arthritis & Rheumatism
35 (1996) Vol. 39, No. 9 (supplement), S282); Tenidap (non-steroidal anti-inflammatory
   drug; see e.g., Arthritis & Rheumatism (1996) Vol. 39, No. 9 (supplement), S280);
   Naproxen (non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug; see e.g., Neuro Report (1996) Vol. 7,
   pp. 1209-1213); Meloxicam (non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug); Ibuprofen (non-

                                          117
    steroidal anti-inflammatory drug); Piroxicam (non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug);
   Diclofenac (non-steroidal anti-inflanmnatory drug); Indomethacin (non-steroidal anti
    inflammatory drug); Sulfasalazine (see e.g., Arthritis & Rheumatism (1996) Vol. 39, No.
    9 (supplement), S28 1); Azathioprine (see e.g., Arthritis & Rheumatism (1996) Vol. 39,
 5 No. 9 (supplement), S281); ICE inhibitor (inhibitor of the enzyme interleukin-Ip
    converting enzyme); zap-70 and/or lok inhibitor (inhibitor of the tyrosine kinase zap-70
    or Ick); VEGF inhibitor and/or VEGF-R inhibitor (inhibitos of vascular endothelial cell
    growth factor or vascular endothelial cell growth factor receptor; inhibitors of
   angiogenesis); corticosteroid anti-inflammatory drugs (e.g., SB203580); TNF-convertase
10  inhibitors; anti-IL-12 antibodies; anti-IL-18 antibodies; interleukin- 11 (see e.g., Arthritis
    & Rheumatism (1996) Vol. 3, No. 9 (supplement), S296); interleukin-1 3 (see e.g.,
   Arthritis & Rheumatism (1996) Vol. 39, No. 9 (supplement), 308); interleukin-17
   inhibitors (see e.g., Arthritis & Rheumatism (1996) Vol. 39, No. 9 (supplement), S120);
   gold; penicillamine; chloroquine; hydroxychloroquine; chlorambucil; cyclosporine;
15  cyclophosphamide; total lymphoid irradiation; anti-thymocyte globulin; anti-CD4
   antibodies; CD5-toxins; orally-administered peptides and collagen; lobenzarit disodium;
   Cytokine Regulating Agents (CRAs) HP228 and HP466 (Houghten Pharmaceuticals,
   Inc.); ICAM-1 antisense phosphorothioate oligodeoxynucleotides (ISIS 2302; Isis
   Pharmaceuticals, Inc.); soluble complement receptor 1 (TP1O; T Cell Sciences, Inc.);
20 prednisone; orgotein; glycosaminoglycan polysulphate; minocycline; anti-IL2R
   antibodies; marine and botanical lipids (fish and plant seed fatty acids; see e.g., DeLuca
   et al. (1995) Rheum. Dis. Clin. North Am. 21:759-777); auranofin; phenylbutazone;
   meclofenamic acid; flufenamic acid; intravenous immune globulin; zileuton; azaribine;
   mycophenolic acid (RS-61443); tacrolimus (FK-506); sirolimus (rapamycin); amiprilose
25 (therafectin); cladribine (2-chlorodeoxyadenosine); methotrexate; antivirals; and
   immune modulating agents. Any of the above-mentioned agents can be administered in
   combination with the TNFa antibody of the invention to treat an TNFct-related disorder
   using the multiple variable dose or single dose method of treatments of the invention.
            In one embodiment, the TNFz antibody of the invention is administered in
30 combination with one of the following agents for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis
   using the multiple variable dose method of treatment of the invention: small molecule
   inhibitor of KDR (ABT-123), small molecule inhibitor of Tie-2; methotrexate;
   prednisone; celecoxib; folic acid; hydroxychloroquine sulfate; rofecoxib; etanercept;
   infliximab; anakinra (Kineret*/Amgen); leflunomide; naproxen; valdecoxib;
35 sulfasalazine; ibuprofen; methylprednisolone; meloxicam; methylprednisolone acetate;
   gold sodium thiomalate; aspirin; azathioprine; triamcinolone acetonide; propxyphene
   napsylate/apap; folate; nabumetone; diclofenac; piroxicam; etodolac; diclofenac sodium;
   oxaprozin; oxycodone hcl; hydrocodone bitartrate/apap; diclofenac sodium/misoprostol;

                                           118
      fentanyl; anakinra, human recombinant; tramadol hcl; salsalate; sulindac;
      cyanocobalamin/fa/ pyridoxine; acetaminophen; alendronate sodium; prednisolone;
      morphine sulfate; lidocaine hydrochloride; indomethacin; glucosamine
      sulfate/chondroitin; cyclosporine; sulfadiazine; amitriptyline hcl; oxycodone
  5   hcl/acetaminophen; olopatadine hcl; misoprostol; naproxen sodium; omeprazole;
      mycophenolate mofetil; cyclophosphamide; rituximab; IL-I TRAP; MRA; CTLA4-IG;
      IL-18 BP; ABT-874;.ABT-325 (anti-IL 18); anti-IL 15; BIRB-796; SCIO-469; VX-702;
      AMG-548; VX-740; Roflumilast; IC-485; CDC-801; and mesopram. In another
      embodiment, the TNFa antibody of the invention is administered using a multiple
 10   variable dose method for the treatment of a TNFc related disorder in combination with
      one of the above mentioned agents for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis. In another
      embodiment, the above-mentioned additional agents are used in combination with a
      TNFa antibody in the single dose method of treatment of the invention.
              In one embodiment, the TNFa antibody of the invention is administered using
 15  the multiple variable dose regimen in combination with one of the following agents for
     the treatment of a TNFc-related disorder in which TNFa activity is detrimental: anti
     ILI2 antibody (ABT 874); anti-IL18 antibody (ABT 325); small molecule inhibitor of
     LCK; small molecule inhibitor of COT; anti-ILl antibody; small molecule inhibitor of
     MK2; anti-CD19 antibody; small molecule inhibitor of CXCR3; small molecule
20   inhibitor of CCR5; small molecule inhibitor of CCR11 anti-E/L selectin antibody; small
     molecule inhibitor of P2X7; small molecule inhibitor of IRAK-4; small molecule agonist
     of glucocorticoid receptor; anti-C5a receptor antibody; small molecule inhibitor of CSa
     receptor; anti-CD32 antibody; and CD32 as a therapeutic protein.
              In yet another embodiment, a TNFax antibody obtained using the invention may
25   be administered in combination with an antibiotic or antiinfective agent. Antiinfective
     agents include those agents known in the art to treat viral, fungal, parasitic or bacterial
    infections. The term, "antibiotic," as used herein, refers to a chemical substance that
    inhibits the growth of, or kills, microorganisms. Encompassed by this term are
    antibiotic produced by a microorganism, as well as synthetic antibiotics (e.g., analogs)
30  known in the art. Antibiotics include, but are not limited to, clarithromycin (Biaxin*),
    ciprofloxacin (Cipro*), and metronidazole (Flagyl*).
             In another embodiment, a TNFac antibody obtained using the invention may be
    administered with an additional therapeutic agent to treat sciatica or pain. Examples of
    agents which can be used to reduce or inhibit the symptoms of sciatica or pain include
35  hydrocodone bitartrate/apap, rofecoxib, cyclobenzaprine hcl, methylprednisolone,
    naproxen, ibuprofen, oxycodone hel/acetaminophen, celecoxib, valdecoxib,
    methylprednisolone acetate, prednisone, codeine phosphate/apap, tramadol
    hcVacetaminophen, metaxalone, meloxicam, methocarbamol, lidocaine hydrochloride,

                                          119
   diclofenac sodium, gabapentin, dexamethasone, carisoprodol, ketorolac tromethamine,
   indomethacin, acetaminophen, diazepam, nabumetone, oxycodone hel, tizanidine hcl,
   diclofenac sodium/misoprostol, propoxyphene napsylate/apap, asa/oxycod/oxycodone
   ter, ibuprofen/hydrocodone bit, tramadol hcl, etodolac, propoxyphene hcl, amitriptyline
 5 hcl, carisoprodol/codeine phos/asa, morphine sulfate, multivitamins, naproxen sodium,
   orphenadrine citrate, and temazepam.
            In yet another embodiment, the TNFa-related disorder is treated with a TNFa
   antibody obtained using the invention in combination with hemodialysis.
            In another embodiment, a TNFa antibody obtained using the invention may be
10 used in combination with a drug used to treat Crohn's disease or a Crohn's-related
   disorder in the multiple variable dose regimen of the invention. Examples of therapeutic
   agents which can be used to treat Crohn's include mesalamine, prednisone, azathioprine,
   mercaptopurine, infliximab, budesonide, sulfasalazine, methylprednisolone sod succ,
   diphenoxylate/atrop sulf, loperamide hydrochloride, methotrexate, omeprazole, folate,
15 ciprofloxacin/ dextrose-water, hydrocodone bitartrate/apap, tetracycline hydrochloride,
   fluocinonide, metronidazole, thimerosal/boric acid, hyoscyamine sulfate,
   cholestyramine/sucrose, ciprofloxacin hydrochloride, meperidine hydrochloride,
   midazolam hydrochloride, oxycodone hcl/acetaminophen, promethazine hydrochloride,
   sodium phosphate, sulfamethoxazole/trimethoprim, celecoxib, polycarbophil,
20 propoxyphene napsylate, hydrocortisone, multivitamins, balsalazide disodium, codeine
   phosphate/apap, colesevelam hcl, cyanocobalamin, folic acid, levofloxacin, natalizumab,
   methylprednisolone, interferon-ganna, and sargramostim (GM-CSF). In one
   embodiment, methotrexate is administered for the treatment of Crohn's disease at a dose
   of 2.5 mg to 30 mg per week.
25          In another embodiment, a TNFa antibody is administered in combination with an
   additional therapeutic agent to treat asthma in the multiple variable dose regimen of the
   invention. Examples of agents which can be used to reduce or inhibit the symptoms of
   asthma include the following: albuterol; salmeterol/fluticasone; sodium; fluticasone
   propionate; budesonide; prednisone; salmeterol xinafoate; levalbuterol hcl;
30 sulfate/ipratropium; prednisolone sodium phosphate; triamcinolone acetonide;
   beclomethasone dipropionate; ipratropium bromide; Azithromycin; pirbuterol acetate;
   prednisolone; theophylline anhydrous; zafirlukast; methylprednisolone sod succ;
   clarithromycin; formoterol fumarate; influenza virus vaccine; methylprednisolone;
   trihydrate; allergy injection; cromolyn sodium; cefprozil; fexofenadine hydrochloride;
35 flunisolide/menthol; levofloxacin; amoxicillin/clavulanate, inhaler assist device,
   guaifenesin, dexamethasone sod phosphate; moxifloxacin hcl; hyclate; guaifenesin/d
   methorphan; gatifloxacin; pephedrine/cod/chlorphenir; cetirizine hydrochloride;
   mometasone furoate; salmeterol xinafoate; benzonatate; cephalexin; pe/ hydrocodone/

                                           120
     chlorphenir; cetirizine hcl/pseudoephed; phenylephrine/cod/ promethazine; codeine/
     promethazine; flunisolide; dexamethasone; guaifenesin/ pseudoephedrine;
     chlorpheniranine/hydrocodone; nedocromil sodium; terbutaline sulfate; epinephrine and
     methylprednisolone, metaproterenol sulfate.
  5            In another embodiment, the TNFct antibody of the invention is administered in
     combination with an additional therapeutic agent to treat COPD. Examples of agents
     which can be used to reduce or inhibit the symptoms of COPD include, albuterol
     sulfate/ipratropium; ipratropium bromide; salmeterol/fluticasone; albuterol; salmeterol;
     xinafoate; fluticasone propionate; prednisone; theophylline anhydrous; levofloxacin;
 10  methylprednisolone sod succ; montelukast sodium; budesonide; formoterol fumarate;
     triamcinolone acetonide; guaifenesin; azithromycin; beclomethasone; dipropionate;
     levalbuterol hcl; flunisolide; sodium; trihydrate; gatifloxacin; zafirlukast; furoate;
     amoxicillin/clavulanate; flunisolide/menthol; chlorpheniramine/hydrocodone;
     metaproterenol sulfate; methylprednisolone; ephedrine/cod/chlorphenir; pirbuterol
 15  acetate; -ephedrine/loratadine; terbutaline sulfate; tiotropium bromide;(R,R)-formoterol;
     TgAAT; Cilomilast and Roflumilast
              In another embodiment, the TNFx antibody of the. invention is administered in
     combination with an additional therapeutic agent to treat IPF. Examples of agents which
     can be used to reduce or inhibit the symptoms of IPF include prednisone; azathioprine;
20   albuterol; colchicines; sulfate; digoxin; gamma interferon; methylprednisolone sod succ;
     furosemide; lisinopril; nitroglycerin; spironolactone; cyclophosphamide; ipratropium
    bromide; actinomycin d; alteplase; fluticasone propionate; levofloxacin; metaproterenol
     sulfate; morphine sulfate; oxycodone hcl; potassium chloride; triamcinolone acetonide;
    tacrolimus anhydrous; calcium; interferon-alpha; methotrexate; mycophenolate mofetil.
25            In one embodiment of the invention, a TNFa antibody is administered in
    combination with an agent which is commonly used to treat spondyloarthropathies.
    Examples of such agents include nonsteroidal, anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), COX
    2 inhibitors, including Celebrex*, Vioxx*, and Bextra", aand etoricoxib. Physiotherapy
    is also commonly used to treat spondyloarthropathies, usually in conjunction with non
30  steoidal inflammatory drugs.
             in another embodiment, the TNFa antibody of the invention may be
    administered in combination with an additional therapeutic agent to treat ankylosing
    spondylitis. Examples of agents which can be used to reduce or inhibit the symptoms of
    ankylosing spondylitis include ibuprofen, diclofenac and misoprostol, naproxen,
35  meloxicam, indomethacin, diclofenac, celecoxib, rofecoxib, sulfasalazine, prednisone,
    methotrexate, azathioprine, minocyclin, prednisone, etanercept, and infliximab.
             In another embodiment, the TNFac antibody of the invention is administered in
    combination with an additional therapeutic agent to treat psoriatic arthritis. Examples of

                                          121
   agents which can be used to reduce or inhibit the symptoms of psoriatic arthritis include
   methotrexate; etanercept; rofecoxib; celecoxib; folic acid; sulfasalazine; naproxen;
   leflunomide; methylprednisolone acetate; indomethacin; hydroxychloroquine sulfate;
   sulindac; prednisone; betamethasone diprop augmented; infliximab; methotrexate;
 5 folate; triamcinolone acetonide; diclofenac; dimethylsulfoxide; piroxicam; diclofenac
   sodium; ketoprofen; meloxicam; prednisone; methylprednisolone; nabumetone; tolmetin
   sodium; calcipotriene; cyclosporine; diclofenac; sodium/misoprostol; fluocinonide;
   glucosamine sulfate; gold sodium thiomalate; hydrocodone; bitartrate/apap; ibuprofen;
   risedronate sodium; sulfadiazine; thioguanine; valdecoxib; alefacept; and efalizumab.
10          In one embodiment the TNFa inhibitor is administered following an initial
   procedure for treating coronary heart disease in the multiple variable dose regimen of the
   invention. Examples of such procedures include, but are not limited to coronary artery
   bypass grafting (CABG) and Percutaneous transluminal coronary balloon angioplasty
   (PTCA) or angioplasty. In one embodiment, the TNFa inhibitor is administered in order
15 to prevent stenosis from re-occurring. In another embodiment of the invention, the
   TNFa inhibitor is administered in order to prevent or treat restenosis. The invention
   also provides a method of treatment, wherein the TNFa inhibitor is administered prior
   to, in conjunction with, or following the insertion of a stent in the artery of a subject
   receiving a procedure for treating coronary heart disease. In one embodiment the stent is
20 administered following CABG or PTCA.
            A wide variety of stent grafts may be utilized within the context of the present
   invention, depending on the site and nature of treatment desired. Stent grafts may be,
   for example, bifurcated or tube grafts, cylindrical or tapered, self-expandable or balloon
   expandable, unibody, or, modular. Moreover, the stent graft may be adapted to release
25 the drug at only the distal ends, or along the entire body of the stent graft. The TNFa
   inhibitor of the invention can also be administered on a stent. In one embodiment, the
   TNFa antibody, including, for example, adalimnumab/D2E7/HUMIRA* is administered
   by a drug-eluting stent.
            The TNFa antibody can be administered in combination with an additional
30 therapeutic agent to treat restenosis. Examples of agents which can be used to treat or
   prevent restenosis include sirolimus, paclitaxel, everolimus, tacrolimus, ABT-578, and
   acetaminophen.
             The TNFax antibody of the invention can be administered in combination with
   an additional therapeutic agent to treat myocardial infarction. Examples of agents which
35 can be used to treat or prevent myocardial infarction include aspirin, nitroglycerin,
   metoprolol tartrate, enoxaparin sodium, heparin sodium, clopidogrel bisulfate,
   carvedilol, atenolol, morphine sulfate, metoprolol succinate, warfarin sodium, lisinopril,
   isosorbide mononitrate, digoxin, furosemide, simvastatin, ramipril, tenecteplase,

                                          122
   enalapril maleate, torsemide, retavase, losartan potassium, quinapril hel/mag carb,
   bumetanide, alteplase, enalaprilat, amiodarone hydrochloride, tirofiban hel m-hydrate,
   diltiazem hydrochloride, captopril, irbesartan, valsartan, propranolol hydrochloride,
   fosinopril sodium, lidocaine hydrochloride, eptifibatide, cefazolin sodium, atropine
 5 sulfate, aminocaproic acid, spironolactone, interferon, sotalol hydrochloride, potassium
   chloride, docusate sodium, dobutamine hel, alprazolam, pravastatin sodium, atorvastatin
   calcium, midazolam hydrochloride, meperidine hydrochloride, isosorbide dinitrate,
   epinephrine, dopamine hydrochloride, bivalirudin, rosuvastatin, ezetimibe/simvastatin,
   avasimibe, abciximab, and cariporide.
10          The TNFa antibody of the invention can be administered in combination with an
   additional therapeutic agent to treat angina. Examples of agents which can be used to
   treat or prevent angina include: aspirin; nitroglycerin; isosorbide mononitrate; atenolol;
   metoprolol succinate; metoprolol tartrate; amlodipine besylate; digoxin; dilitiazem
   hydropchloride; isosorbide dinitrate; clopidogrel bisulfate; nifedipine; atorvastatin
15 calcium; potassium chloride; simvastatin; verapamil hcl; furosemide; propranolol hcl;
   carvedilo; lisinopril; sprionolactone; hydrochlorothiazide; enalapril maleate; madolol;
   ramipril; enoxaparin sodium; heparin sodium; valsartan; sotalol hydrochloride;
   fenofibrate; ezetimibe; bumetanide; losartan potassium; lisinopril/hydrochlorothiazide;
   felodipine; captopril; and bisoprolol fumarate.
20          In one embodiment of the invention, a TNFa antibody is administered in
   combination with an agent which is commonly used to treat hepatitis C virus. Examples
   of such agents include Interferon-aplha-2a, Interferon-alpha-2b, Interferon-alpha conl,
   Interfero-aopha-nl, Pegylated interferon-alpha-2a, Pegylated interferon-alpha-2b,
   Ribavirin, Peginterferon alfa-2b and ribavirin, Ursodeoxycholic Acid, Glycyrrhizic
25 Acid, Thymalfasin, Maxamine, and VX-497.
             The TNFax antibody may be administered in combination with topical
    corticosteroids, vitamin D analogs, and topical or oral retinoids, or combinations thereof,
    for the treatment of psoriasis. In addition, the TNFa antibody may be administered in
    combination with one of the following agents for the treatment of psoriasis: small
30  molecule inhibitor of KDR (ABT-123), small molecule inhibitor of Tie-2, calcipotriene,
    clobetasol propionate, triamcinolone acetonide, halobetasol propionate, tazarotene,
    methotrexate, fluocinonide, betamethasone diprop augmented, fluocinolone, acetonide,
    acitretin, tar shampoo, betamethasone valerate, mometasone furoate, ketoconazole,
    pramoxine/fluocinolone, hydrocortisone valerate, flurandrenolide, urea, betamethasone,
35  clobetasol propionate/emoll, fluticasone propionate, azithromycin,      hydrocortisone,
    moisturizing formula, folic acid, desonide, coal tar, diflorasone diacetate, etanercept,
    folate, lactic acid, methoxsalen, hc/bismuth subgal/znox/resor, methylprednisolone
    acetate, prednisone, sunscreen, salicylic acid, halcinonide, anthralin,

                                           123
     clocortolone pivalate, coal extract, coal tar/salicylic acid, coal tar/salicylic acid/sulfur,
     desoximetasone, diazepam, emollient, pimecrolimus emollient, fluocinonide/emollient,
     mineral oil/castor oil/na lact, mineral oil/peanut oil, petroleum/isopropyl myristate,
     psoralen, salicylic acid, soap/tribromsalan, thimerosal/boric acid, celecoxib, infliximab,
  5  alefacept, efalizumab, tacrolimus, pimecrolimus, PUVA, UVB and other phototherapy,
     and sulfasalazine.
             An antibody, antibody portion, may be used in combination with other agents to
     treat skin conditions. For example, an antibody, antibody portion, or other
     TNFa inhibitor of the invention is combined with PUVA therapy. PUVA is a
 10  combination of psoralen (P) and long-wave ultraviolet radiation (UVA) that is used to
     treat many different skin conditions. The antibodies, antibody portions, or other
     TNFa inhibitors of the invention can also be combined with pimecrolimus. In another
     embodiment, the antibodies of the invention are used to treat psoriasis, wherein the
     antibodies are administered in combination with tacrolimus. In a further embodiment,
 15 tacrolimus and TNFa inhibitors are administered in combination with methotrexate
     and/or cyclosporine. In still another embodiment, the TNFa inhibitor of the invention is
     administered with excimer laser treatment for treating psoriasis.
             Nonlimiting examples of other therapeutic agents with which a TNFa antibody
    can be combined to treat a skin or nail disorder include UVA and UVB phototherapy.
20  Other nonlimiting examples which can be used in combination with a TNFa inhibitor
    include anti-IL-12 and anti-IL-18 therapeutic agents, including antibodies.
             In one embodiment, the TNFa antibody may be administered in combination
    with an additional therapeutic agent in the treatment of Behcet's disease. Additional
    therapeutic agents which can be used to treat Behcet's disease include, but are not
25  limited to, prednisone, cyclophosphamide (Cytoxan), Azathioprine (also called imuran,
    methotrexate, timethoprim/sulfamethoxazole (also called bactrim or septra) and folic
    acid.
             Any one of the above-mentioned therapeutic agents, alone or in combination
    therewith, can be administered to a subject suffering from a TNFa-related disorder in
30  which TNFa is detrimental, in combination with the TNFax antibody using a multiple
    variable dose treatment regimen of the invention. In one embodiment, any one of the
    above-mentioned therapeutic agents, alone or in combination therewith, can be
    administered to a subject suffering from rheumatoid arthritis in addition to a
    TNFa antibody to treat a TNFa-related disorder. It should be understood that the
35  additional therapeutic agents can be used in combination therapy as described above, but
    also may be used in other indications described herein wherein a beneficial effect is
    desired.

                                            124
            This invention is further illustrated by the following examples which should not
   be construed as limiting. The contents of all references, patents and published patent
   applications cited throughout this application are incorporated herein by reference
 5 EXAMPLES
   Example 1: Purification procedure for adalimumab
            In this example, a purification process for purifying a mixture of adalimumab
10 and host cell proteins (HCPs) was devised, which process is referred to as process A. In
   process A, the adalimumab-HCP mixture waas not subjected to a protein A
   chromatography step. The first column used in process A was a cation exchange resin,
   Fractogel S, to which adalimumab bound while HCP flowed through. Adalimumab was
   then eluated from the Fractogel S column in a first eluate. Next, the first eluate was
15 subjected to pH viral inactivation to obtain a virally inactivated preparation. Next, the
   virally inactivated preparation was applied to an anion ion exchange resin, a Q sepharose
   column, to which adalimumab does not bind, to thereby obtain a first flow through. The
   first flow was then applied to a hydrophobic interaction column, a phenyl sepharose
   column, to which adalimumab binds and HCP flows through, to thereby obtain a second
20 eluate. Further processing and packaging of the second eluate was performed to obtain
   the final bottled product.
            In more detail, process A comprises the following steps:
            Step 1: Fractogel S column, 100 x 20 cm (157 L), v = 175 cm/hr, Load        30 g
   protein/L resin per cycle, equilibrated with 20 mM sodium phosphate, 25 mM sodium
25 chloride. After loading of adalimnumab, the column was washed once with equilibration
   buffer and eluted with an elution buffer comprising 20 mM sodium phosphate, 150 mM
   sodium chloride to obtain the first eluate;
            Step 2: Delipid filtration;
            Step 3: Ultrafiltration;
30          Step 4: pH inactivation at pH 3.5 for 1 hour; after inactivation was complete,
   pH was adjusted to 6.8 to 7.5, the filter train was washed with two volumes of 50 mM
   trolamine;

                                               125
                Step 5:  Q  Sepharose FF column, 60 x 30 cm (85L), v = 150 cm/hr, Load              40 g
        protein/L resin per cycle, equilibrated an equilibration buffer comprising 25 mM
        trolamine, 40 mM sodium chloride, pH 7.6; flow through obtained;
                Step 6: Phenyl Sepharose HP column, 80 x 15 cm (75 L), v = 75 cm/hr (elute
    5   37.5 cm/hr), Load 20-40 g protein/L resin per cycle, equilibrated with an equilibriation
        buffer comprising 20 mM sodium phosphate, 1.1 M (NH ) S 04, pH 7, washed once with
                                                                       4 2
        equilibration buffer and eluted by performing a salt step-gradient to 11 mM sodium
        phosphate, 0.625 M (NH4 ) 2 SO4, pH 7.0, to thereby obtain a second eluate, with
        fractionation of product peak if load 5 35 g protein/L resin;
  10            Step 7: Viral filtration;
                Step 8: Final Ultrafiltration/Diafiltration;
                Step 9: Final Bottling.
        Further details of process A are also described in Example 2 below.
  15    Example 2: Purification of adalimumab to improve yield and decrease impurities
                Modifications were introduced to the capture and fine purification operations
                                                                                                      in
       the manufacturing process of the antibody adalimumab, namely process A described
                                                                                                     in
       Example 1 above. The modified process is referred to herein as "process B",
                                                                                            and
       includes the following overall steps: The starting material was the mixture obtained
 20    from the fermentation process using the Chinese Hamster Ovary (CHO) cell expression
       system. The mixture was first separated using cation exchange chromatography,
                                                                                                i.e., a
       Fractogel S column, where adalimumab was captured on the column (referred to as
       "capture"). The load on the Fractogel S column was
                                                                   increased due to displacement. An
       improved method of washing the Fractogel S column was used to decrease the
                                                                                              amount
 25    of host cell protein (HCP). The Fractogel S column with bound adalimumab
                                                                                           was
       washed with a plurality of washes, including an intermediate wash which was a higher
       conductivity wash comprising 45% elution buffer and 55% water for injection
                                                                                             (WFI).
       Following capture and washing, adalimumab was eluted from the Fractogel
                                                                                          S column
       and the eluate subjected to anion exchange chromatography, i.e., a Q
                                                                                   Sepharose column.
30    Prior to running the first adalimumab eluate over the anion exchange column,
                                                                                            the eluate
      was virally inactivated using an improved method based on pH and conductivity.
                                                                                                The
      adalimumab preparation was collected in the flow-through of the anion column,
                                                                                               and was
      subsequently separated further according to hydrophobic interaction
                                                                                  chromatography,
      i.e., phenyl sepharose column. The eluate from the phenyl sepharose column
                                                                                           was the
35    further processed for viral filtration, final ultrafiltration, and final bottling
                                                                                        according to
      standard methods in the art.

                                             126
             Process B is an improved purification method for achieving an antibody
   preparation having a reduced level of HCP and procathepsin L. The processes described
   herein were performed using a 6000 L volume, however, it should be noted that the
   modifications described in process B may be used with any volume. A comparison
 5 between the modifications of process A versus process B is provided in Table 5
   (modifications in process B are highlighted in bold):
   Table 5: Comparison of process A and process B
10
   Unit operation                 Process A                            Process B
   Fractogel S column             100 x 20 cm (157 L)                  100 x 20 cm (157 L)
                                  v = 175 crn/hr                       v = 175 cm/hr
                                  Load s 30 g protein/L per cycle      Load < 35 g proteinlL per cycle
                                  Wash 1= equilibration buffer         Wash 1 = equilibration buffer
                                                                            Wash 2= 45% elution
                                  Elution = elution buffer                  buffer: 55% WFI
                                                                       Elution = elution buffer
   Delipid filtration             There are no changes to this processing step.
   Ultrafiltration                There are no changes to this processing step.
   pH Inactivation                After inactivation complete,         After inactivation complete,
                                  adjust pH to 6.8 - 7.5               adjust pH to 7.8 - 8.2
                                  Wash filter train with 2 volumes     Wash filter train with
                                  of 50 mM trolamine                   approximately 2.5 volumes of
                                                                       WFIto achieve conductivity in
                                                                       the range of 3.9 - 5.2 mS/cm
   Q Sepharose FF column          60 x 30 cm (85 L)                    60 x 30 cm (85 L)
                                  v = 150 cm/hr                        v = 150 cm/hr
                                  Load s 40 g protein/L resin per      Load s40 g protein/L resin per
                                  cycle                                cycle
   Phenyl Sepharose HP column     80 x 15 cm (75 L)                     80 x 15 cm (75 L)
                                  v = 75 cm/hr (elute 37.5 cm/hr)      v =75 cm/hr (elute 37.5 cm/hr)
                                  Load 20 - 40 g protein/L resin per   Load 20 - 40 g protein/L resin per
                                  cycle with fractionation of          cycle with no fractionation of
                                  product peak if load - 35 g/L        product peak if load 35 g/L
                                  resin                                resin
   Viral Filtration               There are no changes to this processing step.
   Final ultrafiltration/         There are no changes to this processing step.
   diafiltration
   Final bottling                 There are no changes to this processing step.
   The modifications to the various steps in process B are described in more detail below:
   Cation chromatography
15            The primary recovery and capture operations of process B comprise depth
   filtration, Fractogel S0  3 cation exchange chromatography (Fractogel S), the latter of

                                           127
     which serves to capture adalimumab from the clarified harvest and reduce process
     related impurities (e.g., CHO host cell and medium impurities). A 100 cm diameter x
     20 cm long column (bed volume 157 L) was used for this operation. The column was
     packed with Fractogel S resin (EM Industries, Hawthorne, NY) and the asymmetry and
  5  Height of an Equivalent Theoretical Plate (HETP) are measured to determine the quality
     of the packing. The column was then sanitized with 1.0 M NaOH for 1 hour, and stored
     in 0.1 M NaOH until ready for use.
              Cation exchange chromatography can be affected by protein loading, ionic
     strength (controlled by filtered harvest dilution), pH and linear velocity. Protein loading
 10  can affect selectivity, resolution (purity) and yield. Ionic strength (controlled by load
     dilution) and pH of the load sample can affect binding capacity, selectivity, resolution
     and yield. Linear velocity may affect mass transport properties, potentially resulting in
     decreased binding and resolution at very high flow rates and axial dispersion at very low
     flow rates.
 15           The maximum load to the Fractogel S column was increased to 35 g protein per
     liter resin. The cation column was equilibrated with 20 mM sodium phosphate, 25 mM
     NaCl, pH 7. Following equilibration, the column is loaded with 35 g protein/L resin
     of diluted depth filtrate. One part depth filtrate was diluted with approximately 1.3 parts
     of water to reduce the conductivity to approximately 6.1 mS/cm. The column was then
20  washed to baseline with equilibration buffer followed by a wash with 9 mM sodium
    phosphate, 68 mM NaCl, pH 7 (equivalent to 45% elution buffer, 55% WTI). The
    product was eluted from the column in a single fraction with 20 mM sodium phosphate,
     150 mM NaCl, pH 7 (elution buffer). The product pool is collected from 10% full-scale
    deflection of the product peak A 28 0 on both the leading and trailing edges. The column
25  was cycled as necessary to process the crude adalimumab. The Fractogel S eluates from
    each column cycle were pooled into the same collection tank. Between each cycle, the
    column was regenerated with 25 mM sodium phosphate, 1.0 M NaCl, pH 7.
              Studies performed at laboratory scale demonstrated that efficient recovery of
    product and reduction in HCP can be achieved at higher load ranges than the previously
30  established Acceptable Operating Range (AOR) of 15 to 30 g protein/L resin. Analysis
    of adalimumab breakthrough versus column load indicates that the calculated 5%
    breakthrough occurs at 38 g/L resin at pH 7. Therefore, a revised AOR of 5 35 g
    protein/L resin was established for the Fractogel S chromatography step. In sum, the
    load limit was also increased to 35 grams protein per liter of resin to increase process
35  capacity.
             In another set of experiments with the Fractogel resin, the effect of pH on
    adalimumab breakthrough versus column load was examined. In particular, a product
    breakthrough curve was used to determine the resin dynamic binding capacity under

                                             128
     defined loading conditions. Table 6 below summarizes the recovery data for the
     Fractogel loading capacity study at the previously described pH 7 conditions. Recovery
     percentage at 10 g/L was normalized to 100%.
  5
                  Table 6        Recovery data for Fractogel loading capacity study at pH 7
                  Loading capacity         AYF16G          AYF17G         Average
                         (g/L)           recovery (%)    recovery (%)   recovery (%)
                          10                 100             100             100
                          15                  99              99              99
                          20                  98              98              98
                          25                  99              97              98
                          30                  98              96              97
                          40                  95              95              95
                          50                  93              88              91
                  Fractogel step yield L50%, BR-068.
              The results at pH 7 show greater than 90% adalimumab recovery was observed
     for loading conditions of less than 50 g adalimumab per liter of Fractogel resin. The
 10  adalimumab breakthough was plotted versus loading capacity to generate a theoretical
    breakthrough curve. At pH 7, the theoretical 10% breakthrough was found to be at 54 g
     adalimrnumab per liter of Fractogel resin. Also at pH7, the theoretical 5% breakthrough
    was found to be at 38 g adalimumab per liter of Fractogel resin, confirming the results
    described above.
 15          A similar study was carried out as described above except that the load and the
    first wash pH conditions were adjusted to pH 5. The cation column was equilibrated
    with 24 mM citric acid and 51 mM sodium phosphate, dibasic, pH 5. Following
    equilibration, the column was loaded with up to 80 g protein/L resin of diluted depth
    filtrate. The cell culture harvest was pH adjusted to 5.0 with 3M acidic acid prior to the
20  depth filtration. One part depth filtrate was diluted with approximately the same volume
    of water to reduce the conductivity to approximately 8 to 10 mS/cm. Again, the
    adalimumab breakthough was plotted versus loading capacity to generate a theoretical
    breakthrough curve. Under the studied conditions, the theoretical 10% breakthrough
    was found to be at approximately 74 g adalimumab per liter of Fractogel resin. The
25  theoretical 5% breakthrough was found to be at approximately 73 g adalimumab per liter
    of Fractogel resin. Due to the character of the cation exchange of the resin, lowering the
    pH of the chromatography conditions significantly increased adalimumab dynamic
    binding capacity. Comparing the breakthrough curves at pH 5 and pH 7, the binding
    between adalimumab molecule and the Fractogel resin was observed to be much
30  stronger at lower pH. It was also found that with the higher loading dynamic capacity at
    pH 5, better HCP clearance was achieved. Table 7 below summarizes the data for the

                                           129
   Fractogel loading capacity study vs. the HCP present in the eluate at the newly tested pH
   5 conditions. The data clearly indicate that under the tested conditions, HCP
   displacement by adalimumab had occurred.
 5               Table 7 HCP Present in Fractogel Eluate at Different Loading Capacities at
                              pH 5
                                                       HCP (ng
                                 Loading capacity      HCP/mg
                                        (gIL)       adalimumab)
                                         15              6102
                                         20              6782
                                         25              5767
                                         30              5167
                                         40              3983
                                         60              3207
            Since the analysis of adalimumab breakthrough versus column load at pH 5
   indicated that the calculated 5% breakthrough occurs at 73 g/L resin, a revised AOR of s;
10 70 g protein/L resin can be established for the Fractogel S chromatography step at pH 5.
   In sum, the load limit, which previously was increased to 35 grams protein per liter of
   resin at pH 7 (as described above), can be further increased to 70 grams protein per liter
   of resin by lowering of the pH to 5.
15 Intermediatewash
            To further reduce the amount of impurities in the adalimumab preparation, an
    intermediate wash step was performed prior to adalimumab elution from the cation
    column (see Table 8 below). This additional wash was adjusted relative to the
    conductivity of the elution buffer, and helped to improve clearance of HCPs. The
20  insertion of an intermediate wash step prior to elution reduced the amount of HCP eluted
    with adalimumab by over 60% compared to process A. Parameters investigated
    included the blend of elution buffer with water used in the wash (% elution buffer),
    conductivity, pH, wash volume, flow rate and resin age. The optimum wash consists of
    a blend of 45% elution buffer (20 mM sodium phosphate, 150 mM sodium chloride, pH
25  7) and 55% water. Table 8 presents data comparing the level of HCP in the Fractogel S
    eluate with and without the additional wash. Fractogel S eluate samples were assayed
    for HCP and compared with HCP levels in the eluate from a pilot-scale Fractogel S
    process, which incorporated a higher load and the wash step. The pilot-scale data
     indicates that the addition of the second wash step significantly improves the clearance
30   of HCP by the Fractogel S step.

                                                 130
      Table 8: HCP levels in Fractogel S eluate with and without pre-elution wash step at
      laboratory scale
                                                      Column Load                 .
                       Sample                          g protein/L        Step yield         HCP (nglmg
                                                          resin               (%)           adalimumab)
      Lot A no 2"d wash                                     25                 96              19410
      Lot B no 2nd washa                                    25                 96              22992
      Lot C no 2nd wash                                     25                 93              21931
      Lot D no 2 "dwash                                     25                 97              20037
      6000 L loadb, pilot-scale" with 2 nd                  30
      wash step                                                                95               4914
     aFractogel S eluate sample was taken from the indicated 6000 L lot and analyzed for HCP content
     bLoad consisted of a blend of filtered harvest
                                                    from various lots
  5  'Pilot-scale column size is 10 (D) x 21 (L) cm; 2nd wash buffer: 45% elution buffer (20 mM sodium
       phosphate, 150 mM sodium chloride, pH 7.2), 55% water for injection.
               Typical elution profiles for the Fractogel S chromatography step for each process
     are provided in Figure 1. Process B includes the above-mentioned intermediate
 10  additional wash step prior to elution, thus the leading edge of the elution peak is sharper
    with less early-eluting species detected than that of the previous process. In sum, an
     intermediate wash step, just prior to the elution of adalimumab, was introduced to the
    Fractogel S step to improve clearance of process-related impurities, such as HCPs.
15    Viral inactivation
               The low pH inactivation step of process B provides a margin of safety by
    inactivating potential undetected enveloped viruses that may be present in the delipid
    filtrate. The viral-inactivated pool is subsequently pH-neutralized and filtered to remove
    particulates and minimize bioburden. The quality of the adalimumab during low pH
20  virus inactivation may be affected by pH and the duration of the low pH incubation.
    Virus inactivation is dependent on these same parameters, and it may be affected by the
    protein concentration, which may reduce inactivation at high concentrations. The
    minimum incubation time at low pH was increased from 15 minutes to 60 minutes.
    Analysis of manufacturing samples taken before and after the low pH step confirmed
25  that adalimumab can be safely held at pH 3.5 for 1 hour without compromising its
    ability to protect murine L929 cells against the cytotoxic effects of tumor necrosis factor
    (TNF).
               Following inactivation, the pH and conductivity of the viral-inactivated eluate
    were adjusted in accordance with the equilibration buffer of the following column, e.g.,
30  Q Sepharose column.         The pH was adjusted to 7.8 - 8.2, with a target pH of 8.0. In sum,
    the pH and conductivity of the viral-inactivated pool, which serves as the Q Sepharose
    FF load, was adjusted to match to the pH and conductivity of the Q Sepharose

                                            131
     equilibration buffer.
    Anion chromatography
              The anionic column, i.e.,Q Sepharose, step serves to reduce process-related
  5  impurities such as HCP, specifically including procathepsin L, as well as DNA and
     insulin. A 60 cm diameter x 30 cm long column (bed volume 85 L) was used for
     Q Sepharose FF chromatography. The column was packed with Q Sepharose FF resin
     (Amersham Pharmacia, Piscataway, NJ) and asymmetry and HETP were measured to
     determine the quality of the packing. The column was then sanitized with 1.0 M NaOH
 10  for 1 hour, and stored in 25 mM sodium phosphate, 20% isopropanol until ready for use.
              Equilibration of the resin was accomplished with 25 mM trolamine, 40 mM
    NaCl, pH 8 (equilibration buffer). The maximum protein loading for this step was
     < 40 g protein/L of resin per cycle. Process-related impurities adsorbed to the resin, and
    adalimumab flowed through the column. The diluted, filtered, virus-inactivated material
 15 was typically processed in two cycles of approximately equal amounts; additional cycles
    may be required to process all available material. Loading and elution were performed
    at 150 cm/hr, and the column flow-through is collected when the A 2go rises above 2%
     full scale. The column was then washed with equilibration buffer and the wash was
     collected until the A 280 returns to 5% full scale. The wash is pooled with the flow
20  through and is designated Q Sepharose FTW. Between cycles, the column was
    regenerated with 25 mM sodium phosphate, 1.0 M NaCl, pH 7, and then equilibrated
    with equilibration buffer.
             Anion exchange chromatography operated in flow-through mode can be affected
    by protein loading, ionic strength (conductivity, which may be controlled by dilution of
25  the low pH inactivation filtrate), pH and linear velocity. Protein loading can affect
    selectivity and yield. Ionic strength and pH of the load sample can affect binding
    capacity and selectivity. Linear velocity may affect mass transport properties,
    potentially resulting in decreased binding of process related impurities at very high flow
    rates and axial dispersion at very low flow rates. New load conductivity and pH ranges
30  have been established based on laboratory studies
             Laboratory studies indicated that reduction of HCP by the Q Sepharose FF step
    could be enhanced by alterations to the loading conditions. Parameters investigated
    included the load pH, conductivity and grams of protein loaded per L of resin.
    Adjustment of the load conductivity and pH to match that of the column equilibration
35  buffer (5 mS/cm, pH 8), and limiting the load 40 g adalimumab/L resin result in
    improved clearance of HCP and procathepsin L. Table 9 presents laboratory-scale data
    showing the reduction in HCP under process A (pH 7.7, conductivity 6.65 mS/cm) and
    the improved process conditions of pH 8 and conductivity of 5 mS/cm of process B.

                                                 132
        Limiting the load on the Q Sepharose column to 40 g/L of resin provides a four-fold
        improvement in clearance of HCP and the additional modifications to the pH and
        conductivity of the load yield a three-fold further improvement in HCP reduction.
   5    Table 9: HCP reduction under varying O Sepharose FF load conditions
                    Load amount                           Load HCP       Flow-through     Fold reduction
                  G proteintL resin  Load conditions        (g/ing        RCP (ng/mg      Fd    r     en
                                                         adalimumab)     adalimumab)          in HCP
                         80         pH 7.7, 6.65 mS/cm        726             452                 1.6
                         40         pH 7.7, 6.65 mS/cm        726             114                6.4
                         40         pH 8.1, 5.08 mS/cm        726            37.6               19.3
                 The HCP-reduced flowthrough comprising adalimumab obtained from the ion
       exchange column was subsequently used in hydrophobic interaction chromatography.
 10    Hydrophobic interactionchromatography
                The objective of the Phenyl Sepharose HP chromatography column was to
       further reduce process-related and product-related impurities such as host
                                                                                        cell proteins
       and aggregates, respectively. An 80 cm diameter x 15 cm long column (bed
                                                                                           volume
      75 L) was used for this operation. The column was packed with Phenyl Sepharose
                                                                                                    HP
 15   resin (Amersham Pharmacia, Piscataway, NJ) and asymmetry and HETP
                                                                                       were measured
      to determine the quality of the packing. The column was then sanitized with 1.0
                                                                                                 M
      NaOH for 1 hour, and stored in 25 mM Na Phosphate, 20% isopropanol until
                                                                                            ready for
      use.
                Equilibration of the resin was accomplished with 20 mM
                                                                            sodium phosphate,
20    1.1 M (NH 4 ) 2 SO 4 , pH 7.0 (equilibration buffer). The protein loading
                                                                                  for this step was 20
      to 40 g protein per L of resin, and two or three chromatography cycles were
                                                                                          required to
      process the entire quantity of available material. The column operated at
                                                                                       a linear
      velocity of 75 cm/hr. The Q Sepharose flowthrough was diluted with an
                                                                                      equal volume
      of 40 mM sodium phosphate, 2.2 M (NH 4 ) 2 SO4, pH 7.0. Following loading
                                                                                          the column
25   was washed with 20 mM sodium phosphate, 1.1 M (NH ) SO , pH 7.0.
                                                                   4 2  4            The product
     was eluted by performing a salt step-gradient to 11 mM sodium phosphate,
                                                                                         0.625 M
     (NH 4 ) 2 SO 4 , pH 7.0. Product was collected as the absorbance rises above 50% UV full
     scale and continued until absorbance decreases to less than 20% UV
                                                                                full scale as the
     peak tails.
30             The process modifications to the Fractogel S and Q Sepharose FF
     chromatography steps significantly reduced the burden of process-related
                                                                                      impurity
     reduction placed upon the Phenyl Sepharose HP step. As a consequence
                                                                                     of the changes,

                                                  133
      the major function of the Phenyl Sepharose HP step was the removal of adalimumab
      aggregates.
              Process A required that at column loads of 35 g protein/L resin or higher, product
     was collected as the UV absorbance rises above 50% full scale deflection and continues
  5  until absorbance decreases to <20% full scale. At column loadings below 35 g
     protein/L resin, the first 0.15 column volume of the eluate peak was excluded from the
     collected pool to improve HCP clearance at this step. The incorporation of the
     modifications at the previous chromatography steps in process B alleviated the need for
     the peak exclusion at loads below 35 g protein/L resin since the incoming HCP load was
 10  significantly reduced. The reduction in the HCP load allowed expansion of the load
     range without fractionation. The effect of this change permits processing of all material
     from each fermentation by the recovery process without Phenyl Sepharose HP peak
     cutting
            - The linear flow rate for Phenyl Sepharose operation was investigated at
15   laboratory scale. The adalimumab load was held constant and flow rates of 25 to 125
     cm/hr were examined. The flow rate did affect product recovery but had no impact on
     product quality as assessed by SEC (% monomer) and clearance of HCP (Table 10),
    justifying the broader range of 25 to 125 cm/hr. The target flow rates for the Phenyl
     Sepharose manufacturing operation remain as previously established at 75 cm/hr and
20   37.5 cm/hr for the elution phase.
    Table 10: Phenyl sepharose flow rate evaluation
    Flow rate (cm/hr)     Load (g protein/L          % Recovery' % Monomerb     % HCP clearance
                                resin)
             25                  32.5                    69         99.98             92.1
             75                  32.5                    84         99.98             92.2
            125                  32.5                    84         99.98             91.8
25  * Phenyl Sepharose step yield action limit: >: 48%
    bPhenyl Sepharose step SEC action limit: : 98% monomer
             The acceptable operating ranges for Phenyl Sepharose HP chromatography were
    investigated. Hydrophobic interaction chromatography can be affected by protein
30  loading, ionic strength (conductivity), and linear velocity. Protein loading can affect
    selectivity and yield. Ionic strength of the load sample can affect binding capacity,
    selectivity and resolution. Linear velocity may affect mass transport properties,
    potentially resulting in decreased resolution of process related impurities at very high
    flow rates and axial dispersion at very low flow rates. The linear flow rate range is

                                              134
        expanded to 25 to 125 cm/hr. The other acceptable operating ranges for Phenyl
        Sepharose chromatography are unchanged from those previously established for the
        6000 L process and are listed in Table 10.
                Comparable performance of the fine purification operations in both processes
   5    was demonstrated. Changes introduced as part of improved process B include:
        adjustment of the pH and conductivity of the viral-inactivated pool, which serves as the
        Q Sepharose FF load, to match the Q Sepharose equilibration buffer, limiting the Q
        Sepharose load to less than 40 g protein per liter resin, and elimination of the
       requirement to fractionate the Phenyl Sepharose eluate at loads of less than 35 g protein
 10    per liter resin. The quality of intermediates, as determined by SEC and WCX-10 assays,
       were comparable between the two processes.
                Typical elution profiles for the Q Sepharose FF and Phenyl Sepharose HP*
       chromatography steps for each process are provided in Figures 2 and 3, respectively.
       The  Q  Sepharose flow-through comprising adalimumab and was collected. The load
 15    volume amounts for process B were higher than the previous process, due to the greater
       loads at the previous chromatography step (Fractogel S) and increased dilution volume;
       therefore the total flow-through volume is correspondingly greater.
               In sum, a requirement to fractionate the Phenyl Sepharose eluate for loads less
      than 35 g protein per liter resin was eliminated due to improvements in impurity
 20   clearance resulting from the changes in the Fractogel S and Q Sepharose operations. In
      addition, the linear flow rate range was expanded to 25 to 125 cm/hr.
      Reduction in HCP
               Process B included modifications to the Fractogel S and Q Sepharose
      chromatography steps which were implemented to improve control of process-related
25    impurities such as host cell protein (HCP) and, specifically, procathepsin L. A study
      was undertaken to assess the impact of process B on the removal of these impurities.
      The capacity of the Fractogel S, Q Sepharose FF and Phenyl Sepharose HP columns to
     remove CHO host cell proteins was evaluated at manufacturing scale. Host cell protein
      levels were determined by HCP ELISA (see Example 3) and data are expressed in ng
30   HCP/mg adalimumab.
               Representative samples were taken during process B and assayed for HCP. The
     results are presented in Table 11. Changes to the chromatography steps represent more
     rigorous chromatographic conditions which would be expected to improve the HCP
     clearance. Delipid filtration results reported are those from process A. The delipid
35   filtration step was unchanged process B, therefore the HCP reduction factor achieved at
     this step is included in the overall performance of process B. On average, process B
                                                                                            is
     able to remove greater than 4.35 logo of HCP. Both Fractogel S chromatography and Q
     Sepharose FF chromatography cleared more than 1 loglo HCP, and the depth filtration

                                               135
   step also cleared more then 1 logo.         Additional HCP was removed by the Phenyl
   Sepharose column, however, the clearance value was not calculable because both the
   load and eluate HCP levels were below the level of quantitation. The drug substance
   produced by process B exhibited HCP levels below the limit of quantitation (LOQ) for
 5 the three validation lots.
   Table 11: Host cell protein clearance
     Chromatography step                            HCP in            HCP out              Lo 10 reduction
                                                    (ng/mg ada)       (ng/mg ada)          factor
     Fractogel SO 3- column (average)"                                                     1.71
     Lot D                                           1,035,101         18,199              1.75
     Lot E                                          747,748            16,079              1.67
     Lot F                                           1,350,632        26,772               1.70
     Delipid Filtration (average)b                                                         1.58
     Lot                                             18,174            1,466               1.11
     Lot H                                          34,369            805                  1.63
     Lot I                                          38,453            570                  1.83
     Lot .                                          25,774            466                  1.74
      Q Seph. FF column (average)"                                                         1.07
                                                    269.98            Cycle A: 28.41       0.98
     Lot D
                                                                      Cycle B: 30.54       0.95
                                                    313.44            Cycle A: 28.94       1.03
     Lot E
                                                                      Cycle B: 29.82       1.02
                                                    391.96            Cycle A: 22.51       1.24
     Lot F
                                                                      Cycle B: 26.52       1.17
     Phenyl Seph. HP column (average)"                                                     N/A
     Lot D                                          <40.44            <9.08                N/A
     Lot E                                          < 43.56           <8.65                N/A
     Lot F                                          <44.65            <9.22                N/A
     Total Clearance                                                                       4.35
     'Data  from process
     b Data from process
                         B
                         A
     *Log 10 reduction factors less than 1 are not included in the overall clearance calculation
            Overall improvements in HCP and procathepsin L levels are also shown in
10 Tables 12 and 13, respectively, where process B showed significant decreases in both
   levels in comparison to process A.
   ProcathepsinL process mapping
            Process intermediate samples were taken at several steps and analyzed for
15 fluorescence generated by activation of procathepsin L to cathepsin L. Results are
   shown in Table 14 below for process B and process A samples. The Fractogel S load
   and Phenyl Sepharose load and eluate samples could not be evaluated due to interference
   with the method. The Q Sepharose FF chromatography step has the capability of
   removing greater than 90% of the detectable enzyme in the load. The                   Q Sepharose

                                                   136
        flow-through and wash (FTW) from the improved process contains approximately 50%
        less activatable procathepsin L than the Q Sepharose FTW from the 6000 L previous
        process. Reductions also occur between the Fractogel S and the Q Sepharose steps
        during which the delipid filtration, concentration by ultrafiltration, low pH viral
   5    inactivation and depth filtration operations are performed.
        Table 14:Procathepsin L mapping of the process A and process B
              Sample                            Process B (RFU/s/mg)
                                    Lot S               Lot U               Lot T          Average &       Reduction
                                                                                                SD          Factor"
       Fractogel Eluate Pool          46                  59                  57              54 t 7          N/A
       Q Sepharose load               32                  31                  39              34 * 4           1.6
       Q Sepharose FTW               2.2                 3.6                 2.3            2.7* 0.8          13.4
       Drug substance                2.6                 3.0                 2.7            2.8 : 0.2        None
                                                      Process A
                                    Lot V               Lot W               Lot X          Average *      Reduction
                                                                                                SD          Factor
       Fractogel Eluate Pool          96                 83                  96               91 [ 7          N/A
       Q Sepharose load              46                  67                  58              57: 10            1.6
       Q Sepharose FTW               5.8                 5.7                 5.0            5.5 : 0.5         10.5
       Drug substance                4.2                 3.9                 3.8            4.0  0.2          1.4
      * The reduction factor is calculated using pre-rounded data for each
                                                                           lot and the average of the three runs is
         reported.
 10
      The comparison of procathepsin L reduction in processes A and B is displayed
                                                                                                        in Figure
      4. Process B exhibits lower procathepsin L levels than process A at
                                                                                          each intermediate
      step, indicating that the modifications to the Fractogel S and Q Sepharose
      chromatography steps improve process performance with respect to removal
                                                                                                      of this
 15   impurity.
     HCPprocess mapping
                Process intermediate samples were collected from both processes A and
                                                                                                         B, and
     analyzed for HCP content. This study was performed in order to directly
                                                                                                 compare the
20   two processes for HCP reduction. The results of the HCP analysis are
                                                                                            shown in Table
      15. Significant removal of HCP occurs at the Fractogel S and Q Sepharose
                                                                                                    steps in both
     processes but process B exhibits improved HCP clearance across
                                                                                      both of these steps.
     The improved Fractogel S step, which includes the second wash step
                                                                                          prior to product
     elution, has a reduction factor of 96 (1.96 logo) whereas the same step
                                                                                             in the previous
25   process yields a reduction factor of 48 (1.67 logoo. Both processes
                                                                                        exhibit a reduction
     factor of 50 accomplished by the delipid filtration, performed between
                                                                                            the Fractogel S
     and Q Sepharose chromatography steps. The Q Sepharose operation
                                                                                          in process B is
     performed with the load adjusted to the pH and conductivity of the
                                                                                       column equilibration

                                                  137
     buffer. The HCP reduction factor achieved by the improved Q Sepharose step is four
     fold greater than that demonstrated by the previous process (21 vs. 5). Further reduction
     occurs across the Phenyl Sepharose step such that the level of HCP is below the level of
     quantitation in the improved process UF/DF pool and drug substance; the previous drug
  5  substance samples exhibit very low but measurable levels of HCP.
     Table 15: Host cell protein mapping of processes A and B
             Sample                  Process B lots (ng HCP/mg adalimumab)
                                  Lot D                 Lot E            Lot F          Average *     Reduction
                                                                                             SD         Factor
     Filtered Harvest           1,330,000              813,000         2,130,000        1,420,000 =      N/A
                                                                                          661,000
     Fractogel Eluate Pool        12,400                19,200           15,300           15,600+         96
                                                                                           3370
     Q Sepharoseload               554                   220              371           382 167           50
     Q Sepharose FTW               18.5                   20               17            18.5 + .S        21
     Drug substances               <5                    <5               <5                <5           >4
                                     Process A lots (ng HCP/mg adalimumab)
                                  Lot V                 Lot W            Lot X          Average &     Reduction
                                                                                            SD          Factor
     Filtered Harvest           2,030,000             2,520,000        1,870,000        2,140,000h       N/A
                                                                                          339,000
    Fractogel Eluate Pool        40,400                 40,700           56,400          45,800+          48
                                                                                           9160
    Q Sepharose load               536                   1347             1248          1040 442          50
    Q Sepharose FTW                 98                   213              283            198*93            5
    Drug substance                  5                     8                11              8-3            24
    a All improved lot samples for this step were below the 5 ng/mg limit of quantitation. A value of 5 ng/mg
      was used to estimate the reduction factor.
10
    The comparison of HCP reduction in process B versus process A, plotted on a loglo
    scale, is displayed in Figure 5. Process B exhibits lower HCP levels than process A at
    each intermediate step, including a 10-fold difference following the Q Sepharose step,
    indicating that the modifications to the Fractogel S and Q Sepharose chromatography
15  steps improve process performance with respect to removal of HCPs.
    Impact of the capture andfinepurificationoperationson processingcapacity
               Two changes were introduced to increase the processing capacity of the capture
    and fine purification operations in process B. The first was the increase in the allowable
20  load limit on the Fractogel S column from 30 g protein/L resin to 35 g protein/L resin at
    pH 7 and from 30 g protein/L resin to 70 g protein/L resin at pH 5. These changes
    allowed all of the filtered harvest material from the bioreactor to be loaded onto the
    Fractogel S column. The average load onto the Fractogel S column was approximately
    9% higher in the.iniproved process (at pH 7) than the load in the previous process (Table

                                                 138
         16).
                 The second change was the removal of the requirement to fractionate the Phenyl
        Sepharose product peak with loads of less than 35 g protein/L resin. The fractionation
        resulted in discarding a significant portion of the product peak in order to adequately
   5    control host cell proteins. The changes implemented at the Fractogel S and Q Sepharose
        steps to control host cell proteins and procathepsin L levels rendered the fractionation
                                                                                                         of
        the Phenyl Sepharose peak unnecessary. This change allowed running three cycles
                                                                                                      of
        the Phenyl Sepharose column at a lower load range for process B resulting in a 12%
        increase in total load on the Phenyl Sepharose column compared with process
                                                                                               A.
 10              Table 16 compares the loads on the Fractogel S and the Phenyl Sepharose
        columns as well as the final drug substance amounts from the improved and
                                                                                             previous
       processes. The improved process exhibits an approximate 8% overall increase
                                                                                                in
        adalimumab yield for the three validation batches.
 15
       Table 16: Comparison of Fractogel S and Phenyl Senharose column loads
                                                                                           and drug
        substance yields in processes A and B
  Process                       Fractogel S load"      Phenyl Sepharose load"       Drug substance yield"
  Process A (n= 15)             7641 & 138             5947E28                      5290: 158
  Process B (n = 3)             8375 +293              6752   38                    5748k 75
 Increase inprocessB            9%                      12%                         8%
20 'Load and yield are expressed in grams of protein
                The improved method of purifying the antibody adalimumab improved
                                                                                               clearance
      of HCP and procathepsin L (relative to process A), resulting in reduced levels
                                                                                              in the
      drug substance. More specifically, in a comparison of drug substance lot
                                                                                         release data,
25    the following levels of HCP and procathepsin L were determined, as described
                                                                                               in Table
       17.
      Table17: Comparison of HCP and procathepsin L in processes A and B
           Assay         Lot release      Process    Process      Process    Process         Process B
                        specification        A.1        A.2         A.3        A.4
          Host cell      <70 nglmg        46+15         + 3b      22   19     9+4
                                                      6                                          <5
      protein (HCP_)___
      Procathepsin L       < 5%            18+ 8        3.85c    65   23"    < 3. 6 1d         < 3.3e

                                                     139
   aProcathepsin        L specification does not apply to process A. 1; values provided for information only.
   b 14 of 17      lots below LOQ limit of 5 ng/mg; a value of 5 ng/mg used to calculate average
                                                                                                    and standard
   deviation.
   c LOQ ranged from 3.30 to 3.85.
 5 dLOQ ranged from 3.29 to 3.61.
   *LOQ was 3.3 (LOQ= Limit of quantitation)
                 Extended characterization of the drug substance produced using the process B
   was performed. Drug substance from the three validation lots was analyzed and
10 compared with an adalimumab reference standard, using the assays including amino acid
   analysis, circular dichroism, analytical centrifugation, QSTAR LC-mass spectrometry,
   non-reduced tryptic and LYS C peptide mapping with MS detection, free sulfhydryl
   assay, tryptic peptide mapping with MS detection, immunoblot, L929 bioassay, and
   BIAcore. All batches of drug substance manufactured by the improved process met the
15 acceptance criteria and are comparable to the reference standard.
                 In sum, the performance of the process B has been demonstrated to be
   comparable to the process A at fermentation, capture and fine purification stages.
   Process B, however, exhibits improved capability with regard to reduction of host cell
   protein and procathepsin L, as well as an increase in capacity with regard to adalimumab
20 yield. Drug substance release testing and extended characterization studies further
   demonstrate the comparability of the adalimumab drug substance produced by process B
   with that produced by process A.

                                                   1-40
                                                                                                          C
                                                                                   3.-C9~
                                                                                       CDDU
                                                                               0,
                                                                       1-   a          ,        CDi
                                                                C)i
                                                                              ~        .j
                                                                0)
                                                                    ~CDN
                                              a             UR          CC-4I          --     g0
                                 ~~
                                go -           ~     qt
                          0,                m
           0)1       r0))                                                                                  ~
                                                        CCD
                                0)                 N                   1
      In   0o         m                                           L    a   C>          m       m      )L
      C)    i                                               C,
                                                                Sl
      a.              M. -v                        C-              -c
                                co        a0;                                          z     I'Dq   'L,
                                      t                               04
                         C)                                 CD
         U)          co                                     moZ           ~
                 coC m           LDI                         o        Lgo6.
                                                            U)
P-4 2                                                       0         CI
                     N                                   U)
    oo               0L          Cl                                         O
                                                                           v)                C
               co                                        CD
                                                     00
      CL       0                              P  0 Z                                       -.    2
                             a)                                                                  LL      LLC
                                      EL                        Tj     a. z*      E       V32 L
      ID .000                                                    0     0) CD      L
                              d)                                                          S       0
                                     C)E BOC                                                             Co
                                                                      CLC

                                            1-41
                                                                    LO
                                                                    CDU)          c,6    _:
                                                     C..J
                                                      C')            C)       n    > C   C
                                                      m                                          MC
                                                          V)      cs                             m0
                                                                  CDi      Ci~          CD       D
                                                                  cm
                                                                             q   ~ cj   coj
                                                          C     o       -c  0                         ii0
                                                          u     U')         C )D
                                                     CIn        U')      U.       I-      o
                                                            *                                         CW)
                                                     ID
                                                                  a.)
                                                                    CD                  CD
                                                               LO.                                    w~0
                          CIT                                       CD
                                                                                 VL' V7 Cl-.Lo
                                              cc                    CD                                Uo
                                                                                                      CD
               C)         CD                  '-j
                                              W     a
           ol      <0     c                          04c
               0)i        C>       )                           c'J ..         )
                    CDD
              C\iC     ~ C            P:      QU,0N                             .00
                                                               U0)
                                                    C3D       O)C
                                                                                             --      ao
                   Ct-         L C4 , LO                  Om                         co co     N
              CDR              IQ     O                       c!0.)
       CD)                        EE                      M0I
     -_                                                   0        0
    0o
      CD~~U                          LL
                                         fa 0
                                                                   LoN ~        )DC             d   .
                                                              MCLL                  U)
                        0
              -a 0D         -.u). c -aw                      C                                =     C
        co                     C0OO =             C           E 0)                          Cc~      0D
      Co
ci)                C)R            O                                         o       5

                                           142
    Example 3: Assay for HCP detection
             The following example describes an HCP ELISA method for the determination
    of the residual Host Cell Protein (HCP) concentration in adalimumab drug substance
    samples obtained from process B, described in Example 2. Enzyme Linked
  5 Immunosorbent Assay (ELISA) was used to sandwich the sample comprising the HCP
    antigen between two layers of specific antibodies. This was followed by the blocking of
    non-specific sites with Casein. The sample was then incubated during which time the
    antigen molecules were captured by the first antibody (coating antibody Cygnus goat
    anti-CHO (Chinese Hamster Ovary), affinity purified). A second antibody (anti-CHO
 10 host cell protein biotinylated) was then added which fixed to the antigen (CHO host cell
    proteins). Importantly, the second antibody specific to the HCPs was produced from the
    cells used to generate the antibody. Neutravidin HRP-conjugated was added which
    binds to the biotinylated anti-CHO host cell protein. This was followed by the addition
    of K blue substrate. The chromogenic substrate was hydrolyzed by the bound enzyme
 15 conjugated antibody, producing a blue color. The reaction was stopped with 2 M
    H 3PO 4 , changing color to yellow. Color intensity was directly proportional to the
    amount of antigen bound to the well. The HCP ELISA showed improvements for
    determining HCP levels in an antibody preparation than standard ELISA methods.
20  Example 4: Cathepsin L kinetic assay
             A kinetic assay was developed and used to quantify cathepsin L activity for
    adalimumab manufacturing process intermediates of process B (see Example 2). The
    weak anion exchange HPLC assay (WAX-10 HPLC) used to measure HCP for drug
    substance release testing could not be used for this study since the variable protein
25  content and buffer composition of the in-process samples may interfere with the method.
    The inability to directly quantitate procathepsin L in the process intermediates led to the
    development of an assay which measured the activity of cathepsin L by a kinetic
    fluorescence method. The kinetic assay, i.e., a high throughput fluorescent enzymatic
    method, has less interference for in-process samples than standard methods used to
30  detect procathepsin L levels. The kinetic assay also provides a means for examining the
    reliability of the process for purifying adalimumab in-process samples described in
    Examples 1 and 2.
             This method forces the activation of the procathepsin L in the samples to
    cathepsin L by addition of dextran sulfate. A fluorogenic peptide substrate, Z-leucine
35  arginine-AMC (7-amino-4-methyl coumarin), was used to detect cathepsin L activity at
    excitation 380 n and emission 460 nm. The level of fluorescence activity in the
    samples was determined by the slope of the fluorogenic signal generated by the cleavage
    of the substrate per second. The range of this fluorescent activity assay was determined

                                             143
        to be between 0.0144 to 1.04 RFU/sec. This activity was correlated to the amount of
        adalimumab present in the test sample; hence results are report as RFU/sec/mg
        adalimumab. Optimum activation conditions to achieve the maximum fluorescent signal
       were developed for each process intermediate sample using JMP software derived DOE
   5    experiments. The recommended activation conditions for this assay are summarized in
       Table 16.
       Materials and methods
            Preparationof 500 mMDTT stock solution
 10         7.7 grams of Ultrapure DTT (Invitrogen) was added into 90 mL of Milli-Q water and
       mixed until homogenous. The solution was topped up the solution with Milli-Q Water
       to a final volume of 100 mL. This 500 mM DTT stock was then aliquoted and stored at
       800C.
 15        Preparationof the activationbuffer (25 mMNaOAc, 5 mMDTT, 1 mM EDTA
           pH 5.5)
           3.44 grams of sodium acetate (J.T. Baker), 0.38 grams of EDTA (J.T. Baker) and
       950 mL Milli-Q water were added to a proper container and mixed until completely
      homogonous. The pH of the buffer was adjusted to 5.5 with 1 M HCI, and brought
                                                                                              up to
 20   the final volume of 1 L in a volumetric flask. The buffer was filtered through a 0.22
                                                                                               pim
      filter and stored at 40C prior to use. 500 ILL of DTT stock solution (500 mM described
      above) was added to 50 mL of buffer to a final concentration of 5 mM at the day of use.
           Preparationofdextran sulfate + 0.1% sodium azide stock solution
25         1 gram of dextran sulfate (EM Science) was added into 90 mL of Milli-Q water and
      mixed by until homogenous. 100 pL sodium azide was added from a 1 mg/mL stock
      solution (J.T. Baker). The solution was topped up to a final volume of 100 mL. This
      solution was then aliquoted and stored at -80*C.
30   Kinetic assay set-up
               Samples to be tested for cathepsin L activity require activation of the proenzyme
      (procathepsin L) to active enzyme (cathepsin L). This was accomplished by diluting
     samples in activation buffer, adding dextran sulfate and incubating at 37"C for an
     appropriate time (details discussed in below). After activation, samples can be stored
                                                                                                at
35   -80*C and remain stable. Optimal activation conditions determined for in-process
     samples are shown in Table 18.
     Table 18:     Summary of refined activation conditions for in-process samples

                                          144
                          Sample            Dilution      Dextran sulfate    Activation
                                                             (pg/mL)          time (hr)
                      Fractogel eluate        700              0.035              6
                    Q Sepharose Load          700              0.035              6
                    Q Sepharose FTW            70              0.035             18
                       Phenyl eluate          200              0.035              6
                      Drug substance          600              0.035              6
            On the day of testing, an aliquot of the test samples were removed from -80*C
   and thawed in an ice bath. Once the test samples have thawed, (2x) 100 pL of each
   sample was loaded into a black polystyrene micro titer plate (Corning cat# 3650). An
 5 aliquot of the Z-L-R-AMC Fluorogenic Peptide Substrate VII (R&D Systems) was
   thawed while protected from light. The substrate was diluted 1:1350 with the acetate
   buffer to a final concentration of 20 gM. 100 yL of the fluorogenic substrate was added
   to each well. The plate was then mixed for -1 second and incubated at 37*C for
   3 minutes, while protected from light. The plate was then placed in the fluorescent plate
10 reader that has been set to 37*C. The excitation wavelength was set to 380 nm and the
   emission was set to 460 nm. The fluorescence of each well was measured every
   3 minutes for 30 minutes and the rate of substrate hydrolysis was calculated. The
   results, which take into consideration the dilution factor, were then divided by the
   adalimumab concentration for comparison. Results using this kinetic assay are
15 described above in Example 2.
            Adalimumab concentration was determined by A 2 80 using an extinction
   coefficient of 1.39. Adalimumab quantitation was performed on study samples using
   Poros A analysis. Sample dilutions were applied to achieve readings within the standard
   curve. A Shimadzu HPLC system was configured with a Poros A InmunoDetection
20 sensor cartridge (Applied Biosystems, Foster City, CA). The column was maintained at
   ambient temperature. The system was run at 2 mL/minute. The auto sampler tray
   temperature was set at 4 0 C. Absorbance was monitored at 280 n. Buffer A was IX
   PBS; buffer B was 0.1 M acetic acid and 150 mM sodium chloride. The sample was
   injected and Adalimumab was eluted using 100% buffer B.
25
            The turnover of fluorogenic peptide using Fractogel load (sse first eluate
   Example 2; process B) from material obtained from CHO cell expression of adalimumab
   is shown in Figure 6. This sample was diluted to 200, 50 and 20 Ag/mL of adalimumab
   with activation buffer using 0.5 pg/mL dextran sulfate, and incubated at 37"C for
30 16 hours. This lot at 50 and 20 pg/mL showed linear responses. The R 2 values are
    -0.99. However, the lot at 200 pg/mL shows nonlinear substrate turnover towards the

                                           145
    end of the 30 minutes measurement time, resulting in a lower R 2 value of 0.91.
   Therefore, careful sample dilution is critical to maintain linear hydrolysis rates.
            Assays were also performed to confirm that the kinetic assay using cathepsin
    activity to determine the level of procathepsin A were compliant with ICH guidelines,
 5 including precision analysis, including repeatbility precision. Furthermore, it was
    deteremined that the type of container, e.g., glass and polypropylene vials influences of
   cathepsin L activity. The results suggest that higher levels of cathepsin L are achieved
   when incubating in a polypropylene container as opposed to a glass container. In both
   cases, the addition of 0.5 pg/mL dextran sulfate was required for procathepsin L
10 activation at pH 5.5.
            In sum, the precision of the kinetic assay demonstrates that this assay is valid for
   detection of potential cathepsin L activity of adalimumab process intermediates.
            This application is related to U.S. Patent Nos. 6,090,382, 6,258,562, and
15 6,509,015. This application is also related to U.S. Patent Application Serial No.
   09/801,185, filed March 7, 2001; U.S. Patent Application Serial No. 10/302,356, filed
   November 22, 2002; U.S. Patent Application Serial No. 10/163657, filed June 5, 2002;
   and U.S. Patent Application Serial No. 10/133715, filed April 26, 2002; U.S. Patent
   Application Serial No. 10/222140, filed August 16, 2002; U.S. Patent Application Serial
20 No. 10/693233, filed October 24, 2003; U.S. Patent Application Serial No. 10/622932,
   filed July 18, 2003; U.S. Patent Application Serial No. 10/623039, filed July 18, 2003;
   U.S. Patent Application Serial No. 10/623076, filed July 18, 2003; U.S. Patent
   Application Serial No. 10/623065, filed July 18, 2003; U.S. Patent Application Serial
   No. 10/622928, filed July 18, 2003; U.S. Patent Application Serial No. 10/623075, filed
25 July 18, 2003; U.S. Patent Application Serial No. 10/623035, filed July 18, 2003; U.S.
   Patent Application Serial No. 10/622683, filed July 18, 2003; U.S. Patent Application
   Serial No. 10/622205, filed July 18, 2003; U.S. Patent Application Serial No.
    10/622210, filed July 18, 2003; and U.S. Patent Application Serial No. 10/623318, filed
   July 18, 2003. This application is also related to PCT/US05/12007, filed April 11, 2005.
30 The entire contents of each of these patents and patent applications are hereby
   incorporated herein by reference.
   EQUIVALENTS
            Those skilled in the art will recognize, or be able to ascertain using no more than
   routine experimentation, many equivalents to the specific embodiments of the invention
35 described herein. Such equivalents are intended to be encompassed by the following
   claims. The contents of all references, patents and published patent applications cited
   throughout this application are incorporated herein by reference.

                                          146
   What is claimed:
            1.       A method for producing a host cell protein-(HCP) reduced antibody
   preparation from a mixture comprising an antibody and at least one HCP, the method
   comprising:
 5          (a) applying the mixture to a first ion exchange resin in an equilibration buffer,
   wherein greater than 30 grams of antibody per liter of resin are applied;
            (b) washing HCP from the resin with a plurality of wash steps; and
            (c) eluting the antibody from the resin with an elution buffer to form a first
   eluate,
10          such that the HCP-reduced antibody preparation is obtained.
            2.       The method of claim 1, wherein about 35-70 grams of antibody per liter
   of resin are applied.
15          3.       The method of claim 1, wherein about 70 grams of antibody per liter of
   resin are applied.
            4.       The method of claim 1, wherein the mixture comprising an antibody and
   at least one HCP is not subjected to protein A capture prior to applying the mixture to
20 the first ion exchange resin.
            5.      The method of claim 1, wherein the plurality of wash steps comprises at
   least a first wash and a second wash, wherein there is an increase in conductivity from
   the first wash to the second wash.
25
            6.      The method of claim 5, wherein the first wash is with equilibration buffer
   and the second wash is with a mixture of elution buffer and water.
            7.      The method of claim 6, wherein the mixture of elution buffer and water
30 comprises about 40-50% elution buffer and about 50-60% water.
            8.       The method of claim 7, wherein the mixture of elution buffer and water
   comprises about 45% elution buffer and about 55% water.

                                           147
             9.      The method of claim 8, wherein the elation buffer comprises'20 mM
     sodium phosphate and 150 mM sodium chloride.
  5           10.     The method of claim 1, which is carried out at pH 7.
              11.    The method of claim 1, which is carried at a pH between about pH 5 and
     about pH 7.
 10          12.     The method of claim 1 which is carried out at pH 5.
             13.     The method of claim 1, wherein the first ion exchange resin is a cation
     exchange resin.
 15          14.     The method of claim 13, wherein the cation exchange resin is formed into
     a column and the mixture comprising the antibody and at least one HCP is applied to the
     column.
             15.     The method of claim 14, wherein the cation exchange resin comprises a
20   synthetic methacrylate based polymeric resin attached to a sulfonate group.
             16.     The method of claim 1, which further comprises subjecting the first
    eluate to a viral inactivation step.
25           17.     The method of claim 16, wherein viral inactivation is achieved by pH
    viral inactivation to form a virally-inactived preparation.
            18.     The method of claim 17, wherein the virally-inactivated preparation is
    applied to a second ion exchange resin, wherein, prior to applying the virally-inactivated
30  preparation to the second ion exchange resin, pH and conductivity of the virally
    inactivated preparation is adjusted to be substantially similar to pH and conductivity of
    the second ion exchange resin.

                                            148
                19.    The method of claim 18, wherein the pH of the second ion exchange resin
      is in a range of about pH 7.7 to about pH 8.3 and the pH of the virally-inactivated
      preparation is adjusted to be in a range of about pH 7.7 to about pH 8.3.
   5            20.   The method of claim 19, wherein the pH of the second ion exchange resin
      is about pH 8.0 and the pH of the virally-inactivated preparation is adjusted to be about
      pH 8.0.
                21.   The method of claim 18, wherein the conductivity of the second ion
  10  exchange resin is in a range of about 3.5 mS/cm to about 5.2 mS/cm and the
      conductivity of the virally-inactivated preparation is adjusted to be in a range of about
      3.5 mS/cm to about 5.2 mS/cm.
               22.    The method of claim 21, wherein the conductivity of the second ion
 15   exchange resin is about 5.0 mS/cm and the conductivity of the virally-inactivated
      preparation is adjusted to be about 5.0 mS/cm.
               23.    The method of claim 18, wherein the second ion exchange resin is an
     anion exchange resin.
 20
               24.   The method of claim 23, wherein the anion exchange resin is a     Q
     sepharose resin.
              25.    The method of claim 18, wherein the second ion exchange resin is formed
25   into a column and the virally-inactivated preparation is applied to the column such that
                                                                                                a
     first flow through is obtained.
              26.    The method of claim 25, wherein the first flow through is applied to a
     hydrophobic interaction column such that a second eluate is obtained.
30
              27.    The method of claim 26, wherein the hydrophobic interaction column is a
     phenyl sepharose column.

                                            149
            28.     The method of claim 26, wherein the first flow through applied to the
   hydrophobic interaction column comprises about 20 to about 40 grams of antibody per
   liter of hydrophobic interaction column material.
 5          29.     The method of claim 28, wherein the first flow through applied to the
   hydrophobic interaction column comprises about 30 to about 36 grams of antibody per
   liter of hydrophobic interaction column material.
            30.     The method of claim 26, wherein the second eluate is not subjected to
10 product peak fractionation.
            31.     The method of claim 1, which comprises:
            (a) applying the mixture to a cation exchange resin in an equilibration buffer,
   wherein the mixture has not been subjected to protein A capture prior to applying to the
15 cation exchange resin and wherein greater than 30 grams of antibody per liter of resin
   are applied;
            (b) washing HCP from the cation exchange resin with a plurality of wash steps;
            (c) eluting the antibody from the cation exchange resin with an elution buffer to
   form a first eluate;
20          (d) subjecting the first eluate to a viral inactivation step;
            (e) applying the virally-inactivated preparation to an anion exchange resin to
   obtain a first flow through; and
            (f) applying the first flow through to a hydrophobic interaction column such that
   a second eluate is obtained;
25          such that the HCP-reduced antibody preparation is obtained.
            32.     The method of claim 31, wherein the cation exchange resin is at pH 7 and
   about 35 grams of antibody per liter of resin are applied.
30          33.     The method of claim 31, wherein the cation exchange resin is at pH 5 and
   about 70 grams of antibody per liter of resin are applied.

                                          150
            34.     The method of claim 31, wherein the plurality of wash steps comprises
    washing the resin with a first wash using the equilibration buffer and a second wash
    using a mixture of the elution buffer and water.
  5         35.     The method of claim 34, wherein the mixture of elution buffer and water
    comprises about 40-50% elution buffer and about 50-60% water.
            36.     The method of claim 31, wherein, prior to applying the virally-inactivated
    preparation to the anion ion exchange resin, pH and conductivity of the virally
10  inactivated preparation is adjusted to be substantially similar to pH and conductivity of
    the anion exchange resin.
            37.     The method of claim 31, wherein the first eluate comprises a range of
    about 90 to about 100 fold less HCP than the mixture as determined by a HCP ELISA.
 15
            38.     The method of claim 31, wherein the first flowthrough comprises.a range
    of about 840 to about 850 fold less HCP than the first eluate as determined by a HCP
    ELISA.
20          39.     The method of claim 31, wherein the second eluate comprises a range of
    about 3 to about 5 fold less HCP than the first flowthrough as determined by a HCP
    ELISA.
            40.     The method of claim 1, which comprises:
25          (a) applying the mixture to a cation exchange resin in an equilibration buffer,
    wherein the cation exchange resin is at pH 7 and about 35 grams of antibody per liter of
    resin are applied, or the cation exchange resin is at a pH in a range of pH 5 to pH 7 and
    about 35 to about 70 grams of antibody per liter of resin are applied, or the cation
    exchange resin is at pH 5 and about 70 grams of antibody per liter of resin are applied;
30           (b) washing HCP from the cation exchange resin with wash steps comprising a
    first wash using the equilibration buffer and a second wash using a mixture of an elution
    buffer and water;

                                            151
           (c) eluting the antibody from the cation exchange resin with the elution buffer to
   form a first eluate;
           (d) subjecting the first eluate to a viral inactivation step, wherein viral
   inactivation is achieved by pH viral inactivation to form a virally-inactived preparation;
 5         (e) applying the virally-inactivated preparation to an anion exchange resin,
   wherein, prior to applying the virally-inactivated preparation to the anion ion exchange
   resin, pH and conductivity of the virally-inactivated preparation is adjusted to be
   substantially similar to pH and conductivity of the anion exchange resin, such that a first
   flow through is obtained; and
10         (f) applying the first flow through to a hydrophobic interaction column such that
   a second eluate is obtained;
           such that the HCP-reduced antibody preparation is obtained.
           41.      The method of claim 40, wherein the antibody mixture has not been
15 subjected to protein A capture prior to applying to the cation exchange resin.
            42.     The method of claim 40, wherein the mixture of elution buffer and water
   comprises about 40-50% elution buffer and about 50-60% water.
20          43.     The method of claim 40, wherein the first eluate comprises a range of
    about 90 to about 100 fold less HCP than the mixture as determined by a HCP ELISA.
            44.     The method of claim 40, wherein the first flowthrough comprises a range
    of about 840 to about 850 fold less HCP than the first eluate as determined by a HCP
25  ELISA.
            45.     The method of claim 40, wherein the second eluate comprises a range of
    about 3 to about 5 fold less HCP than the first flowthrough as determined by a HCP
    ELISA.
30
            46.     The method of any one of claims 1-45 wherein the HCP comprises.
    procathepsin L such that a procathepsin L-reduced antibody preparation is obtained.

                                         152
           47.     The method of claim 46, wherein the first eluate comprises cathepsin L
   activity ranging from between about 25 to about 60 RFU/s/mg of antibody as measured
   by a cathepsin L kinetic assay.
 5         48.     The method of claim 46, wherein the first flowthrough comprises
   cathepsin L activity rangingfrom between about 0.4 to about 4 RFU/s/mg of antibody as
   measured by a cathepsin L kinetic assay.
           49.     The method of claim 46, wherein the second eluate comprises cathepsin
10 L activity ranging from between about 0.5 to about 1.5 RFU/s/mg of antibody as
   measured by a cathepsin L kinetic assay.
           50.     A method of any one of claims 46-49, wherein the level of procathepsin
   L is reproducibly low.
15
           51.     The method of any one of claims 1-45, wherein the antibody is an anti
   tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNFa) antibody, or antigen-binding portion thereof.
           52.     The method of claim 51, wherein the anti-TNFa antibody, or antigen
20 binding portion thereof, is a humanized antibody, a chimeric antibody or a multivalent
   antibody.
           53.     The method of claim 51, wherein the anti-TNFa antibody, or antigen
   binding portion thereof, is infliximab orgolimumab.
25
           54.     The method of claim 51, wherein the anti-TNFa antibody, or antigen
   binding portion thereof, is a human antibody.
           55.     The method of claim 54, wherein the anti-TNFa antibody, or antigen
30 binding portion thereof, is an isolated human antibody that dissociates from human
   TNFc with a Kd of 1 x 10-8 M or less and a Koff rate constant of 1 x 10-3 s- 1 or less,
   both determined by surface plasmon resonance, and neutralizes human TNFL
   cytotoxicity in a standard in vitro L929 assay with an IC 5 0 of 1 x 10-7 M or less.

                                             153
              56.     The method of claim 54, wherein the anti-TNFa antibody, or antigen
     binding portion thereof, is an isolated human antibody with the following characteristics:
              a) dissociates from human TNFx. with a Koff rate constant of 1 x 10-3 s-1 or less,
  5  as determined by surface plasmon resonance;
             b) has a light chain CDR3 domain comprising the amino acid sequence of
     SEQ ID NO: 3,'or modified from SEQ ID NO: 3 by a single alanine substitution at
     position 1, 4, 5, 7 or 8 or by one to five conservative amino acid substitutions at
     positions 1, 3, 4, 6, 7, 8 and/or 9;
 10         c)    has a heavy chain CDR3 domain comprising the amino acid sequence
     of SEQ ID NO: 4, or modified from SEQ ID NO: 4 by a single alanine substitution at
     position 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 8, 9, 10 or 11 or by one to five conservative amino acid
     substitutions at positions 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 8, 9, 10, 11 and/or 12.
 15          57.     The method of claim 54, wherein the anti-TNFc antibody, or antigen
     binding portion thereof, is an isolated human antibody with a light chain variable region
     (LCVR) comprising the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 1 and a heavy chain
     variable region (HCVR) comprising the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 2
20           58.     The method of claim 54, wherein the anti-TNFx antibody, or antigen
    binding portion thereof, is adalimumab.
             59.     An antibody preparation which is substantially free of HCP as measured
    by a HCP ELISA produced using the method of any one of claims 1-45.
25
            60.      A pharmaceutical composition comprising an HCP-reduced antibody
    preparation produced using the method of any one of claims 1-45, and a
    pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.
30          61.      A pharmaceutical composition comprising an HCP-reduced antibody,
    wherein the level of HCP comprises no greater than about 70 ng of HCP per mg of
    antibody as measured by a HCP ELISA, and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.

                                          154
            62.     The pharmaceutical composition of claim 61, wherein the level of HCP
     comprises no greater than about 13 ng of HCP per mg of antibody as measured by a
    HCP ELISA.
  5         63.     The pharmaceutical composition of claim 61, wherein the level of HCP
    comprises no greater than about 5 ng of HCP per mg of antibody as measured by a HCP
    ELISA.
            64.     A composition comprising an antibody, wherein said composition has no
 10 detectable level of HCP as determined by a HCP ELISA assay.
            65.     An antibody preparation which is substantially free of procathepsin L
    produced using the method of any one of claims 1-45.
 15         66.     A pharmaceutical composition comprising a procathepsin L-reduced
    antibody preparation produced using the method of any one of claims 1-45, and a
    pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.
            67.     A pharmaceutical composition comprising an antibody a procathepsin L
20  reduced antibody and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier, wherein the level of
    procathepsin L is no greater than a cathepsin activity of about 3.0 RFU/s/mg of
    antibody.
            68.     The composition or preparation of any one of claims 59-67, wherein the
25  antibody is an anti-tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNFa) antibody, or antigen-binding
    portion thereof.
            69.     A method of treating a disorder in which TNFa activity is detrimental
    comprising administering to a human subject the composition or preparation of claim 68.
30
            70.     An article of manufacture comprising a packaging material, adalimumab,
    and a label or package insert contained within the packaging material indicating that the

                                                155
    adalimumab formulation comprises no greater than about 70 ng of HCP per mg of
    adalimumab.
            71      An article of mana cture comprising a packaging material, adalimumab,
    and a label or package insert contained within the packaging material indicating that the
:>  adalimumab formulation comprises no greater than about 13 ag of HCP per mg of
    adalimunab.
            72. An article of manufacture comprising a packaging material, adalimumab,
   and a label or package insert contained within the packaging material indicating that the
   adalimumab formulation comprises no greater than about 5 ng of HCP per mg of
   adalimumab.
           73.     An article of manufacture comprising a packaging material, adalinnasb,
   and a label orpackage inser contained within the packaging material indicating that the
   adalimumab formulation comprises no greater a level ofprocathepsin L than that
   indicated by a cathepsin L activity of about 3.0 RFU/s/mg adaliunmab.
                                    AbbVie Biotechnology Ltd
                      Patent Attorneys for the Applicant/Nominated Person
                                    SPRUSON & FERGUSON

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
                                                                                                                            <U+2701><U+2702>
<removed-date>
                                                     !" # $ %
                   &                        ' (           ##
                   (                            )**                          * +
                   (                            )**                          * +
                   ,               - ./01/ ,
                   ,                  -'(',
<removed-apn>
                   ,               - ./1 ( (
                   ,                  -'('-
                   -               &/
                   /               %23                    4 * 5                      +3 6 *3                    (
                                        /
                                   #$
                       &            *           4         2             7)
                       &           2 2              8)82                               2           92* 2                    *
               (
               3:                                    ;              *                      * #*                 *           *        )           *         2         * 62
                                                                ,                                                                                                       ,
               3:              *        62                *                      *         3       *            2           *                                      *    3            *
                                                                                                            ,                                                  &
                   )               2  *:                  *                                3 #*                             3        2 #*                  3        )       )
                                     &,                                                      (                                                     (,
                   *               2    2                 *         *            )                     *            62          #*               * *           #            *
                           ,                                                    ,,                                                       -
                   *                            *                   *        3: #                      *        )           *                    *         *        )           #*
              -,                                                         /                                                      /,                                              0
                   )           3: 62                      2         *            *         *           3                *            *       3         *            2 #*             *
                                                               0,                                                   1                                                 1,
                   * #                                                           *         3 62                 )                    3
                                                                                                                ,
                                   #$
                       &            *           4         2             7)
                       &           2 2              8)82                29             2           92* 2                    *
               (
                   ) 62                                   ) 62                   )         *                                         ) 62                      #*                *
                                                             ,                                                                                                          ,
                   *               )        *             )    *                 3         2           2        *               #                * #               3:   3:           *
                                                                                                            ,                                                  &
                   2 ;                  < 3              *: 62               *                         2 #*                          3                     )        )   *: 62
                                        &,                                                     (                                                     (,
                   *               2                      *     *:           3             *               < 3                      3:           *         2       3:       * 62
                           ,                                                          ,,                                                 -

                                                                                                                 <U+2701><U+2702>
<removed-date>
                   )                     *        #                *                    *   *       3:       3            2   3     3    *   )        *
              -,                                                        /                                            /,                           0
                   )                 ;                3            *            )   *           2    )       3:           *   2 62       *    *       3
                                                              0,                                         1                                 1,
                   2           3 62                       *        *            )       *       *    2           *        *   )     3:   * *:
                                                                                                     ,
                                             *            ) 62                  * 62            *    *
                                             ,
                               &
                               1
                               #$
<removed-apn>
                       &         *           4            2            7)
                       &       2 2               8)82                               2       92* 2                *            !$&
                               6 $
                               1
                       &       =22 >                      *    *            2
               (               &
                           *                 *        3        *                2 #*            * =22
                                                               ,
                               (
                               #$
                       &        *            4            2            7)
                       &       2 2               8)82                  29           2       92* 2                *            !$&
                               6 $
                       &       =22 >                      *    *        3
               (               (
              62               *             *            )        *            *       2       *    *           )    3: =22
                                                               ,
                               ,
                               /
                               #$
                       &         *           4            2            7)
                       &       2 2               8)82                               2       92* 2                *            !$
               (               ,
                   2           2             *            *        )                    *
                                                               ,
                               -
                                /
                               #$
                       &        *            4            2            7)
                       &       2 2               8)82                  29           2       92* 2                *            !$

                                                                                                                      <U+2701><U+2702>
<removed-date>
               (                   -
                   2                          *        *:    3                *             < 3                      3:        *           2    3:            * 62             )
                                                             ,                                                                                                   ,
                                   /
                                   #$
                       &            *         4         2            7)
<removed-apn>
                       &           2 2            8)82                              2        92* 2                    *                    !$
               (                   /
               *                   2          *                                     *        3               *        )        2
                                                             ,
                                   0
                                   ,
                                   #$
                       &             *        4         2            7)
                       &           2 2            8)82               29             2        92* 2                    *                    !$
               (                   0
               3:                  *          2 ;           < 3
                                                             ,
                                   1
                                         /
                                   #$
                       &            *         4         2            7)
                       &                 !(                          2            92* 2              *
               (                   1
               3:                                  ;             *                      * #*                 *        *        )           *      2           *
                                                             ,                                                                                                    ,
               3:              *         62             *                     *         3    *               2        *                                   *       3            *
                                                                                                         ,                                            &
                   )               2  *:                *                               3 #*                          3        2 #*               3           )       )
                                     &,                                                   (                                                  (,
                   *               2    2               *        *            )                  *               62       #*               * *        #               *
                           ,                                                    ,,                                                 -
                   *                          *                  *           3: #                *           )        *                    *      *           )           #*
              -,                                                         /                                                /,                                              0
                   )           3: 62                    2        *            *         *        3                    3        *       3          *           2 #*             *
                                                            0,                                                   1                                              1,
                   2 #                                                        *         3 62                 )                 3
                                                                                                             ,
                                   #$
                       &            *         4         2            7)
                       &                 !(            29            2            92* 2              *

                                                                                                                                     <U+2701><U+2702>
<removed-date>
               (
                           62                                   ) 62                  )         *                                             ) 62                    #*                     *
                                                                   ,                                                                                                               ,
                   *            )           *                   )    *                3         2           2        *                   #              * #               3:       3:            *
                                                                                                               ,                                                      &
                   2 ;                  < 3                 *: 62                 *                         2 #*                              3                   )       3:       *: 62
                                        &,                                                          (                                                       (,
                   *            2                               *    *:           3             *               < 3                          3:         *         2       3:        * 62
                           ,                                                               ,,                                                      -
                   )                        *           #                2 62                   *       *           3:           3            2         3     3               2     )            *
              -,                                                           /                                                             /,                                              0
                   )                    ;                   3            *    )             *       #*               )           3:           *         2 62                  *      *           3
<removed-apn>
                                                                    0,                                                       1                                                    1,
                   *            3               2               *        *            )         *           *        *               *        *         )     3:          3        *:
                                                                                                                     ,
                                                *               ) 62                  * 62                  *        *
                                                ,
                                1
                                #$
                       &          *             4               2            7)
                       &                !(                                   2            92* 2                 *                        !$&
               (
                                3               *           3            *            2 #*                  *        2
                                                                     ,
                                1
                                #$
                       &          *             4               2            7)
                       &            #                                                 2         92* 2                    *                        !$&
               (
                                3               *           3        *                2 #*                  *        2
                                                                     ,
                                  &
                                1
                                #$
                       &          *             4               2            7)
                       &        6                   (                             2         92* 2                    *                        !$&
               (                    &
                                3               *                    *                2 #*                  *        *
                                                                     ,
                                  (
                                1
                                #$
                       &          *             4               2            7)

                                                                                                               <U+2701><U+2702>
<removed-date>
                  &   6                   1                            2        92* 2                  *              !$&
              (           (
                      3           *               *       *            2 #*            *           *
                                                      ,
                        ,
                      1
                      #$
                  &     *         4               2           7)
<removed-apn>
                  &   6                   !                                2     92* 2                     *           !$&
              (           ,
                      3           *           3           *            2 #*            *           *
                                                      ,
                        -
                      1
                      #$
                  &     *         4               2           7)
                  &   6           %(                               2           92* 2               *                !$&
              (           -
                      3           *           3       *                2 #*            *           *
                                                      ,
                        /
                      1
                      #$
                  &     *         4               2           7)
                  &           ,                               2            92* 2           *                    !$&
              (           /
                      3           *           3           *            2 #*            *           *
                                                      ,
                        0
                      1
                      #$
                  &     *         4               2           7)
                  &   6               /                            2           92* 2               *                !$&
              (           0
                      3           *           3           *            2 #*            *       3
                                                      ,
                          1
                      1

                                                                                            <U+2701><U+2702>
<removed-date>
                      #$
                  &    *      4           2           7)
                  &   6           1                        2        92* 2           *             !$&
              (           1
                      3       *           *       *            2 #*         *       *
                                              ,
                      1
<removed-apn>
                      #$
                  &     *     4           2           7)
                  &   6       <                            2        92* 2           *             !$&
              (
                      3       *       3       *                2 #*         *   3
                                              ,
                      1
                      #$
                  &     *     4           2           7)
                  &   6       <                                2      92* 2             *          !$&
              (
                      3       *       3           *            2      2     *       *
                                              ,
                      1
                      #$
                  &     *     4           2           7)
                  &   6       /                        2           92* 2        *                !$&
              (
                              *       3           *            2 #*        3:       *
                                              ,
                        &
                      1
                      #$
                  &     *     4           2           7)
                  &   6                                2           92* 2        *                !$&
              (           &
                      3       *       3           *        3: #*            *       *
                                              ,

                                                                                                                <U+2701><U+2702>
<removed-date>
                                (
                              1
                              #$
                      &         *          4            2                7)
                      &       6                %(                                 2         92* 2           *             !$&
              (                   (
                              3            *                         *            2 #*          *       *
                                                                 ,
<removed-apn>
                                ,
                              1
                              #$
                      &         *          4            2                7)
                      &       6                <0                                 2         92* 2           *             !$&
              (                   ,
                              3            *        3            *           #*        #*       *       *
                                                                 ,
                                -
                              1
                              #$
                      &         *          4            2                7)
                      &                /                                      2         92* 2           *             !$&
              (                   -
                          *                *        3            *                2 #*          *       2
                                                                 ,
                                  /
                              #$
                      &        *           4            2                7)
                      &               !(            29                   2            92* 2         *               !$&
              (                   /
                  2           *            *            )            *            *         *   *       *       )    3:     3
                                                                 ,
                                  0
                              #$
                      &        *           4            2                7)
                      &       6<                            29                2         92* 2           *             !$&
              (                   0
                  2           *            *            )            *            *         *   *       *       )    3:         3
                                                                 ,

                                                                                         <U+2701><U+2702>
<removed-date>
                              1
                          #$
                      &    *      4   2                7)
                      &   6< !0       29                2           92* 2        *            !$&
              (               1
                  2       *       *   )            *            *     *      *       *   )    3:      *
                                               ,
<removed-apn>
                          &
                          #$
                      &    *      4   2                7)
                      &   6<              29                2        92* 2           *         !$&
              (           &
                  2       *       *   )            *            *     *      *       *   )    3:     3:
                                               ,
                          &
                          #$
                      &    *      4   2                7)
                      &   6<              29                2        92* 2           *         !$&
              (           &
                  2       *       *   )            *            *     * #            *   )    3:      *
                                               ,
                          &
                          #$
                      &    *      4   2                7)
                      &   6<      (   29                2           92* 2        *            !$&
              (           &
                  2       *       *   )            *            *     *      *       *   ) < 3        *
                                               ,
                          &&
                          #$
                      &    *      4   2                7)
                      &   6< %-       29                2           92* 2        *            !$&
              (           &&
                  2       * #         )            *            *     *      *       *   )     )      *

                                                                                                                               <U+2702><U+2701><U+2702>
<removed-date>
                                                          ,
                                &(
                                #$
                          &      *     4         2                7)
                          &     & '<             29                   2           92* 2                    *                           !$&
                  (             &(
                      2         *      *         )            *           *            2               *       *               )           )        *
<removed-apn>
                                                          ,
                                &,
                                #$
                          &      *     4         2                7)
                          &     6< '!                     29                  2            92* 2                       *                       !$&
               (                &,
              62                *      *         )            *           *            2               *       *               )       3:       3
                                                          ,
                                &-
                                &
                                !
                          &       *    4         2                7)
                          &     2 2        8)82                                    2               92* 2                       *
               (     &-
               2 2     2 2                   2            2                        2                                                   2                2 2   2 2     2   -
              2 2                                    22               2                2           2 2 22                  2           2              2 2      22222 2
                 222                         22         2                               2                          2               2               22 2             2       0
                     2                       2     2                                   2 2 2                     2                         2      2 2 2         2 2         (
               22 2                         22    2 2                                   222                    2 22                             2     2 2               2 &
                 2 22                          222 22 2                                                                                                                   &
                                &/
                                &-&
                                !
                          &       * 4            2                7)
                          &     2 2        8)82                   29               2               92* 2                       *
                  (             &/
                  2              2                        2                                    2                               2 2    2                           2 2     -
                                                           2                  2                        2       2           2  2     2                              22
                      2         22                        22                                   2           2           2      2 2 2       2                   2 2 2 2         0
                              2         2                                 2            2           2                   2 2 2 2 2      22 22                           2       (
                              222 2 2 2                           2       2                2           2   2                2 2 2                             222         &
                  2             2 2                                                        2           2                   22     2                           2           &-
              2                                                                                                                                                           &-&

