ABSTRACT
The hinge mounting area of a cabinet can be damaged by rough handling of the
cabinet door. The present invention provides a cover for protecting and
reinforcing a hinge base plate 11 mounted to an internal wall 5 of a cabinet. The
hinge base plate 11 is releasably connected to a hinge arm pivotally connected to
a hinge cup 7 mounted to the cabinet door. The hinge base plate 11 includes a
pair of mounting flanges separated by a centrally located portion upon which the
hinge arm 13 is seated. Each mounting flange has at least one hole having a
fastener therein securing the hinge base plate 11 to the internal wall. The cover
includes:
        a plate-like member 17 having at least a pair of arms,
        a plurality of apertures provided in the plate-like member 17 through which
fasteners 23 may be inserted to attach and secure the cover to the internal wall of
the cabinet,
       wherein the pair of arms is spaced such that in use the cover lies over the
mounting flanges.
FIG. 5

             GIU7
25
                  2j
 25 Figure 3

                                          1
A PROTECTIVE COVER FOR A CABINET HINGE
FIELD OF THE INVENTION
[0001]      The present invention relates to a protective cover for a cabinet hinge.
More particularly, the present invention relates to a cover for protecting and
reinforcing a hinge base plate of a cabinet hinge which is mounted to an internal
wall of a cabinet.
BACKGROUND TO THE INVENTION
[0002]      Built-in cabinets commonly found in domestic kitchens, bathrooms and
the like typically have hinged cabinet doors. Hinges commonly used for such
cabinets generally include some form of hinge base plate which is mounted to an
internal wall panel of the cabinet and a hinge cup which is mounted to a
corresponding cabinet door. The hinge cup is pivotally connected to a hinge arm
which is releasably connected to the hinge base plate. The hinge arm can be
quickly and easily released from the hinge base plate to facilitate removal of the
cabinet door. The hinge arm in most instances also includes various adjustment
screws which can be rotated to finely adjust the position of the cabinet door with
respect to the cabinet.
[0003]      A problem with existing cabinetry is that rough handling of the cabinet
doors, whether accidental or intentional, can result in damage to the cabinet
hinges and internal wall panel of the cabinet where the hinges are mounted. In
this regard, damage to the hinge area of the cabinet's wall panel, for example
when the fasteners holding the hinge base plate are stripped out of the wall
panel, can result in the panel being no longer fit to securely mount the hinge. In
such instances costly repairs or complete replacement of the cabinet may be
required.

                                            2
[0004]      It would be desirable to provide a device which protects and/or
reinforces the hinge base plate such that the likelihood of the hinge mounting
area of the cabinet being damaged by rough handling of the cabinet door is
minimised.
SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
[0005]      In accordance with the present invention, there is provided a cover for
protecting and reinforcing a hinge base plate mounted to an internal wall of a
cabinet, the hinge base plate being releasably connected to a hinge arm pivotally
connected to a hinge cup mounted to a cabinet door, the hinge base plate
including a pair of mounting flanges separated by a centrally located portion upon
which the hinge arm is seated, each mounting flange having at least one hole
having a fastener therein securing the hinge base plate to the internal wall, the
cover including:
            a plate-like member having at least a pair of arms,
            a plurality of apertures provided in the plate-like member through which
fasteners may be inserted to attach and secure the cover to the internal wall of
the cabinet,
            wherein the pair of arms is spaced such that in use the cover lies over
the mounting flanges.
[0006]      In a preferred embodiment the plate-like member of the cover is of
unitary construction.
[0007]      Each arm of the pair of arms preferably includes at least a stepped
portion which is sized and shaped to accommodate a respective mounting flange
of the hinge base plate.
[0008]      Each stepped portion preferably includes one or more openings
positioned to provide in use access to the fasteners securing the hinge base plate
to the internal wall.

                                             3
[0009]      The plurality of apertures are preferably positioned outside of the
stepped portions.
[0010]      The pair of arms may be arranged to provide the plate-like member
with a substantially C-shaped configuration.
[0011]      In a preferred embodiment, the pair of arms is spaced such that
access to the centrally located portion and hinge arm remains unimpeded by the
cover.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0012]      It will be convenient to further describe the invention with respect to the
accompanying drawings which illustrate preferred embodiments of the cover
according to the present invention. Other embodiments of the invention are
possible, and consequently, the particularity of the accompanying drawings is not
to be understood as superseding the generality of the preceding description of the
invention. The preferred embodiments will be described with reference to the
following figures in which:
[0013]      Figure 1 is a top plan view of a cabinet hinge, in accordance with the
prior art, connecting a cabinet door to an internal wall panel of a cabinet;
[0014]      Figure 2 is a top plan view of a hinge base plate of the cabinet hinge
shown in Figure 1, mounted on the internal wall panel of the cabinet;
[0015]      Figure 3 is a top plan view of a cover in accordance with an
embodiment of the invention;
[0016]      Figure 4 is a perspective bottom view of the cover illustrated in Figure
3;

                                             4
[0017]       Figure 5 is a top plan view of the cover illustrated in Figure 3 mounted
on an internal wall of the cabinet and positioned over the hinge base plate of the
cabinet hinge illustrated in Figures 1 and 2, and
[0018]       Figure 6 is a perspective top view of a cover in accordance with
another embodiment of the invention.
DESCRIPTION OF PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS
[0019]       With reference to Figures 1 and 2 of the accompanying drawings, there
is illustrated a cabinet hinge 1, in accordance with the prior art, connecting a
cabinet door 3 to an internal wall panel 5 of a cabinet. The cabinet hinge 1
includes a hinge cup 7 which is mounted by threaded fasteners to the cabinet
door 3. In this regard, the hinge cup 7 seats in a circular recess 9 provided in the
cabinet door 3.
[0020]       The cabinet hinge 1 further includes a hinge base plate 11 which is
secured to the internal wall panel 5 of the cabinet by threaded fasteners, for
example screws (not illustrated in Figures 1 and 2). The hinge base plate 11
includes a pair of mounting flanges 27 which are separated by a centrally located
portion 29. With reference to Figure 1, the cabinet hinge 1 further includes a
hinge arm 13 which is pivotally connected to the hinge cup 7. The hinge arm 13
is releasably seated on the centrally located portion 29 of the hinge base plate 11.
The hinge arm 13 is thereby able to be easily and quickly released from the hinge
base plate 11 to facilitate removal of the cabinet door 3.
[0021]       With reference to Figures 3 to 5 of the accompanying drawings, there
is illustrated a cover 15 in accordance with an embodiment of the invention for
protecting and reinforcing the hinge base plate 11 of the cabinet hinge 1. The
cover 15 includes a plate-like member 17 which is preferably of unitary
construction. In this particular embodiment, the plate-like member 17 includes
only a pair of arms 19 which are arranged to provide the plate-like member 17

                                           5
with a substantially C-shaped configuration. However, in other embodiments (not
illustrated), the plate-like member 17 may include more than two arms 19
arranged to provide the plate-like member 17 with other configurations. For
example, three arms may be arranged to provide the plate-like member 17 with a
substantially E-shaped configuration. The cover 15 further includes a plurality of
apertures 21 provided in the plate-like member through which cover fasteners 23
are preferably provided in order to secure the cover 15 to the internal wall panel 5
of the cabinet.
[0022]       As best shown in Figure 4, each arm 19 of the plate-like member 17
preferably includes at least one stepped portion 25 which is sized and shaped to
accommodate the mounting flanges 27 of the hinge base plate 11 underneath the
cover 17 when the cover 15 is secured to the internal wall panel 5.     In Figure 5,
the cover 15 illustrated in Figures 3 and 4 is shown mounted over the hinge base
plate 11 of the cabinet hinge 1. The pair of arms 19 is spaced apart to provide a
gap having a sufficient width to enable the cover 15 to lie over the hinge base
plate 11 such that only the mounting flanges 27 are covered.
[0023]       The apertures 21 in the plate-like member 17 are generally evenly
distributed in a region around the outside of the stepped portions 25 with the
plate-like member 17 housing the mounting flanges 27 of the hinge base plate 11
underneath the cover 15 within the stepped portions 25. Preferably, access to
the centrally located portion 29 of the hinge base plate 11 and overlying hinge
arm 13 remains unimpeded by the cover 15. This advantageously ensures that
the hinge arm 13 positioned over the centrally located portion 29 of the hinge
base plate 11 remains releasable from the hinge base plate 11 when desired
without the cover 15 having to first be removed. In addition, adjustment screws
(not illustrated) provided on the hinge arm 13 remain accessible such that fine
adjustments to cabinet hinge 1 and positioning the cabinet door 3 with respect to
the cabinet can be made with the cover 15 in place.
[0024]       In Figure 6, a cover 15 in accordance with a further embodiment of the
invention is illustrated. Like reference numerals are used in Figure 6 to identify

                                            6
like parts to those in the cover 15 illustrated in Figures 3 and 4. In this
embodiment, each stepped portion 25 includes at least one opening which may
be in the form of a cut out-like recess portion 31 that is positioned to enable
access to fasteners provided in the mounting flanges 27 of the hinge base plate
 11. The recess portions 31 advantageously enable the fasteners securing the
hinge base plate 11 to be tightened if required without the cover 15 requiring
removal.
[0025]      The cover 15 in accordance with the present invention advantageously
functions as a protective and reinforcing cover in that the cover 15 has a greater
surface area compared to the hinge base plate 11. This greater surface area
advantageously spreads any excessive force applied to the cabinet hinge 1 or
door 3 across a greater surface area of the internal wall panel 5 thereby
dissipating the force rather than localising the force to the mounting
screws/fasteners in the hinge base plate 11. The cover 15 is preferably made of
a material of significant strength, for example metal, and has a thickness
sufficient to prevent the plate-like member 17 from being readily manually
deformed.
[0026]      The pair of arms 19 being spaced apart and implicitly having free ends
advantageously allows the cover 15 to be installed without any components of the
cabinet hinge 1 being first removed. Accordingly, the cover 15 is able to be
quickly and easily retrofitted to an existing cabinet hinge 1. The spaced arms 19
may also advantageously provide ready access to the quick release mechanism
provided by the hinge arm 13. Accordingly, the cabinet door 3 can be readily
removed with the cover 15 remaining in place.
[0027]      The cover 15 of the present invention also advantageously increases
the overall durability of the cabinetry. The cover 15 may be applied to both
freestanding and inbuilt cabinets. Further, the cover 15 assists to maintain the
the internal wall panel 5 of the cabinet intact and prevents the fasteners in the
mounting flanges 27 of the hinge base plate 11 from being "ripped out" of the
internal wall panel 5 in the event of excess force being applied to the cabinet door

                                           7
3. If a cabinet door 3 is roughly handled, the cover 15 advantageously results in
consumable and easily replaced items in the cabinet door 3, or the hinge cup 7
and associated hinge arm 13, being damaged or torn away rather than the hinge
base plate 11 and associated internal wall panel 5. Accordingly the expense of
having to rebuild or replace internal walls of the cabinetry is avoided.
[0028]      The cover of the present invention is also advantageously able to be
installed over a high percentage of existing cabinet hinges 1 that are currently on
the market allowing both new and existing cabinet installations to use the cover
15.
[0029]      As the present invention may be embodied in several forms without
departing from the essential characteristics of the invention, it should be
understood that the above-described embodiments should not be considered to
limit the invention but rather should be construed broadly. Various modifications
and equivalent arrangements are intended to be included within the spirit and
scope of the invention.

                                            8
CLAIMS:
 1.     A cover for protecting and reinforcing a hinge base plate mounted to an
internal wall of a cabinet, the hinge base plate being releasably connected to a
hinge arm pivotally connected to a hinge cup mounted to a cabinet door, the
hinge base plate including a pair of mounting flanges separated by a centrally
located portion upon which the hinge arm is seated, each mounting flange having
at least one hole having a fastener therein securing the hinge base plate to the
internal wall, the cover including:
        a plate-like member having at least a pair of arms,
        a plurality of apertures provided in the plate-like member through which
fasteners may be inserted to attach and secure the cover to the internal wall of
the cabinet,
        wherein the pair of arms is spaced such that in use the cover lies over the
mounting flanges.
2.      A cover as claimed in claim 1 wherein the plate-like member is of unitary
construction.
3.      A cover as claimed in either claim 1 or claim 2 wherein each arm of the
pair of arms includes at least a stepped portion which is sized and shaped to
accommodate a respective mounting flange of the hinge base plate.
4.      A cover as claimed claim 3 wherein each stepped portion includes one or
more openings positioned to provide in use access to the fasteners securing the
hinge base plate to the internal wall.
5.      A cover as claimed in any one of the preceding claims wherein the plurality
of apertures are positioned outside of the stepped portions.

                                          9
6.     A cover as claimed in any one of the preceding claims wherein the pair of
arms is arranged to provide the plate-like member with a substantially C-shaped
configuration.
7.     A cover as claimed in any one of the preceding claims wherein the pair of
arms is spaced such that in use access to the centrally located portion and hinge
arm remains unimpeded by the cover.
AUSTRALIAN BRUSHWARE CORPORATION PTY LTD
WATERMARK INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY PTY LTD

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
