;4 GEC510214AUPR
                                 ABSTRACT OF THE DISCLOSURE
                 Systems and methods are provided for obtaining verified financial statements
       associated with a client. An accountant provides or approves financial statements
       associated with a client to a confirmation system via a communications network.
       The client provides permissions for the financial statements to the confirmation
       system via the communications network and identifies at least one lending
       institution.    The confirmation system queries the database of licensed certified
       public accountants to determine whether the accountant is currently licensed as a
       certified public accountant.     The confirmation system provides the financial
       statements to the lending institution or financial statement user upon determining
       that the accountant is a certified public accountant and confirming the financial
       information in the financial statements.
                                                 41

 10
                                            30
  LENDINGS
  INSTIUTIONS .ACCOUNTANT
  COMPUTER                   COMPUTER
                                             COMPUTER
                                                             80
                                                      CREDIT
                                                      CAROL
        40008                                         SYSTEM
                              500
                          60                          DIbs
                             Router/SwItch
Confirmation
  System              '/   0
                                  Server
                              -------------
                             FIG 1

4 GEC510214AUPR
                                   TITLE OF THE INVENTION
            SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR OBTAINING ACCOUNTANT PREPARED
                           FINANCIAL STATEMENT CONFIRMATION
       [0001]A portion of the disclosure of this patent document contains material that is
       subject to copyright protection.    The copyright owner has no objection to the
       reproduction of the patent document or the patent disclosure, as it appears in the
       U.S. Patent and Trademark Office patent file or records, but otherwise reserves all
       copyright rights whatsoever.
                      CROSS-REFERENCES TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
       [0002] This application claims priority to and incorporates by reference herein in its
       entirety, U.S. Provisional Patent Serial No. 61/718,569 entitled "SYSTEMS AND
      METHODS         FOR    OBTAINING        ACCOUNTANT        PREPARED        FINANCIAL
       STATEMENT CONFIRMATION" filed on October 25, 2012.
                                    STATEMENT REGARDING
                  FEDERALLY SPONSORED RESEARCH OR DEVELOPMENT
       [0003] Not Applicable
                                                  1

i4 GEC510214AUPR
                 REFERENCE TO SEQUENCE LISTING OR COMPUTER PROGRAM
                                        LISTING APPENDIX
        [0004] Not Applicable
                               BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
        [00051The present invention pertains to systems, methods and computer readable
       media having computer executable instructions for providing a secure electronic
       intermediary service between financial statement providers, their clients and the
       users of the financial statements (e.g. lending institutions, investors, business
       partners, etc.) to reduce time, resources, and costs necessary to transfer verified or
       third party financial statements.
        [0006]When a business or individual (e.g., client) applies to borrow money from a
       lending institution (e.g., a bank), the lending institution typically requires one or
       more financial statements from the business. The borrower (i.e. the Client) must
       typically provide financial statements such as a balance sheet, a tax return, and an
       income statement to the lending institution.       Items on the financial statements
       include, but are not limited to: assets, debt, receivables, payables, investments and
       transaction details.   These financial statements may be but are not necessarily
       audited, compiled, reviewed and/or prepared financial statements by the financial
       statement    providers which can include        Certified Public Accounting Firms,
        Chartered Accountants, and Tax Preparers. The conventional practice is for the
                                                  2

4 GEC510214AUPR
       lender to receive financial statements prepared by a certified public accountant
       (CPA) in the relevant jurisdiction from a principal/partner at the business directly.
       [0007]The conventional approach presents several problems.             The financial
       statements are provided to the financial statement users (i.e., lending institutions)
      by the client and do not come directly from the financial statement providers to the
      financial statement users and because financial statement confirmation is a time
       and resource intensive process, the lending institution may not confirm the
       accuracy and/or validity of the financial statements with the CPA that generated
      the financial statements.     This creates opportunities for an unscrupulous client
       (e.g., borrower, individual or company) to fabricate the financial statements while
      either signing the name of a legitimate financial statement provider (e.g., CPA) or
       altering the information in the financial statements without the financial statement
      provider's knowledge and then providing those misleading and falsified financial
      statements to the financial statement users. Also, the lending institution may not
      verify the license status or lack of a valid license of the individual CPA, CPA firm,
      or entity purporting to be a CPA firm that generated the financial statements.
      Thus, the financial statement provider may be operating on a fake license, an
      expired license, or an entirely fabricated license which can, for example, cause
      problems with loan insurance payouts if the resulting loan goes into default.
       [0008]Financial statement users such as lending institutions vary in how and if
      they confirm financial statement information, though larger lending institutions
                                                  3

4 GEC510214AUPR
      have one or more centers devoted solely to processing financial statement
      information.     Additional costs are incurred when the employees of the financial
      statement user work overtime and/or employ temporary staffing to meet the
      demand needed to process the financial statement information. Further, manually
      confirming the information contained in the financial statements and the validity of
      the financial statement provider takes a significant amount of time (e.g., a week or
      more) which results in lost time and revenue to the lending institution and a delay
      in obtaining a loan to the business (i.e., client). Financial statement users such as
      investors may invest in businesses or in people based on their belief that the
      financial statements provided by the client are legitimate and that they were
      created by an appropriately certified and/or licensed individual and/or firm.
                              BRIEF SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
      [0009]According to one aspect of the present invention, a method is provided for
      confirming the license status and identity of a purported financial statement provider
      (i.e., certified public accountant (CPA), CPA firm, or other such entity) preparing
      financial statements for the client which is in turn provided to a financial statement
      user such as a lending institution on behalf of a business or individual applying for a
      loan. The financial statements must be provided to the lending institution by the
      business (i.e., client) applying for a loan according to existing financial regulations.
      Because financial statements may only be released by the business, the confirmation
                                                  4

4 GFC510214AUPR
      system allows financial statements provided from a financial statement provider to be
      provided to a financial statement user unaltered under permissions set by the client
      and with approval by the client via the confirmation system. In some embodiments,
      the financial statement provider (e.g., accountant) can verify the veracity of the
      financial statements before they are ultimately provided to the financial statement
      user (e.g., lending institution) either by providing the financial statements to the
      confirmation system, or by approving the financial statements after they are uploaded
      to the confirmation system by the client.  Optionally, the method includes confirming
      financial information in financial statements submitted to a lending institution by a
      business applying for a loan from the lending institution as described in U.S. Patent
      Nos. 7,383,232; 7,831,488; and 8,442,880, all of which are incorporated herein by
      reference in their entirety.
       [0010] In one aspect, a method of providing a financial statement associated with a
      client to a financial statement user includes receiving at a server of a confirmation
      system, via a communications network, a financial statement having financial
      information associated with the client. The received financial statement is stored in a
      computer database of the confirmation system. The server of the confirmation system
      receives, from the client via the communications network, permissions associated with
      the stored financial statement. The stored financial statement is provided from the
      computer database of the confirmation system to the financial statement user as a
      function of the permissions associated with the stored financial statement.
                                                 5

4 GEC510214AUPR
       [0011] In another aspect, a computer readable storage media has computer executable
       instruction modules stored therein operable to provide a financial statement
       associated with a client to a financial statement user. The server of a confirmation
       system receives, via a communications network, a financial statement having
       financial information associated with the client. The received financial statement is
       stored in a computer database of the confirmation system.         The server of the
       confirmation system receives, from the client via the communications network,
      permissions associated with the stored financial statement.      The stored financial
       statement is provided from the computer database of the confirmation system to the
       financial statement user as a function of the permissions associated with the stored
      financial statement.
                BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE SEVERAL VIEWS OF THE DRAWINGS
       [0012]Fig. 1 illustrates the architecture of the various systems interacting with the
      confirmation system according to one embodiment of the present invention.
       [0013]Fig. la illustrates one embodiment of the architecture of the confirmation
      system according to the principles of the present invention.
       [0014]Fig. lb illustrates another embodiment of the architecture of the confirmation
      system according to the principles of the present invention.
                                                  6

4 GEC510214AUPR
       [0015]Fig. 2 is a high-level block and process flow diagram of one embodiment of a
      system and method for providing a financial statement to a financial statement
      user.
       [0016]Fig. 3 is a high-level block and process flow diagram of another embodiment
      of a system and method for providing a financial statement to a financial statement
      user.
       [0017]Fig. 4 is a high-level block and process flow diagram of another embodiment
      of a system and method for providing a financial statement to a financial statement
      user.
       [0018]Fig. 5 is a high-level block and process flow diagram of another embodiment
      of a system and method for providing a financial statement to a financial statement
      user.
                        DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
       [0019]The present invention now will be described more fully hereinafter with
      reference to the accompanying drawings, in which preferred embodiments of the
      invention are shown. This invention may, however, be embodied in many different
      forms and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein;
      rather, these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will be thorough and
      complete, and will fully convey the scope of the invention to those skilled in the art.
      Like numbers refer to like elements throughout.
                                                 7

4 GEC510214AUPR
       [0020]The present invention is described below with reference to block diagrams
       and flowchart illustrations of methods, apparatus (i.e., systems) and computer
      program products (i.e., computer executable instruction modules) according to an
       embodiment of the invention. It will be understood that each block of the block
       diagrams and the flowchart illustrations, and combinations of blocks in the block
       diagrams and combinations of the blocks in the flowchart illustrations, can be
      implemented      by  computer program    instructions.  These    computer program
       instructions may be loaded onto a general purpose computer, special purpose
       computer, or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a machine,
       such that the instructions that execute on the computer or other programmable
       data processing apparatus create means for implementing the functions specified in
      the block or blocks.
       [0021]These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer
       readable memory that can direct a computer or other programmable data
      processing apparatus to function in a particular manner, such that the instructions
       stored in the computer-readable memory produce an article of manufacture
       including instructions which implement the function specified in the block or blocks.
      The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer or other
      programmable data processing apparatus to cause a series of operational steps to be
      performed on the computer or other programmable apparatus to produce a
       computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the
                                               8

4 GEC510214AUPR
      computer or other programmable apparatus provide steps for implementing the
      functions specified in the block or blocks of the flowchart, or block or blocks of the
      diagrams.
       [0022]Accordingly, blocks of the block diagrams and the flowchart illustrations
      support combinations of means for performing the specified functions, combinations
      of steps for performing the specified functions, and/or program instructions or
      modules for performing the specified functions. It will also be understood that each
      block of the block diagrams and the flowchart illustrations, and combinations of the
      respective blocks, can be implemented by special purpose hardware-based computer
      systems which perform the specified functions or steps, or combinations of special
      purpose hardware and computer instructions.
       [0023]Further, the terms "lending institution", "accountant", and "client" are used
      based on the context, and may refer to a computer system operated by the entity, a
      user, a person affiliated with the entity operating the computer system, or the
      entity in general. The appropriate meaning to be applied should be clear from the
      context. Further, although the principles of the present invention are illustrated
      using an "accountant", the invention is not limited to an accountant.             The
      "accountant" may be a bookkeeper, accounting firm, or accountants internal to the
      business identified by the financial statements.       Further, as seen below, the
      "accountant" is intended to include a purported accountant or bookkeeper.         The
      financial statement information to be confirmed is not limited to accounting
                                                9

.4 GEC510214AUPR
       parameters      or   accounting  functions.     Similarly,   though    the  illustrative
       embodiments are described in terms of a "bank" as one example of a lending
       institution requesting financial statement confirmation, other types of financial
       institutions, non-financial institutions, charities, non-governmental organizations,
        agencies, or governmental organizations as users requiring confirmation responses
        are possible within the meaning of the term lending institution. Further, a "bank",
       "lender", or "lending institution" can also mean an investor, investment firm, equity
        group, or other user of the financial statements (i.e., financial statement user) who
       takes action based on the financial statements.       Further, the "client" may be a
       business, an individual or other borrower or a seller of equity in a business.
        [0024] Fig. 1 illustrates one embodiment of the architecture and typical user entities
       that may interact with a confirmation system 50 in order to provide, to a financial
        statement user, financial statements generated by an accountant or verified by the
        accountant.    As seen in Fig. 1, the confirmation system 50 includes a server 70
       functionally coupled to a communications network 40 via a router/switch 60 or other
       type of network interface.        The entities accessing and interacting with the
       confirmation system 50 include a lending institution computer 10 (i.e., a financial
       statement user), an accountant computer 20, and a client computer 30 according to
       one embodiment of the present invention. Third-party database 90 is coupled to the
       confirmation system 50 by way of the communications network 40.                 In one
                                                   10

4 GEC510214AUPR
       embodiment, the third-party database is a database identifying licensed certified
      public accountants (CPAs).
       [0025]The accountant 20 is typically a CPA preparing financial statements or
       keeping books for the client 30.    The client 30 is the individual or entity (e.g.,
      business) that uses the CPA to prepare financial statements and/or tax returns,
      including, but not limited to, any business, corporation, non-profit organization,
       government department or any other entity whose financial statements are being
       sought by the financial statement user (e.g., lending institution or investor).
       [0026]In one embodiment of the present invention, computing devices of all of these
      user entities have access to the confirmation system 50 via the communications
      network 40, which can be the Internet, a local area network, a wide area network or
       a conglomeration of various types of communications networks. The confirmation
      system 50 may be operated by an independent service provider or may be affiliated
      with a lending institution or accountant.        In some embodiments, certain users
      accessing the confirmation system may be charged certain fees that may be paid
      electronically through a credit card company 80.        Alternative embodiments are
      possible, such as directly debiting an account associated with the service purchaser.
      If paid for by a credit card, the credit card company 80 would interact with the
      system 50 via the communications network 40.          Alternatively, the confirmation
      system 50 can be a client application embedded in one of the individual user entity's
      existing system. For example, the confirmation system 50 can be integrated into a
                                                11

A GEC510214AUPR
       banking system run by the lending institution 10. In that way, for the bank user,
       the financial statement verification and permissions release is accomplished
       through internal communications between different application modules.
       [0027]Although Fig. 1 illustrates the router/switch 60 as being a separate entity
       from the server 70, in other embodiments, the router/switch 60 functionality may be
      integrated in the communications network 40 or incorporated in part into the server
       70. Thus, in various embodiments, the confirmation system 50 may comprise a
      server 70 but itself without a separate router/switch 60.
       [00281One embodiment of the server for executing software providing confirmation
      servers is shown in Fig. la. Alternatively, or in addition, Fig. la illustrates a one
      embodiment of a client computer 30, accountant computer 20, third-party database
      90, or lending institution computer 10 that may execute instructions for providing
      the financial statement to the financial statement user.
       [0029]Referring to Fig. la, one embodiment of the server 70 is illustrated that may
      include a computing device used to practice aspects of the present invention. The
      same computing device architecture could apply to either of the accountant or
      lending institution (i.e., financial statement user) computer if the computer
      executable instructions for providing financial statements to the financial statement
      user are executed on those computing devices (e.g., computers).         In Fig. la, a
      processor 1, such as a microprocessor, executes computer executable instructions for
      carrying out the defined steps of the method of providing financial statements to
                                                12

W GEC510214AUPR
      financial statement users. The processor 1 receives power from a power supply 17
      that also provides power to the other components of the computing device as
      necessary. The processor 1 communicates using a data bus 5 that is typically 16 or
      32 bits wide (e.g., in parallel). Typical applications involve the processor 1 receiving
      inputs, such as user input in the form of various numerical identifiers that are
      stored in the memory using the data bus 5. The data bus 5 is also used to convey
      data and program instructions between the processor 1 and memory.                In one
      embodiment, the memory is primary memory 2.            The primary memory 2 may be
      RAM or other forms of memory which retain their contents only during operation
      (i.e., while receiving power from the power supply 17), or the primary memory may
      be non-volatile primary memory 3, such as ROM, EPROM, EEPROM, FLASH, or
      other types of memory that retain the memory contents at all times (i.e., when not
      receiving power from the power supply 17). In one embodiment, the memory could
      also be secondary memory 4, such as disk storage, that stores large amount of data.
      In some embodiments, the disk storage may communicate with the processor 1
      using an I/O bus 6 instead of a dedicated bus (not shown). The secondary memory
      may be a floppy disk, hard disk, compact disk, DVD, or any other type of mass
      storage type known to those skilled in the computer arts. The memory may also be
      a hybrid memory including primary and secondary memory having portions that is
      volatile and nonvolatile.
                                                  13

34 GEC510214AUPR
        [0030]The processor 1 also communicates with various peripherals or external
        devices using an I/O bus 6. In one embodiment, a peripheral I/O controller 7 is used
        to provide standard interfaces, such as RS-232, RS422, DIN, USB,                 or other
        interfaces as appropriate to interface various input/output devices.         Input/output
        devices may include local printers 18, a monitor 8, a keyboard 9a, a mouse 9b or
        other typical pointing devices (e.g., roller ball, track pad, joystick, etc.) that are not
        shown.
        [0031]The processor    1 may also communicates           using a communications        I/O
       controller 11 with external communication networks, and may use a variety of
       interfaces such as data communication oriented protocols 12 such as X.25, ISDN,
       DSL, cable modems, etc. The communications controller 11 may also incorporate a
       modem (not shown) for interfacing and communicating with a standard telephone
       line 13. Finally, the communications I/O controller 11 may incorporate an Ethernet
       interface 14 for communicating over a LAN. Any of these interfaces may be used to
       access the Internet, intranets, LANs, or other data communication facilities and
       networks. The communications 10 is used by the processor 1 to send data, such as
       account data or other data including an identification of a client, accountant, or
       financial statement user, an approval of a financial statement, or permissions for a
       financial statement.
       [0032]One alternative embodiment of a processing system for a computing device
       than may be used is shown in Fig. 1b. In this embodiment, the confirmation system
                                                   14

4 GEC510214AUPR
       50 includes a server 70 communicating with a client computer 30, lending
      institution  computer 10       (i.e., financial  statement user computer),    and the
      accountant computer 20.       In other embodiments, only a subset of the computers
      may be involved. The server 70 typically includes a processor 21 that communicates
      with a computer database 22, which can be viewed as a form of secondary memory
      and stores various confirmation requests, both pending and completed, as well as
      primary memory 24. The computer database 22 may be integral with or separate
      from the server 70, and one or both may be implemented in virtual machines. The
      processor 21 also communicates with external devices using an 1/0 controller 23
      that may interface with the Internet 27.
       [0033]In one embodiment, each of the client computer 30, lending institution
      computer 10 (i.e., financial statement user computer), and the accountant computer
      20 incorporate a browser, such as the Microsoft Explorer" or Google Chrome
      executing on a Windows     8 TM,  Linux, or Apple operating system. The server 70 may
      utilize standard Internet protocols, such as HTTP, or secure encryption protocols,
      like HTTPS or other types of both secure and non-secure communication protocols
      as is known in the art, for communicating data, such as financial statements,
      financial statement approvals, usernames and passwords, identifications of clients,
      accountants,   and    financial    statement    users, and  permissions for financial
      statements.    Further, the any of the computing devices may include a local or
      network printer 28 for printing reports in order to provide a written record.
                                                   15

.4 GEC510214AUPR
        [0034]Those skilled in the art of computer architecture and data networking will
        realize that many other alternatives and architectures are possible and can be used
       to practice the aspects of the present invention.    The embodiments illustrated in
       Figs. la and lb can be modified in different ways and be within the scope of the
       present invention as claimed.
        [0035]Referring to Fig. 2, a high-level block and process flow diagram of the
       interaction between the various aforementioned entities is demonstrated with
       exemplary steps for a first embodiment of the present invention. In step 1, the
       accountant 20 uploads the client's (e.g., business or potential borrower) financial
       statement(s) to a server of the confirmation system 50.          The server of the
       confirmation    system    50  receives the   financial statement    having  financial
       information associated with the client 30 and stores the received financial
       statement in a computer database of the confirmation system 50. The financial
       statements may include tax returns, audited financial statements, reviews, and/or
       compilations including balance sheets and income statements. Assuming that the
       accountant 20 has a prior valid registration which signifies that the accountant 20
       is properly licensed in the appropriate jurisdiction and registered with the
       confirmation system 50, step 1 includes logging in to the confirmation system 50
       using a pre-established username and password. If the accountant 20 does not have
       a prior valid registration with the confirmation system 50, step 1 includes verifying
       that the accountant and/or the accounting firm is properly licensed to prepare the
                                                 16

34 GEC510214AUPR
        corresponding financial statement documents, and creating a username                and
        password associated with the accountant 20.         Verifying that the accountant is
        properly licensed to prepare financial statements includes querying a third party
        database for a record corresponding to the accountant.
        [0036] Once the accountant 20 has logged into the confirmation system 50 with a
        valid username and password, the accountant 20 creates a profile for or identifies
        the client or company 30. As described above, the accountant 20 then uploads the
        financial statement(s) for the client 30 the confirmation system 50.
        [0037] In step 2, in response to receiving the financial statement at the server of the
        confirmation system 50 and an identification of the client 30 from the accountant
        20, the confirmation system 50 sends a notification to the client 30 via the
       communications network. If the client 30 is not already registered, the confirmation
       system 50 sends notification to the client 30 of their need to register. If the client
       30 is already registered, the confirmation system 50 sends a notification to the
       client 30 that financial statements available for review that were uploaded by the
       accountant 20.
        [0038]In step 3, the client 30 sets permissions for the financial statements. The
       permissions can include view, print, and/or download, and the length of time (i.e.,
       time limit) or an expiration date for the permissions, and the entities given
       permission to access the financial statements stored at the confirmation system 50.
      Assuming that the client 30 has a prior valid registration with the confirmation
                                                   17

34 GEC510214AUPR
        system 50, step 2 includes logging in using a pre-established username and
        password for the client 30. If the client 30 does not have a prior valid registration
        with the confirmation system 50, step 1 includes creating a username and password
        associated with the client 30. Once the client 30 has logged into the confirmation
        system 50 with a valid username and password, the client 30 selects one or a group
       of financial statements. The client 30 then creates, identifies, or selects one or a
        group of lending institutions to associate with the selected financial statements.
       The client 30 can then set permissions for each selected lending institution with
       respect to each financial statement.        The server of the confirmation system 50
       receives the permissions associated with the stored financial statement and stores
       the received permissions in an association with the financial statement.
        [0039] In step 4, if a lending institution 10 (i.e., financial statement user) selected in
       step 3 by the client 30 is not already registered with the confirmation system 50, the
       confirmation system 50 sends a notification to the unregistered lending institution
       10 (or lending institutions) of their need to register with the confirmation system
       50. If the lending institution 10 is already registered with the confirmation system
       50, then the confirmation system 50 sends a notification to the lending institution
       10 that the client 30 has designated financial statements for review, access, or
       download by the lending institution 10. The notification indicates the availability of
      the financial statement to the financial statement user 10.
                                                    18

4 GEC510214AUPR
       [0040]In step 5, assuming that the lending institution 10 has a prior valid
       registration with the confirmation system 50, step 4 includes logging in using a pre
       established username and password for the lending institution 10. If the lending
      institution 10 does not have a prior valid registration with the confirmation system
       50, step 4 includes creating a username and password associated with the lending
      institution 10. After the lending institution 10 has logged into the confirmation
      system 50 with a valid username and password, the lending institution can perform
      actions with respect to the financial statements stored in the confirmation system
      50 that are permitted by the permissions set by the client 30 in step 3 such as
      downloading and reviewing the financial statements. The permissions provided by
      the client 30 to the confirmation system 50 via the communications network are
      received and stored in association with the financial statement at the server of the
      confirmation system 50.
      [0041] In step 6, the confirmation system 50 provides the lending institution 10 with
      the financial statements associated with the client 30 as a function of the
      permissions provided by the client 30 in response to the request from the lending
      institution 10 in step 5.
      [0042]Alternative    embodiments and processes of the present invention            are
      illustrated in Figs. 3, 4, and 5 and will now be described assuming that the parties
      (i.e., the accountant 20, the client 30, and the lending institution 10) are each
      registered with the confirmation system 50 such that they have pre-established
                                                 19

4 GEC510214AUPR
       usernames and passwords for logging into the confirmation system 50. If a party is
       not registered with the confirmation system 50, then the party may complete the
      process as described above for obtaining a pre-established username and password
       for logging into the confirmation system 50.
       [0043]Referring to Fig. 3, in step 1, the accountant 20 logs into the confirmation
       system 50 and creates or identifies the client or business 30.        In step 2, the
      confirmation system 50 sends a notification to the client 30 that the accountant 20
      has requested to upload financial statements. In step 3, the client 30 logs into the
      confirmation system 50 and approves the accountant's request to upload financial
      statements.     In step 4, the accountant logs into the confirmation system 50 and
      uploads the financial statements.       Optionally, the confirmation system 50 may
      notify the client 30 that the financial statements have been uploaded by the
      accountant 20 (e.g., via email). In step 5, after the client 30 has logged into the
      confirmation system 50 with a valid username and password, the client 30 selects
      one or a group of financial statements. The client 30 then creates, identifies, or
      selects one or a group of lending institutions to associate with the selected financial
      statements.     The client 30 can then set permissions for each selected lending
      institution with respect to each financial statement. In step 6, the confirmation
      system 50 sends a notification to the lending institution           10 that financial
      statements are ready to be viewed, accessed, or downloaded by the lending
      institution 10 based on the permissions set by the client 30 in step 5. In step 7, the
                                                 20

4 GEC510214AUPR
      lending institution 10 logs into the confirmation system 50 and performs actions
      with respect to the financial statements permitted by the permission set by the
      client 30 in step 5.    In step 8, the confirmation system 50 provides the lending
      institution 10 with the client's financial statements in response to the request by
      the lending institution 10 in step 7.
       [0044]Referring to Fig. 4, in step 1, the client 30 logs into the confirmation system
      50 and creates a profile or account for or identifies the accountant 20. In step 2, the
      confirmation system 50 notifies the accountant 20 that the client 30 has identified
      the accountants 24 upload of financial statements. In step 3, the accountant 20 logs
      in the confirmation system 50, selects the client 30, and uploads financial
      statements associated with the client 30.      In step 4, the confirmation system 50
      notifies the client 30 of the available financial statements uploaded by the
      accountant 20. In step 5, the client 30 logs into the confirmation system 50 selects
      one or a group of the uploaded financial statements, creates, identifies, or selects
      one or a group of lending institutions 10, and sets permissions for each lending
      institution 10 with respect to each financial statement.        In step 6, the lending
      institution 10 is notified by the confirmation system 50 that the client's financial
      statements are available for access by the lending institution 10.       In step 7, the
      lending institution 10 logs into the confirmation system 50 and performs permitted
      actions with respect to the financial statements. In step 8, the confirmation system
                                                 21

4 GEC510214AUPR
       50 provides the lending institution 10 with the clients financial statements based on
       the permissions and the request by the lending institution 10 in step 7.
       [0045] Referring to Fig. 5, in step 1, the client 30 logs into the confirmation system
       50, identifies one or more accountants 20, identifies one or more lending institutions
       10, and sets permissions for each of the lending institutions 10.        In step 2, the
       accountant 20 is notified by the confirmation system 50 that financial statements
       are requested by the client 30 from the accountant 20. In step 3, the accountant 20
      logs into the confirmation system 50 and uploads financial statements associated
      with the client 30 to the confirmation system 50. In step 4, the confirmation system
       50 notifies the client 30 that the financial statements were uploaded by the
      accountant 20. In step 5, the confirmation system notifies the lending institution 10
      that the financial statements associated with the client 30 are available. In step 6,
      the lending institution 10 logs into the confirmation system 50 and performs actions
      on the financial statements authorized (i.e., permitted) by the client 30 in step 1. In
      step 7, the confirmation system 50 provides the financial statements to the lending
      institution 10 in response to requests from the lending institution 10 in step 6 is
      allowed by the permissions set by the client 30 in step 1.
      [0046] In some embodiments, the confirmation system 50 analyzes the financial
      statements for financial information, and obtains confirmations of the financial
      information     contained   in the    financial  statements    from   third  parties  or
      counterparties to the financial information in the financial statements as disclosed
                                                  22

4 GEC510214AUPR
       in U.S. Patent Nos. 7,383,232; 7,831,488; and 8,442,880, all of which are incorporated
       herein by reference in their entirety.
       [0047]In some embodiments, the financial statements may be uploaded by the
       client 30 and verified or confirmed by the accountant 20. The confirmation system
       50 receives the financial statement having financial information associated with the
       client from the client 30, and an identification of the accountant 20 associated with
      the client 30. The confirmation system 50 then provides, via the communications
      network, a notification to the accountant 20. The confirmation system 50 receives a
      confirmation of the financial information in the financial statement form the
      accountant 20 via the communications network when the accountant 20 logs on to
      the confirmation system 50 and verifies the financial information in the financial
      statement.
       [0048]In some embodiments, the confirmation system 50 maintains a database (or
      accesses a third-party database) of licensed CPAs.        The confirmation system 50
      checks the status of the accountant 20 against the database of licensed CPAs (i.e.,
      queries the database of licensed CPAs to determine whether the accountant 20 is a
      currently licensed certified public accountant).       If the confirmation system 50
      determines that the accountant 20 is not licensed or has an expired license, then the
      confirmation system 50 may notify the client 30 and/or the lending institution 10
      that the accountant 20 is not licensed. The confirmation system 50 may further
      refuse to confirm the financial information in the financial statements provided by
                                                 23

4 GEC510214AUPR
      the accountant 20.      In other embodiments, the database of licensed CPAs is
      maintained in a third-party database 90 external to the confirmation system 50.
       Similarly, confirmation system 50 checks the third-party database 90 to determine
      whether the accountant 20 is a licensed CPA.
       [00491A computer or computing device such as described herein has one or more
      processors or processing units, system memory, and some form of computer
      readable media. By way of example and not limitation, computer readable media
      comprise computer storage media and communication media. Computer storage
      media include volatile and nonvolatile, removable and non-removable          media
      implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as
      computer readable instructions, data structures, program modules or other data.
       Communication media typically embody computer readable instructions, data
      structures, program modules, or other data in a modulated data signal such as a
      carrier wave or other transport mechanism and include any information delivery
      media.    Combinations of any of the above are also included within the scope of
      computer readable media.
       [0050]The computer or computing device may operate in a networked environment
      using logical connections to one or more remote computers, such as a remote
      computer. Although described in connection with an exemplary computing system
      environment, embodiments of the invention are operational with numerous other
      general    purpose   or   special purpose   computing   system   environments   or
                                               24

;4 GEC510214AUPR
       configurations. The computing system environment is not intended to suggest any
       limitation as to the scope of use or functionality of any aspect of the invention.
       Moreover, the computing system environment should not be interpreted as having
       any dependency or requirement relating to any one or combination of components
       illustrated in the exemplary operating environment.       Examples of well known
       computing systems, environments, and/or configurations that may be suitable for
       use with aspects of the invention include, but are not limited to, personal
       computers, server computers, hand-held or laptop devices, multiprocessor systems,
       microprocessor-based systems, set top boxes, programmable consumer electronics,
       mobile telephones, network PCs, minicomputers, interactive video game consoles,
       mainframe computers, distributed computing environments that include any of the
       above systems or devices, and the like.
        [0051] Embodiments of the invention may be described in the general context of
       computer-executable instructions, such as program modules, executed by one or
       more computers or other devices.     The computer-executable instructions may be
       organized into one or more computer-executable components or modules. Generally,
       program modules include, but are not limited to, routines, programs, objects,
       components, and data structures that perform particular tasks or implement
       particular abstract data types. Aspects of the invention may be implemented with
       any number and organization of such components or modules. For example, aspects
       of the invention are not limited to the specific computer-executable instructions or
                                                25

4 GEC510214AUPR
      the specific components or modules illustrated in the figures and described herein.
       Other embodiments of the invention may include different computer-executable
      instructions or components having more or less functionality than illustrated and
       described herein.   Aspects of the invention may also be practiced in distributed
      computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices
      that are linked through a communications network (e.g., a local area network
      and/or the Internet).    In a distributed computing environment, program modules
      may be located in both local and remote computer readable storage media including
      memory storage devices.
       [0052]The order of execution or performance of the operations in embodiments of
      the invention illustrated and described herein is not essential, unless otherwise
      specified. That is, the operations may be performed in any order, unless otherwise
      specified, and embodiments of the invention may include additional or fewer
      operations than those disclosed herein.        For example, it is contemplated that
      executing or performing a particular operation before, contemporaneously with, or
      after another operation is within the scope of aspects of the invention.
       [0053]When introducing elements of aspects of the invention or the embodiments
      thereof, the articles "a," "an," "the," and "said" are intended to mean that there are
      one or more of the elements. The terms "comprising," "including," and "having" are
      intended to be inclusive and mean that there may be additional elements other than
      the listed elements.
                                                  26

34GE0510214AUPR
       [00541Having described aspects of the invention in detail, it will be apparent that
       modifications and variations are possible without departing from the scope of
       aspects of the invention as defined in the appended claims. As various changes
       could be made in the above constructions, products, and methods without departing
      from the scope of aspects of the invention, it is intended that all matter contained in
      the above description and shown in the accompanying drawings shall be interpreted
       as illustrative and not in a limiting sense.
       [0055]It will be understood by those of skill in the art that information and signals
      may be represented using any of a variety of different technologies and techniques
       (e.g., data, instructions, commands, information, signals, bits, symbols, and chips
      may be represented by voltages, currents, electromagnetic waves, magnetic fields or
      particles, optical fields or particles, or any combination thereof).     Likewise, the
      various illustrative logical blocks, modules, circuits, and algorithm steps described
      herein may be implemented           as electronic hardware, computer software, or
      combinations of both, depending on the application and functionality.        Moreover,
      the various logical blocks, modules, circuits, and controllers described herein may be
      implemented or performed with a general purpose processor (e.g., microprocessor,
      conventional processor, controller, microcontroller, state machine or combination of
      computing devices), a digital signal processor ("DSP"), an application specific
      integrated circuit ("ASIC"), a field programmable gate array ("FPGA") or other
      programmable logic device, discrete gate or transistor logic, discrete hardware
                                                  27

34 GEC510214AUPR
       components, or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described
       herein. Similarly, steps of a method or process described herein may be embodied
       directly in hardware, in a software module executed by a processor, or in a
       combination of the two.      A software module may reside in RAM memory, flash
       memory, ROM memory, EPROM memory, EEPROM memory, registers, hard disk,
       a removable disk, a CD-ROM, or any other form of storage medium known in the
       art. Although embodiments of the present invention have been described in detail,
       it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various modifications can be
       made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as set
       forth in the appended claims.
       [0056] Thus, although there have been described particular embodiments of the
       present invention of a new and useful Systems and Methods for Obtaining an
       Accountant Prepared Financial Statement Confirmation, it is not intended that
       such references be construed as limitations upon the scope of this invention except
       as set forth in the following claims.
                                                28

i4 GEC510214AUPR
                                                CLAIMS
       What is claimed is:
        1.       A method of providing a financial statement associated with a client to a
       financial statement user, said method comprising the steps of:
                 receiving at a server of a confirmation system, via a communications
       network, a financial statement having financial information associated with the
       client;
                 storing the received financial statement in a computer database of the
       confirmation system;
                 receiving at the server of the confirmation system from the client, via the
       communications        network,  permissions    associated with the  stored financial
       statement; and
                 providing the stored financial statement from the computer database of the
       confirmation system to the financial statement user as a function of the permissions
       associated with the stored financial statement.
       2.        The method of claim 1, wherein:
                 the step of receiving at the server of the confirmation system, via the
       communications network, the financial statement having financial information
       associated with the client, comprises receiving at the server of the confirmation
       system, via the communications network, the financial statement having financial
                                                   29

4 GEC510214AUPR
      information associated with the client from an accountant associated with the client
      and receiving an identification of the client from the accountant at the server of the
      confirmation system; and
                the method further comprises providing a notification from the server of the
      confirmation system to the client, via the communications network, in response to
      receiving the identification of the client at the server.
      3.        The method of claim 1, wherein the step of receiving at the server of the
      confirmation system, via the communications network, the financial statement
      having financial information associated with the client further comprises:
                receiving at the server of the confirmation system, via the communications
      network, the financial statement having financial information associated with the
      client from the client;
                receiving at the server of the confirmation system from the client, via the
      communications network, an identification of an accountant associated with the
      client;
                providing a notification to the identified accountant from the server of the
      confirmation system via the communications network; and
                receiving a confirmation of the financial information in the financial
      statement from the accountant at the server of the confirmation system via the
      communications network.
                                                  30

4 GEC510214AUPR
      4.        The method of claim 1, wherein:
                the step of receiving at the server of the confirmation system from the client,
      via the communications network, permissions associated with the stored financial
      statement further comprises receiving an identification of the financial statement
      user; and
                the method further comprises providing a notification from the server of the
      confirmation       system    to  the   identified  financial  statement  user   via   the
      communications network in response to receiving the permissions at the server of
      the confirmation system, said notification indicating the availability of the financial
      statement to the identified financial statement user.
      5.        The method of claim 1, wherein:
                the step of receiving at the server of the confirmation system from the client,
      via the communications network, permissions associated with the stored financial
      statement further comprises receiving an identification of a financial statement
      user, a viewing permission comprising at least one of view, print, and download,
      and a time limit for the viewing permission.
      6.        The method of claim 1, wherein:
                                                     31

i4 GEC510214AUPR
                 the step of receiving at the server of the confirmation system, via the
       communications network, the financial statement having financial information
       associated with the client further comprises:
                         receiving   at  the   server of the     confirmation  system,  via the
                 communications network, an identification of the client from an accountant
                 associated with the client;
                         providing a notification from the server of the confirmation system to
                 the client, via the communications network, in response to receiving the
                 identification of the client;
                         receiving an approval at the server of the confirmation system from the
                 client, via the communications network, said approval indicating acceptance
                 by the client of the accountant from which the identification of the client was
                 received to upload the financial statement to the server of the confirmation
                 system;
                         providing a notification of the approval to the accountant from the
                 server of the confirmation system via the communications network in
                 response to receiving the approval at the server of the confirmation system;
                 and
                         receiving the financial statement from the accountant at the server of
                 the confirmation system via the communications network.
                                                      32

4 GEC510214AUPR
       7.       The method of claim 1, wherein:
                the step of receiving at the server of the confirmation system, via the
       communications network, the financial statement having financial information
       associated with the client further comprises:
                       receiving   at  the   server of the     confirmation   system,  via   the
                communications network, an identification of an accountant associated with
                the client from the client;
                       providing a notification from the server of the confirmation system to
                the identified accountant, via the communications network, in response to
                receiving the identification of the accountant from the client; and
                       receiving the financial statement from the accountant at the server of
                the confirmation system via the communications network.
      8.        The method of claim 1, wherein:
                the financial statement comprises at least one of a balance sheet, cash flow
      statement, a financial review, or a compilation of financial information; and
                the financial statement user is one of a lending institution and an investor.
      9.        The method of claim 1, further comprising:
                confirming, via the communications network, the financial information in the
      financial statements with a third party associated with the financial information.
                                                     33

A GEC510214AUPR
       10.       The method of claim 1, wherein:
                the step of receiving at the server of the confirmation system, via the
       communications network, the financial statement having financial information
       associated with the client further comprises receiving at the server of the
       confirmation system, via the communications network, the financial statement
       having financial information associated with the client from an accountant
       associated with the client; and
                the method further comprises:
                       querying a database of licensed certified public accountants          to
                determine whether the accountant is a currently licensed certified public
                accountant; and
                       providing the financial statement, via the communications network, to
                the identified lending institution in accordance with the permissions provided
                by the client as a function of determining that the accountant is a currently
                licensed certified public accountant.
       11.      A computer readable storage media having computer executable instruction
      modules stored therein that are operable to provide a financial statement associated
      with a client to a financial statement user by performing the operational steps of:
                                                    34

4 GEC510214AUPR
                receiving at a server of a confirmation system, via a communications
      network, a financial statement having financial information associated with the
      client;
                storing the received financial statement in a computer database of the
      confirmation system;
                receiving at the server of the confirmation system from the client, via the
      communications        network,   permissions   associated  with  the  stored financial
      statement; and
                providing the stored financial statement from the computer database of the
      confirmation system to the financial statement user as a function of the permissions
      associated with the stored financial statement.
       12.      The computer readable storage media of claim 11, wherein:
                the operation of receiving at the server of the confirmation system, via the
      communications       network, the financial statement having financial information
      associated with the client comprises receiving at the server of the confirmation
      system, via the communications network, the financial statement having financial
      information associated with the client from an accountant associated with the client
      and receiving an identification of the client from the accountant at the server of the
      confirmation system; and
                                                  35

i4 GEC510214AUPR
                 the computer executable instruction modules are further operable to perform
       the step of providing a notification from the server of the confirmation system to the
       client, via the communications network, in response to receiving the identification
       of the client at the server.
        13.      The computer readable storage media of claim 11, wherein the operation of
       receiving at the server of the confirmation system, via the communications network,
       the financial statement having financial information associated with the client
       comprises:
                 receiving at the server of the confirmation system, via the communications
       network, the financial statement having financial information associated with the
       client from the client;
                 receiving at the server of the confirmation system from the client, via the
       communications network, an identification of an accountant associated with the
       client;
                 providing a notification to the identified accountant from the server of the
       confirmation system via the communications network; and
                 receiving a confirmation of the financial information in the financial
       statement from the accountant at the server of the confirmation system via the
       communications network.
                                                   36

14 GEC510214AUPR
        14.      The computer readable storage media of claim 11, wherein:
                 the operation of receiving at the server of the confirmation system from the
       client, via the communications network, permissions associated with the stored
       financial statement comprises receiving an identification of the financial statement
       user; and
                 the computer executable instruction modules are further operable to perform
       the steps of providing a notification from the server of the confirmation system to
       the identified financial statement user via the communications network in response
       to receiving the permissions at the server of the confirmation system, said
       notification indicating the availability of the financial statement to the identified
       financial statement user.
       15.       The computer readable storage media of claim 11, wherein the operation of
       receiving at the server of the confirmation system from the client, via the
       communications        network, permissions      associated with the    stored financial
       statement comprises receiving an identification of a financial statement user, a
       viewing permission comprising at least one of view, print, and download, and a time
       limit for the viewing permission.
       16.       The computer readable storage media of claim 11, wherein the operation of
       receiving at the server of the confirmation system, via the communications network,
                                                    37

;4 GEC510214AUPR
       the financial statement having financial information associated with the client
       further comprises:
                        receiving    at  the   server  of the   confirmation  system,   via  the
                 communications network, an identification of the client from an accountant
                 associated with the client;
                        providing a notification from the server of the confirmation system to
                 the client, via the communications network, in response to receiving the
                 identification of the client;
                        receiving an approval at the server of the confirmation system from the
                 client, via the communications network, said approval indicating acceptance
                 by the client of the accountant from which the identification of the client was
                 received to upload the financial statement to the server of the confirmation
                 system,
                        providing a notification of the approval to the accountant from the
                 server of the confirmation system via the communications network in
                 response to receiving the approval at the server of the confirmation system,
                 and
                        receiving the financial statement from the accountant at the server of
                 the confirmation system via the communications network.
                                                      38

4 GEC510214AUPR
      17.        The computer readable storage media of claim 11, wherein the operation of
      receiving at the server of the confirmation system, via the communications network,
      the financial statement having financial information associated with the client
      comprises:
                       receiving   at  the   server   of the  confirmation    system,  via   the
                communications network, an identification of an accountant associated with
                the client from the client;
                       providing a notification from the server of the confirmation system to
                the identified accountant, via the communications network, in response to
                receiving the identification of the accountant from the client; and
                       receiving the financial statement from the accountant at the server of
                the confirmation system via the communications network.
      18.       The computer readable storage media of claim 11, wherein:
                the financial statement comprises at least one of a balance sheet, cash flow
      statement, a financial review, or a compilation of financial information; and
                the financial statement user is one of a lending institution and an investor.
      19.       The computer readable storage media of claim 11, wherein the computer
      executable instruction modules are further operable to perform the operational step
                                                     39

34GEC510214AUPR
      of confirming, via the communications network, the financial information in the
      financial statements with a third party associated with the financial information.
      20.       The computer readable storage media of claim 11, wherein:
                the operational step of receiving at the server of the confirmation system, via
      the communications network, the financial statement having financial information
      associated with the client comprises receiving at the server of the confirmation
      system, via the communications network, the financial statement having financial
      information associated with the client from an accountant associated with the
      client; and
                the computer executable instruction modules are further operable to perform
      the steps of
                       querying a database of licensed certified public accountants to
                determine whether the accountant is a currently licensed certified public
                accountant, and
                       providing the financial statement, via the communications network, to
                the identified lending institution in accordance with the permissions provided
                by the client as a function of determining that the accountant is a currently
                licensed certified public accountant.
                                                    40

<removed-date>
                              EDITORIAL NOTE
                                     <removed-apn>
              - There are 7 pages of Drawings only
<removed-apn>

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
