                         ABSTRACT OF THE DISCLOSURE
        Disclosed are various embodiments for providing access control to the
underlying data of a single machine-readable identifier when read by various reader
devices. A client device may receive a first cryptographic key associated with a first
device profile and a second cryptographic key associated with a second device
profile. Data provided through an ingestion process is formatted into at least a first
portion of data and a second portion of data, where the first portion of data is
intended for a first reader device and the second portion of data is intended for a
second reader device.     The first portion of data may be encrypted using the first
cryptographic key while the second portion of data is encrypted using the second
cryptographic key. A machine-readable identifier may be generated using the first
portion of data as encrypted and the second portion of data as encrypted.

WO 2016/141029                                                              PCT/US2016/020388
                                         1/17
                                                                       Computing
                                                                    Environment 103
                                                           Key Management Applicationj11
                                                                 Translator Service 120
                     106                                     Direct Messaging Service 122
                                                                     Data Store 115
                    C lient  - - 124                                Device Data 142
                                                            --------------------------------------------
                                                                                    -----------------
                 Application                                   Cryptographic Keys 121a
                                                                 Device Identifiers 145
                                                                   Device Profile 148
                                                                   Access Level 152......
       131 a        lM.
         1 133
                                             Cryptographic
                                           -- Keys 121b
                                                                        Network
                                                                           112
                                                                                       Cryptographic
                                                                                         Key 121 c
                                       109        12
                                                                                           ...---
                                     Reader Application 136                      l3
               131 b
 100./1
                                       FIG. 1

                  ACCESS CONTROL FOR ENCRYPTED DATA
                      IN MACHINE-READABLE IDENTIFIERS
               CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
  [0001]     This application claims the benefit of and priority to co-pending U.S.
Provisional     Patent Application    No.   62/127,404,    entitled  "GENERATING
IDENTIFIER WITH ENCODED HEALTH INFORMATION," filed on March 3,
2015, the contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety
herein.
                                   BACKGROUND
  [0002]     Machine-readable identifiers can be employed to format data in a
medium recognizable by a reader device, such as a barcode or a matrix code
scanner.     However, any person having a suitable reader can obtain the data
embodied in the machine-readable identifier unless the underlying data is
encrypted. Managing which devices have access to encrypted data in machine
readable identifiers remains problematic.
                             FIELD OF THE INVENTION
  [0003]     The present disclosure relates to cryptography, machine-readable
identifier technology, data security, and, to a certain degree, computer vision.
                    BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
  [0004]     Many aspects of the present disclosure can be better understood with
reference to the following drawings. The components in the drawings are not
necessarily to scale, with emphasis instead being placed upon clearly illustrating
                                          1

the principles of the disclosure.      Moreover, in the drawings, like reference
numerals designate corresponding parts throughout the several views.
  [0005]    FIG. 1 shows an example of a networked environment for providing
access control to information collected by a client application according to
various embodiments.
  [0006]    FIG. 2 shows another example of a networked environment for
augmenting and updating content data using encrypted machine-readable
identifiers according to various embodiments.
  [0007]    FIG. 3 shows a data structure used to generate a machine-readable
identifier having portions of data encrypted using multiple keys according to
various embodiments.
  [0008]    FIG. 4 includes a table that illustrates the capacity of a 40-L version
matrix code.
  [0009]    FIG. 5 includes a table that illustrates the mode indicator bits for a
mode of encoding data.
  [0010]    FIG. 6 is a flowchart illustrating one example of encrypting and
encoding data for use in a machine-readable identifier according to various
embodiments.
  [0011]    FIGS. 7A-7N show various examples of user interfaces generated by
a client application according to various embodiments.
  [0012]    FIG. 8 is pseudocode that illustrates one example of code used to
configure a computing device or a client device to generate a machine-readable
identifier according to various embodiments.
                                          2

   [0013]    FIG. 9 shows an example of updating or augmenting data on a client
device using a machine-readable identifier generated by another device
according to various embodiments.
   [0014]    FIGS.   10-12 are flowcharts     illustrating functionality of a client
application executed in a client device according to various embodiments.
   [0015]    FIGS. 13 and 14 are flowcharts illustrating functionality of a remote
application    executed   in a   computing    environment according       to various
embodiments.
   [0016]    FIGS. 15-17 are schematic block diagrams that provide example
illustrations of a computing environment, a client device, and a reader device
employed in the networked environment of FIGS. 1 and 2 according to various
embodiments.
                             DETAILED DESCRIPTION
   [0017]    The present disclosure relates to access control for segmented data
in machine-readable identifiers. Machine-readable identifiers, such as barcodes,
matrix codes, or other similar identifiers, can be employed to format data in a
medium recognizable by a reader device, such as a barcode or a matrix code
scanner. While machine-readable identifiers can be used to transfer data from
one device to another without the use of a wired or wireless network, any person
having a suitable reader can obtain the data embodied in the machine-readable
identifier unless the underlying data is encrypted. As the underlying data may be
sensitive, a user may want to control which portions of the underlying data is
capable of being read by various devices.
                                          3

  [0018]    For example, in some embodiments, medical information can be
encoded in a machine-readable identifier.         People are required at times to
produce sensitive data that the person may wish to keep private, such as
providing a medical history during a visit to a medical office.       The medical
history, as well as other personally identifying information, is generally required
by chiropractors, holistic medicine providers, veterinarians, urgent or emergency
medicine centers, dentists, insurance companies, etc. Family members may
bear the responsibility of providing such information to healthcare providers on
behalf of their relatives if they are not capable of doing so.
  [0019]    While a person may want to provide his or her general practitioner
with a complete medical history, the person may not want to provide the
complete medical history to another provider, such as a chiropractor or a dentist.
Instead, they may wish to limit the data to what is relevant for the medical care
professional. Accordingly, in various embodiments, a single machine-readable
identifier may be encoded with data where different devices are capable of
reading different portions of the data. For example, a person may authorize his
or her general practitioner to obtain a complete medical history from a matrix
code while a chiropractor, using the same matrix code, may only be able to
obtain a subset of the medical history as authorized by a user.
  [0020]    According to various embodiments, a user may use his or her
electronic device, such as a smartphone or tablet, to provide medical intake
information, as opposed to the standard practice of filling out medical forms
using pen and paper.         As medical, personal, and other delicate information
provided by the user via the electronic device may be sensitive, sending the
information over a network raises concerns. For example, the information could
                                            4

be intercepted using packet sniffing software or rogue access points. Further,
databases where the information is stored can be hacked. As such, machine
readable identifiers, such as bar codes or matrix codes, can be used to transfer
information between nearby devices without the use of a network.
   [0021]    Machine-readable identifiers, however, usually rely on open source or
transparent standards making interpretation of data embodied in the machine
readable identifiers susceptible to unauthorized access. For example, if medical
information was embedded in a matrix code, any commercially-available matrix
code reader may be able to obtain the medical information. While the underlying
data can be encrypted, only devices having access to a suitable key can decrypt
the data. However, sharing a single key among multiple devices deters a person
from providing a complete amount of information as the person may be aware
that all devices with the key are capable of accessing their information.
   [0022]    Accordingly, in embodiments described herein, access control for
segmented data in machine-readable identifiers may be provided.            In one
embodiment, a client application executable on a client device may be
configured to receive a first cryptographic key associated with a first device
profile and a second cryptographic key associated with a second device profile
over a network. The client application may facilitate the collection of input data
from a user through an ingestion process which can include a series of user
interfaces that prompt the user to enter a variety of data. Once received, the
client application may segment or otherwise format the input data into at least a
first portion of data and a second portion of data. For example, the first portion
of data may be capable of being interpreted by a reader device for a general
                                          5

practitioner while the second portion of data may be capable of being interpreted
by a reader device for a chiropractor.
   [0023]   The client application may encrypt the first portion of data using the
first cryptographic key and the second portion of data using the second
cryptographic key.       A remote application, referred to herein as a key
management application, may execute in a remote computing device, such as
server, and oversee the transmission and receipt of keys capable of decrypting
the data, as authorized by the user.        Alternatively, in other embodiments, a
receiver device may be associated with a key in the remote computing
environment. The remote application can provide the client application with a
key for a receiver device, such that the information is encrypted for access by
the receiver device.     Finally, the client application may generate a machine
readable identifier using the first portion of data as encrypted and the second
portion of data as encrypted for rendering in a display accessible by the client
device. The receiver device can capture one or more images of the machine
readable identifier to access the underlying data using automated image analysis
and computer vision.
   [0024]   As a non-limiting example, a user of the client application may
associate his or her general practitioner with a high level of access, where the
general practitioner is able to use his or her device to access all of the input data
provided by the user of the client application. The key management application
can send a key to the device for the general practitioner as well as to the device
for the user. Similarly, the key management application can send a key to the
device for the chiropractor or other medical provider and to the device for the
user.    The client application may encode data authorized for receipt by the
                                           6

general practitioner using a corresponding key while encoding data authorized
for receipt by the chiropractor using a different key for the chiropractor. To this
end, using a single machine-readable identifier, access control to the underlying
data of the machine-readable identifier is provided.
  [0025]    As may be appreciated, a technical problem exists for transferring
sensitive data between devices without the use of a network as many ways of
intercepting data transmitted over a network exist.        Additionally, a technical
problem exists there are many ways that network stored data (data stored on a
network device) can be obtained without authorization.             Accordingly, the
embodiments described herein solve the technical problem by presenting ways
of transmitting sensitive data between devices without the use the network to
transmit and receive the sensitive data.
  [0026]    Although this disclosure provides multiple examples in context of
healthcare data, the embodiments enclosed herein are applicable across many
industries. Additionally, this disclosure provides examples in context of matrix
codes and other similar machine-readable identifiers.           However, in some
embodiments, visual image recognition may be employed to identify data
encoded in different forms of images, such as employed in the Clickable Paper TM
applications marketed by RICOH@.
  [0027]    In the following discussion, a general description of the system and its
components is provided, followed by a discussion of the operation of the same.
  [0028]    With reference to FIG. 1, shown is a networked environment 100
according to various embodiments. The networked environment 100 includes a
computing environment 103, a client device 106, and a reader device 109, which
are in data communication with each other via a network 112.              In various
                                           7

embodiments, the client device 106 and the reader device 109 may not
communicate any information from one device to another over the network 112
beyond cryptographic keys, as will be discussed. The network 112 includes, for
example, the Internet, intranets, extranets, wide area networks (WANs), local
area networks (LANs), wired networks, wireless networks, or other suitable
networks, etc., or any combination of two or more such networks. For example,
such networks may comprise satellite networks, cable networks, Ethernet
networks, and other types of networks.
  [0029]    The computing environment 103 may comprise, for example, a server
computer or any other system providing computing capability. Alternatively, the
computing environment 103 may employ a plurality of computing devices that
may be arranged, for example, in one or more server banks, computer banks, or
other arrangements.      Such computing devices may be located in a single
installation or may be distributed among many different geographical locations.
For example, the computing environment 103 may include a plurality of
computing devices that together may comprise a hosted computing resource, a
grid computing resource and/or any other distributed computing arrangement. In
some cases, the computing environment 103 may correspond to an elastic
computing resource where the allotted capacity of processing, network, storage,
or other computing-related resources may vary over time.
  [0030]    Various applications and/or other functionality may be executed in the
computing environment 103 according to various embodiments.          Also, various
data is stored in a data store 115 that is accessible to the computing
environment 103. The data store 115 may be representative of a plurality of
data stores 115 as can be appreciated. The data stored in the data store 115,
                                         8

for example, is associated with the operation of the various applications and/or
functional entities described below.
  [0031]    The components executed on the computing environment 103, for
example, may include a key management application 118, a translator service
120, a direct messaging service 122, and other applications, services,
processes, systems, engines, or functionality not discussed in detail herein. The
key management application 118 may be executed to oversee the transmission
and receipt of various cryptographic keys 121a...121c stored in the data store
115, as will be discussed.
  [0032]    The translator service 120 may be executed to translate user input
from a first language, such as Spanish, to a second language, such as English.
In some embodiments, the translator service 120 may be used to translate a
question stored in the computing environment 103 for use in an ingestion
process from a first language to a second language.
  [0033]    The direct messaging service 122 can be employed to send
encrypted direct messages over the network from a client device 106 to another.
In one embodiment, an application executable on the client device 106 encrypts
a message generated by a user of the client device 106 and sends the encrypted
message to the direct messaging service 122 over the network 112 which then
transmits the encrypted message to a recipient client device 106.          In one
example, the direct messaging service 122 permits a patient to communicate
directly with his or her health provider. In other embodiments, messages may be
passed between client devices 106 using a machine-readable identifier, as will
be discussed.
                                           9

  [0034]    In further embodiments, the computing environment 103 can include
applications or services that provide for cloud-based storage of encrypted
information,    such   as  encrypted    health  information,  although     in  other
embodiments, encrypted information may not be stored in the computing
environment 103.
  [0035]    The client device 106 is representative of a plurality of client devices
that may be coupled to the network 112. The client device 106 may comprise,
for example, a processor-based system such as a computer system. Such a
computer system may be embodied in the form of a desktop computer, a laptop
computer, personal digital assistants, cellular telephones, smartphones, set-top
boxes, music players, web pads, tablet computer systems, game consoles,
electronic book readers, smartwatches, or other devices with like capability. The
client device 106 may include a client device display 124 and the reader device
109 may include a reader device display 127. The client device display 124 and
the reader device display 127 may comprise, for example, one or more devices
such as liquid crystal display (LCD) displays, gas plasma-based flat panel
displays, organic light emitting diode (OLED) displays, electrophoretic ink (E ink)
displays, LCD projectors, or other types of display devices, etc.
  [0036]    The client device 106 may be configured to execute various
applications such as a client application 130 and/or other applications.        The
client application 130 may be executed in the client device 106, for example, to
perform an ingestion process, whereby a series of user interfaces 131a are
rendered in the client device display 124 to prompt the user for user input. In
one example, one or more questions are provided to the user to obtain personal
information, medical information, or other suitable information. The one or more
                                         10

questions may be obtained from the computing environment 103 or hardcoded in
the client application 130.
  [0037]    The client application 130 may encrypt the user input and generate a
machine-readable identifier 133 with the encrypted user input.       As may be
appreciated, the reader device 109 uses a reader application 136 to interpret the
machine-readable identifier 133 and access the encrypted user input. Using one
or more cryptographic keys 121, the reader application 136 can decrypt the
encrypted user input for local storage on the reader device 109 or for remote
storage.
  [0038]    In some embodiments, the client application 130 and the reader
application 136 may comprise, for example, a browser, a dedicated application,
etc., and the user interface 131a generated by the client application 130 or the
user interface 131b generated by the reader application 136 may comprise a
network page, an application screen, etc.         The client device 106 may be
configured to execute applications beyond the client application 130 such as, for
example, email applications, social networking applications, word processors,
spreadsheets, and/or other applications.
  [0039]    The reader device 109 may include a front-facing imaging device 139
or a rear-facing imaging device (not shown), such as a camera or other device
capable of interpreting the machine-readable identifier 133.         The reader
application 136 may be executed in the reader device 109 to capture one or
more images of the machine-readable identifier 133 generated by the client
application 130.     Similarly, the client device 106 may comprise one or more
imaging devices, such as a front-facing or rear-facing camera.        In various
embodiments, the reader application 136 is further executed to decrypt the
                                           11

encrypted user input obtained from the machine-readable identifier 133 and
present the health information in the reader device display 127.
  [0040]    The reader application 136 may be configured to maintain versions of
data provided by the user and generate a suitable interface that facilitates
navigating between particular types of data or different versions. While the client
application 130 may be configured to abstain from transmitting medical or other
types of information over the network 112, in some embodiments, the reader
application 136 may communicate data to a remote or cloud-based service, such
as a HIPAA-compliant electronic health record system.            While the client
application 130 may not send health or other types of information over the
network 112, the computing environment 103 may backup or store versions of
the machine-readable identifier 133 in the data store 115.          When a user
upgrades or replaces his or her client device 106, the machine-readable
identifier 133 can be used to populate data on the new client device 106.
  [00411    The data stored in the data store 115 may include device data 142 as
well as other data as can be appreciated. The device data 142 may include
information associated with one or more client devices 106 and reader devices
109. In one example, each reader device 109 may be associated with a unique
cryptographic key 121 where the key management application 118 sends the
cryptographic key 121 to the client application 130. The client application 130
can then generate a machine-readable identifier 133 that includes user input
data encrypted with the cryptographic key 121 for the reader device 109. As the
reader device 109 also maintains a copy of its cryptographic key 121, it is able to
decrypt and interpret the user input data.
                                         12

   [0042]    In another example, each client device 106 may be associated with
one or more cryptographic keys 121 where the key management application 118
sends the cryptographic keys 121 to the reader devices 109 at the instruction of
a user of the client application 130. The client application 130 can generate a
machine-readable identifier 133 that includes user input data encrypted with the
one or more cryptographic keys 121.      The key management application 118, at
the instruction of the user of the client application 130 for example, can send a
cryptographic key 121 to the reader device 109 so that it can decrypt and
interpret the user input data.
   [0043]    The device data 142 may include device identifiers 145 that uniquely
identify a client device 106 or a reader device 109. The device data 142 may
further include device profiles 148 which, in turn, may include access levels 152.
In some embodiments, a user of the client application 130 can associate certain
reader devices 109 with particular access levels 152. In one example, a person
can associate a first reader device 109 for his or her general practitioner with a
first level of access and a second reader device 109 for his or her dentist with a
second level of access. To this end, the user of the client application 130 can
designate which data is accessible by which reader device 109 based on the
level of access.     As will be described, the user input can be segmented or
partitioned by information available to each reader device 109. To this end, the
reader application 136 may provide differing levels of access to the information
specified by the user or predetermined by the computing environment 103.
   [0044]    The cryptographic keys 121 may include a numeric, binary, or
alphanumeric string used to encrypt data.            In various embodiments, the
                                          13

cryptographic keys 121 may comprise symmetric cryptographic keys 121,
asymmetric cryptographic keys 121, or a combination thereof.
  [0045]     With reference to FIG. 2, shown is another example of the networked
environment 100 according to various embodiments.         In some circumstances,
the input data provided by the user of the client application 130 may be
manipulated on the reader device 109 or other device with access to the
decrypted information. For example, a doctor may alter data provided the user
to include up-to-date blood pressure, weight, or other information. The user may
wish to store this information on his or her client device 106 to maintain a more
complete and accurate medical history.
  [0046]     To this end, in some embodiments, the reader application 136 may
utilize its cryptographic key 121 (or other cryptographic key 121 available to the
client device 106) to provide the client device 106 with updated, modified,
supplemented, or otherwise manipulated data. The client application 130 can
facilitate the capture of one or more images of the machine-readable identifier
133 generated on the reader device 109 and rendered in the reader device
display 127.
  [0047]     In various embodiments, the underlying data of the machine-readable
identifier 133 generated by the reader application 136 is encrypted using a
cryptographic key 121 only available to the client device 106 and the reader
device 109. The client application 130 can decrypt the underlying data and store
the data locally on the client device 106. If the user performs parts of ingestion
process, the updated data may be provide in automatically populated fields in
the user interface 131.     By scanning the machine-readable identifier 133 and
having suitable cryptographic keys 121 to access the underlying data, the reader
                                         14

application 136 may update locally stored data and may interface with other
applications,   such   as scheduling     applications,  appointment    management
applications, medication refill applications, or EHR applications, to update
information associated therewith.
  [0048]     Referring next to FIG. 3, shown is an example of a data structure 300
comprising data used to generate an image of the machine-readable identifier
133a... 133c.     The data structure 300 may include, for example, an error
correction level 303, a character count indicator 306, a mode indicator 309, a
payload 312, an error correction 315, and/or other data as may be appreciated.
  [0049]     Matrix codes, also referred to as quick response (QR) codes,
traditionally employ Reed-Solomon error correction which is used to generate
error correction codewords (bytes) based on the encoded data.              A reader
application 136a... 136b can use these error correction level 303 to determine
whether the data was read incorrectly and, if so, correct the errors in the data
using the error correction codewords. For matrix codes, there are four levels of
error correction levels 303 designated as L, M, Q, and H with error correction
capabilities of 7%, 15%, 25%, and 30%, respectively.
  [0050]     Matrix codes have different sizes, and a matrix code of a particular
size is referred to as a version.      There are forty versions available although
additional versions are possible and are included within the scope of the
disclosure. For example, version 1 is the smallest version of a matrix code, and
is 21 pixels by 21 pixels in size. Each version is 4 pixels larger than the previous
version. Version 4 is the largest version, and is 177 pixels by 177 pixels. The
largest version has the highest capacity of characters, as shown in the table of
FIG. 4.
                                          15

  [0051]    The payload 312 can be encoded according to different modes as set
by the mode indicator 309.      The mode indicator 309 may comprise a four-bit
string, as shown in FIG. 5. The encoded data may start with the appropriate
mode indicator that states the mode being used for the subsequent bits. The
largest version of matrix code has the highest capacity of characters, as shown
in the table of FIG. 4. The character count indicator 306 includes the number of
characters that are being encoded.
  [0052]    To generate the machine-readable identifier 133, the client application
130 (or the reader application 136) may access the user input received during
the ingestion process and encrypt the data using a cryptographic key 121.         In
embodiments where the cryptographic key 121 is asymmetric, RSA or other
suitable encrypting algorithm may be employed.        In embodiments where the
cryptographic key 121 is symmetric, the Advanced Encryption Standard (AES) or
other suitable encrypting algorithm may be employed. The encrypted user input
may be encoded according to the mode indicator 309. For example, assuming
the encrypted user input is a string of alphanumeric characters, the mode
indicator 309 may be set to 0010. Alphanumeric encoding may include breaking
up a string into pairs and creating a binary number for each pair.
  [0053]    The data intended for a first reader device 109a may be encrypted
using a cryptographic key 121 accessible by the first reader device 109a (shown
in FIG. 3 cryptographic key 121A) and encoded as payloadA. Similarly, the data
intended for a second reader device 109b may be encrypted using a
cryptographic key 121 accessible by the second reader device 109b (shown in
FIG. 3 cryptographic key 121   B) and  encoded as payloadB. When scanned by a
                                         16

reader device 109, only a portion of the payloadTotal may be interpreted by the
reader device 109.
  [0054]     Referring next to FIG. 6, shown is a flowchart that illustrates the
transformation of input data into a matrix code or other machine-readable
identifier 133. Starting with step 603, user input is accessed. The user input
may include, for example, health information, emergency contact information, or
other type of information obtained during the ingestion process or from a user
interface 131 presented by the client application 130. In the example of FIG. 6, a
string of user input includes "Hello world" for explanatory purposes.
  [0055]     In step 606, a cryptographic key 121 is identified based on a reader
device 109 for which the data is intended. For example, a user can specify a
particular portion of his or her medical history intended for his or her general
practitioner. A cryptographic key 121 for one or more reader devices 109 for the
general practitioner may be identified. In step 609, the user input is encrypted
using the cryptographic key 121 identified in 606. Using AES encryption and the
key    of   "exampleencryptionkey,"     a   string  of  encrypted     data  includes
"BBd2iHwO/gy+xnFUg6HeAA==."
  [0056]     Next, in step 612, the encrypted data is encoded using alphanumeric
mode or other suitable mode, such as numeric, byte, Kanji, or ECI. For the first
two characters "BB" in the encrypted data, a binary number is generated using
alphanumeric coding to obtain "111111010." This may continue until all of the
encrypted data is encoded using a suitable mode.           Finally, in step 615, the
image of the matrix code is generated using the encoded data as the payload
according to the matrix code standard.
                                          17

  [0057]     In various embodiments, the AES-256 encryption algorithm may be
employed to encrypt the underlying data. An initialization vector (IV) or starting
variable (SV) may be employed for use by a mode that randomizes the
encryption and produces distinct ciphertexts, even if the same plaintext is
encrypted multiple times.    (AES CBC Pkcs7). Some modes, such as Electronic
Codebook (ECB) and Cipher Block Chaining (CBC), may require that the final
block be padded before encryption, so suitable padding may be employed.
  [0058]     In an embodiment where AES-256 is employed, a cryptographic key
121 may include 256 bits (32 bytes) with an IV of 128 bits (16 bytes). The IV
may be randomly generated on each encryption performed by the client
application 130 or the reader application 136 to provide a distinct encryption
result (different from previous encryptions), even if the data to be encrypted has
not changed. The generated IV may be stored with the encrypted data locally on
the client device 106 or the reader device 109 allowing for future decryption, as
discussed herein.
  [0059]     In some embodiments, the encrypted data is stored locally on the
client device 106 or the reader device 109 in association with a password,
biometric data, or a PIN code. Additionally, each user, or entity for which data is
provided (e.g., patient, relative, pet) may have his or her own cryptographic key
121 (i.e., encryption key). As a result, any data encrypted on a specific device
can only be decrypted on that device when the suitable password, biometric
data, or PIN code is provided.
  [0060]     As the AES encryption algorithm requires a cryptographic key 121
and an IV to encrypt or decrypt data, the IV may be stored in association with the
encrypted data to be successfully decrypted at a future time.             In some
                                          18

embodiments, the key management service 115 manages the storage and
transmission of the IV to the client devices 106 or reader devices 109 along with
the cryptographic key 121. The IV key may comprise 16 bytes or other suitable
length. In some embodiments, IV key may be split up and stored in predefined
locations along the cryptographic key 121.     For example, a first number of bytes
of the IV key may be placed at a first location in the cryptographic key 121 while
a second number of bytes of the IV key may be placed at a second location in
the cryptographic key 121, and so forth. The IV key may be removed from the
cryptographic key 121 before the cryptographic key 121 is used.        This feature
adds an extra level of security in the encrypted data. For example, even if the
cryptographic key 121 is intercepted, successfully guessed by brute force, etc.,
without knowing how to retrieve the IV out of the data, it will be difficult, if not
impossible, to decrypt the encrypted data.
  [0061]     FIGS. 7A-7N show various examples of user interfaces 131 of the
client application 130 used to perform an ingestion process by prompting the
user with various types of user input. As may be appreciated, prior to performing
the ingestion process, the user may be required to provide a username, a
password, biometric information, or other information to properly authenticate the
user of the client device 106.     In FIG. 7A, an exemplary home screen for the
client application 130 is shown where the user may input primary information for
an individual.    This may not include medical information, but information for
identification purposes. This may be used to identify a name of the individual
(e.g., the owner, dependent, pet, or other individual).
  [0062]     Subsequently, the client application 130 may prompt the user to input
basic information, such as date of birth, emergency contact information, primary
                                          19

care physician contact information, or other basic information.       Also the user
interface 131 may permit a user to change the individual for which information is
provided.    For example, the user may change the individual from himself or
herself to another individual, such as a child, dependent, pet, etc.          These
secondary profiles will also have data fields to place information for primary care
physicians, emergency contact information, medical history, etc.
  [0063]    FIG. 7B shows an embodiment of a Health Insurance Portability and
Accountability Act (HIPAA) compliance and documentation user interface 131.
From this user interface 131, information pertaining to various regulations, such
as HIPPA, is shown followed by a suitable explanation to obtain requisite
consent. In various embodiments, a link or other user interface component may
be generated that causes another application, such as a browser application, to
show information for those needing further explanation as to the specifics of
compliance.     Following review, a prompt may be made for an electronic
signature and a date or timestamp to verify that the user has reviewed the
material and obtain requisite consent.
  [0064]    Turning  now to FIG. 7C, a user interface 131           illustrates one
embodiment of the screen dedicated to obtaining past medical information for an
individual. The user interface 131 of FIG. 7C enables a user to provide medical
diagnoses that they have been given in the past by a medical professional. In
various embodiments, smart text, auto-population, dropdown suggestions,
and/or other similar components may be included to facilitate a correct spelling
of the most common ailments and/or diseases. The client application 130 may
also obtain data relating to the date at which this diagnosis was given. These
may then be placed in numerical order based on the dates.           In the event a
                                        20

diagnosis is not listed, a free text option may be available. An additional text box
may be created for additional information that may be important.
  [0065]   FIG. 7D shows a user interface 131 in which past surgical information
can be obtained by prompting the user to provide all previous surgical
experiences.     As noted above, in various embodiments, smart text, auto
population, dropdown suggestions, and/or other similar components may be
included to facilitate a correct spelling of the most common surgeries or medical
procedures. The date and institution of these surgical procedures may also be
obtained, if known. Surgical procedures will then be placed in temporal order
with associated data fields for date and institution where the procedure was
performed. In the event that a procedure is not listed, an option for free text will
be available.
  [0066]   Referring next to FIG. 7E, a user interface 131 illustrating an
embodiment of a screen dedicated to obtaining current and past medications is
shown which enables the user to provide current and previous medications. In
various embodiments, smart text, auto-population, dropdown suggestions,
and/or other similar components may be included to facilitate a correct spelling
of the most common medications. The date when the provided medication was
started, the reason for the medication, and the dose and frequency of
administration may be included. In the case that this is an old medication that
the user is no longer taking, a field for date when the medication was stopped
will be included with a reason why it was discontinued.            In the case that a
medication is not listed, an option for free text will be available.
  [0067]   FIG. 7F shows a user interface 131 where a user can provide current
and past allergies, medications, environmental triggers, animals, and other
                                           21

relevant information.       In various embodiments, smart text, auto-population,
dropdown suggestions, and/or other similar components may be included to
facilitate a correct spelling of the most common medications and allergens. The
type of reaction to the allergen will also be included. These will be placed in
numerical order with associated field for type of reaction to each allergen.
  [0068]     In the non-limiting example of FIG. 7G, a user interface 131 is shown
that enables a user to provide information associated with her or her family
medical history. In some embodiments, the user may be presented with specific
common medical conditions to advise whether it is applicable to the family
medical history.     Suitable data fields may be used for uncommon diseases.
Further, smart text, auto-population, dropdown suggestions, and/or other similar
components may be included to facilitate a correct spelling of common ailments
or diseases. The user may also characterize which family member possessed
this diagnosis with their age and year of "deceased," if applicable.
  [0069]     FIG. 7H illustrates an embodiment of a user interface 131 dedicated
to obtaining a social history from a user. For example, a user may be presented
with a form to provide information associated with an individual's social history.
In some embodiments, the form includes data fields covering tobacco history,
alcohol use, foreign travel, education level, etc. This may also include specific
pediatric information such as fellow home inhabitants, firearms in the home, pets
in the home, lead and tuberculosis exposure, etc., based on the age calculated
from the date of birth provided earlier.
  [0070]     Referring next to FIG. 71, a user interface 131 illustrates one
embodiment that obtains immunizations from a user.             Smart text may be
employed to assist the user in correctly spelling immunizations. Open text fields
                                          22

can be provided for immunizations that are not commonly given as may be
needed for foreign travel. In some embodiments, the date that the immunization
was provided may be a required field.          This information may be placed in
chronological order based on the date of immunization.
  [0071]    FIG. 7J shows an embodiment of a user interface 131 that enables a
user to provide miscellaneous notes with can be retained locally only for access
by the user or can be included in the machine-readable identifier 133.            For
example, notes may include a reminder regarding a specific healthcare
encounter.     In various embodiments, this may be limited to 100 characters or
other suitable amount as this is not a list of symptoms but just a reminder for a
specific visit. As with any other section, the notes page can be left blank if there
is no need to update this information. In some embodiments, the data provided
in the notes field can be excluded from the data of the machine-readable
identifier 133.
  [0072]    FIG. 7K shows another drawing of the client device 106 generating a
user interface 131 in the client device display 124. In the non-limiting example of
FIG. 7K, an embodiment is shown where a user is provided with information
previously provided by the user. As may be appreciated, in embodiments where
health information is obtained, information pertaining to one or more of the
eleven organ systems may be ideally acquired.          The user interface 131 may
facilitate printing or transferring information packets to a physician or other
interested person in a format predefined by the user, an administrator, or a
format specified by a healthcare provider. This provides the ability to correlate
this information in a format that is preferred by physicians and legible for both the
owner and the physician. In other examples, the user interface 131 may receive
                                          23

information associated with a patient's pharmacy, insurance, or other related
subjects. The ingestion process may include a review of body systems as well
as health screenings.
  [0073]    Further, the client application 130 may organize information provided
during the ingestion process in a predefined format.          In one example, the
information can be sorted chronologically and by subject, such as allergies or
medications.    For embodiments in which the information is medical data, the
chronological format, common to healthcare providers, provides a way to
efficiently present the data obtained using the client application 130.        It will
provide all the health information designated as required by the healthcare
provider. Because the provided information may be complete and accurate, it
may assist in limiting medical errors by correct identification of medications and
allergies, as well as providing the entirety of the medical history that may prove
to be necessary to the physician or provider.
  [0074]    The data may be formatted and/or compressed prior to encryption by
the client application 130, or the reader application 136 may format the data
when decrypted and/or decompressed. Accordingly, either the client application
130 or the reader application 136 may format the data into a predefined format,
such as the Clinical Document Architecture (CDA) format which includes a
flexible markup standard developed by Health Level 7 International. The CDA
format includes a predefined structure of certain medical records, such as
discharge summaries and progress notes to exchange information between
patients and medical professionals. The CDA format permits the inclusion of
text, images, and other types of multimedia, such as audio or video.        In other
                                          24

examples, the format can be specified by the health care provider via the reader
application 136.
  [0075]    In various embodiments, the client application 130 may export a
summary of the information into a Microsoft Word@, PDF@, or other suitable
format for a user to print at the office of a healthcare provider or prior to the visit.
In some embodiments, the machine-readable identifier 133 may be positioned in
the corner of the generated document or in another suitable location.          Using a
reader device 109, the healthcare provider can scan the machine-readable
identifier 133 from the client device display 124 or a document to import this
information into a chart or electronic health record (EHR), depending on customs
of the particular practice. As may be appreciated, a reader device 109 for the
healthcare provider may be capable of decrypting information provided by the
machine-readable identifier 133, as the client application 130 may be configured
to encrypt the health information prior to generating the machine-readable
identifier 133. As a result, a user of the client application 130 can bypass the
lengthy process of filling out medical intake forms, for example, while sitting in an
office. As the information provided by the user can be updated by the medical
professional, it may aid in limiting medical errors by correct identification of
medications and allergies, as well as providing the entirety of the medical history
that may prove to be necessary to the physician.
  [0076]    The client application 130 may include a mobile application or a web
based application accessed via a browser application. Individuals who use the
web-based application may be able to convert the summary information into a
Word@ or PDF format for the owner to print prior to the visit and the information
                                           25

may be deleted upon completion of a session. In the corner of the printout, the
associated machine-readable identifier 133 can be shown.
   [0077]    Based on the discretion and capabilities of the healthcare provider,
another embodiment specifies that the client application 130 generates an email
with an attachment of the information and/or the machine-readable identifier 133
to email and share electronically with the healthcare provider, office staff, or
health system. This can be completed by the owner either from home prior to
the visit or while in the waiting room of the healthcare provider. The format of
the information will be that which is preferred by the healthcare provider. From
this point it can be printed to add to the patient's paper chart, scanned or
manually input into the electronic medical record. Finally, it may be electronically
linked to an EHR or proprietary electronic medical record (EMR) system. Prior to
sharing this information electronically, the owner may be required again to
review HIPAA regulations and for an electronic signature and date/time stamp
for review of this information.
   [0078]   Turning now to FIG. 7L, a machine-readable identifier 133 having the
user input provided during the ingestion process may be shown. By holding the
encrypted image up to a lens or camera of a reader device 109, the encrypted
health information may be transferred for interpretation by the reader device 109.
In some embodiments, a dependent may transfer his or her information to the
client device 106 of a parent, or vice versa, by capturing an image of the
machine-readable identifier 133.       The key management application           118
facilitates the transfer of the suitable cryptographic keys 121 when requisite
consent is obtained.
                                        26

  [0079]   With reference to FIG. 7M, a user of the client application 130 can
specify the cryptographic key 121 and a recipient of the data, such as an owner
of a reader device 109 or a different client device 106. In other embodiments,
the cryptographic key 121 can be pseudo-randomly generated by the client
application 130 or the key management application 118.        If generated by the
client application 130, the cryptographic key 121 is transmitted to the key
management application 118 which, in turn, communicates the cryptographic key
121 to a reader device 109 or other client device 106 as instructed by a user of
the client application 130. For example, the user of the client device 106 may
have the cryptographic key 121 transmitted to one or more reader devices 109
associated with the "Atlanta Health" provider.         In other embodiments, a
predefined cryptographic key 121 is used based on the selection of the provider.
For example, the key management application 118 may store one or more
cryptographic keys 121 for the "Atlanta Health" provider. When "Atlanta Health"
is selected, the client application 130 may use the one or more cryptographic
keys 121 stored in association with the "Atlanta Health" provider to encrypt
information for use in a machine-readable identifier 133.
  [0080]    In further embodiments, the cryptography key 121 may be set as a
date of birth, social security number, or other constant that may not be
widespread or publicly available. Any healthcare providers that obtain required
software necessary to read and transfer the information represented in the
encrypted QR image may then be permitted to instantaneously extract the user
input electronically and wirelessly. In some embodiments, an additional layer of
security may be employed where the recipient of the information may be
                                         27

required to enter in another identifier specific to the originating user, such as a
date of birth or social security number, before the information will be decrypted.
  [0081]    The process of extracting the information may be accomplished by
holding the machine-readable identifier 133 to a camera lens of the reader
device 109 or another client device 106 in possession by a healthcare provider
or other interested person. As can be appreciated, this can be performed by
personnel in a front office and in a minute or less. The obtained information can
then be used by the reader application 136 or other applications on the reader
device 109 to add to a patient's paper chart or an electronic medical record
system.      Additionally, the reader application 136 may be configured to
automatically populate fields in third-party EMR systems.
  [0082]    Referring next to FIG. 7N, the client application 130 may facilitate
sending encrypted messages from a client device 106 to another.              In one
example, the client application 130 permits a patient to communicate directly
with his or her health provider.       The client application 130 may encrypt a
message generated by a user of the client device 106 and send the encrypted
message to the direct messaging service 122 over the network 112. The direct
messaging service 122 may then transmit the encrypted message to a recipient
client device 106. In other embodiments, messages may be passed between
client devices 106 using a machine-readable identifier 133.              The client
application 130 may further facilitate the transmission of the machine-readable
identifier 133 through the direct messaging service 122.
  [0083]    Turning now to FIG. 8, shown is pseudocode 800 that may be
implemented in configuring the client application 130, the reader application 136,
or other appropriate application to generate a matrix code or other type of
                                          28

machine-readable identifier 133.       For example, a function in Line 01 of the
pseudocode may be programmatically called to generate a matrix code. Line 02
receives the user input to be included in the machine-readable identifier 133,
such as user input provided in the ingestion process performed by presenting the
user interfaces 131 of FIGS. 7A-7K. As the user input is stored locally on the
client device 106, it can be appropriately queried.
  [0084]    In Line 03, a cryptographic key 121 is obtained using an appropriate
function call. In the embodiment of FIG. 8, the cryptographic key 121 is obtained
based on an identifier provided for a particular reader device 109. For example,
a user of the client application 130 can specify the intended recipient of the data.
In other embodiments, the user may specify his or her own cryptographic key
121.    In further embodiments, the cryptographic key 121 may be pseudo
randomly generated or determined using a date of birth, social security number,
or other information provided by the user.
  [0085]    In Line 04, a mode indicator 309 is established.     In the example of
FIG. 8, the mode indicator is set to "0010" which indicates alphanumeric mode.
In Line 05, the character count of the input data is determined.      In Line 06, a
function call is made to an appropriate function that encrypts the user input using
the cryptographic key 121,       returning an encrypted string or other suitable
variable type. In Line 07, a Reed-Solomon error code is determined using an
appropriate function call. In Lines 08-09, the data may be formatted. In Line 10,
the formatted data is provided as a variable of a programmatic function call to
generate the machine-readable identifier 133 in an image or other appropriate
format.
                                          29

  [0086]    Turning now to FIG. 9, shown is another example of the client
application 130 importing data from an external source.         As noted above, in
some circumstances, input data provided by a user of the client application 130
may be manipulated on the reader device 109 or other device with access to the
decrypted information. For example, a doctor may update or alter the data to
include an up-to-date blood pressure reading, weight measurement, glucose
level measurement, or other information.         The user may wish to store this
updated information on his or her client device 106 to maintain a more complete
and accurate medical history. In some embodiments, the reader application 136
can generate a document 900 capable of printing for insertion into a physical
medical file.
  [0087]    The reader application 136 may utilize its cryptographic key 121 to
generate the document 900 having the machine-readable identifier 133a...133b.
The key management application 118 can provide the client device 106 with a
suitable cryptographic key 121 based on the reader device 109, or other device,
that generated the machine-readable identifier 133. The client application 130
can facilitate the capture of one or more images of the machine-readable
identifier 133 positioned on the document 900.      Once an image of the machine
readable identifier 133 is obtained on the client device 106 and decrypted, the
client device 106 can update locally stored information and/or automatically
populate fields in a user interface 131 for review by the user.
  [0088]    In various embodiments, the underlying data of the machine-readable
identifier 133 generated by the reader application 136 is encrypted using a
cryptographic key 121 only available to the client device 106 and the reader
device 109. The client application 130 can decrypt the underlying data and store
                                         30

the data locally on the client device 106. If the user performs parts of ingestion
process, the updated data may be provide in automatically populated fields in
the user interface 131.
  [0089]    Multiple     security  mechanisms     are   built into  the   code   and
implementation of the client application 130.        Because of the breadth of the
potentially critical information, in various embodiments, this information is stored
locally on the client device 106.       Thus, the potential loss of this information
through the "cloud" is reduced or eliminated. In various embodiments, the client
application 130 may be integrated with cloud-based systems for the remote input
and updating of information.
  [0090]    In addition to default password protection provided on smartphones or
other types of client devices 106, an additional password or personal identifier
number (PIN) may be required to access features of the client application 130.
An incorrect password given a predefined number times consecutively (e.g., five
times) may result in disabling use of the client application for a predefined period
of time, such as twenty-four hours.           Prior to sharing of this information
electronically, an additional identifier representing the permission of the owner to
share this information may be required.
  [0091]    In various embodiments, healthcare providers permitted to withdraw
the information from the machine-readable identifier 133 may also be permitted
to update or augment the information and provide the updated or augmented
information back to the owner in the form of another machine-readable identifier
133. As a result, updated information can be reconciled with the information
already present on the client device 106. In this fashion, the owner will not have
to input new information as it will be completed by the client application 130.
                                           31

This can also include reminders for future visits that will incorporate into the
mobile device calendar, reminders for medication refills, etc.           In another
example, the client application 130 can electronically reconcile medications with
a pharmacy.
  [0092]    The client application 130 can be embodied in multiple versions,
where each version uses a different language, such as English, Spanish,
French, or other language. The user input may be translated from a language of
the user to a language of the recipient by the translator service 120, if needed.
This may occur prior to encoding the data for use in the machine-readable
identifier 133 or upon decoding the information with the reader application 136.
For those situations when a higher level of communication, or medical
terminology in English is not known, this information used to assist in a medical
or other type of assessment.
  [0093]    In one embodiment, a machine-readable identifier 133 may be
encoded in a "lock screen" of a client device 106 so that a person without access
to the phone may gain access to crucial identifying, health, or contact information
without having to unlock the client device 106.       In other embodiments, the
information provided during an ingestion process may be periodically erased on
the client device 106 or on the reader device 109, for example, at the end of a
session of use.
  [0094]    Referring next to FIG. 10, shown is a flowchart that provides one
example of the operation of a portion of the client application 130 according to
various embodiments.     It is understood that the flowchart of FIG. 10 provides
merely an example of the many different types of functional arrangements that
may be employed to implement the operation of the portion of the client
                                        32

application 130 as described herein. As an alternative, the flowchart of FIG. 10
may be viewed as depicting an example of elements of a method implemented in
the client device 106 according to one or more embodiments.
  [0095]    Starting with step 1003, the client application 130 is executed to
obtain information, such as health information, from a user for one or more
individuals, such as dependent persons, pets or other animals, etc. This may be
accomplished using the user interfaces 131 which are presented subsequently in
an ingestion process where a user iterates through the user interfaces 131
during one or more sessions.       Next, in step 1006, the client application 130
determines whether a HIPAA notification has been acknowledged by the user. If
the HIPAA notification has not been acknowledged, the HIPAA notification may
be represented to the user and the process may revert back to 1003 or proceed
to end.    If the HIPAA notification has been acknowledged by the user, the
process may proceed to 1009 where the general, health, or other information
provided by the user is encrypted according to one or more predefined
encryption standards and formats.
  [0096]    In various embodiments, the data is encrypted using one or more
cryptographic keys 121.     In various embodiments, the cryptographic key 121
comprises information provided by the user, such as a date of birth, a last name,
a first name, a social security number, a combination thereof, or other potentially
unique information.    In 1012, the encrypted information is used to generate a
machine-readable identifier 133, such as a barcode or a matrix code. The steps
taken to generate the machine-readable identifier are described with respect to
FIG. 6 and FIG. 8.
                                         33

  [0097]    Referring back to FIG. 10, in step 1015, the user may be prompted
with an additional notification asking the user whether the user desires to show
the generated machine-readable identifier 133 on the client device display 124.
Finally, in step 1018, the machine-readable identifier may be encoded in a user
interface 131 for rendering in the client device display 124. At this point, the user
may be able to provide the machine-readable identifier 133 for scanning by a
reader device 109 or the user may print a document containing the information
and having the machine-readable identifier 133 located thereon.
  [0098]    Referring next to FIG. 11, shown is a flowchart that provides another
example of the operation of a portion of the client application 130 according to
various embodiments.      It is understood that the flowchart of FIG. 11 provides
merely an example of the many different types of functional arrangements that
may be employed to implement the operation of the portion of the client
application 130 as described herein. As an alternative, the flowchart of FIG. 11
may be viewed as depicting an example of elements of a method implemented in
the client device 106 according to one or more embodiments.
  [0099]    Starting at step 1103, a client application 130 executable on a client
device 106 may be configured to access a first cryptographic key 121a
associated with a first device profile 148a. Similarly, at step 1106, the client
application 130 may access a second cryptographic key 121 b associated with a
second device profile 148b received over the network 112.              As may be
appreciated, the first cryptographic key 121a and the second cryptographic key
121b may be sent to the client device 106 by the key management application
118 or other similar service over the network 112. The first cryptographic key
121a and the second cryptographic key 121b may be provided to the client
                                          34

application 130 in response to a selection of a certain entity or organization, such
as a medical office or medical professional.           In one example, the first
cryptographic key 121 a is associated with a first medical provider.        The first
medical provider may own or operate a first reader device 109a associated with
the first device profile 148a and having the first cryptographic key 121a stored
thereon.    Similarly, the second cryptographic key 121 b is associated with a
second medical provider, whereby the second medical provider may own or
operate a second reader device 109b associated with the second device profile
148b and having the second cryptographic key 121 b stored thereon.
  [0100]    As the client application 130 facilitates the collection of input data
from a user through an ingestion process, in step 1109, the input data can be
accessed for inclusion in a machine-readable identifier 133.          The ingestion
process may include a series of user interfaces 131 that prompt the user to enter
a variety of data, such as those shown in FIGS. 7A-7K. In step 1112, the client
application 130 may segment, partition, or otherwise format the input data into at
least a first portion of data and a second portion of data. For example, the first
portion of data may be capable of being interpreted by a device for a general
practitioner while the second portion of data may be capable of being interpreted
by a device for a chiropractor.
  [0101]     Next, in step 1115, the client application 130 may encrypt the first
portion of data using the first cryptographic key 121a while, in step 1118, the
client application 130 may encrypt the second portion of data using the second
cryptographic key 121b. The key management application 118 operating in the
computing environment 103 may oversee the transmission and receipt of
cryptographic keys 121 capable of decrypting the data, as authorized by the
                                         35

user.    Alternatively, in other embodiments, a reader device 109 may be
associated with a predefined cryptographic key 121 stored in the data store 115
of the computing environment 103. The key management application 118 can
provide the client application 130 with a cryptographic key 121 for a particular
reader device 109 so that the information is encrypted for access by the reader
device 109 or other client device 106.
  [0102]    In step 1121, the client application 130 may generate a machine
readable identifier 133 using the first portion of data as encrypted and the
second portion of data as encrypted for rendering in the client device display
124. The reader device 109 can capture one or more images of the machine
readable identifier 133 to access the underlying data.
  [0103]    In further embodiments, a user of the client application 130 may
associate a device profile 148, such as one pertaining to a general practitioner,
with a high level of access, where the general practitioner is able to use his or
her reader device 109 to access all or a substantial amount of the input data
provided by the user of the client application 130.         The key management
application 118 can send a cryptographic key 121 to the reader device 109 for
the general practitioner as well as to the client device 106 for the user. Similarly,
the key management application 118 can send a different cryptographic key 121
to a reader device 109 for the chiropractor or other medical provider. The client
application 130 may encode data authorized for receipt by the general
practitioner using a cryptographic key 121 corresponding to the reader device
109 of the general practitioner while encoding data authorized for receipt by the
chiropractor using a different cryptographic key 121 for a reader device 109 of
the chiropractor. To this end, using a single machine-readable identifier 133,
                                         36

access control to the underlying data of the machine-readable identifier 133 is
provided. Thereafter, the process proceeds to terminate.
   [0104]    In some embodiments, a first access level 152a associated with the
first portion of data may be defined.        For example, a user can associate a
required low access level 152 with his personal information while associating a
required high access level 152 with his medical history. A reader devices 109
associated with a high access level 152 may access both the medical history
and the personal information while a reader device 109 associated with a low
access level 152 may only access the personal information. In one example, a
coach of a child may have a low access level 152 granted to a client device 106
used to access emergency contact information for a player, as authorized by the
player or parent.
   [0105]    In other words, the access level 152 may be used to determine which
portions of the data the reader devices 109 can access.         The user can also
define through the client application 130 which entities, such as medical offices,
have access to data associated with various access levels 152. To this end, a
first access level 152a associated with the first portion of data and a second
access level 152b associated with the second portion of data may be identified
where the first portion of data will be encrypted using the first cryptographic key
121 a based at least in part on the first access level 152a, and the second portion
of data will be encrypted using the second cryptographic key 121 b based at least
in part on the second access level 152b.          As may be appreciated, the first
access level 152a may be different than the second access level 152b.
   [0106]    Referring next to FIG. 12, shown is a flowchart that provides another
example of the operation of a portion of the client application 130 according to
                                          37

various embodiments.      It is understood that the flowchart of FIG. 12 provides
merely an example of the many different types of functional arrangements that
may be employed to implement the operation of the portion of the client
application 130 as described herein. As an alternative, the flowchart of FIG. 12
may be viewed as depicting an example of elements of a method implemented in
the client device 106 according to one or more embodiments.
  [0107]    Starting with 1203, the client application 130 may identify a machine
readable identifier 133 in an image captured by a camera or other imaging
device in communication with the client device 106. For example, the machine
readable identifier 133 may be one generated by the reader device 109 to
provide updated, supplemented, or other manipulated data initially provided by a
user of the client application 130 using an initial machine-readable identifier 133
generated after completion of an ingestion process. As may be appreciated, the
data modified by the reader device 109 may be obtained from an original
machine-readable identifier 133 generated on the client device 106. An image of
the machine-readable identifier 133 may be obtained by the client device 106 to
update its locally stored data.    The image may be captured from the reader
device display 127, as shown in FIG. 2, a display of another client device 106, or
from a document 900, as shown in FIG. 9.
  [0108]    Next, in step 1206, the machine-readable identifier 133 is decoded to
identify an amount of encrypted data.      In step 1209, the client application 130
may decrypt the amount of encrypted data using a cryptographic key 121
associated with a device profile 148 from an originating device from which the
machine-readable identifier 133 is obtained. In some embodiments, an amount
of data read from the machine-readable identifier 133 may be public (not
                                         38

encrypted) that identifies the reader device 109 from which the machine
readable identifier 133 was obtained where any device can decode the amount
of data.    The amount of data may comprise a device identifier 145 and/or a
unique identifier that identifies a person or client device 106 authorized to access
the encrypted data. The client application 130 can communicate the device
identifier 145 to the computing environment 103 to obtain a cryptographic key
121 if the client device 106 is so authorized.
  [0109]     In step 1212, the decrypted data obtained from the machine-readable
identifier 133 may be used to update or supplement the data stored locally on
the client device 106. In some situations, the decrypted data may conflict with
data provided by the user. For example, portions of the data provided by the
user to the reader device 109 through a first machine-readable identifier 133
may have been changed. Alternatively, the data provided by the user may be
augmented with readings taken by a doctor that may have been previously
unknown to the user.
  [0110]    Accordingly, in step 1215, the client application 130 determines
whether a conflict exists between the decrypted data and the data provided by
the user, for example, through the ingestion process. The data may conflict, for
example, if the data provided by the user using his or her client device 106 is
different than the data returned by the reader device 106 in any respect. For
example, using the reader device 109, a physician or nurse may update the data
provided by the user to reflect recent readings or measurements. Alternatively,
using the reader device 109, the physician or nurse may augment the data
provided by the user. In either scenario, a conflict between the data is identified
                                          39

as both sets of data are not identical. A DIFF function or similar function may be
employed to identify specific portions of the data where conflicts exist.
  [0111]    If a conflict between the data exists, the process proceeds to step
1218 to reconcile or otherwise resolve the data conflict. In some embodiments,
the user may be presented with information pertaining to the conflict where the
user can select whether to keep the original data provided by the user or to
update the data with the data provided from the reader device 109.            In other
embodiments, the data provided from the reader device 109 may automatically
replace data provided by a user or automatically be added to the memory of the
client device 106 to augment the data provided by the user during the ingestion
process.
  [0112]    In some examples, some portions data may be associated with
varying access levels 152 pertaining to particular types of data. For example, if
a medical provider updates medical data stored on the client device 106,
deference may be shown to the medical provider over the user as the medical
provider may be assigned a high access level 152 by the user (or by default). In
another example, if a medical provider updates personal information, such as a
phone number or address for the user of the client device 106, deference may
be shown to the user as he or she is likely situated to better understand his or
her own number or address. In other words, the medical provider may have a
high access level 152 for medical information and a low access level 152 for
personal information.
  [0113]    Alternatively, if a data conflict does not exist, the process proceeds to
step 1221 where, during future ingestion processes, the fields in the user
                                            40

interfaces 131 may be automatically populated with data obtained from the
machine-readable identifier 133. Thereafter, the process proceeds to terminate.
  [0114]    With reference to FIG. 13, shown is a flowchart that an example of the
operation of a portion of the key management application 118 according to
various embodiments.      It is understood that the flowchart of FIG. 13 provides
merely an example of the many different types of functional arrangements that
may be employed to implement the operation of the portion of the key
management application 118 as described herein.            As an alternative, the
flowchart of FIG. 13 may be viewed as depicting an example of elements of a
method implemented in the computing environment 103 according to one or
more embodiments.
  [0115]    Starting with 1303, a selection of an entity, such as a medical
provider, is received from a client device 106 where the selection was made in a
client application 130. For example, the user can specify an entity for which he
or she wants to share the input data provided during the ingestion process. In
one example, the user can select "Atlanta Health" provider in a user interface
131 generated by the client application 130.        "Atlanta Health" may own or
operate one or more reader devices 109 which are associated with one or more
device profiles 148 stored in the data store 115.
  [0116]    In some examples, an entity, or a device profile 148 corresponding to
a reader device 109 operated by the entity, may have a predefined cryptographic
key 121 stored in the data store 115. However, in step 1306, a cryptographic
key 121 can be generated for the device profile 148, for example, to create a
cryptographic key 121 unique to the user-to-entity relationship.      As may be
appreciated, step 1306 may be optional. In some examples, the cryptographic
                                         41

key 121 is generated pseudo-randomly, using information provided by the user,
or a combination thereof.
  [0117]   Next, in step 1309, the cryptographic key 121 is sent to the client
device 106 so that the client application 130 can encode the input data for
receipt by the reader device 109 associated with the device profile 148. If the
reader device 109 does not have the cryptographic key 121 stored thereon, in
step 1312, the cryptographic key 121 may be sent to the reader device 109, if
needed.
  [0118]   With reference to FIG. 14, shown is a flowchart that shows another
example of the operation the key management application 118 according to
various embodiments.     It is understood that the flowchart of FIG. 14 provides
merely an example of the many different types of functional arrangements that
may be employed to implement the operation of the portion of the key
management application 118 as described herein.            As an alternative, the
flowchart of FIG. 14 may be viewed as depicting an example of elements of a
method implemented in the computing environment 103 according to one or
more embodiments.
  [0119]   In some embodiments, the machine-readable identifier 133 may
comprise non-encrypted data or data that may be decrypted using a global or
shared cryptographic key 121.      The data may include a first device identifier
145a for an originating device and a second device identifier 145b for an
intended recipient.   For example, a client application 130 can generate a
machine-readable identifier 133 that includes a first device identifier 145a for the
client device 106 that generated the machine-readable identifier 133a and a
                                        42

second device identifier 145b for an intended recipient reader device 109
associated with a particular entity, such as a selected medical provider.
   [0120]   When a reader device 109 scans the machine-readable identifier 133,
it may determine whether it has access to the underlying data by analyzing the
first device identifier 145a or the second device identifier 145b for the intended
recipient.   In other examples, the reader device 109 may communicate the
device identifiers 145 to the key management application 118 for remote
authorization. To this end, in step 1403, the key management application 118
may receive a first device identifier 145a for a device that generated a machine
readable identifier 133. Similarly, in step 1406, the key management application
118 may receive a second device identifier 145b for a device intended to access
the underlying data of the machine-readable identifier 133.
   [0121]   Using the first device identifier 145a and the second device identifier
145b, the key management application 118 may determine, in step 1409,
whether the device requesting a cryptographic key 121 to decrypt the underlying
data of the machine-readable identifier 133 is authorized to access the
underlying data by the originating user (e.g., the user of the client application 130
or the medical provider).    If the requesting device is authorized to access the
underlying data, in step 1412, the key management application 118 may send
the cryptographic key 121 to the device, wherein the cryptographic key 121 is
capable of decrypting the data encoded in the machine-readable identifier 133.
Thereafter, the process proceeds to terminate. Referring back to step 1409, if
the requesting device is not authorized to access the underlying data of the
machine-readable identifier 133, the process proceeds to terminate.
                                          43

  [0122]    The applications described herein, such as the client application 130,
the reader application 136, and the key management application 118, provide
the ability to effectively acquire, store, and reproduce vital information, such as
information required at an initial visit or subsequent visit with a healthcare
provider. Specifically, the present disclosure describes a client application 130
for obtaining a medical history in a user-friendly fashion and generating a
machine-readable identifier 133 comprising the obtained medical history as
encoded and encrypted data. In various embodiments, the information provided
by a user via the client application 130 may be stored locally on the client device
106. The information stored on the client device 106 may be encrypted for local
storage. Additionally, at return visits, any changes to the health history can be
easily identified and provided to the provider.
  [0123]    Today, existing health-related applications are focused towards
assisting an individual in increasing their ability to take responsibility for their own
care, promoting healthy living, and linking with electronic medical records
systems specific to a provider or institution in order to obtain tests and lab
results. These applications include various degrees of daily, or at best, weekly
data points that need to be updated in order to justify use of the client application
130.
  [0124]    The client application 130 and the reader application 136 may be
implemented on the iOS, Blackberry@, Linux@, Android@, Windows@, and/or
other suitable operating systems.         The information obtained by the client
application 130 only needs to be provided by a user once and only updated with
significant and relevant changes (e.g., medication changes, surgical procedures)
which will only be necessary infrequently for the majority of patients. In addition,
                                           44

the client application 130 allows a user to provide vital information for
dependents or those whom the user may be responsible.                  As may be
appreciated, the value of easily and correctly providing basic information is
enormous.
  [0125]    According to various embodiments, a focused, low-maintenance, and
specific account of essential medical information is obtained that is required by
healthcare providers and other entities to provide necessary routine care. This
information is generated by physicians with physicians in mind, but created for
an easy navigation of the system. The work flow will be created in a way that
navigation can be completed by all individuals with just a basic literacy level. In
various embodiments, the breadth of information required from a user may pivot
on a predefined number of questions (e.g., seven questions or some other
number) that may be vital for all initial visits to any healthcare provider.      In
various embodiments, these questions may be specific and not open ended.
  [0126]    The client application 130 generates a series of one or more user
interfaces 131 to obtain information from the user. Further, the client application
130 correlates the information into an easy and legible form for both the
physician and the patient. This also allows for efficient transfer of basic medical
information   between various providers,       such as general physicians and
specialists. The client application 130 facilitates a correlation of medical history
or other information for relatives or other individuals, such as parents, children,
pets, etc. For example, the information provided by another may be beneficial in
situations where patients are unable to provide their own history due to pain,
stress, confusion, loss of consciousness, etc., as well as times when a parent is
distracted due to an emergency situation.           In these instances, this vital
                                         45

information can be effectively communicated quickly, easily, and accurately,
thereby preventing medical errors due to lack of accurate and complete
information.    Further, the client application 130 is configured to improve
healthcare for those individuals with communication disabilities, such as those
who are hearing impaired or mute.
   [0127]   In various embodiments, a doctor's office or other healthcare provider
may designate information as being required or optional during a client intake.
The client application 130 is executed to collect data points designated as being
required by the healthcare providers.      This information may be encrypted in
accordance with HIPAA and Health Information Technology for Economic and
Clinical Health Act ("HITECH") regulations, and may be made accessible to the
user or to specified healthcare providers using a key or a password.
   [0128]   According to various embodiments, the information collected may be
limited to the following: past medical history, past surgical history, allergies,
medications, family history, social history, and immunizations although, in other
embodiments, additional information may be collected.        The client application
130 may assist the user in providing correct spelling for basic medical terms and
medications to prevent confusion and incorrect documentation that can lead to
medical errors.
   [0129]   The information collected by the client application 130 may be
organized in a summary screen shown in a user interface 131 for reference while
filling out new patient information packages.       In various embodiments, this
information may be converted into a Microsoft Word@ or PDF format for printing
prior to visit with a healthcare provider.      Finally, this information may be
encrypted and the encrypted information may be converted into a matrix code or
                                         46

other machine-readable identifier 133 for a paperless and wireless transfer of
information directly to a healthcare provider. In various embodiments, a scan of
the machine-readable identifier 133 causes an automatic population of the
underlying information into a database of various electronic medical record
systems.
  [0130]    In addition to collecting personal information, the client application
130 may be configured to obtain health information for dependents, family
members, pets etc. This may assist in providing healthcare professionals with
complete and accurate information when dependents and family members are
unable to provide this information themselves due to age, incapacity, etc. This
may help the healthcare provider accurately assess patients, streamline care,
and prevent medical errors due to incomplete medical histories.          As noted
above, the client application 130 may be configured to obtain information about
pets, as their medical history is also valuable to owners and veterinarians. By
being able to easily reference this information in the same platform as the user of
the client application 130, the information can be used for school, college,
international travel, emergencies, and other situations.
  [0131]    Although this disclosure provides multiple examples in context of
healthcare data, the embodiments enclosed herein are applicable across many
industries.     For example, the health information       can include information
pertaining to an automobile.       The mechanic can view service records by
scanning a machine-readable identifier 133 presented on a client device 106,
which can include a person's smartphone or a computing device of the
automobile.
                                         47

  [0132]     With reference to FIG. 15, shown is a schematic block diagram of the
computing environment 103 according to an embodiment of the present
disclosure. The computing environment 103 includes one or more computing
devices 1500.      Each computing device 1500 includes at least one processor
circuit, for example, having a processor 1503 and a memory 1506, both of which
are coupled to a local interface 1509. To this end, each computing device 1500
may comprise, for example, at least one server computer or like device. The
local interface     1509 may comprise, for example, a data bus with             an
accompanying address/control bus or other bus structure as can be appreciated.
  [0133]     Stored in the memory 1506 are both data and several components
that are executable by the processor 1503. In particular, stored in the memory
1506 and executable by the processor 1503 are the key management
application 118, the translator service 120, the direct messaging service 122,
and other computing environment applications. Also stored in the memory 1506
may be the data store 115 and other data.        In addition, an operating system
1512 may be stored in the memory 1506 and executable by the processor 1503.
It is understood that there may be other applications that are stored in the
memory 1506 and are executable by the processor 1503 as can be appreciated.
  [0134]     With reference to FIG. 16, shown is a schematic block diagram of the
client device 106 according to an embodiment of the present disclosure. Each
client device 106 includes at least one processor circuit, for example, having a
processor 1603 and a memory 1606, both of which are coupled to a local
interface 1609. To this end, each client device 106 may comprise, for example,
a smartphone, a tablet, a personal computer, or other similar device. The local
                                         48

interface 1609 may comprise, for example, a data bus with an accompanying
address/control bus or other bus structure as can be appreciated.
  [0135]   Stored in the memory 1606 are both data and several components
that are executable by the processor 1603. In particular, stored in the memory
1606 and executable by the processor 1603 are the client application 130 and
other applications. Also stored in the memory 1606 may be a client data store
1612 (also referred to herein as a local data store) and other data. In addition, a
client operating system 1615 may be stored in the memory 1606 and executable
by the processor 1603. It is understood that there may be other applications that
are stored in the memory 1606 and are executable by the processor 1603 as can
be appreciated.
  [0136]   With reference to FIG. 17, shown is a schematic block diagram of the
reader device 109 according to an embodiment of the present disclosure. Each
reader device 109 includes at least one processor circuit, for example, having a
processor 1703 and a memory 1706, both of which are coupled to a local
interface 1709. To this end, each reader device 109 may comprise, for example,
a smartphone, a tablet, a personal computer, or other similar device. The local
interface 1709 may comprise, for example, a data bus with an accompanying
address/control bus or other bus structure as can be appreciated.
  [0137]   Stored in the memory 1706 are both data and several components
that are executable by the processor 1703. In particular, stored in the memory
1706 and executable by the processor 1703 are the reader application 136 and
other applications. Also stored in the memory 1706 may be a reader data store
1712 and other data. In addition, a client operating system 1715 may be stored
in the memory 1706 and executable by the processor 1703. It is understood that
                                        49

there may be other applications that are stored in the memory 1706 and are
executable by the processor 1703 as can be appreciated.
  [0138]    Where any component discussed herein is implemented in the form of
software, any one of a number of programming languages may be employed
such as, for example, C, C++, C#, Objective C, Java@, JavaScript@, Perl, PHP,
Visual    Basic@,  Python@,    Ruby,   Flash@, Swift@, or      other programming
languages.
  [0139]    A number of software components are stored in the memory
executable by the processors.     In this respect, the term "executable" means a
program file that is in a form that can ultimately be run by the processors.
Examples of executable programs may be, for example, a compiled program that
can be translated into machine code in a format that can be loaded into a
random access portion of the memory and run by a processor, source code that
may be expressed in proper format such as object code that is capable of being
loaded into a random access portion of memory and executed by a processor,
source code that may be interpreted by another executable program to generate
instructions in a random access portion of the memory to be executed by a
processor, etc.    An executable program may be stored in any portion or
component of the memory including, for example, random access memory
(RAM), read-only memory (ROM), hard drive, solid-state drive, USB flash drive,
memory card, optical disc such as compact disc (CD) or digital versatile disc
(DVD), floppy disk, magnetic tape, or other memory components.
  [0140]    The memory is defined herein as including both volatile and
nonvolatile memory and data storage components.           Volatile components are
those that do not retain data values upon loss of power. Nonvolatile components
                                         50

are those that retain data upon a loss of power.          Thus, the memory may
comprise, for example, random access memory (RAM), read-only memory
(ROM), hard disk drives, solid-state drives, USB flash drives, memory cards
accessed via a memory card reader, floppy disks accessed via an associated
floppy disk drive, optical discs accessed via an optical disc drive, magnetic tapes
accessed via an appropriate tape drive, and/or other memory components, or a
combination of any two or more of these memory components. In addition, the
RAM may comprise, for example, static random access memory (SRAM),
dynamic random access memory (DRAM), or magnetic random access memory
(MRAM) and other such devices.         The ROM may comprise, for example, a
programmable read-only memory (PROM), an erasable programmable read-only
memory (EPROM), an electrically erasable programmable read-only memory
(EEPROM), or other like memory device.
  [0141]    Also, the processor may represent multiple processors and/or multiple
processor cores and the memory may represent multiple memories that operate
in parallel processing circuits, respectively. In such a case, the local interface
may be an appropriate network that facilitates communication between any two
of the multiple processors, between any processor and any of the memories, or
between any two of the memories, etc.          The local interface may comprise
additional systems designed to coordinate this communication, including, for
example, performing load balancing. The processor may be of electrical or of
some other available construction.
  [0142]    Although the client application 130, the reader application 136, the
key management application 118, and other various systems described herein
may be embodied in software or code executed by general purpose hardware as
                                         51

discussed above, as an alternative the same may also be embodied in dedicated
hardware or a combination of software/general purpose hardware and dedicated
hardware. If embodied in dedicated hardware, each can be implemented as a
circuit or state machine that employs any one of or a combination of a number of
technologies. These technologies may include, but are not limited to, discrete
logic circuits having logic gates for implementing various logic functions upon an
application of one or more data signals, application specific integrated circuits
(ASICs) having appropriate         logic gates, field-programmable      gate arrays
(FPGAs), or other components, etc. Such technologies are generally well known
by those skilled in the art and, consequently, are not described in detail herein.
  [0143]     The flowcharts of FIGS. 6 and 10-14 show the functionality and
operation of an implementation of portions of the client application 130, the
reader application 136, and the key management application 118. If embodied
in software, each block may represent a module, segment, or portion of code
that comprises      program    instructions to implement     the specified    logical
function(s). The program instructions may be embodied in the form of source
code that comprises human-readable statements written in a programming
language or machine code that comprises numerical instructions recognizable by
a suitable execution system such as a processor in a computer system or other
system.     The machine code may be converted from the source code, etc. If
embodied in hardware, each block may represent a circuit or a number of
interconnected circuits to implement the specified logical function(s).
  [0144]     Although the flowcharts of FIGS. 6 and 10-14 show a specific order of
execution, it is understood that the order of execution may differ from that which
is depicted. For example, the order of execution of two or more blocks may be
                                          52

scrambled relative to the order shown.       Also, two or more blocks shown in
succession in FIGS. 6 and 10-14 may be executed concurrently or with partial
concurrence. Further, in some embodiments, one or more of the blocks shown
in FIGS. 6 and 10-14 may be skipped or omitted.         In addition, any number of
counters, state variables, warning semaphores, or messages might be added to
the logical flow described herein, for purposes of enhanced utility, accounting,
performance measurement, or providing troubleshooting aids, etc.               It is
understood that all such variations are within the scope of the present disclosure.
  [0145]   Also, any logic or application described herein, including the client
application 130, the reader application 136, and the key management application
118 that comprises software or code can be embodied in any non-transitory
computer-readable medium for use by or in connection with an instruction
execution system such as, for example, a processor in a computer system or
other system.    In this sense, the logic may comprise, for example, statements
including instructions and declarations that can be fetched from the computer
readable medium and executed by the instruction execution system.            In the
context of the present disclosure, a "computer-readable medium" can be any
medium that can contain, store, or maintain the logic or application described
herein for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system.
  [0146]   The computer-readable medium can comprise any one of many
physical media such as, for example, magnetic, optical, or semiconductor media.
More specific examples of a suitable computer-readable medium would include,
but are not limited to, magnetic tapes, magnetic floppy diskettes, magnetic hard
drives, memory cards, solid-state drives, USB flash drives, or optical discs. Also,
the computer-readable medium may be a random access memory (RAM)
                                         53

including, for example, static random access memory (SRAM) and dynamic
random access memory (DRAM), or magnetic random access memory (MRAM).
In addition, the computer-readable medium may be a read-only memory (ROM),
a programmable read-only memory (PROM), an erasable programmable read
only memory (EPROM),         an electrically erasable programmable       read-only
memory (EEPROM), or other type of memory device.
  [0147]    Further,  any logic or    application described    herein,  the  client
application 130, the reader application 136, and the key management application
118 may be implemented and structured in a variety of ways. For example, one
or more applications described may be implemented as modules or components
of a single application. Further, one or more applications described herein may
be executed in shared or separate computing devices or a combination thereof.
For example, a plurality of the applications described herein may execute in the
same computing device 1500 or in multiple computing devices in the same
computing environment 103.      Additionally, it is understood that terms such as
"application," "service," "system," "engine," "module," and so on may be
interchangeable and are not intended to be limiting.
  [0148]    Disjunctive language such as the phrase "at least one of X, Y, or Z,"
unless specifically stated otherwise, is otherwise understood with the context as
used in general to present that an item, term, etc., may be either X, Y, or Z, or
any combination thereof (e.g., X, Y, and/or Z). Thus, such disjunctive language
is not generally intended to, and should not, imply that certain embodiments
require at least one of X, at least one of Y, or at least one of Z to each be
present.
                                         54

  [0149]     It should be emphasized that the above-described embodiments of
the present disclosure are merely possible examples of implementations set
forth for a clear understanding of the principles of the disclosure.          Many
variations     and    modifications may     be    made   to  the   above-described
embodiment(s) without departing substantially from the spirit and principles of
the disclosure.
  [0150]     Clause 1. A system, comprising: a client device comprising at least
one hardware processor; a client application executable in the client device
comprising program instructions that, when executed, cause the client device to:
receive a first cryptographic key associated with a first device profile and a
second cryptographic key associated with a second device profile over a
network; access input data from a data store of the client device, the input data
provided via at least one user interface generated by the client application;
format the input data into at least a first portion of data and a second portion of
data; encrypt the first portion of data using the first cryptographic key and the
second portion of data using the second cryptographic key; and generate a
machine-readable identifier using the first portion of data as encrypted and the
second portion of data as encrypted for rendering in a display accessible by the
client device.
  [0151]     Clause 2. The system of clause 1, wherein the machine-readable
identifier is a first machine-readable identifier and the client application further
comprises program instructions that, when executed, cause the client device to:
identify a second machine-readable identifier in an image captured by a camera
in communication with the client device, the second machine-readable identifier
being generated by a device different than the client device; identify an amount
                                          55

of encrypted data from the second machine-readable identifier; decrypt the
amount of encrypted data to identify decrypted data using the first cryptographic
key or the second cryptographic key; and store the decrypted data in the data
store for access by the client application.
   [0152]   Clause 3. The system of clause 2, wherein storing the decrypted data
in the data store further comprises: identifying whether a conflict exists between
the input data stored in the data store and the decrypted data; and storing the
decrypted data in place of the input data stored in the data store.
   [0153]   Clause 4. The system of clause 1, further comprising: a first reader
device associated with the first device profile having the first cryptographic key
stored thereon; a second reader device associated with the second device
profile having the second cryptographic key stored thereon; and wherein the first
reader device is configured to access the first portion of data from the machine
readable identifier using the first cryptographic key and the second reader device
is configured to access the second portion of data from the machine-readable
identifier using the second cryptographic key.
   [0154]   Clause 5. The system of clause 4, wherein the first reader device
comprises a first imaging device and the second reader device comprises a
second imaging device, the machine-readable identifier being captured by the
first imaging device or the second imaging device.
   [0155]   Clause 6. The system of clause 1, wherein the client application
further comprises program instructions that, when executed, cause the client
device to send the machine-readable identifier to another client device different
from the client device.
                                          56

  [0156]     Clause 7. The system of clause 1, wherein the machine-readable
identifier is generated using an amount of decrypted data from the input data.
  [0157]     Clause 8. The system of clause 1, wherein the first cryptographic key
associated with the first device profile is received by the client device from at
least one remote computing device over the network in response to a selection
of the first device profile made on the client device; and wherein the second
cryptographic key associated with the second device profile is received by the
client device from at least one remote computing device over the network in
response to a selection of the second device profile made on the client device.
  [0158]     Clause 9. The system of clause 1, wherein encrypt the first portion of
data using the first cryptographic key and the second portion of data using the
second cryptographic key further comprises: identifying a first access level
associated with the first portion of data; identifying a second access level
associated with the second portion of data; encrypting the first portion of data
using the first cryptographic key based at least in part on the first access level;
and encrypting the second portion of data using the second cryptographic key
based at least in part on the second access level, wherein the first access level
is different than the second access level.
  [0159]     Clause 10. The system of clause 1, wherein the machine-readable
identifier is a quick-response (QR) code or a bar code.
  [0160]     Clause 11. A computer-implemented method, comprising: receiving,
by a client device comprising at least one hardware processor, a first
cryptographic key associated with a first device profile and a second
cryptographic key associated with a second device profile over a network;
accessing, by the client device, input data from a data store of the client device,
                                        57

the input data provided via at least one user interface generated by a client
application executable on the client device; formatting, by the client device, the
input data into at least a first portion of data and a second portion of data;
encrypting, by the client device, the first portion of data using the first
cryptographic key and the second portion of data using the second cryptographic
key; and generating, by the client device, a machine-readable identifier using the
first portion of data as encrypted and the second portion of data as encrypted for
rendering in a display accessible by the client device.
   [0161]    Clause 12. The computer-implemented method of clause 11, wherein
the machine-readable identifier is a first machine-readable identifier and the
method further comprises: identifying, by the client device, a second machine
readable identifier in an image captured by a camera in communication with the
client device, the second machine-readable identifier being generated by a
device different than the client device; identifying, by the client device, an
amount of encrypted data from           the second machine-readable identifier;
decrypting, by the client device, the amount of encrypted data to identify
decrypted data using the first cryptographic key or the second cryptographic key;
and storing, by the client device, the decrypted data in the data store for access
by a client application.
   [0162]    Clause 13. The computer-implemented method of clause 12, wherein
storing the decrypted data in the data store further comprises: identifying, by the
client device, whether a conflict exists between the input data stored in the data
store and the decrypted data; and storing, by the client device, the decrypted
data in place of the input data stored in the data store.
                                          58

  [0163]     Clause 14. The computer-implemented method of clause 11, further
comprising: accessing, by a first reader device, the first portion of data from the
machine-readable identifier using the first cryptographic key, the first reader
device being associated with the first device profile and having the first
cryptographic key stored thereon; and accessing, by a second reader device, the
second portion of data from the machine-readable identifier using the second
cryptographic key, the second reader device being associated with the second
device profile and having the second cryptographic key stored thereon.
  [0164]     Clause 15. The computer-implemented method of clause 14, wherein
the first reader device comprises a first imaging device and the second reader
device comprises a second imaging device, the machine-readable identifier
being captured by the first imaging device or the second imaging device.
  [0165]     Clause 16. The computer-implemented method of clause 11, further
comprising sending, by the client device, the machine-readable identifier to
another client device different from the client device over the network.
  [0166]     Clause 17. The computer-implemented method of clause 11, wherein
the machine-readable identifier is generated using an amount of decrypted data
from the input data.
  [0167]     Clause 18. The computer-implemented method of clause 11, wherein
the first cryptographic key associated with the first device profile is received by
the client device from at least one remote computing device over the network in
response to a selection of the first device profile made on the client device; and
wherein the second cryptographic key associated with the second device profile
is received by the client device from at least one remote computing device over
                                         59

the network in response to a selection of the second device profile made on the
client device.
   [0168]    Clause 19. The computer-implemented method of clause 11, wherein
encrypting the first portion of data using the first cryptographic key and the
second portion of data using the second cryptographic key further comprises:
identifying, by the client device, a first access level associated with the first
portion of data; identifying, by the client device, a second access level
associated with the second portion of data; encrypting, by the client device, the
first portion of data using the first cryptographic key based at least in part on the
first access level; and encrypting, by the client device, the second portion of data
using the second cryptographic key based at least in part on the second access
level, wherein the first access level is different than the second access level.
   [0169]    Clause 20. The computer-implemented method of clause 11, wherein
the machine-readable identifier is a quick-response (QR) code or a bar code.
   [0170]    Clause 21. A system, comprising: a client device comprising at least
one hardware processor; a client application executable in the client device
comprising program instructions that, when executed, cause the client device to:
generate a first machine-readable identifier using a first amount of data
encrypted using at least one cryptographic key for rendering in a display of the
client device, wherein a reader device having the at least one cryptographic key
stored thereon is configured to decrypt the data; identify a second machine
readable identifier in at least one image captured by the client device; decode
the second machine-readable identifier to identify a second amount of data
encrypted by the reader device using the at least one cryptographic key; decrypt
the second amount of data using the at least one cryptographic key; and identify
                                           60

whether a conflict exists between the first amount of data and the second
amount of data.
  [0171]    Clause 22. The system of clause 21, wherein the client application
further comprises program instructions that, when executed, cause the client
device to, in response to the conflict existing between the first amount of data
and the second amount of data, perform a task to resolve the conflict.
  [0172]    Clause 23. The system of clause 21, wherein the conflict is identified
in response to the reader device altering the first amount of data to generate the
second amount of data.
  [0173]    Clause 24. The system of clause 22, wherein the task comprises:
presenting information associated with the conflict in a user interface of the client
application; receiving a selection of the first amount of data or the second
amount of data in the user interface; and in response to the selection, updating a
data store of the client device with the first amount of data as selected or the
second amount of data as selected.
  [0174]    Clause 25. The system of clause 22, wherein the task comprises
updating a data store of the client device with the second amount of data.
  [0175]    Clause 26. The system of clause 21, wherein the client application
further comprises program instructions that, when executed, cause the client
device to populate at least one field of a user interface in the client application
with at least a portion of the second amount of data.
  [0176]    Clause 27. The system of clause 21, wherein the first amount of data
encrypted using at least one cryptographic key further comprises a first portion of
user input and a second portion of user input obtained during an ingestion
process, the first portion of user input being encrypted using a first cryptographic
                                          61

key accessible by the reader device and the second portion of user input being
encrypted using a second cryptographic key not accessible by the reader device.
  [0177]     Clause 28. The system of clause 21, wherein the machine-readable
identifier is a quick-response (QR) code or a bar code.
  [0178]     Clause 29. The system of clause 21, wherein the client application
further comprises program instructions that, when executed, cause the client
device to receive at least one cryptographic key from a remote application
executing in a remote computing environment over a network.
  [0179]     Clause 30. The system of claim 29, wherein the remote application
executing in the remote computing environment is configured to send the at least
one cryptographic key to the reader device over the network.
  [0180]     Clause 31. A computer-implemented method, comprising: generating,
by a client device comprising at least one hardware processor, a first machine
readable identifier using a first amount of data encrypted using at least one
cryptographic key for rendering in a display of the client device, wherein a reader
device having the at least one cryptographic key stored thereon is configured to
decrypt the data; identifying, by the client device, a second machine-readable
identifier in at least one image captured by the client device; decoding, by the
client device, the second machine-readable identifier to identify a second amount
of data encrypted by the reader device using the at least one cryptographic key;
decrypting, by the client device, the second amount of data using the at least
one cryptographic key; and identifying, by the client device, whether a conflict
exists between the first amount of data and the second amount of data.
  [0181]     Clause 32. The computer-implemented method of clause 31, further
comprising, in response to the conflict existing between the first amount of data
                                        62

and the second amount of data, performing, by the client device, a task to
resolve the conflict.
  [0182]     Clause 33. The computer-implemented method of clause 31, wherein
the conflict is identified in response to the reader device altering the first amount
of data to generate the second amount of data.
  [0183]     Clause 34. The computer-implemented method of clause 32, wherein
the task comprises: presenting, by the client device, information associated with
the conflict in a user interface of the client application; identifying, by the client
device, a selection of the first amount of data or the second amount of data
made in the user interface; and in response to the selection being identified,
updating, by the client device, a data store of the client device with the first
amount of data as selected or the second amount of data as selected.
  [0184]     Clause 35. The computer-implemented method of claim 32, wherein
the task comprises updating, by the client device, a data store of the client
device with the second amount of data.
  [0185]     Clause 36. The computer-implemented method of claim 31, further
comprising populating, by the client device, at least one field of a user interface
in a client application with at least a portion of the second amount of data.
  [0186]     Clause 37. The computer-implemented method of claim 31, wherein
the first amount of data encrypted using at least one cryptographic key further
comprises a first portion of user input and a second portion of user input
obtained during an ingestion process, the first portion of user input being
encrypted using a first cryptographic key accessible by the reader device and the
second portion of user input being encrypted using a second cryptographic key
not accessible by the reader device.
                                           63

  [0187]   Clause 38. The computer-implemented method of claim 31, wherein
the machine-readable identifier is a quick-response (QR) code or a bar code.
  [0188]   Clause 39. The computer-implemented method of claim 31, further
comprising receiving, by the client device, at least one cryptographic key from a
remote application executing in a remote computing environment over a network.
  [0189]   Clause 40. The computer-implemented method of claim 39, wherein
the remote application executing in the remote computing environment is
configured to send the at least one cryptographic key to the reader device over
the network.
                                        64

                                                CLAIMS
       1.      A system, comprising:
               a client device comprising at least one hardware processor;
               a client application executable in the client device comprising program
instructions that, when executed, cause the client device to:
                       receive a first cryptographic key associated with a first device
       profile and a second cryptographic key associated with a second device profile
       over a network, the first cryptographic key being different than the second
       cryptographic key;
                       access input data from a data store of the client device, the input
       data provided via at least one user interface generated by the client application;
                       format the input data into at least a first portion of data and a
       second portion of data, the first portion of data being different than the second
       portion of data;
                       encrypt the first portion of data using the first cryptographic key and
       the second portion of data using the second cryptographic key such that the first
       portion of data is only accessible by a first reader device having the first
       cryptographic key and the second portion of data is only accessible by a second
       reader device having the second cryptographic key; and
                       generate a machine-readable identifier using the first portion of
       data as encrypted and the second portion of data as encrypted for rendering in a
       display accessible by the client device.
                                                65

         2.    The system of claim 1, wherein the machine-readable identifier is a first
machine-readable identifier and the client application further comprises program
instructions that, when executed, cause the client device to:
               identify a second machine-readable identifier in an image captured by a
camera in communication with the client device, the second machine-readable identifier
being generated by a device different than the client device;
               identify an amount of encrypted data from the second machine-readable
identifier;
               decrypt the amount of encrypted data to identify decrypted data using the
first cryptographic key or the second cryptographic key; and
               store the decrypted data in the data store for access by the client
application.
         3.    The system of claim 2, wherein storing the decrypted data in the data
store further comprises:
               identifying whether a conflict exists between the input data stored in the
data store and the decrypted data; and
               storing the decrypted data in place of the input data stored in the data
store.
                                             66

         4.    The system of claim 1, further comprising:
               the first reader device associated with the first device profile having the
first cryptographic key stored thereon;
               the second reader device associated with the second device profile having
the second cryptographic key stored thereon; and
               wherein the first reader device is configured to access the first portion of
data from the machine-readable identifier using the first cryptographic key and the
second reader device is configured to access the second portion of data from the
machine-readable identifier using the second cryptographic key.
         5.    The system of claim 4, wherein the first reader device comprises a first
imaging device and the second reader device comprises a second imaging device, the
machine-readable identifier being captured by the first imaging device or the second
imaging device.
         6.    The system of claim 1, wherein the client application further comprises
program instructions that, when executed, cause the client device to send the machine
readable identifier to another client device different from the client device.
         7.    The system of claim 1, wherein the machine-readable identifier is
generated using an amount of decrypted data from the input data.
                                             67

        8.     The system of claim 1, wherein the first cryptographic key associated with
the first device profile is received by the client device from at least one remote
computing device over the network in response to a selection of the first device profile
made on the client device; and
               wherein the second cryptographic key associated with the second device
profile is received by the client device from at least one remote computing device over
the network in response to a selection of the second device profile made on the client
device.
        9.     The system of claim 1, wherein encrypt the first portion of data using the
first cryptographic key and the second portion of data using the second cryptographic
key further comprises:
               identifying a first access level associated with the first portion of data;
               identifying a second access level associated with the second portion of
data;
               encrypting the first portion of data using the first cryptographic key based
at least in part on the first access level; and
               encrypting the second portion of data using the second cryptographic key
based at least in part on the second access level, wherein the first access level is
different than the second access level.
         10.   The system of claim 1, wherein the machine-readable identifier is a quick
response (QR) code or a bar code.
                                               68

        11.    A computer-implemented method, comprising:
               receiving, by a client device comprising at least one hardware processor,
a first cryptographic key associated with a first device profile and a second
cryptographic key associated with a second device profile over a network, the first
cryptographic key being different than the second cryptographic key;
               accessing, by the client device, input data from a data store of the client
device, the input data provided via at least one user interface generated by a client
application executable on the client device;
               formatting, by the client device, the input data into at least a first portion of
data and a second portion of data, the first portion of data being different than the
second portion of data;
               encrypting, by the client device, the first portion of data using the first
cryptographic key and the second portion of data using the second cryptographic key
such that the first portion of data is only accessible by a first reader device having the
first cryptographic key and the second portion of data is only accessible by a second
reader device having the second cryptographic key; and
               generating, by the client device, a machine-readable identifier using the
first portion of data as encrypted and the second portion of data as encrypted for
rendering in a display accessible by the client device.
                                              69

       12.    The computer-implemented method of claim 11, wherein the machine
readable identifier is a first machine-readable identifier and the method further
comprises:
              identifying, by the client device, a second machine-readable identifier in an
image captured by a camera in communication with the client device, the second
machine-readable identifier being generated by a device different than the client device;
              identifying, by the client device, an amount of encrypted data from the
second machine-readable identifier;
              decrypting, by the client device, the amount of encrypted data to identify
decrypted data using the first cryptographic key or the second cryptographic key; and
              storing, by the client device, the decrypted data in the data store for
access by a client application.
       13.    The computer-implemented method of claim 12, wherein storing the
decrypted data in the data store further comprises:
              identifying, by the client device, whether a conflict exists between the input
data stored in the data store and the decrypted data; and
              storing, by the client device, the decrypted data in place of the input data
stored in the data store.
                                              70

        14.    The computer-implemented method of claim 11, further comprising:
               accessing, by the first reader device, the first portion of data from the
machine-readable identifier using the first cryptographic key, the first reader device
being associated with the first device profile and having the first cryptographic key
stored thereon; and
               accessing, by the second reader device, the second portion of data from
the machine-readable identifier using the second cryptographic key, the second reader
device being associated with the second device profile and having the second
cryptographic key stored thereon.
        15.    The computer-implemented method of claim 14, wherein the first reader
device comprises a first imaging device and the second reader device comprises a
second imaging device, the machine-readable identifier being captured by the first
imaging device or the second imaging device.
        16.    The computer-implemented       method of claim 11,      further comprising
sending, by the client device, the machine-readable identifier to another client device
different from the client device over the network.
        17.    The computer-implemented method of claim 11, wherein the machine
readable identifier is generated using an amount of decrypted data from the input data.
                                             71

        18.     The computer-implemented method of claim 11, wherein the first
cryptographic key associated with the first device profile is received by the client device
from at least one remote computing device over the network in response to a selection
of the first device profile made on the client device; and
                wherein the second cryptographic key associated with the second device
profile is received by the client device from at least one remote computing device over
the network in response to a selection of the second device profile made on the client
device.
        19.     The computer-implemented method of claim 11, wherein encrypting the
first portion of data using the first cryptographic key and the second portion of data
using the second cryptographic key further comprises:
                identifying, by the client device. a first access level associated with the first
portion of data;
                identifying, by the client device. a second access level associated with the
second portion of data;
                encrypting, by the client device. the first portion of data using the first
cryptographic key based at least in part on the first access level; and
                encrypting, by the client device. the second portion of data using the
second cryptographic key based at least in part on the second access level, wherein the
first access level is different than the second access level.
                                                72

      20.    The computer-implemented method of claim 11, wherein the machine
readable identifier is a quick-response (QR) code or a bar code.
                                           73

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
