                                   ABSTRACT
The present utility model provides an ornament assembly with a suspension effect.
The ornament assembly comprises a base comprising a bottom frame and a
transparent bottom cover, wherein the transparent bottom cover is fixed on the
bottom frame; a top frame fit and combined with the base to form an integral body,
wherein a transparent top cover is fixed on the top frame and the top cover is fit with
the transparent bottom cover to form a holding space; a first magnetic member
provided on the base; and an ornament, wherein a second magnetic member is
provided on the ornament, the ornament is provided in the holding space and
magnetic poles of the first magnetic member and the second magnetic member are
oppositely arranged such that the ornament is suspended in the holding space under
the repulsive force of magnetic forces. According to the ornament assembly with the
suspension effect provided by the present utility model, the two magnetic members
are oppositely arranged to produce a repulsive force by adopting magnetic forces of
magnetic stones and magnets, the ornament connected with the magnetic members
can be suspended in the space between the transparent bottom cover and the top
cover without using any mechanical mechanism, and thereby the suspension effect is
achieved.
(FIG. 1)

          1/6
            6
              7
      5
1B               8
        FIG 1
        7
   86
                5
    9
        FIG2

                                              1
                                   DESCRIPTION
            ORNAMENT ASSEMBLY WITH SUSPENSION EFFECT
Field
The present utility model relates to the technical field of ornaments put on human
body, in particular to an ornament assembly with a suspension effect achieved by
virtue of magnetic forces.
Background
Ornaments are indispensable articles for modern people, especially modern females.
With the improvement of the living standard of people, the requirements on
ornaments become higher and higher, and not only are the ornaments required to
have delicate and attractive appearance, but also the ornaments are required to be
capable of presenting different changes and effects.
Jewelry manufacturers manufacture various ornaments such as happy diamond series
jewelries and watches in order to cater to the taste of the public. Diamonds in this
series of products can be shaken to move in jewelries or watches, the diamonds are
enabled to slip the leash of the traditional inlaying technology, the single effect of the
existing products is improved, new creativity is produced and people feel inspired.
Obviously, the diamonds in the above-mentioned products can only be shaken to
move in crystal planes, and the ornaments themselves still lack for attractive effects
and cannot satisfy the pursuit of modern people for the sense of beauty of ornaments.
Summary
In order to solve the above-mentioned problem, the main purpose of the present
utility model is to provide an ornament assembly which is more beautiful than the
existing ornaments, has a suspension effect without adopting any mechanical
connection, is simple and attractive and successfully caters to the taste of the public.
In order to realize the above-mentioned purpose, the present utility model adopts the
following technical solution:
An ornament assembly with a suspension effect comprises:
a base comprising a bottom frame and a transparent bottom cover, wherein the
transparent bottom cover is fixed on the bottom frame;
a top frame fit and combined with the base to form an integral body, wherein a
transparent top cover is fixed on the top frame and the top cover is fit with the
transparent bottom cover to form a holding space;

                                            2
a first magnetic member provided on the base; and
an ornament, wherein a second magnetic member is provided on the ornament, the
ornament is provided in the holding space and magnetic poles of the first magnetic
member and the second magnetic member are oppositely arranged such that the
ornament is suspended in the holding space under a repulsive force of magnetic
forces.
Further, according to the present utility model, the bottom frame comprises:
a structural bottom frame made of metal;
a bottom outer frame provided in the structural bottom frame; and
a bottom inner frame provided in the bottom outer frame and combined with the
bottom outer frame.
Further, according to the present utility model, the transparent bottom cover is inlaid
between the bottom outer frame and the bottom inner frame.
According to the ornament assembly with the suspension effect provided by the
present utility model, the first magnetic member is provided at one end of the
structural bottom frame.
According to the ornament assembly with the suspension effect provided by the
present utility model, the first magnetic member is fixed at one end of the structural
bottom frame, wherein the first magnetic member is configured to account for
40-60% such as 50% of a circumference of the entire structural bottom frame.
According to the ornament assembly with the suspension effect provided by the
present utility model, the top frame comprises a top outer frame and a top inner
frame which are mutually combined.
Further, according to the ornament assembly with the suspension effect provided by
the present utility model, the transparent top cover is inlaid between the top outer
frame and the top inner frame.
Further, according to the ornament assembly with the suspension effect provided by
the present utility model, the number of the second magnetic members on the
ornament is at least more than one, e.g. four; and the number of the second magnetic
members is selected according to the size and weight of the ornament, so as to
guarantee that there is enough magnetic force to support the ornament.
According to the ornament assembly with the suspension effect provided by the
present utility model, the transparent bottom cover and the transparent top cover are
made of crystal glass, wherein the thickness of the transparent bottom cover and the
transparent top cover is 1-2 mm.
Preferably, the first magnetic member and the second magnetic member are
magnetic stones and magnets.

                                            3
Preferably, the bottom outer frame, the bottom inner frame, the top outer frame and
the top inner frame in the ornament assembly with the suspension effect provided by
the present utility model are all bonded together by using waterproof glue, such that
the entire product has a waterproof effect.
To sum up, according to the ornament assembly with the suspension effect provided
by the present utility model, the two magnetic members are oppositely provided to
produce a repulsive force by adopting magnetic forces of magnetic stones and
magnets, the ornament connected with the magnetic member can be suspended in the
space between the transparent bottom cover and the top cover without using any
mechanical mechanism, and thereby the suspension effect is achieved.
Besides, different patterns may also be provided on the bottom cover and the top
cover, such that the suspension effect is better and is capable of presenting different
changes with different patterns.
The ornament assembly with the suspension effect provided by the present utility
model has the waterproof effect, the ornament can be prevented from being eroded
by water mist and the service life of the ornament is prolonged.
The ornament assembly with the suspension effect provided by the present utility
model is unique in creativity, the entire product structure is not complex and the
ornament assembly can be easily accepted by the public.
Brief Description of the Drawings
The mechanism of the present utility model will be further described below in details
in combination with the embodiments with reference to the drawings, in which:
FIG. 1 illustrates a front schematic view of an ornament assembly with a suspension
effect according to one embodiment of the present utility model.
FIG. 2 illustrates a front schematic perspective view of an ornament assembly with a
suspension effect according to one embodiment of the present utility model.
FIG. 3 illustrates a top view of an ornament assembly with a suspension effect
according to one embodiment of the present utility model.
FIG. 4 illustrates a rear schematic view of an ornament assembly with a suspension
effect according to one embodiment of the present utility model.
FIG. 5 illustrates a rear schematic perspective view of an ornament assembly with a
suspension effect according to one embodiment of the present utility model.
FIG. 6 illustrates a bottom view of an ornament assembly with a suspension effect
according to one embodiment of the present utility model.
FIG. 7 illustrates a front schematic view of an ornament assembly with a suspension
effect according to another embodiment of the present utility model.
FIG. 8 illustrates a front schematic perspective view of an ornament assembly with a

                                              4
suspension effect according to another embodiment of the present utility model.
FIG. 9 illustrates a top view of an ornament assembly with a suspension effect
according to another embodiment of the present utility model.
FIG. 10 illustrates a rear schematic view of an ornament assembly with a suspension
effect according to another embodiment of the present utility model.
FIG. 11 illustrates a rear schematic perspective view of an ornament assembly with a
suspension effect according to another embodiment of the present utility model.
FIG. 12 illustrates a bottom view of an ornament assembly with a suspension effect
according to another embodiment of the present utility model.
Detailed Description of the Embodiments
A structure of an ornament assembly with a suspension effect provided by the
present utility model will be described in detail through the following embodiments.
FIG. 1 to FIG. 6 illustrate one embodiment of an ornament assembly with a
suspension effect provided by the present utility model. In this embodiment, the
ornament assembly with the suspension effect comprises a base and a top frame
which are combined to form an integral body. The base comprises a bottom frame
and a transparent bottom cover 4, wherein the transparent bottom cover 4 is fixed on
the bottom frame. Further, according to the present utility model, the bottom frame
comprises a structural bottom frame 1 made of metal, a bottom outer frame 2
provided in the structural bottom frame 1 and a bottom inner frame 3 provided in the
bottom outer frame 2, wherein the bottom inner frame 3 and the bottom outer frame
2 are combined together.
Further, the transparent bottom cover 4 is inlaid between the bottom outer frame 2
and the bottom inner frame 3. In one embodiment, the transparent bottom cover is
made of crystal glass, and the thickness of the transparent bottom cover is 1-2 mm
such as 1.8 mm.
The structural bottom frame 1 may be manufactured to be in different shapes, such
as square shape, rectangular shape, heart shape, circular shape, elliptical shape,
pentagonal shape, hexagonal shape, octagonal shape or rhombic shape, so as to
satisfy diversified aesthetic demands and needs. In this embodiment, the structural
bottom frame 1 is designed to be in a heart shape.
Based on the shape of the structural bottom frame 1, shapes of all other parts such as
the shapes of the bottom outer frame 2 and the bottom inner frame 3 and the shape of
the top frame are designed to be fit with it.
The ornament assembly with the suspension effect comprises a top frame fit and
combined with the base to form an integral body, a transparent top cover 7 is fixed
on the top frame and the top cover is fit with the transparent bottom cover to form a
holding space. In one embodiment, the top frame comprises a top outer frame 5 and

                                             5
a top inner frame 6 which are mutually combined, wherein the transparent top cover
7 is inlaid between the top outer frame 5 and the top inner frame 6. In one
embodiment, the transparent bottom cover is made of crystal glass, wherein the
thickness of the transparent bottom cover is 1-2 mm such as 1.5 mm.
The ornament assembly with the suspension effect comprises a first magnetic
member 9 provided on the base. Specifically, the first magnetic member 9 is fixed at
a position 1A of the bottom frame 1. In order to keep enough magnetic force, the
first magnetic member 9 should have enough length. Preferably, the first magnetic
member 9 is configured to account for 40-60% such as 50% of a circumference of
the entire structural bottom frame, such that the magnetic force of the first magnetic
member 9 can produce enough magnetic force.
The ornament assembly with the suspension effect comprises an ornament 8 such as
a gold ornament or a jewelry diamond, a second magnetic member 10 is provided on
the ornament 8, and the ornament 8 is provided in the holding space formed by the
transparent bottom cover 4 and the transparent top cover 7. Herein, magnetic poles
of the first magnetic member 9 and the second magnetic member 10 are oppositely
arranged such that the ornament 8 is suspended in the holding space under a
repulsive force of magnetic forces.
Further, enough second magnetic members are selected according to the size and
weight of the ornament 8, so as to guarantee that the magnetic force is enough to
attract the ornament and corresponds to the repulsive force produced by the first
magnetic member 9. According to one embodiment of the ornament assembly with
the suspension effect provided by the present utility model, the number of the second
magnetic members on the ornament 8 is at least more than one, e.g. four.
Preferably, the first magnetic member 9 and the second magnetic member 10 are all
magnetic stones and magnets. Or, the magnetic members are other components
having the same effect.
Preferably, the bottom outer frame 2, the bottom inner frame 3, the top outer frame 5
and the top inner frame 6 in the ornament assembly with the suspension effect
provided by the present utility model are all bonded together by using waterproof
glue, such that the entire product has a waterproof effect.
FIG. 7 to FIG. 12 illustrate another embodiment of an ornament assembly with a
suspension effect provided by the present utility model. In this embodiment, all
components are unchanged and the structural bottom frame 1 is designed to be in a
pentagonal shape, such that the entire product produces different visual effects.
Further, different patterns may be provided on the transparent bottom cover 4 and the
transparent top cover 7 such that the patterns are overlapped with the suspension
effect and the entire product is more attractive.
When the product provided by the present utility model is manufactured, firstly the
shape of the product needs to be determined and all needed components are prepared.

                                             6
Starting from the metallic structural bottom frame 1, the crystal glass bottom cover 4
is now bonded at the positions of the bottom outer frame 2 and the bottom inner
frame 3 using waterproof glue, and then the first magnetic member 9 is fixed at the
position 1A of the metallic structural bottom frame.
Then, the second magnetic members 10 are mounted on the ornament 8, wherein the
second magnetic members 10 may also be bonded on the ornament 8 using glue.
Finally, the front side of the ornament 8 on which the second magnetic members 10
are successfully bonded at the bottom of the ornament is placed on the front side of
the crystal glass bottom cover 4 at the position 1B of the metallic structural bottom
frame, and then the crystal glass top cover 7 is bonded at the positions of the top
outer frame 5 and the top inner frame 6. Thereby, the ornament 8 is clamped between
the two crystal glass covers and the manufacture of the entire product is completed.
Besides, different patterns may also be provided on the bottom cover and the top
cover, such that the suspension effect is better and is capable of presenting different
changes with different patterns.
To sum up, according to the ornament assembly with the suspension effect provided
by the present utility model, the two magnetic members are oppositely provided to
produce a repulsive force by adopting magnetic forces of magnetic stones and
magnets, the ornament connected with the magnetic member can be suspended in the
space between the transparent bottom cover and the top cover without using any
mechanical mechanism, and thereby the suspension effect is achieved. Besides, for
different ornaments, different magnetic stone combinations need to be adjusted again
and used.
It needs to be noted that the most important cause that the product provided by the
present utility mode can achieve the effect of suspension in the space is the principle
that like magnetic poles repel each other in physics. Thus, the magnetic force of the
magnetic stones and the magnets should be set according to the actual needs, so as to
realize a stable suspension effect. Therefore, for example, when the product provided
by the present utility model is placed in an electric field, the ornament is skewed.
However, after the product is far away from the electric field, the suspension effect
can be restored immediately. It needs to be further noted that the product provided by
the present utility model is only suitable for pendants or earrings which are vertically
put on, and cannot be used for products such as finger rings.
The ornament assembly with the suspension effect provided by the present utility
model has the waterproof effect, the ornament can be prevented from being eroded
by water mist and the service life of the ornament is prolonged.
The ornament assembly with the suspension effect provided by the present utility
model is unique in creativity, the entire product structure is not complex and the
ornament assembly can be easily accepted by the public.
Finally, it needs to be emphasized that the above-mentioned embodiments are just

                                             7
preferred embodiments of the present utility model and are not used for limiting the
present utility model. For one skilled in the art, the present utility model may have
various changes and modifications. Any modification, equivalent replacement,
improvement and the like made within the spirit and rule of the present utility model
shall be all included in the protection scope of the present utility model.

                                           8
                                       CLAIMS
1. An ornament assembly with a suspension effect, characterized in that the
ornament assembly comprises:
a base comprising a bottom frame and a transparent bottom cover, wherein the
transparent bottom cover is fixed on the bottom frame;
a top frame fit and combined with the base to form an integral body, wherein a
transparent top cover is fixed on the top frame and the top cover is fit with the
transparent bottom cover to form a holding space;
a first magnetic member provided on the base; and
an ornament, wherein a second magnetic member is provided on the ornament, the
ornament is provided in the holding space and magnetic poles of the first magnetic
member and the second magnetic member are oppositely arranged such that the
ornament is suspended in the holding space under the repulsive force of magnetic
forces.
2. The ornament assembly with the suspension effect according to claim 1,
characterized in that the bottom frame comprises:
a structural bottom frame made of metal;
a bottom outer frame provided in the structural bottom frame; and
a bottom inner frame provided in the bottom outer frame and combined with the
bottom outer frame.
3. The ornament assembly with the suspension effect according to claim 2,
characterized in that the transparent bottom cover is inlaid between the bottom outer
frame and the bottom inner frame.
4. The ornament assembly with the suspension effect according to claim 2,
characterized in that the first magnetic member is provided at one end of the
structural bottom frame.
5. The ornament assembly with the suspension effect according to claim 4,
characterized in that the first magnetic member is fixed at one end of the structural
bottom frame, wherein the first magnetic member is configured to account for
40-60% of a circumference of the entire structural bottom frame.
6. The ornament assembly with the suspension effect according to claim 1,
characterized in that the top frame comprises a top outer frame and a top inner frame
which are mutually combined.
7. The ornament assembly with the suspension effect according to claim 6,
characterized in that the transparent top cover is inlaid between the top outer frame
and the top inner frame.

                                           9
8. The ornament assembly with the suspension effect according to claim 1,
characterized in that the number of the second magnetic members on the ornament is
at least more than one.
9. The ornament assembly with the suspension effect according to claim 1,
characterized in that the transparent bottom cover and the transparent top cover are
made of crystal glass, wherein the thickness of the transparent bottom cover and the
transparent top cover is 1-2 mm.
10. The ornament assembly with the suspension effect according to claim 1,
characterized in that the first magnetic member is magnetic stones and magnets the
second magnetic member is magnetic stones and magnets.

                  <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
FIG. 2   FIG. 1                              1/6

         <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
FIG. 4   FIG. 3                     2/6

                  <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
FIG. 6   FIG. 5                              3/6

                  <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
FIG. 8   FIG. 7                              4/6

               <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
FIG. 10   FIG. 9                          5/6

                    <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
FIG. 12   FIG. 11                              6/6

