ABSTRACT
The utility model relates to a UAV propeller guard device, comprising a guard body and a
baseplate structure; the guard body comprises a top bracket, an outer ring and a bottom
bracket, the top bracket and the bottom bracket are arranged at the top and the bottom of the
outer ring, respectively, both the top bracket and the bottom bracket are provided with gaps,
and the gaps on the bottom bracket enable the propeller to pass through; the bottom bracket is
provided with a connecting structure detachably connected with the baseplate structure. The
utility model can provide the all-around protection for the propeller by arranging the guard body
into a top bracket, an outer ring and a bottom bracket; by arranging gaps on both the top
bracket and the bottom bracket, when the baseplate structure is fixed between the wing and
the motor of the propeller, it can relize the convenient installation or removal of the guard
device and the propeller if the propeller passes through the bottom bracket, the baseplate
structure is installed with or removed from the connecting structure, and the gaps result in tiny
influence of the propeller guard device on the aerodynamic efficiency of the propeller.
FIG. 1

   FIG.1
         25
                24
            211
22
   FIG.2

                                                 -1
                              UAV PROPELLER GUARD DEVICE
TECHNICAL FIELD
[0001]     The utility model relates to the field of unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV), specifically to
a UAV propeller guard device.
BACKGROUND
[0002]     The propeller is rotating at a very high speed usually as a UAV is flying, it thus will
result in huge damage if the propeller itself is stuck by an object or gets contact with human
bodies. The existing propeller guard device are in two structures, i.e., in semicircular structure
and sides surrounded structure, and the propeller guard devices in such two structures can
only protect against horizontal impact. When the UAV is flying obliquely or rolls over, the upper
or lower part of the propeller may get contact with other objects, thus the existing propeller
guard device cannot provide the all-around protection for the propeller. Besides, the existing
propeller guard device and the propeller are in complicated connection, resulting in
inconvenient disassembly and assembly of the propeller guard device and the propeller.
SUMMARY
[0003]     The utility model aims to overcome the disadvantages of the prior art and provide a
UAV propeller guard device, with a simple structure, which can not only provide the all-around
protection for the propeller, also can be conveniently removed from and installed with the
propeller, and has a tiny influence on the aerodynamic efficiency of the propeller.
[0004]     In order to achieve the above objectives, the technical solutions adopted in the utility
model are as follows.
[0005]     It provides a UAV propeller guard device, comprising a guard body and a baseplate
structure; the guard body comprises a top bracket, an outer ring and a bottom bracket, the top
bracket and the bottom bracket are arranged at the top and the bottom of the outer ring,
respectively, both the top bracket and the bottom bracket are provided with gaps, and the gaps
on the bottom bracket enable the propeller to pass through; the bottom bracket is provided with
a connecting structure, and the connecting structure is detachably connected with the
baseplate structure.

                                                 -2
[0006]      In the above solution, the utility model can provide the all-around protection for the
propeller by arranging the guard body into a top bracket, an outer ring and a bottom bracket.
By arranging gaps on both the top bracket and the bottom bracket, when the baseplate
structure is fixed between the wing and the motor of the propeller, it can realize the convenient
installation or removal of the guard device and the propeller if the propeller passes through the
bottom bracket 5 and the baseplate structure 2 is installed with or removed from the
connecting structure 6. In addition, the gaps result in the tiny influence of the propeller guard
device on the aerodynamic efficiency of the propeller.
[0007]      Preferably, the baseplate structure comprises a first fixing plate and a clamping plate
at the bottom of the first fixing plate, and the clamping plate is provided with an opening; the
connecting structure comprises a second fixing plate and a clamping member at the bottom of
the second fixing plate, the second fixing plate is provided with a channel for the clamping
plate to pass through, and the second fixing plate is provided with a holding cavity; the first
fixing plate can be embedded in the holding cavity of the second fixing plate, and the clamping
member can be clamped in the opening. Such arrangement ensures that the baseplate
structure can be firmly fixed with the connecting structure, and at the same time, it is
convenient to remove the baseplate structure from the connecting structure. The propeller
comprises wings and motors, the motor drives the wing to rotate. When it is necessary to
install the guard device onto the propeller, for completing the installation of the guard device,
the baseplate structure is fixed between the wing and the motor, the propeller penetrates into
the guard body through the gap on the bottom bracket, so that the first fixing plate is
embedded in the holding cavity of the second fixing plate, and the clamping member is
clamped in the opening. When it is necessary to remove the guard device from the propeller,
for disassembly, the clamping member is taken out of the opening, and the first fixing plate is
separated from the second fixing plate.
[0008]      Preferably, both the opening and the clamping member are in a square structure.
Such arrangement can prevent the clamping member from moving in the opening to further
improve the firmness when the baseplate structure is connected with the connecting structure,
so that it can improve the protective effect of the propeller guard device on the propeller.
[0009]      Preferably, the clamping member comprises a fixed end and a free end vertically
connected with the fixed end, and the fixed end is fixed at the bottom of the second fixing
plate; the free end of the clamping member comprises a first elastic plate and a second elastic
plate, and a first groove is arranged between the first elastic plate and the second elastic plate;

                                                  -3
both the top of the free end of the first elastic plate and the bottom of the free end of the
second elastic plate are provided with a sloping plate, respectively; the two sloping plates, the
first elastic plate and the second elastic plate are assembled in a tapered shape on the whole.
When the first elastic plate and the second elastic plate are extruded, the elastic deformation
can appear towards the first groove, so that the clamping member can be easily clamped in
the opening or taken out of the opening, and when the clamping member is clamped in the
opening, the deformation of the first elastic plate and the second elastic plate can be restored,
so that the two sloping plates are firmly clamped on both sides of the opening, and accordingly
the clamping member can be firmly fixed in the opening.
[0010]      Preferably, both of the two opposite side walls of the first fixing plate are provided
with bulges, and both of the two opposite side walls of the second fixing plate are provided with
second grooves matched with the bulges. When it is necessary to connect the baseplate
structure with the connecting structure, the bulges are inserted into the second grooves along
the long direction of the second grooves, so that the first fixing plate can be firmly embedded in
the second fixing plate by the matching between the bulges and the second grooves.
[0011]      Preferably, a semicircular bulge is arranged on the first fixing plate, and a
semicircular groove matched with the semicircular bulge 23 is arranged on the second fixing
plate. Such arrangement can limit the position of the bulges inserting into the second grooves
and prevent the damages of the clamping member and clamping plate caused by collision
between the clamping member and the clamping plate under overexertion, which affect the
firmness between the connecting structure and the baseplate structure, and then further affect
the protective effect of the propeller guard device on the propeller.
[0012]      Preferably, the first fixing plate is provided with a through hole and several screw
holes in the positions corresponding to the channel, and the screw holes are arranged around
the through hole; the through hole is used for the output shaft of the motor to pass through,
and the screw holes are used for fixing the first fixing plate on the motor. Such arrangement is
convenient for fixing the baseplate structure between the wing and the motor.
[0013]      Preferably, the top bracket comprises a central circular plate and several support
frames, both ends of the support frames are connected with the central circular plate and the
outer ring, respectively; gaps are arranged between the support frams. Such arrangement
ensures the strength of the top bracket and at the same time can ensure the aerodynamic
efficiency of the propeller.

                                                 -4
[0014]      Preferably, the bottom bracket comprises several support frames support frames and
the connecting structure, and both ends of the support frames are connected with the
connecting structure and the outer ring, respectively; gaps are arranged between the support
frames, and at least the gap between two support frames enables the propeller to pass
through support frames. Such arrangement ensures the strength of the bottom bracket and at
the same time can ensure the aerodynamic efficiency of the propeller.
[0015]      Compared with the prior art, the utility model has the advantages that:
[0016]     A UAV propeller guard device of the utility model can provide the all-around
protection for the propeller by arranging the guard body into a top bracket, an outer ring and a
bottom bracket. By arranging gaps on both the top bracket and the bottom bracket, when the
baseplate structure is fixed between the wing and the propeller, it can realize the convenient
installation or removal of the guard device and the propeller if the propeller passes through the
bottom bracket, and the baseplate structure is installed with or removed from the connecting
structure. In addition, the gaps result in tiny influence of the propeller guard device on the
aerodynamic efficiency of the propeller.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF DRAWINGS
[0017]      FIG.1 is a schematic diagram of a guard body in a UAV propeller guard device of the
embodiment.
[0018]      FIG.2 is a structural diagram of a baseplate structure in a UAV propeller guard
device of the embodiment.
[0019]      FIG.3 is a schematic diagram of the baseplate structure in another view.
[0020]      FIG.4 is a schematic diagram of a connecting structure in a UAV propeller guard
device of the embodiment.
[0021]      FIG.5 is a schematic diagram of the connecting structure in another view.
[0022]      FIG.6 is a schematic diagram of the connecting structure and the baseplate structure
in pre-assembly.

                                                    -5
DETAILED DESCRIPTION
[0023]       The utility model will be further explained by combining with the specific modes of
execution. Wherein, the drawings are only used for illustrative explanations, they only
represent the schematic diagrams rather than the pictures of real product, and they cannot be
understood as the limitation for the patent; in order to better explain the embodiment of the
utility model, some parts will be omitted, zoomed in or zoomed out, and they do not represent
the sizes of the actual product; for the technicians of this field, it can be understood that some
well-known structures and their descriptions may be omitted.
[0024]       The same or similar numbers in the drawings for the embodiment of the utility model
correspond to the same or similar parts; in the description of the utility model, it shall be
understood that the direction or position relationships indicated by the terms of "up", "down",
"left", "right", etc. are the direction or position relationships shown based on the drawings, they
are only used for convenience of describing the utility model and simplifying the descriptions
rather than indicating or implying that the indicated device or element must have the specific
direction and must be constructed and operated in the specific direction, thus the expressions
for describing the position relationships in the drawings are only used for illustrative
explanations but cannot be understood as the limitation to the patent, and for the common
technicians of this field, the specific meanings of the above terms can be understood according
to the specific conditions.
             Embodiments
[0025]       A UAV propeller guard device of the embodiment, of which the schematic diagrams
are as shown in FIG.1 to FIG.6, comprises a guard body 1 and a baseplate structure 2; the
guard body 1 comprises a top bracket 3, an outer ring 4 and a bottom bracket 5, the top
bracket 3 and the bottom bracket 5 are arranged at the top and the bottom of the outer ring 4,
respectively, both the top bracket 3 and the bottom bracket 5 are provided with gaps, and the
gaps on the bottom bracket enable the propeller to pass through; the bottom bracket 5 is
provided with a connecting structure 6, and the connecting structure 6 is detachably connected
with the baseplate structure 2.
[0026]       A UAV propeller guard device of the utility model can provide the all-around
protection for the propeller by arranging the guard body 1 into a top bracket 3, an outer ring 4
and a bottom bracket 5. By arranging gaps on both the top bracket 3 and the bottom bracket 5,
when the baseplate structure 2 is fixed between the wing and the motor of the propeller, it can

                                                 -6
realize the convenient installation or removal of the guard device and the propeller if the
propeller passes through the bottom bracket 5 and the baseplate structure 2 is installed with or
removed from the connecting structure 6. In addition, the gaps result in tiny influence of the
propeller guard device on the aerodynamic efficiency of the propeller.
[0027]       Wherein, the baseplate structure 2 comprises a first fixing plate 21 and a clamping
plate 22 at the bottom of the first fixing plate 21, and the clamping plate 22 is provided with an
opening 221; the connecting structure 6 comprises a second fixing plate 61 and a clamping
member 62 at the bottom of the second fixing plate 61, the second fixing plate 61 is provided
with a channel 63 for the clamping plate 22 to pass through, and the second fixing plate 61 is
provided with a holding cavity; the first fixing plate 21 can be embedded in the holding cavity of
the second fixing plate 61, and the clamping member 62 can be clamped in the opening 221.
Such arrangement ensures the baseplate structure 2 to be firmly fixed with the connecting
structure 6 , and at the same time, it is convenient to remove the baseplate structure 2 from
the connecting structure 6. The propeller comprises wings and motors, the motor drives the
wing to rotate. When it is necessary to install the guard device onto the propeller, for
completing the installation of the guard device, the baseplate structure 2 is fixed between the
wing and the motor, the propeller penetrates into the guard body 1 through the gap on the
bottom bracket 5, so that the first fixing plate 21 is embedded in the holding cavity of the
second fixing plate 61, and the clamping member 62 moves along the channel 63 to be
clamped in the opening 221. When it is necessary to remove the guard device from the
propeller, for disassembly, the clamping member 62 is taken out of the opening 221, and the
first fixing plate 21 is separated from the second fixing plate 61.
[0028]       Besides, both the opening 221 and the clamping member 62 are in a square
structure. Such arrangement can prevent the clamping member 62 from moving in the opening
221 to further improve the firmness when the baseplate structure 2 is connected with the
connecting structure 6, so that it can improve the protective effect of the propeller guard device
on the propeller.
[0029]       Wherein, the clamping member 62 comprises a fixed end and a free end vertically
connected with the fixed end, and the fixed end is fixed at the bottom of the second fixing plate
61; the free end of the clamping member 62 comprises a first elastic plate 622 and a second
elastic plate 623, and a first groove 624 is arranged between the first elastic plate 622 and the
second elastic plate 623; both the top of the free end of the first elastic plate 622 and the
bottom of the free end of the second elastic plate 623 are provided with a sloping plate 621,

                                                   -7
respectively; the two sloping plates 621, the first elastic plate 622 and the second elastic plate
623 are assembled in a tapered shape on the whole. When the first elastic plate 622 and the
second elastic plate 623 are extruded, the elastic deformation can appear towards the first
groove 624, so that the clamping member 62 can be easily clamped in the opening or taken
out of the opening 221, and when the clamping member 62 is clamped in the opening 221, the
deformation of the first elastic plate 622 and the second elastic plate 623 can be restored, so
that the two sloping plates 621 are firmly clamped on both sides of the opening 221, and
accordingly the clamping member 62 can be firmly fixed in the opening 221.
[0030]      Besides, both of the two opposite side walls of the first fixing plate 21 are provided
with bulges 211, and both of the two opposite side walls of the second fixing plate 61 are
provided with second grooves 611 matched with the bulges 211. When it is necessary to
connect the baseplate structure 2 with the connecting structure 6, the bulges 211are inserted
into the second grooves 611 along the long direction of the second grooves 611, so that the
first fixing plate 21 can be firmly embedded in the second fixing plate 61 by the matching
between the bulges 211 and the second grooves 611.
[0031]      Wherein, a semicircular bulge 23 is arranged on the first fixing plate 21, and a
semicircular groove 64 matched with the semicircular bulge 23 is arranged on the second
fixing plate 61. Such arrangement can limit the position of the bulges 23 inserting into the
second grooves 611, and when the bulges 23 areinserted along the long direction of the
second grooves 611 all the time, the semicircular bulge 23 will contradict contact with the
semicircular groove 64 to prevent damages of the clamping member 62 and clamping plate 22
caused by collision between the clamping member 62 and the clamping plate 22 when the
bulges 23 are inserted into the second grooves 611 under overexertion, which affect the
connection firmness between the connecting structure 6 and the baseplate structure 2, and
further affect the protective effect of the propeller guard device on the propeller.
[0032]      Besides, the first fixing plate 21 is provided with a through hole 24 and several screw
holes 25 in the positions corresponding to the channel 63, and the screw holes 25 are
arranged around the through hole 24; the through hole 24 is used for the output shaft of the
motor to pass through, and the screw holes 25 are used for fixing the first fixing plate 21 on the
motor. Such arrangement is convenient for fixing the baseplate structure 2 between the wing
and the motor.
[0033]      Wherein, the top bracket 3 comprises a central circular plate 31 and several support

                                                  -8
frames 32, and both ends of the support frames 32 are connected with the central circular
plate 31 and the outer ring 4, respectively; gaps are arranged between the support frames 32.
Such arrangement ensures the strength of the top bracket 3 and at the same time can ensure
the aerodynamic efficiency of the propeller.
[0034]     Besides, the bottom bracket 5 comprises several support frames32 and the
connecting structure 6, and both ends of the support frames 32 are connected with the
connecting structure 6 and the outer ring 4, respectively; gaps are arranged between the
support frames 32, and at least the gap between two support frames 32 enables the propeller
to pass through. Such arrangement ensures the strength of the bottom bracket 5 and at the
same time can ensure the aerodynamic efficiency of the propeller.
[0035]     When the propeller guard device is used for protecting the propeller, the baseplate
structure 2 is installed between the wing and the motor, the propeller penetrates into the guard
body 1 between the gaps among the support frames 32 on the bottom bracket 5, the bulges
211 are inserted into the second grooves 611 along the long direction of the second grooves
611, and the first elastic plate 622 and the second elastic plate 623 are extruded into elastic
deformation, so that the first elastic plate 622 and the second elastic plate 623 can move along
the channel 63 to insert into the opening 221. The deformation of the first elastic plate 622 and
the second elastic plate 623 can be restored after insertion, the two sloping plates 621 are
firmly clamped on both sides of the opening 221, and accordingly the clamping member 62 can
be firmly fixed in the opening 221. When it is necessary to remove the propeller guard device
from the propeller, the baseplate structure 2 is separated from the connecting structure 6, the
propeller is taken out of the guard body 1, and the baseplate structure 2 is removed from the
propeller. The utility model, a UAV propeller guard device, has simple structure, it cannot only
provide the all-around protection for the propeller, but also can be conveniently removed from
and installed with the propeller. In addition, it has a tiny influence on the aerodynamic efficiency
of the propeller.
[0036]     Obviously, the above embodiment of the utility model is only the example for clearly
describing the utility model rather than limiting the modes of execution for the utility model. For
the common technicians of this field, other different forms of changes or variation can also be
obtained on the basis of the above descriptions. It is unnecessary and unable to illustrate all
the modes of execution. Any modification, equivalent substitute and improvement under the
spirit and principle of the utility model are all within the protective range of the claims of the
utility model.

                                                 -9
CLAIMS
1.         An unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV) propeller guard device, comprising a guard body
and a baseplate structure; the guard body comprises a top bracket, an outer ring and a bottom
bracket, the top bracket and the bottom bracket are arranged at the top and the bottom of the
outer ring, respectively, both the top bracket and the bottom bracket are provided with gaps,
and the gaps on the bottom bracket enable the propeller to pass through; the bottom bracket is
provided with a connecting structure, and the connecting structure is detachably connected
with the baseplate structure.
2.         The UAV propeller guard device according to Claim 1, characterized in that, the
baseplate structure comprises a first fixing plate and a clamping plate at the bottom of the first
fixing plate, and the clamping plate is provided with an opening; the connecting structure
comprises a second fixing plate and a clamping member at the bottom of the second fixing
plate, the second fixing plate is provided with a channel for the clamping plate to pass through,
and the second fixing plate is provided with a holding cavity; the first fixing plate can be
embedded in the holding cavity of the second fixing plate, and the clamping member can be
clamped in the opening.
3.         The UAV propeller guard device according to Claim 2, characterized in that, both the
opening and the clamping member are in square structure.
4.         The UAV propeller guard device according to Claim 2, characterized in that, the
clamping member comprises a fixed end and a free end vertically connected with the fixed
end, and the fixed end is fixed at the bottom of the second fixing plate; the free end of the
clamping member comprises a first elastic plate and a second elastic plate, and a first groove
is arranged between the first elastic plate and the second elastic plate; both the top of the free
end of the first elastic plate and the bottom of the free end of the second elastic plate are
provided with a sloping plate, respectively; the two sloping plates, the first elastic plate and the
second elastic plate are assembled in a tapered shape on the whole.
5.         The UAV propeller guard device according to Claim 2, characterized in that, both of
the two opposite side walls of the first fixing plate are provided with bulges, and both of the two
opposite side walls of the second fixing plate are provided with second grooves matched with
the bulges.
6.         The UAV propeller guard device according to Claim 5, characterized in that, a

                                                -10
semicircular bulge is arranged on the first fixing plate, and a semicircular groove matched with
the semicircular bulge is arranged on the second fixing plate.
7.         The UAV propeller guard device according to Claim 2, characterized in that, the first
fixing plate is provided with a through hole and several screw holes in the positions
corresponding to the channel, and the screw holes are arranged around the through hole; the
through hole is used for the output shaft of the motor to pass through, and the screw holes are
used for fixing the first fixing plate on the motor.
8.         The UAV propeller guard device according to Claim 1, characterized in that, the top
bracket comprises a central circular plate and several support frames, both ends of the support
frames are connected with the central circular plate and the outer ring, respectively; gaps are
arranged between the support frames.
9.         The UAV propeller guard device according to any of Claims 1-8, characterized in
that, the bottom bracket comprises several support frames and the connecting structure, both
ends of the support frames are connected with the connecting structure and the outer ring,
respectively; gaps are arranged between the support frames, and at least the gap between two
support frames enables the propeller to pass through.

                 Drawings   Page 1/3
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
              FIG.1
              FIG.2

                 Drawings   Page 2/3
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
              FIG.3
              FIG.4

                 Drawings   Page 3/3
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
              FIG.5
              FIG.6

