   ABSTRACT
   A method of gaming in a gaming system, the method
   comprising:                       facilitating a play of a base game, wherein as
 5 a consequence of the play of the base game a mystery
   jackpot can be awarded;                        determining whether a trigger
   condition has occurred as a result of the play of the base
   game;           facilitating a play of a first feature game in
   response to determining that the trigger condition has
10 occurred;                   determining whether the first feature game
   generated a game outcome that corresponds to a predefined
   qualifying outcome;                       responsive to determining that the
   game outcome of the first feature game corresponds to the
   predefined qualifying outcome, offering a player a
15 selection from a plurality of separate second feature
   games, wherein each of the separate second feature games
   is associated with a unique jackpot prize that can only be
   awarded by the associated one of the second feature games,
   the second feature games having different probabilities of
20 awarding the associated unique jackpot prize;                       receiving a
   player selection of one of the plurality of offered
   separate second feature games;                       and facilitating a play of
   the selected one of the separate second feature games,
   thereby providing the player with an opportunity to win
25 two separate jackpot prizes comprising the mystery jackpot
   which may be awarded irrespective of whether the first
   feature game is triggered and the unique jackpot prize
   associated with the selected one of the second feature
   games.
   9950772_1 (GHMatters) P78977.AU.3

                                                                  C)                                            C
C   -            C14               M~      (1)        (1)         (1)                                            O
                 C.0 \             C0      C0         CO           C              O                              N
                    E                >)
  a)                                 a)                      w           w
  E                                                                                     V) -0
                                     0                a .    ) a)       a)              a)
  al)
            U)      a)               a)0)L
                                                           u            u
                                                                        L
                                               UN                                                                       co:
                                                                                                              N-CN        N~
                                         NN        mN                         Na)
         CO     CD                       CN         4                                                                 C14
                                                                                                           m)         Q)    Ql) Q)
                                                                                                              Q 0 )   U)     U)
                                                                                                          Ul)
                                                              0)                   V
                                                                                                         CD
                                                                                                      CN
                                                                                                 a),)
                 m)                                                                  0
                                                           000
                             aC,)      U-   >C
                 m     0 C                                                          -0                    0/       a
                 a~    )                    a)0>
      a)                                                   a~         )
    U-                                                    U-                          U                            f)C2
 NC
                 NN                 N
                                                                           co          a)             r           0
                                                                                              00
      > )                a)                 a)C)
             a)           >O                                   C0                      V
     VE                                                        cn                      C
                                                                                    0 )
                                                                                                      -a
           0
           a)       7       )    0      a)      0)        a)
                                                           - W                    2 -6C    -:
                                                                                                 0                         C
                                              LO                         LO

                                            1
   Title
    A METHOD OF GAMING, A GAME CONTROLLER, A         GAMING DEVICE AND
                                     A GAMING SYSTEM
 5
   Related Application
   This application is a divisional application of Australian
   application no. <removed-apn>, which in turn is a divisional
10 application of Australian application no. 2012201908,
   which in turn is a divisional application of Australian
   application no. 2008258201. The disclosure of each of
   these applications is incorporated herein by reference.
15 Field of the Invention
   The present invention generally relates to a method of
   gaming, a game controller, a gaming device and a gaming
   system.
20
   Background of the Invention
   With the increase of gambling at gaming venues has come
   increased competition between gaming venues to obtain a
25 larger share of the total gambling spend. Gaming venue
   operators have therefore continuously looked for new
   variations and types of games in order to attract both new
   and return customers to their venues.
30 In response to this need, suppliers of gaming devices and
   systems have attempted to provide the sought after
   variety, while still developing games that comply with the
   relevant regulations in the jurisdiction of the gaming
   venue operator. Suppliers of gaming devices therefore are
35 faced with restrictions on the types of games and gaming
   apparatus that are allowable, both in terms of the
   prevailing regulations and in terms of providing a return
   9950772_1 (GHMatters) P78977.AU.3

                                        2
   on investment to the gaming venue operators.
   In addition, it is important that a player be able to
   understand the operation of a game quickly so that the
 5 player can start to quickly play the game and therefore
   extract maximum entertainment from the game.
   Accordingly, there is a need for further gaming systems.
10 Summary of the Invention
   In a first aspect, the invention provides a method of
   gaming in a gaming system, the method comprising:
                facilitating a play of a base game, wherein as a
15 consequence of the play of the base game a mystery jackpot
   can be awarded;
                determining whether a trigger condition has occurred
   as a result of the play of the base game;
                facilitating a play of a first feature game in
20 response to determining that the trigger condition has
   occurred;
                determining whether the first feature game generated
   a game outcome that corresponds to a predefined qualifying
   outcome;
25              responsive to determining that the game outcome of
   the first feature game corresponds to the predefined
   qualifying outcome, offering a player a selection from a
   plurality of separate second feature games, wherein each
   of the separate second feature games is associated with a
30 unique jackpot prize that can only be awarded by the
   associated one of the second feature games, the second
   feature games having different probabilities of awarding
   the associated unique jackpot prize;
                receiving a player selection of one of the plurality
35 of offered separate second feature games;         and
                facilitating a play of the selected one of the
   separate second feature games, thereby providing the
   9950772_1 (GHMatters) P78977.AU.3

                                        3
   player with an opportunity to win two separate jackpot
   prizes comprising the mystery jackpot which may be awarded
   irrespective of whether the first feature game is
   triggered and the unique jackpot prize associated with the
 5 selected one of the second feature games.
   In an embodiment, determining whether the feature game
   outcome is a qualifying outcome includes generating a
   first outcome for the player and a second outcome for a
10 virtual opponent of the player and determining from the
   first and second outcomes whether there is a qualifying
   outcome.
   In an embodiment, the method comprises determining whether
15 at least one of the first and second outcomes is a
   designated outcome.
   In an embodiment, the method comprises comparing the first
   and second outcomes.
20
   In an embodiment, generating the first and second game
   outcomes comprises rolling a pair of dice for each of the
   player and the virtual opponent.
25 In an embodiment, each second feature comprises generating
   a player feature outcome of the second feature and a
   virtual opponent feature outcome of the second feature for
   a virtual opponent of the player and determining from the
   player and virtual opponent feature outcomes whether there
30 is a progressive jackpot winning outcome.
   In a second aspect, the invention provides a game
   controller for a gaming system, the game controller
   arranged to:
35              facilitate a play of a base game, wherein as a
   consequence of the play of the base game a mystery jackpot
   can be awarded;
   9950772_1 (GHMatters) P78977.AU.3

                                        4
                determine whether a trigger condition has occurred as
   a result of the play of the base game;
                facilitate a play of a first feature game in response
   to determining that the trigger condition has occurred;
 5              determine whether the first feature game generated a
   game outcome that corresponds to a predefined qualifying
   outcome;
                responsive to determining that the game outcome of
   the first feature game corresponds to the predefined
10 qualifying outcome, offer a player a selection from a
   plurality of separate second feature games, wherein each
   of the separate second feature games is associated with a
   unique jackpot prize that can only be awarded by the
   associated one of the second feature games, the second
15 feature games having different probabilities of awarding
   the associated unique jackpot prize;
                receive a player selection of one of the plurality of
   offered separate second feature games;         and
                facilitate a play of the selected one of the separate
20 second feature games, thereby providing the player with an
   opportunity to win two separate jackpot prizes comprising
   the mystery jackpot which may be awarded irrespective of
   whether the first feature game is triggered and the unique
   jackpot prize associated with the selected one of the
25 second feature games.
   In an embodiment, the game controller is arranged to
   determine whether the feature game outcome is a qualifying
   outcome by generating a first outcome for the player and a
30 second outcome for a virtual opponent of the player and
   determining from the first and second outcomes whether
   there is a qualifying outcome.
   In an embodiment, the game controller is arranged to
35 determine whether at least one of the first and second
   outcomes is a designated outcome.
   9950772_1 (GHMatters) P78977.AU.3

                                        5
   In an embodiment, the game controller is arranged to
   compare the first and second outcomes.
   In an embodiment, the game controller is arranged to
 5 generate the first and second game outcomes by rolling a
   pair of dice for each of the player and the virtual
   opponent.
   In an embodiment, for each second feature the game
10 controller generates a player feature outcome of the
   second feature and a virtual opponent feature outcome of
   the second feature for a virtual opponent of the player
   and determining from the player and virtual opponent
   feature outcomes whether there is a progressive jackpot
15 winning outcome.
   In an embodiment, the game controller is implemented in
   part by a processor executing program code stored in a
   memory.
20
   In a third aspect, the invention provides a gaming system
   comprising:
                at least one display for displaying game outcomes to
   a player;                   and
25              a game play mechanism;
                the gaming system arranged to:
                facilitate a play of a base game, wherein as a
   consequence of the play of the base game a mystery jackpot
   can be awarded;
30              determine whether a trigger condition has occurred as
   a result of the play of the base game;
                facilitate a play of a first feature game in response
   to determining that the trigger condition has occurred;
                determine whether the first feature game generated a
35 game outcome that corresponds to a predefined qualifying
   outcome;
                responsive to determining that the game outcome of
   9950772_1 (GHMatters) P78977.AU.3

                                                  6
   the first feature game corresponds to the predefined
   qualifying outcome, offer a player a selection from a
   plurality of separate second feature games, wherein each
   of the separate second feature games is associated with a
 5 unique jackpot prize that can only be awarded by the
   associated one of the second feature games, the second
   feature games having different probabilities of awarding
   the associated unique jackpot prize;
                receiving a player selection of one of the plurality
10 of offered separate second feature games via the game play
   mechanism; and
                               facilitate a play of the selected one of the
   separate second feature games, thereby providing the
   player with an opportunity to win two separate jackpot
15 prizes comprising the mystery jackpot which may be awarded
   irrespective of whether the first feature game is
   triggered and the unique jackpot prize associated with the
   selected one of the second feature games.
20 In an embodiment, the gaming system comprises a first
   feature controller for initiating the first feature game
   and generating a first feature game outcome.
   In an embodiment, the first feature controller is also for
25 determining whether the feature game outcome is a
   qualifying outcome.
   In an embodiment, the first feature controller is also for
   offering the player the selection of a plurality of second
30 features.
   In an embodiment, the first feature controller is also for
   receiving the player selection of a second feature of the
   plurality of features,
35
   In an embodiment, the gaming system comprises a second
   feature controller for generating a second feature outcome
   9950772_1 (GHMatters) P78977.AU.3

                                       7
   for        the selected second feature.
   In an embodiment, the second feature controller is located
   remotely of the first feature controller.
 5
   In an embodiment, the gaming system is arranged to
   determine whether the feature game outcome is a qualifying
   outcome by generating a first outcome for the player and a
   second outcome for a virtual opponent of the player and
10 determining from the first and second outcomes whether
   there is a qualifying outcome.
   In an embodiment, the gaming system is arranged to
   determine whether at least one of the first and second
15 outcomes is a designated outcome.
   In an embodiment, the gaming system is arranged to compare
   the first and second outcomes.
20 In an embodiment, the gaming system is arranged to
   generate the first and second game outcomes by rolling a
   pair of dice for each of the player and the virtual
   opponent.
25 In an embodiment, for each second feature the gaming
   system generates a player feature outcome of the second
   feature and a virtual opponent feature outcome of the
   second feature for a virtual opponent of the player and
   determining from the player and virtual opponent feature
30 outcomes whether there is a progressive jackpot winning
   outcome.
   In an embodiment, the gaming system is implemented in part
   by a processor executing program code stored in a memory.
35
   In a fourth aspect, the invention provides computer
   program code which when executed implements the above
   9950772_1 (GHMatters) P78977.AU.3

                                     8
   method.
   In a fifth aspect, the invention provides a computer
   readable medium comprising the above program code.
 5
   In a sixth aspect, the invention provides a data signal
   comprising the above program code.
   In a seventh aspect, the invention extends to transmitting
10 the above program code.
   Further aspects of the present invention will become
   apparent from the following description, given by way of
   example only and with reference to the accompanying
15 drawings.
   Brief Description of the Drawings
   Figure 1 shows diagrammatically, a view of a gaming
20 machine suitable for implementing the present invention.
   Figure 2 shows a block diagram of gaming apparatus
   suitable for implementing the present invention.
25 Figure 3 shows a block diagram of components of the memory
   of the gaming apparatus represented in Figure 2.
   Figure 4 shows diagrammatically, a network gaming system
   suitable for implementing the present invention.
30
   Figures 5A and 5B show a flowchart of a game process in
   accordance with a further embodiment of the present
   invention.
35 Figure 6 shows a functional block diagram of an
   embodiment.
   9950772_1 (GHMatters) P78977.AU.3

                                     9
   Detailed Description
   The embodiments provide a method of gaming, a gaming
   device, a gaming system, and a game controller where a
 5 player can win either or both of a mystery or progressive
   jackpot and an ante bet is required for eligibility for
   the progressive jackpot.
   In Figure 1 of the accompanying drawings, one example of a
10 gaming machine suitable for implementing the present
   invention is generally referenced by arrow 10.
   The gaming machine 10 includes a console 12 having a
   display 14 on which is displayed representations of a game
15 16, that can be played by a player. A mid-trim 20 of the
   gaming machine 10 houses a bank of buttons 22 for enabling
   a player to play the game 16. The mid-trim 20 also houses
   a credit input mechanism 24 including a coin input chute
   24A and a bill collector 24B. A top box 26 may carry
20 artwork 28, including for example, pay tables and details
   of bonus awards and other information or images relating
   to the game. Further artwork and/or information may be
   provided on the front panel 29 of the console 12. A coin
   tray 30 is mounted beneath the console 12 for cash payouts
25 from the gaming machine 10.
   The display 14 shown in Figure 1 is in the form of a video
   display unit, particularly a cathode ray tube screen
   device. Alternatively, the display 14 may be a liquid
30 crystal display, plasma screen, any other suitable video
   display unit, or the visible portion of an
   electromechanical device. In advantageous embodiments, the
   top box 26 may include a display, for example a video
   display unit, which may be of the same type as the display
35 14, or a different type of display.
   Figure 2 shows a block diagram of a gaming apparatus,
   9950772_1 (GHMatters) P78977.AU.3

                                                     10
   generally referenced by arrow 100, suitable for
   implementing the present invention. The gaming apparatus
   100 may, for example, operate as a standalone gaming
   machine of the type shown in Figure 1. However, the gaming
 5 apparatus 100 may alternatively operate as a networked
   gaming machine, communicating with other network devices,
   such as one or more servers or other gaming machines. The
   gaming apparatus 100 may also have distributed hardware
   and software components that communicate with each other
10 directly or through a network. Accordingly, different
   reference numerals have been used in Figure 2 from Figure
   1 for components that may be equivalent.
   The gaming apparatus 100 includes a game controller 101,
15 which in the illustrated example includes a computational
   device 102, which may be a microprocessor,
   microcontroller, programmable logic device or other
   suitable device. Instructions and data to control
   operation of the computational device 102 are stored in a
20 memory 103, which is in data communication with, or forms
   a part of, the computational device 102. Typically, the
   gaming apparatus 100 will include both volatile and non
   volatile memory and more than one of each type of memory,
   with such memories being collectively represented by the
25 memory 103. The instructions to cause the game controller
   101 to implement the present invention will be stored in
   the memory 103.
   The gaming apparatus may include hardware meters 104 for
30 the purposes of regulatory compliance and also include an
   input/output                      (I/O) interface 105 for communicating with
   the peripheral devices of the gaming apparatus 100. The
   input/output interface 105 and/or the peripheral devices
   may be intelligent devices with their own memory for
35 instructions and data.
   In the example shown in Figure 2,                      the peripheral devices
   9950772_1 (GHMatters) P78977.AU.3

                                                   11
   that communicate with the controller are one or more
   displays 106, user input devices 107                    (e.g. buttons or a
   touch screen),                    a card and/or ticket reader 108, a printer
   109, a bill acceptor and/or coin input mechanism 110 and a
 5 coin output mechanism 111. One or more of the displays 106
   may include a touch screen 106A, forming part of the user
   input devices 107. Additional devices may be included as
   part of the gaming machine 100, or devices omitted as
   required for the specific implementation.
10 In addition, the gaming machine 100 may include a
   communications interface, for example a network card 112.
   The network card, may for example, send status
   information, accounting information or other information
   to a central controller, server or database and receive
15 data or commands from the central controller, server or
   database. One or more of the peripheral devices, for
   example the card/ticket reader 108 may be able to
   communicate directly with the network card 112.
20 The game controller 101 may also include a random number
   generator 113, which generates a series of random numbers
   that determine the outcome of a series of random game
   events played as part of a game on the gaming apparatus
   100. As explained in more detail in relation to Figure 4,
25 the computational device 102 may include two or more
   controllers or processors, which may be local or remote
   from each other and the displays 106.                     It will be
   appreciated that the random number generator may generate
   pseudo-random or true-random numbers depending on how it
30 is configured.
   Figure 3 shows an exemplary block diagram of the main
   components of the memory 103. The RAM 103A typically
   temporarily holds program files for execution by the
35 computational controller 102 and related data. The EPROM
   103B may hold be a boot ROM device and/or may contain some
   system or game related code. The mass storage device 103C
   9950772_1 (GHMatters) P78977.AU.3

                                           12
   is typically used to store game programs, the integrity of
   which may be verified and/or authenticated by the
   computational controller 102 using protected code from the
   EPROM 103B or elsewhere.
 5
   While the foregoing description has been provided by way
   of example of the embodiments of the present invention as
   presently contemplated, which utilise gaming apparatus and
   machines, those skilled in the relevant arts will
10 appreciate that the present invention also may have
   application to internet gaming and/or have application to
   gaming over a telecommunications network, where handsets
   are used to display game outcomes and receive player
   inputs. Herein any device operable by a player to play a
15 game such as the above described apparatus and machine is
   generically referred to as a gaming device.
   Figure 4 shows a gaming system 200. The gaming system 200
   includes a network 201, which for example may be an
20 Ethernet network. Gaming devices 202, shown arranged in
   three banks 203 of two gaming devices 202 in Figure 4, are
   connected to the network 201. The gaming devices 202 may
   be gaming machines 10,            as shown in Figure 1 or form part
   or all of another gaming apparatus 100. Single gaming
25 devices 202 and banks 203 containing three or more gaming
   devices 202 may also be connected to the network 201.
   One or more displays 204 may also be connected to the
   network 201. The displays 204 may, for example, be
30 associated with a bank 203 of gaming devices. The displays
   204 may be used to display representations associated with
   game play on the gaming devices 202, and/or used to
   display other representations, for example promotional or
   informational material.
35
   Servers may also be connected to the network 201. For
   example, a game server 205 may generate game outcomes for
   9950772_1 (GHMatters) P78977.AU.3

                                           13
   games played on the gaming devices 202, a database
   management server 206 may manage the storage of game
   programs and associated data for downloading or access by
   the gaming devices 202 in a database 206A, and a jackpot
 5 server 207 may control one or more jackpots associated
   with the gaming devices 202.
   Further servers may be provided to assist in the
   administration of the gaming system 200, including for
10 example a gaming floor management server 208, and a
   licensing server 209 to monitor the use of licenses to
   particular games. An administrator terminal 210 is
   provided to allow an administrator to run the network 201
   and the devices connected to the network.
15
   The gaming system 200 may communicate with other gaming
   systems, other local networks, for example a corporate
   network and/or a wide area network such as the Internet
   through a firewall 211.
20
   An embodiment, which includes a feature of incrementing
   the progressive prize by a fixed amount upon the
   progressive prize not being awarded is illustrated in
   Figures 5A, 5B and Figure 6. The embodiment also includes
25 a multiple tier feature game. The embodiment describes an
   arrangement, where the method of gaming involves
   conducting a base game. The player can wager on the base
   game in a conventional manner. The base game may be, for
   example, a spinning reel game. In the alternative, the
30 player may also place an additional ante bet when
   initiating a play of the base game. The ante bet provides
   eligibility for a first level feature game, exemplified
   below as the "Miss Kitty" feature from which the player
   can access three second level features as described in
35 further detail below.             The three second level features can
   each result in the award of a different progressive prize.
   The prize pools for the respective progressive jackpots
   9950772_1 (GHMatters) P78977.AU.3

                                                    14
   are only incremented when the ante bet is made. The
   progressive prize pools are incremented in a number of
   ways as described below but notably, including increments
   of the respective prize pool by a fixed amount when a
 5 second level feature game is lost. In addition to the
   progressive jackpot prize, a mystery jackpot is provided
   which can be won irrespective of whether an ante bet is
   made.
10 Referring to Figure 5A, the method of the embodiment
   involves receiving 1601 a player wager.                       It is determined
   1602 whether the wager includes an ante-bet.                       If the
   player does not place the ante-bet, the player is not
   eligible for the Miss Kitty and second level features
15 games but is still eligible 1603 for the mystery jackpot
   and accordingly the mystery jackpot pool is increased
   based on a percentage of the amount bet by the player.                       As
   in conventional mystery jackpots, the prize pool can
   include a seed pool such that when a mystery jackpot is
20 awarded the mystery jackpot can start from a non zero
   number.
   If the bet includes the ante-bet then the player is
   eligible 1604                     for the mystery jackpot, the feature game,
25 and the second level feature games including the
   progressive jackpots.                      Accordingly increments apply to
   both the mystery and progressive jackpots 1605 and there
   will be increments provided during the base game to both
   the mystery and progressive jackpot pool.                       It is
30 determined at the end of each play of the base game
   whether a trigger condition has been met in respect of
   this play of the base game.                       If no trigger occurs, the
   process proceeds to the start and awaits the receipt 1601
   of a player wager.
35
   If a trigger condition occurs then the first level, Miss
   Kitty, feature game is started 1607.                       Referring now to
   9950772_1 (GHMatters) P78977.AU.3

                                                   15
   Figure 5B, in this example of a second level feature game,
   the player and "Miss Kitty" who is an animated fanciful
   cat each roll a pair of dice.                      If the player's total
   equals or exceeds Miss Kitty's total 1620 the player is
 5 awarded 1621 bonus credits or some other award which is
   typically based on the player's score.                      For example a
   multiplier of the number of spots shown on the player's
   dice.
10 If either the player or Miss Kitty role a double, the
   player is awarded bonus credits and may select to play any
   of three feature games as will be described in further
   detail below.                     Persons skilled in the art will appreciate
   that the number of feature games can vary and is
15 advantageously a plurality of games with the upper limit
   of games corresponding to a desired number of progressives
   to be provided by the game.                      The third alternative 1680 is
   Miss Kitty's score is greater than the player's score.                      If
   this is the case a consolation prize, for example between
20 150 and 500 credits is awarded, and the progressive
   jackpot levels are incremented by set amounts of credits.
   That is each of the three progressive levels is
   incremented separately by fixed amounts.                      The amount that
   each jackpot is incremented may be the same or different.
25 The increment is typically determined and applied at a
   progressive controller in data communication with a gaming
   device on which the game is played.                      However, persons
   skilled in the art will appreciate that progressives could
   only obtain contributions from one gaming machine be
30 monitored at the gaming device.                      Further, there are two
   possible modes of operation, one where the gaming device
   simply indicates to a controller that there is a need to
   make an increment and the progressive controller applies
   the increment and another where the gaming device
35 determines the progressive amount and communicates it to
   the progressive controller.
   9950772_1 (GHMatters) P78977.AU.3

                                                     16
   Returning now to Figure 5B, the player is offered a choice
   1631 of three selectable features each of which is
   associated with a respective one of three progressive
   jackpots.                     Typically, the size of the jackpots are
 5 different and are commensurate with the probability of
   winning a jackpot by play of the selected feature such
   that the player has a higher probability of obtaining
   award of a jackpot if they choose a lower value
   progressive jackpot, for example in the range of $100.00
10 to $200.00 than they have if they choose a game having an
   associated higher value jackpot, for example in the range
   of $2,000 to $4,000.                       Once the player selects the feature,
   the selected feature is played 1632 and it is then
   determined whether the player wins 1633.                        If the player
15 loses then the game involves incrementing the relevant
   progressive associated with the selected feature by a
   fixed amount 1635.                       In the alternative if the player wins
   then they are awarded the progressive jackpot associated
   with the selected feature.                       The progressive jackpot pools
20 may incorporate hidden seed pools in a manner known in the
   art to enable them to start from non-zero amounts.
   In one example, the three features may be as follows:                       1) a
   "granny" feature where the player has five shots
25 determined by random trials to hit bottles displayed on a
   fence post.                       A person skilled in the art will appreciate
   that the reference to "random" above includes pseudo
   random.                  Accordingly, the gaming device determines by
   random number generator 113 how many bottles the player
30 hits.              The gaming device also determines whether an
   animated character named "granny" hits the bottles, and if
   the player's score equals or exceeds granny's score, the
   granny level progressive jackpot is awarded.
   Alternatively, if granny's score exceeds the player's
35 score, the granny level progressive jackpot value is
   incremented by a set amount.                        Persons skilled in the art
   will appreciate that the odds of the player and granny
   9950772_1 (GHMatters) P78977.AU.3

                                                    17
   hitting bottles could be 50/50 for each bottle or weighted
   in some fashion such that the player and granny need not
   necessarily have the same odds of hitting a bottle.
 5 The second feature is a                     "bandito" feature where twelve
   windows are presented on the screen and the banditos
   hidden behind one of the twelve windows.                       The player gets
   four hits to try and find the bandito.                       If the player
   finds the bandito, the player wins the bandito jackpot
10 level value.                      If the player does not find the bandito, the
   bandito jackpot level is incremented by a set amount.
   The third feature is the "gambler" feature.                       The gambler
   is dealt two aces.                      The player is dealt five cards.    If
15 the player's poker hand beats two aces, the gambler
   progressive jackpot level is awarded.                       If the player's
   hand does not beat the pair of aces, the gambler jackpot
   level is incremented by a set amount.
20 Figure 6 is a                     functional block diagram of a gaming system
   1700 of an exemplary embodiment for implementing the
   method of Figure 5.                      Figure 6 shows a gaming system 1700
   having a gaming device 700 and a                      jackpot controller 70.
   Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that in
25 practice a plurality of gaming devices will be connected
   to the same jackpot controller in order to provide for
   substantial value jackpot pools as is shown in Figure 4
   where a plurality of gamin                      However, a single gaming
   device 700 is shown in Figure 6 for ease of exposition.
30 It will be appreciated that herein it is assumed that each
   gaming device is eligible for at least one jackpot prize
    (provided it is being played).                     In other embodiments,
   eligibility criteria may be applied. For example, that the
   gaming device is in a particular part of a venue, offers a
35 designated game, the wager is of a certain level, or the
   player has inserted a player tracking card.
   9950772_1 (GHMatters) P78977.AU.3

                                                    18
   Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that the
   connection between the gaming device and the jackpot
   controller 70 can be a conventional network connection
   such as an Ethernet.                      Persons skilled in the art will also
 5 appreciate that the game device 700 can be exemplified in
   the form of a gaming machine 10,                      100 as described in
   relation to Figures 1 and 2 but as indicated elsewhere in
   the specification, the player interface which the player
   plays and the game controller need not necessarily be co
10 located.
   Turning now to Figure 6 the gaming device 700 has a player
   interface 50 in data communication with a game controller
   60.          The player interface includes a credit input
15 mechanism 52,                     a display 54 and a game play mechanism 56.
   The game play mechanism includes a number of buttons
   and/or a touch screen to enable the player to interact
   with the game controller 60.                       For ease of exposition, a
   subset of these is shown including an ante-bet button 56X
20 and feature selection buttons 56A, 56B and 56C.
   In the embodiment, a series of modules are implemented by
   a processor 62 executing program code stored in memory 64
   such that the game controller is configured to carry out
25 the functions described below.                       Persons skilled in the art
   will appreciate that these modules could be provided in
   different ways, including by providing dedicated circuits
   configured to carry out the functions described below.
   Further, persons skilled in the art will appreciate that
30 there will be other modules, for example a random number
   generator and a display controller for controlling the
   display and that these are omitted for the sake of
   clarity.                    The game controller 60 includes a base game
   module 621 which is arranged to carry out a base game each
35 time the player operates input mechanism to place a wager.
   The game controller 60 also includes an eligibility module
   625 which determines whether than ante-bet has been placed
   9950772_1 (GHMatters) P78977.AU.3

                                             19
   with ante-bet button 56X.               When an ante-bet is placed the
   eligibility module activates progressive contribution
   module 626 which sends for each play 625a of the game data
   to the jackpot controller to indicate that its progressive
 5 controller 705 should increment the progressive value 721
   to 723 which are stored in progressive value database 720.
   To this end the progressive controller 705 includes a
   contribution handler 710 which knows the proportional
   amounts which each of the progressives 721, 722, 723
10 should be incremented each time there is a play of the
   game.               In addition the eligibility module actives the
   trigger monitor 623A of the outcome evaluator 623 which is
   arranged to evaluate the outcomes based on base game data
   641.
15
   It will be appreciated there is also a mystery module 628
   which operates irrespective of whether the ante-bet has
   been placed in order to send contributions based on a
   percentage of turnover to the mystery controller of the
20 jackpot controller.               The mystery controller 740 increments
   the mystery pool 741 accordingly.
   The base game data 641 also allows the outcome generator
   624A to generate the outcomes which as described above may
25 be, for example, those of a spinning reel game.               When the
   trigger monitor 623A determines that a trigger condition
   is met, for example, the occurrence of three designated
   scattered symbols at display positions of the virtual
   reels of a video spinning reel game, the trigger monitor
30 623A activates the second level feature module 624.                The
   feature module 624 includes a feature game outcome
   generator 624A which, in the example given implements the
   dice game of the Miss Kitty game which generates outcomes
   based on the feature game data 642 which in turn are
35 evaluated by the feature evaluator 624B based on feature
   game data 624 which specifies the rules of the Miss Kitty
   game as described above.               The feature module 624 also
   9950772_1 (GHMatters) P78977.AU.3

                                                    20
   includes a feature selection module to enable a player to
   select the feature by operating buttons 56A, 56B, 56C to
   select one the features described above when the player
   wins eligibility to the feature.                          As described above, the
 5 feature module 624 is arranged such as to communicate when
   a loss of the feature game occurs or that the first level
   features to the contribution handler 710 of the
   progressive controller 705 so that it can increment the
   progressive 721, 722, 723 in the manner described above.
10
   When the player wins the first                      level    feature,  the feature
   selection module 624C enables the player to select one of
   feature A,                    feature B, or feature C 627A, 627B, 627C;         these
   features being associated respectively with a first
15 progressive 721, a second progressive 722 and a third
   progressive 723.                      Persons skilled in the art will
   appreciate that while these features are all shown as
   being implemented by a second level feature module 627
   they could equally be provided as separate modules which
20 are instantiated as required based on the second level
   data 643 which specifies each of features A,                          B and C 643A,
   643B, 643C and the rules associated with those games.                              As
   described above if the player loses any of these features,
   the progressive that is specifically associated with it is
25 incremented.                      That is, for example, if feature A      627A is
   lost by the player then the player's losing amount which
   is fixed is added the progressive.                          Thus, giving the
   impression that the player has lost to the animated
   character that forms part of the feature as described
30 above.                At the end of play or at appropriate points during
   play the meter data 644 is updated to reflect the outcomes
   of play the amount wager, any amounts won, etc.                           This is
   viewable by player on display 54.                          Persons skilled in the
   art will appreciate that if the player wins one of the
35 second level features then the award handler 730 awards
   the progressive to the player.                        The award handler 730 can
   function in the same way as typical progressive machines
   9950772_1 (GHMatters) P78977.AU.3

                                      21
   such as to arbitrate when two gaming machines claim a
   progressive in close proximity which of those is to be
   awarded the first progressive and which is to be awarded
   the second progressive.
 5
   Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that other
   arrangements are possible.        For example, rather than the
   second level feature module 627 being implemented within
   the game controller is could be implemented elsewhere, for
10 example within the jackpot controller.        Further, while the
   mystery and progressive jackpot controllers 740, 705 are
   shown within a single jackpot controller 70 and this is
   advantageous in terms of reducing equipment, it is not
   strictly necessary and they can be provided as separate
15 controllers.
   Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that an example
   of an exemplary trigger of the Miss Kitty feature game
   could be a so-called "hyperlink" trigger which is based on
20 an amount that is bet by the player.        That is, the amount
   bet gives the person a certain chance of the feature game
   being triggered.
   While it is advantageous for the player to place an ante
25 bet to gain access to the feature, in another variant, the
   ante bet may not be required. It will be appreciated that
   in such a variant, other eligibility criteria can be
   applied if desired such as a bet amount, a measure of
   turnover, membership of a loyalty scheme.
30
   While the foregoing description has been provided by way
   of example of the embodiments of the present invention as
   presently contemplated, which utilise gaming apparatus and
   machines, those skilled in the relevant arts will
35 appreciate that the present invention also may have
   application to internet gaming and/or have application to
   gaming over a telecommunications network, where handsets
   9950772_1 (GHMatters) P78977.AU.3

                                     22
   are used to display game outcomes and receive player
   inputs. Herein any device operable by a player to play a
   game such as the above described apparatus and machine is
   generically referred to as a gaming device.
 5
   Further aspects of the method will be apparent from the
   above description of the gaming system. Persons skilled in
   the art will also appreciate that the method could be
   embodied in program code. The program code could be
10 supplied in a number of ways, for example on a computer
   readable medium, such as a disc or a memory  (for example,
   that could replace part of memory 103) or as a data signal
    (for example, by downloading it from a server).
15 It will be understood that the invention disclosed and
   defined in this specification extends to all alternative
   combinations of two or more of the individual features
   mentioned or evident from the text or drawings. All of
   these different combinations constitute various
20 alternative aspects of the invention.
   It is to be understood that, if any prior art is referred
   to herein, such reference does not constitute an admission
   that the prior art forms a part of the common general
25 knowledge in the art in any country.
   In the claims which follow and in the preceding
   description of the invention, except where the context
   requires otherwise due to express language or necessary
30 implication, the word "comprise" or variations such as
   "comprises" or "comprising" is used in an inclusive sense,
   i.e. to specify the presence of the stated features but
   not to preclude the presence or addition of further
   features in various embodiments of the invention.
   9950772_1 (GHMatters) P78977.AU.3

                                        23
   THE CLAIMS DEFINING THE INVENTION ARE AS FOLLOWS:
   1.           A method of gaming in a gaming system, the method
   comprising:
 5              facilitating a play of a base game, wherein as a
   consequence of the play of the base game a mystery jackpot
   can be awarded;
                determining whether a trigger condition has occurred
   as a result of the play of the base game;
10              facilitating a play of a first feature game in
   response to determining that the trigger condition has
   occurred;
                determining whether the first feature game generated
   a game outcome that corresponds to a predefined qualifying
15 outcome;
                responsive to determining that the game outcome of
   the first feature game corresponds to the predefined
   qualifying outcome, offering a player a selection from a
   plurality of separate second feature games, wherein each
20 of the separate second feature games is associated with a
   unique jackpot prize that can only be awarded by the
   associated one of the second feature games, the second
   feature games having different probabilities of awarding
   the associated unique jackpot prize;
25              receiving a player selection of one of the plurality
   of offered separate second feature games;         and
                facilitating a play of the selected one of the
   separate second feature games, thereby providing the
   player with an opportunity to win two separate jackpot
30 prizes comprising the mystery jackpot which may be awarded
   irrespective of whether the first feature game is
   triggered and the unique jackpot prize associated with the
   selected one of the second feature games.
35 2.           A method as claimed in claim 1, wherein determining
   whether the feature game outcome is a qualifying outcome
   includes generating a first outcome for the player and a
   9950772_1 (GHMatters) P78977.AU.3

                                        24
   second outcome for a virtual opponent of the player and
   determining from the first and second outcomes whether
   there is a qualifying outcome.
 5 3.           A method as claimed in claim 2, comprising
   determining whether at least one of the first and second
   outcomes is a designated outcome.
   4.           A method as claimed in claim 2, comprising comparing
10 the first and second outcomes.
   5.           A method as claimed in any one of claims 2 to 4,
   wherein generating the first and second game outcomes
   comprises rolling a pair of dice for each of the player
15 and the virtual opponent.
   6.           A method as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 5,
   wherein each second feature game comprises generating a
   player feature outcome of the second feature game and a
20 virtual opponent feature outcome of the second feature
   game for a virtual opponent of the player and determining
   from the player and virtual opponent feature outcomes
   whether there is a progressive jackpot winning outcome.
25 7.           A game controller for a gaming system, the game
   controller arranged to:
                facilitate a play of a base game, wherein as a
   consequence of the play of the base game a mystery jackpot
   can be awarded;
30              determine whether a trigger condition has occurred as
   a result of the play of the base game;
                facilitate a play of a first feature game in response
   to determining that the trigger condition has occurred;
                determine whether the first feature game generated a
35 game outcome that corresponds to a predefined qualifying
   outcome;
                responsive to determining that the game outcome of
   9950772_1 (GHMatters) P78977.AU.3

                                             25
   the first feature game corresponds to the predefined
   qualifying outcome, offer a player a selection from a
   plurality of separate second feature games, wherein each
   of the separate second feature games is associated with a
 5 unique jackpot prize that can only be awarded by the
   associated one of the second feature games, the second
   feature games having different probabilities of awarding
   the associated unique jackpot prize;
                receive a player selection of one of the plurality of
10 offered separate second feature games;              and
                facilitate a play of the selected one of the separate
   second feature games, thereby providing the player with an
   opportunity to win two separate jackpot prizes comprising
   the mystery jackpot which may be awarded irrespective of
15 whether the first feature game is triggered and the unique
   jackpot prize associated with the selected one of the
   second feature games.
   8.           A game controller as claimed in claim 7, arranged to
20 determine whether the feature game outcome is a qualifying
   outcome by generating a first outcome for the player and a
   second outcome for a virtual opponent of the player and
   determining from the first and second outcomes whether
   there is a qualifying outcome.
25
   9.           A game controller as claimed in claim 8, arranged to
   determine whether at least one of the first and second
   outcomes is a designated outcome.
30 10.          A game controller as claimed in claim 8, arranged to
   compare the first and second outcomes.
   11.          A game controller as claimed in any one of claims 8
   to 10,              arranged to generate the first and second game
35 outcomes by rolling a pair of dice for each of the player
   and the virtual opponent.
   9950772_1 (GHMatters) P78977.AU.3

                                             26
   12.          A game controller as claimed in any one of claims 7
   to 11, wherein for each second feature the game controller
   generates a player feature outcome of the second feature
   and a virtual opponent feature outcome of the second
 5 feature for a virtual opponent of the player and
   determining from the player and virtual opponent feature
   outcomes whether there is a progressive jackpot winning
   outcome.
10 13.          A game controller as claimed in any one of claims 7
   to 12,              implemented in part by a processor executing
   program code stored in a memory.
   14.          A gaming system comprising:
15              at least one display for displaying game outcomes to
   a player;                   and
                a game play mechanism;
                the gaming system arranged to:
                facilitate a play of a base game, wherein as a
20 consequence of the play of the base game a mystery jackpot
   can be awarded;
                determine whether a trigger condition has occurred as
   a result of the play of the base game;
                facilitate a play of a first feature game in response
25 to determining that the trigger condition has occurred;
                determine whether the first feature game generated a
   game outcome that corresponds to a predefined qualifying
   outcome;
                responsive to determining that the game outcome of
30 the first feature game corresponds to the predefined
   qualifying outcome, offer a player a selection from a
   plurality of separate second feature games, wherein each
   of the separate second feature games is associated with a
   unique jackpot prize that can only be awarded by the
35 associated one of the second feature games, the second
   feature games having different probabilities of awarding
   the associated unique jackpot prize;
   9950772_1 (GHMatters) P78977.AU.3

                                        27
                receiving a player selection of one of the plurality
   of offered separate second feature games via the game play
   mechanism; and
                facilitate a play of the selected one of the separate
 5 second feature games, thereby providing the player with an
   opportunity to win two separate jackpot prizes comprising
   the mystery jackpot which may be awarded irrespective of
   whether the first feature game is triggered and the unique
   jackpot prize associated with the selected one of the
10 second feature games.
   15.          A gaming system as claimed in claim 14, comprising a
   first feature controller for initiating the first feature
   game and generating a first feature game outcome.
15
   16.          A gaming system as claimed in claim 15, wherein the
   first feature controller is also for determining whether
   the feature game outcome is a qualifying outcome.
20 17.          A gaming system as claimed in claim 15 or claim 16,
   wherein the first feature controller is also for allowing
   the player the selection of a plurality of second
   features.
25 18.          A gaming system as claimed in any one of claims 14 to
   17, comprising a second feature controller for generating
   a second feature outcome for the selected second feature.
   19.          A gaming system as claimed in claim 18, wherein the
30 second feature controller is located remotely of the first
   feature controller.
   20.          A gaming system as claimed in any one of claims 14 to
   19, arranged to determine whether the feature game outcome
35 is a qualifying outcome by generating a first outcome for
   the player and a second outcome for a virtual opponent of
   the player and determining from the first and second
   9950772_1 (GHMatters) P78977.AU.3

                                        28
   outcomes whether there is a qualifying outcome.
   21.          A gaming system as claimed in claim 20, arranged to
   determine whether at least one of the first and second
 5 outcomes is a designated outcome.
   22.          A gaming system as claimed in claim 20, arranged to
   compare the first and second outcomes.
10 23.          A gaming system as claimed in any one of claims 21 to
   22, arranged to generate the first and second game
   outcomes by rolling a pair of dice for each of the player
   and the virtual opponent.
15 24.          A gaming system as claimed in any one of claims 14 to
   23, wherein for each second feature the gaming system
   generates a player feature outcome of the second feature
   and a virtual opponent feature outcome of the second
   feature for a virtual opponent of the player and
20 determining from the player and virtual opponent feature
   outcomes whether there is a progressive jackpot winning
   outcome.
   25.          A gaming system as claimed in any one of claims 14 to
25 24, implemented in part by a processor executing program
   code stored in a memory.
   26.          Computer program code which when executed implements
   the method of any one of claims 1 to 6.
30
   27.          A computer readable medium comprising the program
   code of claim 26.
   28.          A data signal comprising the program code of claim
35 26.
   29.          Transmitting the program code of claim 26.
   9950772_1 (GHMatters) P78977.AU.3

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
                                               )
<removed-date>
                                                   (
                                       (                (
                                           -
<removed-apn>                     .
                                                   ()
                       !
                                                   (*
                                       (
              -
                           '
                                   .
                                                   (+
                           "
                  #$       %       &
                               ,

                                                  *
<removed-date>
                                                      ,
                                                                                      (+
                                                  #$          %   &           /
<removed-apn>
                                  (                                               (                                )(
              -               0           3       /       $       %       4                $       %   1       2   1
                  $   %   1
                                                                                                                   )
              ,               1       3               /               /                        ,
                                                                          /
                                                      /
                                              /
                                                                                                                       *
                                                                                  -
                                                  5                                                        /
                                                          .                       )
                                      ,
                                              /

                                                           <removed-apn>        <removed-date>
+((                                                                                  )
      *(          9               +                 6    ;         6              )
                                    8     $     )
                                                      $
                                +,    8       ),      3                            )
                   8     ,                                          8
    *
                                +6            )6                     9            )
                   8     6              8
                                                      3
    *)                                                                             ) ,
                                                                         =
                                                                       8     ,
                                                             ,
                                +"            )"       '                           ) 6
                   8     "          8                                  8     6
      * ,
                                                                                  ) "
* 7
      * 6                                                              8     "
                                               *             <
      * "                                                                         ))
                                    :              $
                                                                      $
                     +(
          >     "           +(*                   + (
                                      + (
                        +)(                                    +
                                                               +                  + (
            $
                                 "        " /                        ,     /
                        +)
                                                               +
              $

