            PREPARATIONS CONTAINING AMORPHOUS EMODEPSIDE
                                           Abstract
The    invention   relates  to  preparations    containing  amorphous  emodepside     in  a
polyvinylpyrrolidone matrix, to pharmaceutical products containing such preparations and to
the use thereof against endoparasites in animals or humans.

   Preparations containing amorphous emodepside
   The invention relates to preparations comprising amorphous emodepside in a polyvinylpyrrolidone
 5 matrix, pharmaceuticals comprising such preparations, and their use against endoparasites in
   animals or humans.
   The cyclic      depsipeptide emodepside,     which has anthelmintic activity,      is   known   from
   WO 93/19053. A variety of application forms have already been described, for example starch
10 based     extrudates    (WO 02/00202),    or   a   solid  dosage    form    with    delayed   release
   (WO 2009/135593 A2).
   Kachi et al. (Jpn. J. Pharmacol. 77 (1998) 235-245) describes the amorphous and polymorphous
   crystalline forms of the cyclooctadepsipeptide PF1022A.
15
   Schiltte (PhD thesis, Bonn 2004) describes "Untersuchungen             zur Komplexierbarkeit von
   pharmazeutischen Wirkstoffen mit Amylose durch Extrusion mit Hochamylosestdrken" [Studies on
   the complexability of pharmaceutical active substances with amylose by extrusion with high
   amylose starches]. Also described therein are emodepside extrudates in which starch was used as
20 the base.
   Emodepside is a sparingly soluble drug substance with poor permeability. The solubility in water in
   the range of pH 4 - 10 is 5 - 7 mg/l.
25 Said active substances frequently have poor bioavailability. There is therefore a need for
   emodepside preparations with improved bioavailability.
   It has now been found that amorphous emodepside in specific matrices has a better solubility in
   water and very good bioavailability in comparison with crystalline emodepside.
30
   The invention      relates to preparations   comprising emodepside      in amorphous      form in a
   polyvinylpyrrolidone matrix.
   The invention furthermore relates to pharmaceuticals comprising such preparations.
   The invention furthermore relates to the use of the preparations according to the invention or of the
35 pharmaceuticals     comprising the preparations     according to the invention        for controlling
   endoparasites in humans or animals.

   The INN emodepside represents the compound with the systematic name: cyclo[(R)-lactoyl-N
   methyl-l-leucyl-(R)-3-(p-morpholinophenyl)lactoyl-N-methyl-l-leucyl-(R)-lactoyl-N-methyl-l
   leucyl-(R)-3-(p-morpholinophenyl)lactoyl-N-methyl--leucyl.           Emodepside     is   described    in
   WO 93/19053 and has the following formula:
                                                         1 0                                  0
                                              o          N         O                  N
                                      O             O
                                                           0
                                     -N
                                                O                   N
                                        0
                                                                         0
                     N                             N              0
 5
   In principle, the preparations according to the invention may comprise further active substances.
10 Depending on the structure, active substances can be present in stereoisomeric forms or as
   stereoisomer mixtures, for example as enantiomers or as a racemat. The active substance emodepside
   has a total of 8 chiral C atoms - 4 1 leucine units, 2 D-lactic acid units and 2 D-polylactic acid units.
   However, the synthesis is anenatioselective, so that the fermentation process only generates the one
   enantiomer of PF1 022A.
15
   In the preparations according to the invention, the emodepside is present in the amorphous state.
   Amorphous means that the atoms are present in an unordered structure. In the case of a crystalline
   substance, or in crystalline zones, the atoms have both a short-range order and a long-range order.
   Amorphous material, in contrast, only has a short-range order. The degree of crystallization of the
20 active substance can be determined for example with the aid of dynamic differential calorimetry or
   x-ray diffractometry.
   In the case of a calorimetric measurement, it is the melting enthalpy, in other words the energy
   required for melting the crystals, that is measured. If the active substance is present in a completely
25 amorphous state, no change in the endothermal enthalpy can be measured upon heating.
   When using x-ray diffraction as the measuring method, it is the distances between the molecular
   chains which are measured. In the amorphous state, no regular distances exist, which results in a
   broad distribution and no clear peaks in the diffractogram.

   Other possibilities of checking the amorphous state are density measurement, x-ray diffraction,
   infrared spectroscopy and nuclear-resonance spectroscopy.
 5 In the preparations according to the invention, a proportion of at least 50% by weight, preferably at
   least 70% by weight, especially preferably at least 80% by weight, very specially preferably at least
   90% by weight, of the emodepside is present in the amorphous state, the percentages being based
   on the total amount of emodepside.
10 In case of doubt, the amorphous emodepside content is determined by dynamic differential
   calorimetry.
   The emodepside is present in a polyvinylpyrrolidone matrix. Suitable "polyvinylpyrrolidones" are
   not only pure polyvinylpyrrolidones, but also their derivatives or mixtures of polyvinylpyrrolidones
15 and polyvinylpyrrolidone derivatives.
   Polyvinylpyrrolidones (povidones, PVPs) are commercially available hydrophilic polymers.
   Various types of PVPs are obtainable. PVPs with a relatively low molecular weight are
   conventionally employed as binders for tablets. In an aqueous medium, PVPs will swell and erode.
20
   The polyvinylpyrrolidones or polyvinylpyrrolidone derivatives employed are preferably water
   soluble. As a rule, they are linear, non-crosslinked polyvinylpyrrolidones or polyvinylpyrrolidone
   derivatives.
25 The pure polyvinylpyrrolidones or polyvinylpyrrolidone derivatives employed in accordance with
   the invention usually have a K value in the range of from 12 to 90, preferably 12 to 30.
   The K value of the polyvinylpyrrolidones or polyvinylpyrrolidone derivatives is in a relationship
   with the viscosity and the molecular weight and can be determined by methods known per se. In
30 case of doubt, the information on the K value found in the European Pharmacopeia (Ph. Eur.) will
   be used.
   Preferably, the pure polyvinylpyrrolidones have a K value of from 12 to 90, especially preferably
   from 12 to 25, very especially preferably from 12 to 17.
35
   The polyvinylpyrrolidone derivatives are usually polyvinylpyrrolidone copolymers. In the case of
   the polyvinylpyrrolidone copolymers, polymers with a K value of 25-30 will preferably be used.

   A preferred polyvinylpyrrolidone derivative is copovidone (for example Kollidon VA 64 from
   BASF). This is a vinylpyrrolidone/vinyl acetate copolymer in the ratio of 6:4 with a K value of
   approximately 30.
 5 The preparation usually comprises at least 50% by weight, preferably at least 66% by weight,
   especially preferably 75% by weight, of polyvinylpyrrolidone.
   Details on the abovementioned polyvinylpyrrolidones, polyvinylpyrrolidone derivatives and certain
   mixtures can be found in the following book: V. Bifhler, "Kollidon, Polyvinylpyrrolidone for the
10 pharmaceutical industry", 9th revised edition, BASF Pharma Ingredients, Germany, 2008.
   At least two methods which are known per se exist for preparing the preparations according to the
   invention: solvent coprecipitation and melt extrusion.
15 In the case of solvent coprecipitation, emodepside together with the polymer is dissolved in the
   solvent, and the solvent is subsequently removed again, for example with reduced pressure and,
   optionally, elevated temperature. Suitable are solvents and solvent mixtures in which both the
   active substance and the polymer will dissolve. Substances which are suitable for the preparations
   according to the invention are, for example, ethanol, acetonitrile, methanol, acetone and
20 isopropanol or their mixtures. The polymers employed in solvent coprecipitation are preferably
   polyvinylpyrrolidones with a K value of between 12 and 30, preferably 12 and 17, since it is easier
   to remove the solvent from those than from polyvinylpyrrolidones with a greater K value.
   In the case of melt extrusion, the active substance is mixed with the polymer and transferred into an
25 extruder. The extrusion temperature is below the melting point of the active substance. In the case
   of emodepside, the extrusion may take place between 80 and 190'C, preferably between 140 and
   180 0C.
   The melting point of the thermodynamically most stable emodepside modification is 192'C.
30 During the extrusion, emodepside dissolves in the polymer, and upon cooling it precipitates in the
   amorphous state. In general, preferred polyvinylpyrrolidones are those with a low glass transition
   temperature so as not to pose a risk to the stability of the active substance. In addition, it must not
   be too low so as to ensure a certain degree of storage stability. Polymers which can be
   recommended are those with a glass transition temperature of at least 80'C, but markedly below
35 the melting point of emodepside, that is 80'C to 160'C, preferably 80'C to 140'C. The glass
   transition temperature of polyvinylpyrrolidone with a K value of 12 is approximately 90'C and
   with a K value of 25 approximately 155 0 C.

   In the case of melt extrusion, it is possible to additionally add surfactants to the system. Surfactants
   which are suitable in principle are customary pharmaceutically acceptable pulverulent or liquid
   surfactants. Examples which may be mentioned are: polyoxyethylene glycerol ricinoleate 35,
   macrogol glycerol hydroxystearate 40, but also bile salts, lecithins and non-ionic surfactants such
 5 as sodium dodecyl sulphate. Other examples which may be mentioned are the polysorbate 20, 60 or
   80 and poloxamers.
   The preparations according to the invention may be used directly per se, or else they are processed
   with addition of other adjuvants. In this context, they are present in the form of granules or in the
10 form of a powder, preferably following a grinding step, both for direct use and for processing.
   "Pharmaceuticals" for the purpose of the present invention may be the preparations themselves or
   else compositions which, in addition to the preparations, also comprise pharmaceutically
   acceptable adjuvants.
15
   Oral pharmaceutical forms which are suitable are powders, granules, suspensions, capsules or
   tablets, with tablets being preferred.
   Possible adjuvants which may be mentioned are: fillers, glidants, lubricants, disintegrants,
20 surfactants and the like.
   Fillers which are suitable are fillers which are conventionally used for solid preparations (for
   example tablets), such as, for example, pharmaceutically employed starches, for example potato,
   wheat, maize and rice starch, various mono- and disaccharides, for example glucose, lactose and
25 sucrose, and the sugar alcohols mannitol and sorbitol. Colloidal carbonates such as calcium
   carbonates, hydrogencarbonates, sodium chloride, aluminium oxides, silicas, clays and phosphates
   (especially calcium phosphates) may also be employed, it also being possible for different fillers to
   be combined with each other. Fillers having additional dry-binding properties which are used are
   celluloses, preferably microcrystalline cellulose. The total amount of filler(s) is usually 5-80%
30 (m/m), preferably 10 to 70% (m/m), especially preferably 20 to 50% (m/m).
   Furthermore, the solid pharmaceutical preparations according to the invention may, besides the
   active substance(s) and other abovementioned constituents, additionally comprise further
   adjuvants. Glidants which are used are, for example, colloidal silica, hydrogenated vegetable oils,
35 stearic acid, tale or their mixtures, optionally in amounts of from usually 0.1 to 2%, preferably
   0.5-1.5% (m/m). Lubricants, such as, for example, magnesium stearate, are optionally present in
   amounts of from usually 0.3-2% (m/m), preferably 0.5 to 1.5 (m/m). In addition, it is possible to
   add, to the formula, disintegrants such as, for example, croscarmellose sodium in amounts of
   usually 1-10% (m/m). However, higher concentrations such as 10-40% may also be used.

   Surfactants, for example sodium dodecylsulphate, usually 0.1-1% (m/m), preferably 0.5-1% (m/m),
   may be added to improve wetting. Further surfactants which may be incorporated are the non-ionic
   surfactants polyoxyethylene glycerol ricinoleate 35, macrogol glycerol hydroxystearate 40,
   polyoxylated sorbitan monooleate, sorbitan monostearate, ethyl alcohol, glycerol monostearate,
 5 polyoxyethyl stearate and alkylphenol propyl glycol ether, the ampholytic surfactants disodium N
   lauryl-B-iminodipropionate and lecithin, and the anionic surfactants sodium lauryl sulphate, fatty
   alcohol ether sulphate and mono/dialkyl polyglycol ether orthophosphoric ester monoethanolamine
   salts.
10 To improve the palatability, aromas and/or flavourings may furthermore be added to the formula.
   The preparations according to the invention can be prepared for example by mixing or granulating
   the components and then compressing the product to give tablets. Preferred in this context is the
   direct tableting of the starting materials, that is to say that all starting materials are mixed and that
15 the mixture is directly compressed to give tablets, without further process steps such as granulation
   or the like.
   The preparations according to the invention, or the pharmaceuticals according to the invention, are
   suitable for controlling pathogenic endoparasites which are found in humans and in animal keeping
20 and animal breeding in livestock, breeding stock, zoo animals, laboratory animals, experimental
   animals and pets, while having favourable toxicity to warm-blooded species. They can be employed
   against all or individual developmental stages of the pests and against resistant and normally-sensitive
   endoparasite isolates. By controlling the pathogenic endoparasites, it is intended to reduce disease,
   deaths and reduced performance (for example in the production of meat, milk, wool, hides, eggs,
25 honey and the like), so that more economical, simpler and healthier animal keeping is made possible
   by employing the active substances. The pathogenic endoparasites include helminths such as
   Platyhelmintha (in particular Monogenea, Cestoda and Trematoda), Nematoda, Pentastoma and
   Acanthocephala. Examples which may be mentioned are:
   Monogenea: for example: Gyrodactylus spp., Dactylogyrus spp., Polystoma spp..
30 Cestoda: From the order Pseudophyllidea, for example: Diphyllobothrium spp., Spirometra spp.,
   Schistocephalus spp., Ligula spp., Bothridium spp., Diphlogonoporus spp..
   From the order Cyclophyllida, for example: Mesocestoides spp., Anoplocephala spp., Paranoplo
   cephala spp., Moniezia spp., Thysanosoma spp., Thysaniezia spp., Avitellina spp., Stilesia spp.,
   Cittotaenia spp., Andyra spp., Bertiella spp., Taenia spp., Echinococcus spp., Hydatigera spp.,
35 Davainea spp., Raillietina spp., Hymenolepis spp., Echinolepis spp., Echinocotyle spp., Diorchis
   spp., Dipylidium spp., Joyeuxiella spp., Diplopylidium spp..

   Trematoda: from the class Digenea, for example: Diplostomum spp., Posthodiplostomum spp.,
   Schistosoma spp., Trichobilharzia spp., Omithobilharzia spp., Austrobilharzia spp., Gigantobilhar
   zia spp., Leucochloridium spp., Brachylaima spp., Echinostoma spp., Echinoparyphium spp., Echi
   nochasmus spp., Hypoderaeum spp., Fasciola spp., Fasciolides spp., Fasciolopsis spp., Cyclocoe
 5 lum spp., Typhlocoelum spp., Paramphistomum spp., Calicophoron spp., Cotylophoron spp., Gi
   gantocotyle spp., Fischoederius spp., Gastrothylacus spp., Notocotylus spp., Catatropis spp., Pla
   giorchis spp., Prosthogonimus spp., Dicrocoelium spp., Eurytrema spp., Troglotrema spp., Parago
   nimus spp., Collyriclum spp., Nanophyetus spp., Opisthorchis spp., Clonorchis spp., Metorchis
   spp., Heterophyes spp., Metagonimus spp..
10 Nematoda: From the order Trichinellida, for example: Trichuris spp., Capillaria spp., Tri
   chomosoides spp., Trichinella spp..
   From the order Tylenchida, for example: Micronema spp., Strongyloides spp..
   From the order Rhabditina, for example: Strongylus spp., Triodontophorus spp., Oesophagodontus
   spp., Trichonema spp., Gyalocephalus spp., Cylindropharynx spp., Poteriostomum spp., Cycloco
15 cercus spp., Cylicostephanus spp., Oesophagostomum spp., Chabertia spp., Stephanurus spp., An
   cylostoma spp., Uncinaria spp., Bunostomum spp., Globocephalus spp., Syngamus spp., Cyathosto
   ma spp., Metastrongylus spp., Dictyocaulus spp., Muellerius spp., Protostrongylus spp., Neostrongylus
   spp., Cystocaulus spp., Pneumostrongylus spp., Spicocaulus spp., Elaphostrongylus spp., Parela
   phostrongylus spp., Crenosoma spp., Paracrenosoma spp., Angiostrongylus spp., Aelurostrongylus
20 spp., Filaroides spp., Parafilaroides spp., Trichostrongylus spp., Haemonchus spp., Ostertagia spp.,
   Marshallagia    spp., Cooperia spp., Nematodirus spp., Hyostrongylus              spp., Obeliscoides spp.,
   Amidostomum spp., Ollulanus spp..
   From the order Spirurida, for example: Oxyuris spp., Enterobius spp., Passalurus spp., Syphacia
   spp., Aspiculuris spp., Heterakis spp.; Ascaris spp., Toxascaris spp., Toxocara spp., Baylisascaris
25 spp., Parascaris spp., Anisakis spp., Ascaridia spp.; Gnathostoma spp., Physaloptera spp., Thelazia
   spp., Gongylonema spp., Habronema spp., Parabronema spp., Draschia spp., Dracunculus spp.;
   Stephanofilaria spp., Parafilaria spp., Setaria spp., Loa spp., Dirofilaria spp., Litomosoides spp., Brugia
   spp., Wuchereria spp., Onchocerca spp..
   Acanthocephala: From the order Oligacanthorhynchida, for example: Macracanthorhynchus spp.,
30 Prosthenorchis spp.; from the order Polymorphida, for example: Filicollis spp.; from the order
   Moniliformida, for example: Moniliformis spp..
   From the order Echinorhynchida, for example: Acanthocephalus                  spp., Echinorhynchus     spp.,
   Leptorhynchoides spp..
   Pentastoma: From the order Porocephalida, for example: Linguatula spp..

   In accordance with a preferred embodiment, the preparations according to the invention, or the
   pharmaceuticals according to the invention, are employed for controlling heart worm, Dirofilaria
   immitis.
   Animals may be fish, reptiles, birds or in particular mammals.
 5 The livestock and breeding stock include mammals such as, for example, cattle, horses, sheep, pigs,
   goats, camels, water buffalo, monkeys, rabbits, fallow deer, reindeer, fur-bearing animals such as, for
   example, mink, chinchilla, racoon, birds such as, for example, chickens, geese, turkeys, ducks,
   ostriches, fish such as trout, salmon, carp, perch, pikes, eels.
   Laboratory animals and experimental animals include mice, rats, guinea pigs, golden hamsters, dogs
10 and cats.
   The pets include dogs and cats.
   Preferred in accordance with the invention is the use in animals, but the use in humans is also possible
   in principle.
15 The application may be either prophylactic or else therapeutic.
   The preparations according to the invention with amorphous emodepside have good bioavailability.
   They show a high plasma level concentration and good data as regards the area under the
   concentration-time curve of emodepside in the blood.
20
   Examples
    1. Coprecipitate prepared by solvent method
   When preparing a solvent coprecipitate, emodepside and polyvinylpyrrolidone with a K value of 12,
25 17 or 25 are mixed and dissolved in ethanol or in a solvent mixture of acetone and isopropanol. After
   everything has dissolved, the solution is transferred to a sheet, and the solvent is stripped off at
   elevated temperature and reduced pressure in a vacuum drying oven. Thereafter, the coprecipitate thus
   obtained is scrapped off the sheet and ground. The powder thus obtained may now be administered
   either directly, for example filled into capsules, or, after processing, in the form of tablets.
30
   Coprecipitates of the following compositions were prepared, where the compositions were in each case
   converted to a theoretical total weight of 100 g of the coprecipitate. In each case three compositions
   with polyvinylpyrrolidone- 12, -17 and -25 were prepared for each example:
35 Example 1:
   25 g Emodepside

   75 g Polyvinylpyrrolidone-12, -17 or -25
   Isopropanol/acetone 1:1 (until everything has dissolved)
   Example 2:
 5 50 g Emodepside
   50 g Polyvinylpyrrolidone-12, -17 or -25
   Isopropanol/acetone 1:1 (until everything has dissolved)
   Example 3:
10 9.09 g Emodepside
   90.91 g Polyvinylpyrrolidone-12, -17 or -25
   Isopropanol/acetone 1:1 (until everything has dissolved)
   Example 4:
15 25 g Emodepside
   75 g Polyvinylpyrrolidone-12, -17 or -25
   Ethanol (until everything has dissolved)
   Example 5:
20 33.33 g Emodepside
   66.67 g Polyvinylpyrrolidone-12, -17 or -25
   Ethanol (until everything has dissolved)
   Example 6:
25 9.09 g Emodepside
   90.91 g Polyvinylpyrrolidone-12, -17 or -25
   Ethanol (until everything has dissolved)
   2.  Tablet formulation:
30 When the coprecipitate is processed to give tablets, it is mixed with the tableting aids microcrystalline
   cellulose, croscarmellose sodium, highly-dispersed silica, sodium dodecyl sulphate and magnesium
   stearate and the mixture is compressed to give tablets.
   The following tablet formulation may be mentioned by way of example:
35
   Example 7: (a 100 g batch is composed of)
   21.3 g Solvent coprecipitate as per Example 1 with polyvinylpyrrolidone-12
   32 g Microcrystalline cellulose
   42.6 g Croscarmellose sodium

   0.8 g Sodium dodecyl sulphate
   1.6 g Highly-dispersed silica
   1.6 g Magnesium stearate.
 5 3. Coprecipitate prepared by melt extrusion
   In the case of the preparation which is prepared by melt extrusion (extruded coprecipitate),
   emodepside and the polyvinylpyrrolidone copolymer (copovidone, for example Kollidon VA 64 from
   BASF) are mixed and transferred into the extruder. If required, a surfactant, for example,
   polyoxyethylene glycerol ricinoleate 35, can be introduced via liquid metering. This mixture is
10 extruded      at  160'C.      Extrusion      at    180'C     is    also    possible.     The resulting
   emodepside/polyvinylpyrrolidone extrudates are cooled and ground. Again, here the powder may
   be administered as such or processed to give tablets.
   Extruded coprecipitates of the following compositions were prepared, while the compositions were in
15 each case converted to a theoretical total weight of 100 g of the extruded coprecipitate:
   Example 8:
   20 g Emodepside
   70 g Copovidone
20 10 g Polyoxyethylene glycerol ricinoleate 35
   Example 9:
   9.09 g Emodepside
   80.91 g Copovidone
25 10 g Polyoxyethylene glycerol ricinoleate 35
   Example 10:
   20 g Emodepside
   80 g Copovidone
30
   4. Tablet formulation
   The preparation which is obtained by melt extrusion, too, can be processed in the same manner to
   give tablets. An example which may be mentioned is the following tablet mixture:
35 Example 11 (a 100 g batch is composed of):
   25.3 g Extruded coprecipitate according to Example 8
   30.4 g Microcrystalline cellulose
   40.5 g Croscarmellose sodium
   0.8 g Sodium dodecyl sulphate

   1.5 g Highly-dispersed silica
   1.5 g Magnesium stearate.
   Biological example
 5
   A. Study into the pharmacokinetics:
   The tablets of Example 7 (with 10 mg emodepside and a total weight of 187.5 mg) were administered
   to 10 dogs and the tablets of Example 11 (with 10 mg emodepside and a total weight of 197.5 mg)
10 were administered to 4 dogs, in each case orally. By way of comparison, an emodepside solketal
   solution (10% m/m) was administered to 4 dogs, in each case orally. For all formulations, the dosage
   was 1 mg/kg body weight. Thereafter, blood was taken from the dogs at regular intervals up to 72 h
   after the application. The values of the maximum plasma level concentration Cmax were improved
   markedly by using the active substance in the amorphous state: from 93 pg/l in the case of the
15 emodepside solketal solution to 187 jig/l for tablets of Example 11 and 246 ptg/l for tablets of
   Example 7. The AUC(0-24 h) values were instead of 508 tg/l in the case of the solution 825 ptg/l for
   the tablets of Example 11 and 1129 ptg/l for the tablets of Example 7, respectively.

                                             - 12
The claims defining the invention are as follows:
   1.     Preparation comprising emodepside in a polyvinylpyrrolidone matrix, wherein at
          least 50% by weight of the emodepside is in an amorphous form and the
         preparation is either a melt extrudate or a coprecipitate.
   2.     Preparation according to claim 1, wherein at least 70% by weight of the
          emodepside is in amorphous form.
   3.     Preparation according to claim 1 or 2, wherein at least 80% by weight of the
          emodepside is in amorphous form.
   4.     Preparation according to any one of claims 1 to 3, wherein at least 90% by weight
          of the emodepside is in amorphous form.
   5.     Preparation according to any one of claims 1 to 4, additionally comprising a
          surfactant.
   6.     Preparation according to any one of claims 1 to 5, wherein the preparation is a melt
          extrudate.
   7.     Preparation according to any one of claims 1 to 5, wherein the preparation is a
          coprecipitate.
   8.     Preparation according to any one of claims 1 to 7, wherein the
         polyvinylpyrrolidone matrix contains a polyvinylpyrrolidone derivative having a K
          value in the range of from about 12 to about 30.
   9.     Preparation according to claim 8, wherein the polyvinylpyrrolidone derivative is
          copovidone.
   10.    Preparation according to claim 8 or 9, wherein the polyvinylpyrrolidone derivative
          is a vinylpyrrolidone/vinyl acetate copolymer in the ratio of 6:4 with a K value of
          about 30.
   11.   A pharmaceutical composition comprising a preparation according to any one of
          claims 1 to 7 and a pharmaceutically acceptable adjuvant.
   12.   A method for controlling an endoparasite in a human or animal, the method
          comprising administering an effective amount of a preparation comprising
          emodepside in a polyvinylpyrrolidone matrix to a human or animal in need thereof,
          wherein at least 50% of the emodepside is in amorphous form.

                                      - 13
13. Method according to claim 12, wherein the endoparasite is a helminth selected
    from Nematoda.
14. Method according to claim 13, wherein the endoparasite is a Nematoda selected
    from the order Trichinellida, Tylenchida, Rhabditina or Spirurida.
15. Method according to claim 14, wherein the Nematoda is selected from the group
    consisting of Trichuris spp., Trichinella spp., Strongyloides spp., Ancylostoma
    spp., Enterobius spp., Ascaris spp., Toxascaris spp., Dracunculus spp., Loa spp.,
    Brugia spp., Wuchereria spp. and Onchocerca spp..
16. Use of a preparation comprising emodepside in a polyvinylpyrrolidone matrix in
    the manufacture of a medicament for controlling an endoparasite in a human or
    animal, wherein at least 50% of the emodepside is in amorphous form.
17. Use according to claim 16, wherein the endoparasite is a helminth selected from
    Nematoda.
18. Use according to claim 17, wherein the endoparasite is a Nematoda selected from
    the order Trichinellida, Tylenchida, Rhabditina or Spirurida.
19. Use according to claim 18, wherein the Nematoda is selected from the group
    consisting of Trichuris spp., Trichinella spp., Strongyloides spp., Ancylostoma
    spp., Enterobius spp., Ascaris spp., Toxascaris spp., Dracunculus spp., Loa spp.,
    Brugia spp., Wuchereria spp. and Onchocerca spp..

                                                   -  14
   Patent Claims:
   1. Preparation comprising emodepside in amorphous form in a polyvinylpyrrolidone matrix.
 5 2. Preparation according to Claim 1, additionally comprising a surfactant.
   3. Preparation according to Claim 1, characterized in that it is a melt extrudate.
   4. Preparation according to Claim 1, characterized in that it is a coprecipitate.
   5. Pharmaceutical, comprising a preparation according to one of the preceding claims and
10     pharmaceutically acceptable adjuvants.
   6. Preparation according to one of Claims 1 to 4 for use in the control of endoparasites in humans
       or animals.
15 7. Preparation according to Claim 6 for use in the control of Dirofilaria immitis.
   8. Use of a preparation according to one of Claims 1 to 4 for the preparation of a pharmaceutical.
   9. Use according to Claim 8 for the preparation of a pharmaceutical for controlling endoparasites
20     in humans or animals.
   10. Use according to Claim 9, where the endoparasites are Dirofilaria immitis.

