                                       Abstract
This innovation discloses a scheme of an energy-saving module of a mobile RGBY traffic LED
display. The scheme is composed of LED lights (RGBY), DC synchronous rectification dual output
buck component, IC drivers, and frames. The reduction in power consumption is achieved by
increasing the use of DC synchronous rectification dual output buck component and partition
power supply to reduce the voltage used in the module, the yellow (Y) light is added to achieve two
display models: full-color graphic and single-colour yellow display.

                            Drawings
                                               2                    3
                     3-2.4V  CMOS      driver    LED (R\Y) red and
      DC                     chip                yellow light
8-36\ synchronous
      rectifier dual
      output                    Driver IC
      module
                                                 LED(G\B)       green
                               CMOs driver chip  and blue light
                     3-3.5v
                                           2                 \3
                              Pic 4

      Editorial Note
       <removed-apn>
There are three pages of description only

                                     Description
                       Mobile RGBY traffic LED energy-saving module
Technical field
 This innovation is an upgrade of the electronic technology. To be more specific, it is an integration
of the full-color LED display and the single color yellow LED display.
Background research
 With the development in the LED display industry, the production and innovation of LED display
screens are constantly changing to meet varieties needs from different industries and
energy-saving requirements. For example, the traffic signs can only use the color yellow and the
power consumption of solar LED display must be low. However, the power consumption of LED
display screens is quite high at the moment, and the screens for transportation departments can
only use the color yellow. Therefore, the concept of a new type of energy-saving LED display that
can be applied to more applications has been proposed. In terms of energy saving, existing
manufacturers have adopted the method of reducing voltage supply to save energy. However, due
to the low voltage and power loss in transmission cable, only a small amount of the power is saved
while the brightness of the display is greatly affected at the meantime ended up failing to meet the
user's requirements, which is not a fundamental breakthrough at all. Moreover, the existing LED
(RGB) full-color display isn't qualified for the traffic signs as the wavelength of the yellow color
doesn't match the requested wavelength, which means the current traffic signs are qualified but
can only be used for traffic, which resulting in a waste of resources.
My Innovation
Mobile RGBY traffic LED energy-saving module is the solution to the above issue that achieves the
purpose of energy saving and multi-purpose through a new method and structure leading the
innovation of LED display screens industry to save electricity, reduce air pollution, protect the
environment, and cut costs.
This innovation discloses a scheme of an energy-saving module of a Mobile RGBY traffic LED
energy-saving display. The scheme is composed of LED lights (RGBY) which are consist of a
4-light group of red (R), green(G), blue (B) and yellow (Y), DC synchronous rectification dual output
buck component, IC drivers, and frames. Key specifications include:
         ePartitioned voltage has been directly input to the LED light groups through DC
             synchronous rectification dual output buck components, and the DC synchronous
             rectification dual output buck components and LED modules have been combined

                                    Description
            together;
        eor separate DC synchronous rectification dual output buck components to be connected
            within 0- 10 cm to reduce the power loss in cable transmission; input voltage 8-36V has
            been converted into 2.3-2.5V and 3.3-3.5V through DC synchronous rectification dual
            output buck components, powering the LED lights group and IC drivers directly to
            reduce the power loss in wire transmission.
This innovation overturned traditional methods of reducing the power supply voltage but adopt the
most efficient power supply voltage. Full-color image or the yellow image can be used separately
or on a partition basis according to users' needs. To sum up, energy saving and cost reduction
purposes are achieved in this innovation. In addition, two LED display modules are combined into
one LED display module, which can be used wisely under different circumstances. The solar panel:
LED display is 1:1 (1 square meter display with 1 square meter solar panel)
Description of the drawings
Figure 1 is a rear view of the module
Figure 2 is a side view of the module
Figure. 3 is a top view of the module
Figure 4 is an operation flowchart
Detailed description
Figure 1 - Figure 3 is a structural drawing of the module, 1 is a LED module frame, 2 is a DC
synchronous rectification dual output buck component, and 3 is LED panels.
Figure 4, the operation flowchart of the innovation, which shows the input voltage 8-V36 has been
converted into 2.3-2.5V and 3.3-3.5V through DC synchronous rectification dual output buck
component (1) to power the CMOS tube (2) and The driver IC (4). A 2.3-2.5V CMOS tube is used
to supply power to R red light and Y yellow light (3); A 3.3-3.5V CMOS tube is connected to G
green light and B blue light (3). Finally, the RGBY (red, green, blue, yellow light) is illuminated by
the driver IC (4).
Conclusion
In conclusion, energy can be saved by replacing the 5V single-channel power supply input module
by dual-channel power supply 2.3-2.5V and 3.3-3.5V input modules, and partition power supply
according to the VF value of red, green, blue and yellow lights (RGBY).

                                   Description
The method of 5V power supply for LED display is dominating the market at the moment, in which
resistors are needed to depressurize to the proper voltage for the VF value of the lights requested,
and lengths of connecting wires between the power supply and modules lead to resistance and
power loss of circuits.
In this proposal, the DC synchronous rectification dual output buck component is added and the
resistance is removed, and the power is directly supplied according to the VF value of the light,
thereby saving the loss of the resistor. This scheme must combine the DC synchronous
rectification dual output buck component with the module panel, or to combine with separate DC
components within 0-10 cm pitch to avoid the losses of the voltage and current. Base on the
principle of high voltage, low current, and less power loss in transmission. Brightness issue has
been resolved because of the 8-36v wide voltage power supply, voltage fluctuation does not affect
the stability of the DC buck component, and to ensure the consistency of the LED display
brightness.
RGBY (red, green, blue and yellow lights) is controlled by the software. Full-color image mode or
the yellow image mode can be selected or on a partition basis according to users' needs to
satisfied traffic management needs and commercial needs at the same time.
Example: The power consumption of an ordinary outdoor P10 module is about 700W per square
meter when the power supply is not partitioned, however, it is decreased to 424W per square
meter when using the partitioned power supply. With this innovation, the outdoor bright P10
module has a maximum power of 60 watts measured in one square meter and 15 watts in normal
use that is less than the power consumption of a notebook.

 Editorial Note
   <removed-apn>
There is one page of claims only

                                            Claims
a) The mobile RGBY traffic LED energy-saving module is composed of light groups of red, green, blue, and
    yellow, DC synchronous rectification dual output buck components, IC drivers and frames.
   Key specifications are:
    Partitioned voltage has been directly input to the LED light groups through DC synchronous rectification
    dual output buck components, and the DC synchronous rectification dual output buck components and LED
    modules have been combined together, or separate DC synchronous rectification dual output buck
    components to be connected within 0- 10 cm to reduce the power loss in cable transmission; input voltage
    8-36V has been converted into 2.3-2.5V and 3.3-3.5V through DC synchronous rectification dual output
    buck components, powering the LED lights group and IC drivers directly to reduce the power loss in wire
    transmission.
b) RGB red, green, and blue lights are full-color mixing lights, showing full color. The Y yellow light is for
    traffic managements and can be used alone.

    <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
1
                               Drawings

                                                  Drawings
<removed-date>
                                1                                    2                       3
                                       2.3-2.4V   CMOS      driver       LED (R\Y) red and
                                                  chip                   yellow light
                      DC
              8-36V   synchronous
<removed-apn>
                      rectifier dual
                                          GND        Driver IC
                      output
                      module
              GND                                                4       LED(G\B)       green
                                                   CMOS driver chip      and blue light
                                       3.3-3.5v
                                                                 2                       3
                                                   Pic 4

