                               Summary
We have made a structural transformation of the traditional plastic
foundation. On the premise4 that the edge of hexagonal convex on
both sides is not damaged, many holes are made to connect the two
sides of the foundation. It has been proved that after the same
application of beeswax, the modified plastic foundation has been
greatly accepted by bees, which is comparable to the pure beeswax
foundation.

Drawing
Diagram of plastic foundation (part)
                                     legend  description
                                            Side line of convex
                                            hexagon guiding
                                            bees to nest on it
                                            On anther side ,
                                            Side line of convex
                                            hexagon guiding
                                            bees to nest on it
                                            The base panel of
                                            plastic foundation
                                            To remove all or part
                                            of the plastic floor in
                                            the parallelogram to
                                            make the entire
                                            piece of plastic into
                                            a network of holes
                                            that run though both
                                            side.

      Editorial Note
       <removed-apn>
There are three pages of description only

                       Description
Current status
Comb foundation is man'   s imitation of natural cellular
as well as the size, shape and arrangement of the two sides
of the same wafer which create lined up side convex hexagon
to guide bees nesting on the touchline of convex hexagon.
The foundation is made of wax and plastic, has been used
in the beekeeping industry for many years and is still in
use.
Question:
Compared with the two types of foundation materials, the
disadvantages of the traditional plastic foundation
mainly include two aspects:
coated with beeswax. The effect is not good.
Secondly, it is easy to deform when temperature changes
during the use process. The Bees don' t like to nest on
a plastic foundation and even when it is re will be thermal
expansion and cold shrinkage. The foundation often
changes from a plane surface to a curved one which make
it impossible to be reused.

Innovative structural transformation:
In the long-term practice of beekeeping, we innovatively
transformed the structure of the traditional plastic
foundation and solved the above two problems. The key
points of the transformation are as follows:
The traditional plastic foundation is a piece of plastic
with two sides separated. Our modification is to remove
all or part of the plastic floor in the parallelogram shown
in the picture. This makes the entire piece of plastic into
a network of holes that run through both sides without
damaging the hexagonal convex edges (see drawing). It has
been proved by practice that the modified plastic
foundation and pure beeswax foundation have the same
effect after the same operation procedure of beeswax
coating.
Principle analysis:
   1. Because the two sides are connected fully, it is more
      easier to evenly coat plastic foundation when it is
      done with liquid wax (normal procedure). The smell
      and texture is closer to that of pure beeswax comb
      foundation.

2.Because both sides are transparent, the entire
  plastic sheet of the traditional foundation becomes
  a hollow structure, which can effectively disperse
  the internal stress caused by thermal expansion and
  cold shrinkage and solve the deformation problem.

 Editorial Note
   <removed-apn>
There is one page of claims only

Claims
The characteristic of the perforated comb foundation
is that there are many through-holes on the comb
foundation.

                 Editorial Note
<removed-date>
                  <removed-apn>
              There is one page of drawings only
<removed-apn>

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
