               Proof of Delivery on the Blockchain
ABSTRACT
The present invention provides a peer-to-peer method of causing a unique Dynamic Proof of
Delivery QR Code Image to be stored on the Blockchain, said Dynamic Proof of Delivery
QR Code Image contains data that relates specifically to the delivery state of goods under a
smart contract, said smart contract is for the supply and delivery of goods between a seller
and a buyer, said smart contract has a 3rd party delivery driver who is contracted to provide
the physical delivery of the goods under the smart contract, said Dynamic Proof of Delivery
QR Code Image is scanned throughout the physical delivery process and directly stores
pertinent delivery state data to the Blockchain, said delivery state data includes but is not
limited to, said Dynamic Proof of Delivery QR Code Image, photographic images,
timestamps and digital signatures at each point of delivery, said delivery state data then
becomes publically accessible Proof of Delivery information on the Blockchain.

PROOF OF DELIVERY ON THE BLOCKCHAIN                                                                                  rL   -/0
                                     10                                         550
           BUYER ORDERS
                                                  SELLER ACCEPTS
                                                      ORDER AND
                                                                                                ON PICK UP OF GOODS
                                                                                                   DELIVERY DRIVER
                                                                                                                          60
              GOODS OR                                GENERATES                                     SCANS SELLERS
           SERVICES FROM                        PROOF OF DELIVERY             |                   DYNAMIC PROOF OF
          SELLER AND SIGNS                         QR CODE WHEN                                   DELIVERY QR CODE
         ORDER USING THEIR                       GOODS ARE READY                                     FROM SELLERS
             PRIVATE KEYSHIP                                                                         MOBILE DEVICE
 30
                                        20
                                                                                                   DELIVERY DRIVER        70
  SMART                                                                                          DELIVERS GOODS TO
CONTRACT                                                                                        BUYER. DRIVER TAKES
 SERVER                             INTERNET                                                     PHOTO OF DELIVERY
                                                                                                AND SIGNS THE GOODS
                                                                                                 AS DELIVERED USING
                                                                                                    HIS PRIVATE KEY
   BLOCKCHAIN
      GATEWAY
                                          40
                                                                                                  BUYER SCANS THE         80
     !1IRE     E       !II~J~I         !E              ElE              El                        DRIVERS PROOF OF
                                 =>
                                 =                           ~            DELIVERY                           QR CODE
                                                                                                FROM DRIVERS MOBILE
   ORDERED          READY TO         PICKED UP      DELIVERED          SIGNED                  DEVICE AND THEN SIGNS
      CODE          SHIP CODE          CODE            CODE          RECEIVED
   (STATE 1)         (STATE 2)       (STATE 3)       (STATE 4)        (STATE 5)                   U     SINGCIVE
      DYNAMIC QR CODE IMAGES REGISTERED ON THE BLOCKCHAIN
                                                      FIG. I
PROOF OF DELIVERY QR CODE DELIVERY STATES
90
               STATE 1                STATE 2              STATE 3                  STATE 4                STATE 5
                BUYER                 SELLER                DRIVER                    DRVER                 BUYER
               ORDERS                ACCEPTS              CLETDLIRSRECEIVES
    THE 5 PHYSICALSTATES FOR DELIVERY OF GOODS
  40                           160             200             v           240                  280            v      320
               ORDERED               READY TO           PICKED UP CODE           DELIVERED CODE              SIGNED
                 CODE                SHIP CODE              (STATE 3)                (STATE 4)              RECEIVED
               (STATE 1)             (STATE 2)                                                              STATEE)
     THE 5 DIFFERENT STATES FOR QR CODE IMAGE
       EACH STATE OF DELIVERY DIRECTLY CORRELATES TO A QR CODE IMAGE STORED ON THE BLOCKCHAIN

                                                                                           Regulation 3 2
                                        AUSTRALIA
                                         Patents Act 1990 (Cth)
                          PHILLIP DAVID TALBOT
                    COMPLETE SPECIFICATION
                   FOR AN INNOVATION PATENT
Invention Title:
  PROOF OF DELIVERY ON THE BLOCKCHAIN
The following statement is a full description of this invention including the best method of performing in
known to us:

                                                 2
               Proof of Delivery on the Blockchain
FIELD OF THE INVENTION
[0001] The present invention broadly relates to a method that provides irrefutable and
immutable proof of the delivery of goods or services in accordance with a contract between a
buyer and seller. In particular, the present invention relates to a novel process for a seller in a
marketplace to obtain proof that said buyer received such ordered goods or services and
provides irrefutable and immutable proof that the delivery occurred and the goods were
received by the correct receiving party whilst simultaneously registering that signed delivery
receipt on the Blockchain.
BACKGROUND OF INVENTION
[0002] All businesses, freight companies, couriers, postal services and indeed all forms of
businesses generally provide some physical delivery of goods and services and need to record
or obtain some form of evidence that the delivery of the said goods or services occurred at
point of delivery.
[0003] The reason any business or supplier of goods and services needs to provide some
proof of delivery, is that all physical commerce in our modern times requires this to complete
a contract, which would then provide the right of the seller to receive or retain payment for
said delivered goods or services.
[0004] A common technique used by businesses and freight companies is to get the receiver
of the goods or services to physically sign a printed delivery receipt at the time of delivery. In
some more technologically advanced cases, the delivery driver may ask the receiver to sign
their name on the screen of some proprietary electronic device as proof of delivery.
[0005] Another more recent method is to obtain digital signatures from the receiver using
mobile applications carried by the delivery drivers that run on most common mobile phones
and tablets. These mobile applications contain electronic invoices and allow the receiver to
sign for their goods at point of delivery and the digital image of their signature is recorded

                                                  3
and associated with the invoice. This obviously provides some evidence that some person
signed for the goods, but requires expensive proprietary mobile applications.
[0006] However the major problem with all these forms of printed and digital signing for the
receipt of goods, is that there is no actual independently verifiable and publicly accessible
register to uniquely identify the receiver as the correct receiver, nor correlate that the receiver
is irrefutably the actual recipient for the delivery. The current systems lack of no immutable
public record or proof of delivery evidence for any delivery that can be correlated back to the
actual delivery of the goods and services against the original contract or seller. Most
proprietary systems do allow the scanning of some barcode on the goods or paperwork which
does correlate the invoice to the receiver, but it does not provide any immutable evidence that
the receiver is the authorised and the correct recipient, nor does it register this evidence on a
publically accessible, transparent and immutable network.
[0007] The problem of not obtaining irrefutable and immutable proof and evidence of any
such delivery of goods or services, is that it opens up the seller to disputes or claims of non
delivery that ultimately result in non-payment for the goods and services. The significance of
the problem for sellers is that they may ultimately lose the original goods that were supposed
to be delivered by having them delivered to the wrong person. The seller then incurrs the
additional costs or replacing the lost goods and the additional freight costs to re-ship the same
product and re-deliver the goods again.
[0008] The problem of ensuring that any ordered goods or services are indeed delivered to
the correct recipient cannot be understated. According to recent global credit benchmark
studies, the industry average of invoices that result in a credit note due to some delivery
related issue is 3%. For a business whose annual turnover is $50 million, this translates to
$1.5 million in lost revenues, not to mention the additional costs to the seller of selling
another product at zero value and to re-ship and re-deliver the goods.
[0009] The problem of the seller providing proof of delivery is a global one that effects all
trade in goods but is exacerbated more so now in that parcels cross national borders and
countries with the advent of the globalisation of trade. The impact on the businesses who ship
physical or even digital goods or services is huge where they can't provide proof that goods
were delivered. Furthermore, the need for businesses to ensure some proof of delivery
evidence is collected at point of delivery can be seen by the significant investment being

                                                  4
made in technology by delivery companies and businesses who own their own delivery
vehicles.
[0010] With the emergence of technologies such as two-dimensional QR ("Quick Response")
codes, we are seeing these barcodes being used, scanned and read by most camera-enabled
smart phones and digital delivery devices. Invented in 1994 by the Denso Corporation of
Japan, they were originally developed for scanning and tracking automotive parts, however
increasingly QR Codes are fast becoming a mainstream barcode option for packaged goods
and a marketing tool to link mobile phone users to websites and online videos. With the
emergence of QR code technologies it is the first time we are able to bridge the physical
world with the online world.
SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
[0011] The present inventor has found it possible to generate a fully dynamic QR Code image
on the blockchain which contains pertinent cryptographic hash code information which
correlates to a digital contract and that during the physical fulfilment process of the goods or
services, the QR code image dynamically changes as the contract state changes in accordance
with the physical delivery process of goods. The novel aspect of this invention is the process
used to combine blockchain distributed ledger technology with a digitally dynamic QR code
that allows for the public recording of the changing state of a contract for delivery of goods
and services. The dynamic QR code image relates to a smart contract that provides
immutable proof of delivery of the said goods or services against an original smart contract.
The result is an irrefutable method of providing immutable proof that physical or digital
goods or services were delivered against a smart contract between a buyer and a seller and
that the corresponding payment for such goods and services can now be transferred.
[0012] With the widespread use of smart phones and tablets equipped with digital cameras
and technology capable of reading QR codes, the inventor has found a novel way for any
authorised 3rd party responsible a delivery of goods or services to obtain a digital signature
that provides immutable proof a delivery, and ensures the goods are received by the correct
buyer under a digital contract.

                                                5
[0013] This innovation is achieved by the scanning of a dynamically changing QR Code
image from one Smartphone to another Smartphone via the built-in camera, which transfers
the cryptographic information contained within the QR code image over the cellular data
network to a centralised online Proof of Delivery (POD) distributed ledger. The POD ledger
will register the time, date and geo-location of the scanning of the QR code image and other
pertinent recipient delivery information. Each step in the physical supply and delivery
process will result in a changing delivery state under a smart contract and therefore a
dynamically changing QR code. As the physical delivery state changes so will the QR Code
and the commensurate evidence will be registered on the blockchain, until the actual goods
are finally received by the persons intended.
[0014] The present invention provides a peer-to-peer method for a seller of goods or services
to digitally generate a unique and original Proof of Delivery QR Code image using their
private cryptographic key to track and obtain a final proof of the delivery of any supplied
goods or services to a known buyer. The said unique and original Proof of Delivery QR Code
image would include, but not be limited to, the sellers cryptographic hash code generated
from the sellers public and private key pairs on the blockchain, include links to the specific
terms of a "smart contract", photos and images of the actual delivery and contain the buyer
and/or receivers public key. The said unique and original Proof of Delivery QR Code image
and other photographic images would then be registered on a distributed ledger on the
blockchain, publically accessible by all. The said unique and original Proof of Delivery QR
Code image would then continue to dynamically change state throughout the physical
delivery process and each change stored on the blockchain, as the 3rd party delivery service
physically picks up the goods from the seller and ultimately delivers the goods to the buyer.
Once the buyer accepts and digitally signs for the goods or services using their private key,
the said unique and original Proof of Delivery QR Code image would finally be registered on
the block chain with the final Proof of Delivery QR Code image, marked as digitally signed
by the buyer along with other photographic and other digital evidence such as the receivers
public hash key, time stamp data and geo-location data.
[0015] Accordingly, the present invention provides a peer-to-peer method of causing a
unique Dynamic Proof of Delivery QR Code Image to be stored on the Blockchain, said
Dynamic Proof of Delivery QR Code Image contains data that relates specifically to the
delivery state of goods under a smart contract, said smart contract is for the supply and
delivery of goods between a seller and a buyer, said smart contract has a 3rd party delivery

                                                 6
driver who is contracted to provide the physical delivery of the goods under the smart
contract, said Dynamic Proof of Delivery QR Code Image is scanned throughout the physical
delivery process and directly stores pertinent delivery state data to the Blockchain, said
delivery state data includes but is not limited to, said Dynamic Proof of Delivery QR Code
Image, photographic images, timestamps and digital signatures at each point of delivery, said
delivery state data then becomes publically accessible proof of delivery information on the
Blockchain.
BRIEF DESCPRIPTION OF THE FIGURES
[0016] A preferred embodiment of the present invention will now be described, by way of
examples only, with reference to the accompanying figures in which:
[0017] Figure 1 is a schematic diagram showing one example of a Proof of Delivery System
on the Blockchain for use in the method of the present invention;
[0018] Figure 2 is a schematic diagram showing all various physical Proof of Delivery states
mapped to the equivalent Dynamic QR Code state;
[0019] Figure 3 is a schematic diagram showing specific details of an example of one part of
the present invention, namely the Order Placement State, and its interaction with a Smart
Contract Server and the Blockchain which is also shown in Figure 1;
[0020] Figure 4 is a schematic diagram showing specific details of an example of one part of
the present invention, namely the Ready to Ship State, and its interaction with a Smart
Contract Server and the Blockchain which is also shown in Figure 1;
[0021] Figure 5 is a schematic diagram showing specific details of an example of one part of
the present invention, namely the Goods Picked Up State, and its interaction with a Smart
Contract Server and the Blockchain which is also shown in Figure 1;
[0022] Figure 6 is a schematic diagram showing specific details of an example of one part of
the present invention, namely the Goods Delivered State, and its interaction with a Smart
Contract Server and the Blockchain which is also shown in Figure 1;
[0023] Figure 7 is a schematic diagram showing specific details of an example of one part of
the present invention, namely the Signed as Received State, and its interaction with a Smart
Contract Server and the Blockchain which is also shown in Figure 1;

                                                7
[0024] Figure 8 is a schematic diagram showing specific details of an example of the Proof
of Delivery scanning QR Code images process in the present invention, which is shown in
Figure 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 , and 7 ;
[0025] Figure 9 is a schematic diagram of the Order Placement Process which is shown in
Figure 1 and 3;
[0026] Figure 10 is a schematic diagram showing specific details of an example of the entire
process for a driver to follow in order to provide Proof of Delivery Dynamic QR Code
images on the Blockchain which is shown in Figure 1, 5, 6, and 7;
[0027] Figure 11 is a schematic diagram showing specific details of an example of the
process for a driver to pick up goods and provide Proof of Delivery Dynamic QR Code
images on the Blockchain which is shown in Figure 1, and 5;
[0028] Figure 12 is a schematic diagram showing specific details of an example of the
process for a driver to deliver goods and provide Proof of Delivery Dynamic QR Code
images on the Blockchain which is shown in Figure 1, and 5;
[0029] Figure 13 is a schematic diagram showing Dynamic QR Code images are generated
as part of the present invention and stored on the Blockchain Distributed Ledger;
[0030] Figure 14 is a diagram showing one example of the Proof of Delivery data
transmission data components and payload data components of the present invention;
[0031] Figure 15 is a schematic diagram showing of one example of the client side process
for digitally signing any Proof of Delivery Dynamic QR Code image using your public and
private keys as part of the present invention;
DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
[0032] The present invention provides a peer-to-peer method of causing a unique Dynamic
Proof of Delivery QR Code Image to be stored on the Blockchain, said Dynamic Proof of
Delivery QR Code Image contains data that relates specifically to the delivery state of goods
under a smart contract, said smart contract is for the supply and delivery of goods between a
seller and a buyer, said smart contract has a 3rd party delivery driver who is contracted to
provide the physical delivery of the goods under the smart contract, said Dynamic Proof of

                                                 8
Delivery QR Code Image is scanned throughout the physical delivery process and directly
stores pertinent delivery state data to the Blockchain, said delivery state data includes but is
not limited to, said Dynamic Proof of Delivery QR Code Image, photographic images,
timestamps and digital signatures at each point of delivery, said delivery state data then
becomes publically accessible proof of delivery information on the Blockchain.
[0033] The present invention provides a peer-to-peer method for a seller of goods or services
to digitally generate a unique and original Proof of Delivery QR Code image using their
private cryptographic key to track and obtain a final proof of the delivery of any supplied
goods or services to a known buyer. The said unique and original Proof of Delivery QR Code
image would include, but not be limited to, the sellers cryptographic hash code generated
from the sellers public and private key pairs on the blockchain, include links to the specific
terms of a "smart contract", photos and images of the actual delivery and contain the buyer
and/or receivers public key. The said unique and original Proof of Delivery QR Code image
and other photographic images would then be registered on a distributed ledger on the
blockchain, publically accessible by all. The said unique and original Proof of Delivery QR
Code image would then continue to dynamically change state throughout the physical
delivery process and each change stored on the blockchain, as the 3rd party delivery service
physically picks up the goods from the seller and ultimately delivers the goods to the buyer.
Once the buyer accepts and digitally signs for the goods or services using their private key,
the said unique and original Proof of Delivery QR Code image would finally be registered on
the block chain with the final Proof of Delivery QR Code image, marked as digitally signed
by the buyer along with other photographic and other digital evidence such as the receivers
public hash key, time stamp data and geo-location data.
 [0034] Preferably, the seller is registered within a digital marketplace or ecosystem
connected to the internet and uses their internet enabled PC and/or mobile phone which has
an installed digital signing application. The seller lists products for sale on said digital
marketplace or ecosystem as smart contracts.
[0035] Preferably, the buyer is registered within the same said digital marketplace or
ecosystem connected to the internet and uses their internet enabled PC and/or mobile phone
which has an installed digital signing application to buy goods. The buyer orders products for
sale on said digital marketplace or ecosystem and agrees to be the counter-party to the smart
contract.

                                                  9
[0036] Preferably, the delivery driver is registered within the same said digital marketplace or
ecosystem connected to the internet and uses their internet enabled PC and/or mobile phone
which has an installed digital signing application to deliver goods. The driver lists himself
available for deliveries and accepts delivery jobs from the same said digital marketplace or
ecosystem.
[0037] Preferably, the digital signing client application installed on internet connected
devices of the seller, buyer and delivery driver registers each party to any smart contract to a
Smart Contract Server and a blockchain gateway.
[0038] A smart contract is a reference to a common digital agreement between 2 peer-to-peer
parties on a blockchain network. In this case the buyer and the seller enter into a smart
contract as preferred in the present invention, and a 3rd party, the delivery driver, joins the
same said Smart Contract for the purpose of delivering the goods.
[0039] A Smart Contract Server is a centralised database repository that contains all
registered details of the seller, buyer and delivery driver in the digital marketplace. The Smart
Contract Server stores data, including but not limited to, smart contract ID, the public keys of
the seller, buyer and delivery driver, the list of products being purchased, the current state of
the contract and pertinent Dynamic QR Code image, photographs and current hash codes.
[0040] A Smart Contract Server also contains a software algorithm called a Smart Contract
Interpreter that verifies the incoming URL (Universal Resource Locator) or web site address
requested and generates an outgoing reply URL response to the original request. The Smart
Contract Server interprets the original URL request, determines whether it is from a valid
party to a smart contract against stored data, confirms their digital signing as valid, and based
on a set of rules will generate an outgoing response reply URL to be sent back to both the
original requestor and to a Blockchain Gateway.
[0041] The Blockchain Gateway has two functional components, namely the QR Code Image
Generator which generates a QR Code image from a URL (Universal Resource Locator) and
a Blockchain Image Submission Engine which sends dynamic QR Code images and related
data to the Blockchain.
[0042] A Blockchain Gateway is intrinsic to the present invention as it provides the
fundamental purpose of generating Dynamic Proof of Delivery QR Code images as well as
having secure direct access to the Blockchain in order to store the said Dynamic Proof of

                                                 10
Delivery QR Codes and related delivery data. Furthermore, the Blockchain Gateway software
interface and connection to the Blockchain permits not only the Dynamic QR Code images,
but photos and other metadata relating to the Proof of Delivery QR Code image such as
timestamps and geo-location data.
[0043] The present invention provides a method of causing a unique Dynamic Proof of
Delivery QR Code Image to be stored on the Blockchain, the said Dynamic Proof of Delivery
QR Code Image contains data that relates specifically to a smart contract between a seller and
a buyer, the details of a 3rd party delivery driver who is a party to the smart contract and the
state of the said delivery at any point in time.
[0044] The Proof of Delivery on the Blockchain has 5 pre-determined states, namely Ordered
(State 1), Ready to Ship (State 2), Picked Up (State 3), Delivered (State 4), and Signed
Received (State 5). Each physical delivery must pass through each Delivery State in order to
fulfil the physical delivery and be in compliance with a smart contract. At each step during
the physical delivery process the seller, delivery driver and buyer interact using their mobile
device's cameras to scan Dynamic Proof of Delivery QR Code Images which are presented
on the screens of the respective party to the delivery. Each party will digitally sign each
Dynamic Proof of Delivery QR Code Images at each of the 5 states or stages of delivery
fulfilment in order to comply with the preset delivery terms of the smart contract.
[0045] The invention will now be described by reference to the preferred embodiments.
[0046] As Figure 1 shows, the overall high level process is that a seller sets up a smart
contract on the Smart Contract Server 30. Buyer 10 places an order over the internet 20 with
seller 50 by digitally signing an order. When said buyer 10 digitally signs the order, said
Smart Contract Server 30 advises seller of the order from buyer 10 and said Smart Contract
Server 30 registers the first Dynamic Proof of Delivery QR Code Image with delivery state
Ordered (State 1) on the Blockchain 40. When the said goods are ready to ship, said seller 10
digitally signs that the goods are ready to ship, said Smart Contract Server 30 registers said
second Dynamic Proof of Delivery QR Code Image with a Ready to Ship (State 2) on the
Blockchain 40.
[0047] As Figure 1 shows, a when the said goods are ready to ship, said delivery driver 60
accepts the delivery job and arrives to pick up the physical goods. Said delivery driver 60
then uses his mobile device with an installed digital signing application, scans the seller 10

                                                 11
mobile device screen which contains the said second Dynamic Proof of Delivery QR Code
Image with a Ready to Ship (State 2) using their camera on his mobile device. Then said
Smart Contract Server 30 verifies the scan as valid and returns if scan is valid or not. If valid,
said delivery driver then digitally signs that the goods have been picked up with an installed
digital signing application from his mobile device. Then said Smart Contract Server 30
registers said third Dynamic Proof of Delivery QR Code Image with a Picked Up (State 3) on
the Blockchain 40.
[0048] The delivery driver 70 then arrives at buyer 10 delivery address and delivers the goods
to the buyer. At this point the delivery driver 70 can take evidential photos of the goods, the
physical location or a photo of the receiver and then said delivery driver uses his mobile
device with an installed digital signing application digitally signs the delivery as delivered.
Once digitally signed by delivery driver 70, then said Smart Contract Server 30 registers said
fourth Dynamic Proof of Delivery QR Code Image with a Delivered (State 4) on the
Blockchain 40 along with any images and metadata such as the geo-location and date/time
relating to the images.
[0049] The final step is for the buyer 10 to scan the delivery driver 80 mobile device screen
which contains the said fourth Dynamic Proof of Delivery QR Code Image with a Delivered
(State 4) using the camera on their mobile device. Then said Smart Contract Server 30
verifies the scan as valid and returns if scan is valid or not. If valid, said buyer 10 then
confirms that all the goods have been received and raises any delivery issues, could take
photos and then digitally signs with an installed digital signing application from their mobile
device. Then said Smart Contract Server 30 registers said fifth Dynamic Proof of Delivery
QR Code Image with a Signed Received (State 5) on the Blockchain 40.
[0050] As per Figure 2, preferably the present invention has 5 physical states for the delivery
of goods as illustrated at 90. Each physical state is linked directly to a corresponding
Dynamic Proof of Delivery QR Code Image with a stored delivery state on the Blockchain
40. More specifically the delivery states are:
Dynamic Proof of Delivery OR Code Image                          Delivery State
Ordered                                                          State 1
Ready to Ship                                                    State 2
Picked Up                                                        State 3

                                                 12
Delivered                                                      State 4
Signed Received                                                State 5
[0051] Figure 3 illustrates a schematic of the present invention in more detail regarding the
first delivery state Order Placement (State 1) 10. Preferably at the time of order placement, at
step 110 buyer orders a range of products on an online market place 100 for goods and
services from the seller 50, requests a delivery date and adds some delivery comments or
instructions to the order. Then at step 120 buyer accepts the smart contract along with any
agreed delivery fees and payment terms for the order. The final step 130 is the buyer
approves the order and accepts the smart contract terms and digitally signs with an installed
digital signing application from their PC or mobile device. Then a Dynamic Proof of
Delivery QR Code Image with delivery state Ordered (State 1) 160 is automatically generated
over the internet 20 by the Smart Contract Server 150. As illustrated in Figure 5, then said
Smart Contract Server 150 instructs the Blockchain Gateway 140 to register said Dynamic
Proof of Delivery QR Code Image with delivery state Ordered (State 1) 160 on the
Blockchain 40.
[0052] Figure 4 illustrates a schematic of the present invention in more detail regarding the
second delivery state Ready to Ship (State 2) 50. Preferably when the seller at step 170
accepts the buyers order from an online market place 100 for goods and services, they
digitally sign the order acceptance with an installed digital signing application from their PC
or mobile device. Then said Smart Contract Server 150 over the internet 20 electronically
informs the buyer 10 that seller 50 has accepted their order. Then the seller 50 at step 180
packs the goods and can choose to affix a printed static version of the order QR code to the
goods which contains a URL link to the buyers original order. Then the seller at step 190
digitally signs the goods as ready to ship with an installed digital signing application from
their PC or mobile device. On digital signing that goods are ready to ship, the Smart Contract
Server 150 over the internet 20 receives said notification that goods are ready to ship. Then a
Dynamic Proof of Delivery QR Code Image with delivery state Ready to Ship (State 2) 200 is
automatically generated over the internet 20 by the Smart Contract Server 150. Then said
Smart Contract Server 150 instructs the Blockchain Gateway 140 to register said Dynamic
Proof of Delivery QR Code Image with delivery state Ready to Ship (State 2) 200 on the
Blockchain 40. If there are also any photos or other meta data, this will be added to the same
Blockchain 40 by the Blockchain Gateway 140. Then said Smart Contract Server 150
electronically notifies a delivery driver in step 60 in Figure 1 that goods are required to be

                                                  13
picked up and delivered. As illustrated in Figure 5, now the Blockchain 40 reflects that both
delivery state events are completed, namely the Dynamic Proof of Delivery QR Code Image
with delivery state Ordered (State 1) 160 and Dynamic Proof of Delivery QR Code Image
with delivery state Ready to Ship (State 2) 200.
[0053] Figure 5 illustrates a schematic of the present invention in more detail regarding the
third delivery state Goods Picked Up (State 3) 60. Preferably when the delivery driver at step
210 arrives to collect the goods which were ordered from an online market place 100 for
goods and services, the first action the delivery driver takes is to use their installed digital
signing application to scan the QR code that is affixed to the goods. Then said Smart Contract
Server 150 over the internet 20 receives a request from the delivery driver for the details of
this smart contract and whether this QR code scan is a valid code. Then said Smart Contract
Server 150 over the internet 20 returns whether the QR code scan of the printed QR Code
label that is affixed to the goods is valid. If valid, the delivery driver then scans the Dynamic
Proof of Delivery QR Code Image with delivery state Ready to Ship (State 2) 200 from the
mobile device screen of seller 50. Then said Smart Contract Server 150 over the internet 20
receives a request from the delivery driver whether this QR code scan is a valid code. If valid,
the delivery driver then digitally signs the goods as picked up with an installed digital signing
application from their PC or mobile device. Then a Dynamic Proof of Delivery QR Code
Image with delivery state Picked Up (State 3) 240 is automatically generated over the internet
20 by the Smart Contract Server 150. Then said Smart Contract Server 150 instructs the
Blockchain Gateway 140 to register said Dynamic Proof of Delivery QR Code Image with
delivery state Picked Up (State 3) 240 on the Blockchain 40. If there are also any photos or
other meta data, this will be added to the same Blockchain 40 by the Blockchain Gateway
140. Then said Smart Contract Server 150 over the internet 20 electronically informs the
buyer 10 that delivery driver 60 has picked up the goods. As illustrated in Figure 5, now the
Blockchain 40 reflects that three delivery state events are completed, namely the Dynamic
Proof of Delivery QR Code Image with delivery state Ordered (State 1) 160, the Dynamic
Proof of Delivery QR Code Image with delivery state Ready to Ship (State 2) 200 and
Dynamic Proof of Delivery QR Code Image with delivery state Picked Up (State 3) 240.
[0054] Figure 6 illustrates a schematic of the present invention in more detail regarding the
fourth delivery state Goods Delivered (State 4) 70. Preferably when the delivery driver at step
250 arrives to deliver the goods which were ordered from an online market place 100 for
goods and services, the first action the delivery driver takes at step 260 is to use their installed

                                                 14
digital signing application to take evidential photos of the delivery and add any delivery
issues or comments at point of delivery. Then as per step 270 delivery driver digitally signs
the goods as delivered with an installed digital signing application from their PC or mobile
device. Then a Dynamic Proof of Delivery QR Code Image with delivery state Delivered
(State 4) 280 is automatically generated over the internet 20 by the Smart Contract Server
150. Then said Smart Contract Server 150 instructs the Blockchain Gateway 140 to register
said Dynamic Proof of Delivery QR Code Image with delivery state Delivered (State 4) 280
on the Blockchain 40. If there are also any photos or other meta data this will be added to the
same Blockchain 40 by the Blockchain Gateway 140. Then said Smart Contract Server 150
over the internet 20 electronically informs the buyer 10 that delivery driver 60 has delivered
the goods. As illustrated in Figure 6, now the Blockchain 40 reflects that four delivery state
events are completed, namely the Dynamic Proof of Delivery QR Code Image with delivery
state Ordered (State 1) 160, the Dynamic Proof of Delivery QR Code Image with delivery
state Ready to Ship (State 2) 200, Dynamic Proof of Delivery QR Code Image with delivery
state Picked Up (State 3) 240 and Dynamic Proof of Delivery QR Code Image with delivery
state Delivered (State 4) 280.
[0055] Figure 7 illustrates a schematic of the present invention in more detail regarding the
final delivery state Signed Received (State 5) 80. Preferably when the delivery driver at step
290 allows to deliver the goods which were ordered from an online market place 100 for
goods and services, the first action the delivery driver takes at step 290 is to allow the buyer
to scan the QR Code label that is affixed to the goods. Then said Smart Contract Server 150
over the internet 20 returns whether the QR code scan of the printed QR Code label that is
affixed to the goods is valid. If valid, the buyer 10 would use their installed digital signing
application to take evidential photos of the delivery and add any delivery issues or comments
at point of delivery and confirm that the goods are all received in good condition. Then as per
step 300, the buyer then scans the Dynamic Proof of Delivery QR Code Image with delivery
state Delivered (State 4) 280 from the mobile device screen of delivery driver 80. Then said
Smart Contract Server 150 over the internet 20 receives a request from the buyer 10 whether
this QR code scan is a valid code. If valid, the buyer then digitally signs the goods as received
with an installed digital signing application from their PC or mobile device. Then a Dynamic
Proof of Delivery QR Code Image with delivery state Signed Received (State 5) 320 is
automatically generated over the internet 20 by the Smart Contract Server 150. Then said
Smart Contract Server 150 instructs the Blockchain Gateway 140 to register said Dynamic

                                                 15
Proof of Delivery   QR Code Image with delivery state     Signed Received (State 5) 320 on the
Blockchain 40. If there are also any photos or other meta data this will be added to the same
Blockchain 40 by the Blockchain Gateway 140. Then said Smart Contract Server 150 over
the internet 20 electronically informs the seller 50 that buyer 10 has signed the goods as
received. As illustrated in Figure 7, now the Blockchain 40 reflects that five delivery state
events are completed, namely the Dynamic Proof of Delivery QR Code Image with delivery
state Ordered (State 1) 160, the Dynamic Proof of Delivery QR Code Image with delivery
state Ready to Ship (State 2) 200, Dynamic Proof of Delivery QR Code Image with delivery
state Picked Up (State 3) 240, Dynamic Proof of Delivery QR Code Image with delivery state
Delivered (State 4) 280 and Dynamic Proof of Delivery QR Code Image with delivery state
Signed Received (State 5) 320.
[0056] Figure 8 illustrates a schematic of the present invention which provides an example of
the preferred method for scanning a QR code. In this example the seller opens the installed
digital signing application on their mobile device 350 and retrieves the Dynamic Proof of
Delivery QR Code Image with delivery state Ready to Ship (State 2) 200. This is displayed
on a single screen and shown in the optimal size for scanning by another mobile device. The
delivery driver then opens the installed digital signing application on their mobile device 330
which has a built in camera 340 capable of scanning QR codes. The installed digital signing
application has the capability to scan and interpret the data within a QR code. The driver
scans the said Dynamic Proof of Delivery QR Code Image with delivery state Ready to Ship
(State 2) 200 from the mobile device 350 of the seller. Then said Smart Contract Server 30
over the internet 20 receives a request from the delivery driver whether this QR code scan is a
valid code. If valid, the delivery driver then digitally signs the goods as picked up with an
installed digital signing application from their PC or mobile device. Then a Dynamic Proof of
Delivery QR Code Image with delivery state Picked Up (State 3) 240 is automatically
generated over the internet 20 by the Smart Contract Server 30. Then said Smart Contract
Server 30 instructs the Blockchain Gateway to register said Dynamic Proof of Delivery QR
Code Image with delivery state Picked Up (State 3) 240 on the Blockchain 40. If there are
also any photos or other meta data this will be added to the same Blockchain 40 by the
Blockchain Gateway 140. Then said Smart Contract Server 150 over the internet 20
electronically informs the buyer 10 that delivery driver 60 has picked up the goods. As
illustrated in Figure 8, now the Blockchain 40 reflects that three delivery state events are
completed, namely the Dynamic Proof of Delivery QR Code Image with delivery state

                                                  16
Ordered (State 1) 160, the Dynamic Proof of Delivery QR Code Image with delivery state
Ready to Ship (State 2) 200 and Dynamic Proof of Delivery QR Code Image with delivery
state Picked Up (State 3) 240.
[0057] Figure 9 illustrates a schematic of the present invention but provides a different
example of the order placement process with emphasis on the very initial steps for the seller
370 to list goods for sale. The process starts when preferably the seller 370 lists goods for
sale over the internet 20 on a digital marketplace or internet store and provides his seller
details which may include, but not limited to their seller ID and his public key. In order to list
the products for sale, he would have had to digitally verify his identity at time of listing by
digitally signing the listing from their PC or Mobile Device over the internet 20 using an
installed digital signing application. Seller 370 would open a smart contract on Smart
Contract Server 30. Preferably, a buyer 10 who has registered over the internet 20 on the
same digital marketplace or on an online store, orders goods from a known seller 370 by
selecting a range of products to guy and accepts the seller 370 contract by placing an order.
Then buyer 10 creates an order 360 as shown in Figure 9. The final step 130 is that the buyer
approves the order and accepts the smart contract terms and digitally signs with an installed
digital signing application from their PC or mobile device. Then a Dynamic Proof of
Delivery QR Code Image with delivery state Ordered (State 1) 160 is automatically generated
over the internet 20 by the Smart Contract Server 30. As illustrated in Figure 9, then said
Smart Contract Server 30 instructs the Blockchain Gateway to register said Dynamic Proof of
Delivery QR Code Image with delivery state Ordered (State 1) 160 on the Blockchain 40.
[0058] Figure 10 illustrates a schematic of the present invention providing an overview
example from the delivery driver perspective and of the QR scanning process, the main 3rd
party who provides the delivery service. Preferably when the delivery driver arrives to collect
the goods which were ordered from an online market place for goods and services, the first
action the delivery driver takes is to use their installed digital signing application to scan the
QR code that is affixed to the goods. Then said Smart Contract Server 30 over the internet 20
receives a request from the delivery driver for the details of this smart contract and whether
this QR code scan is a valid code. Then said Smart Contract Server 30 over the internet 20
returns whether the QR code scan of the printed QR Code label that is affixed to the goods is
valid. If valid, the delivery driver then as per step (1) in Figure 10 from his mobile device 330
scans the Dynamic Proof of Delivery QR Code Image with delivery state Ready to Ship
(State 2) from the mobile device screen of seller 350. Then as per step (2) in Figure 10, said

                                                  17
Smart Contract Server 30 over the internet 20 receives a request from the delivery driver
whether this QR code scan is a valid code. Then Smart Contract Server 30 returns if the code
is valid. If code is valid as per step (3) Smart Contract Server 30 returns the next proof of
delivery state in the sequence. Then as per step (4) a Dynamic Proof of Delivery QR Code
Image with delivery state Picked Up (State 3) 240 is automatically generated over the internet
20 by the Smart Contract Server 30. Then said Smart Contract Server 30 instructs the
Blockchain Gateway to register said Dynamic Proof of Delivery QR Code Image with
delivery state Picked Up (State 3) 240 on the Blockchain 40. If there are also any photos or
other meta data this will be added to the same Blockchain 40 by the Blockchain Gateway.
Then said Smart Contract Server 30 over the internet 20 electronically informs the buyer 10
that delivery driver 60 has picked up the goods. As illustrated, this process is repeated with
the delivery driver and the mobile device of the buyer 380.
[0059] Figure 11 illustrates a schematic of the present invention providing a more detailed
example from the delivery driver perspective of the driver picking up the goods. Preferably
when the delivery driver arrives to collect the goods which were ordered from an online
market place for goods and services, in this example the seller opens the installed digital
signing application on their mobile 350 and retrieves the Dynamic Proof of Delivery QR
Code Image with delivery state Ready to Ship (State 2) 200. As per step (1) this is displayed
on a single screen on the seller mobile device 350 and shown in the optimal size for scanning
by another mobile device. The delivery driver uses their installed digital signing application
to scan the QR code that is affixed to the goods. Then said Smart Contract Server 30 over the
internet 20 receives a request from the delivery driver for the details of this smart contract
and whether this QR code scan is a valid code. Then said Smart Contract Server 30 over the
internet 20 returns whether the QR code scan of the printed QR Code label that is affixed to
the goods is valid. If valid, the delivery driver then as per step (2) in Figure 11 from their
mobile device 330 scans the Dynamic Proof of Delivery QR Code Image with delivery state
Ready to Ship (State 2) 200 from the mobile device screen of seller 350. Then as per step (3)
in Figure 10, said Smart Contract Server 30 over the internet 20 receives a request from the
delivery driver whether this QR code scan is a valid code. Then Smart Contract Server 30
returns if code is valid. If code is valid as per step (3) Smart Contract Server 30 returns the
next proof of delivery state in the sequence. Then as per step (4) a Dynamic Proof of Delivery
QR Code Image with delivery state Picked Up (State 3) 240 is automatically generated over
the internet 20 by the Smart Contract Server 30. Then said Smart Contract Server 30 instructs

                                                  18
the Blockchain Gateway to register said Dynamic Proof of Delivery QR Code Image with
delivery state Picked Up (State 3) 240 on the Blockchain 40. If there are also any photos or
other meta data this will be added to the same Blockchain 40 by the Blockchain Gateway.
Then said Smart Contract Server 30 over the internet 20 electronically informs the buyer 10
that delivery driver 60 has picked up the goods.
[0060] Figure 12 illustrates a schematic of the present invention providing an alternative
method where the actual original buyer is not available to digitally sign the for the receipt of
the goods. Any person or receiver who has the installed digital signing application can sign
for the delivery even if they are not the actual original buyer. Preferably when the delivery
driver arrives to deliver the goods, the first action the delivery driver takes is to identify
someone who works for or is authorised to receive goods on behalf of the original buyer.
Then as per step (1), the driver asks the buyer or receiver to show their mobile device 380
which would contain a Dynamic Proof of Delivery QR Code Image with delivery state
Delivered (State 4) 280 on the screen. In this case, it would be someone who works for the
same business or has been provided authority to sign on behalf of the original buyer. The
delivery driver using their mobile device 330 with built in camera 340 would as per step (2)
scan the Dynamic Proof of Delivery QR Code Image with delivery state Delivered (State 4)
280 using their installed digital signing application. As per step (3) the QR code scan is sent
to the Smart Contract Server 30 for validation. If valid as per step (4), the driver receive
notification on his mobile device screen 330 that the scan was valid. The delivery driver
would then be provided the opportunity to take evidential photos of the delivery and add any
delivery issues or comments at point of delivery. Then the delivery driver digitally signs the
goods as delivered with an installed digital signing application from their PC or mobile
device. Then a Dynamic Proof of Delivery QR Code Image with delivery state Delivered
(State 4) 280 is automatically generated over the internet 20 by the Smart Contract Server 30.
Then said Smart Contract Server 30 instructs the Blockchain Gateway to register said
Dynamic Proof of Delivery QR Code Image with delivery state Delivered (State 4) 280 on
the Blockchain 40. If there are also any photos or other meta data this will be added to the
same Blockchain 40 by the Blockchain Gateway. Then said Smart Contract Server 30 over
the internet 20 electronically informs the original buyer that delivery driver 60 has delivered
the goods.
[0061] Figure 13 illustrates a schematic of the novel method of the present invention for
causing a unique Dynamic Proof of Delivery QR Code Image to be stored on the Blockchain.

                                                  19
It is important to note that intrinsic to the function of any digital signing required by the Proof
of Delivery on the Blockchain system is that any constituent of the smart contract, namely the
buyer 10, the seller 50 or delivery driver 60, must have a valid digital signing application
installed on an internet connect PC or mobile device. As per step (1), a request for a new
Dynamic Proof of Delivery QR Code Image will come from the client-side digital signing
application and such request will include a URL and payload data 390. The client-side digital
signing application over the internet 20 will target the Smart Contract Interpreter 400. As per
step (2) the function of the Smart Contract Interpreter 400 is to listen for requests on a certain
internet port, read such requests and the payload. If request is from a valid client-side digital
signing application and contains valid and authenticated data, the Smart Contract Interpreter
400 will then read the central Smart Contract Server database 410 and compare the original
request to the Smart Contract Server database 410 and assess it as valid. The Smart Contract
Server database 410 stores a wide range of smart contract data, including but not limited to
the smart contract ID, the Seller Public Key, the Buyer Public Key, the Drivers Public Key,
the cart ID, the current delivery state of the smart contract, the current Dynamic Proof of
Delivery QR Code Image and a current transmission hash to ensure this specific transmission
is a valid transmission. If the URL and payload is valid, the Smart Contract Interpreter 400
will generate a new set of payload data response which will form the basis of the data that
will be converted into a new Dynamic Proof of Delivery QR Code Image. Once the new
payload data is generated the Smart Contract Interpreter 400 will pass a request to the QR
Code Image Generator 430 to generate the a new Dynamic Proof of Delivery QR Code Image
based on the next delivery state sequence. Once QR Code Image Generator 430 has generated
the new Dynamic Proof of Delivery QR Code Image in the delivery state sequence, as per
step (5) it will request the Blockchain Image Submission Engine 440 to store the new
Dynamic Proof of Delivery QR Code Image on the Blockchain. Then as per step (6), the QR
Code Image Generator 430 will then return the new Dynamic Proof of Delivery QR Code
Image in the delivery state sequence back to the Smart Contract Server 420, which in return
will over the internet 20 reply to the original request from the client-side digital signing
application the new Dynamic Proof of Delivery QR Code Image in the delivery state
sequence. This schematic illustrates a novel and core claim of the present invention.
[0062] Figure 14 illustrates a schematic of a possible core transmission request to and from
and between the client-side digital signing application and the Smart Contract Server 30. The
Transmission request 450 contains a Target Destination URL, and an Authentication Key to

                                                 20
ensure the Transmission itself is authorised and valid, a unique transaction ID to ensure the
request has not been made before, the actual payload data and a hash code to ensure the
payloads source and integrity. Further illustrated within the Figure 14 schematic is the
breakdown of the payload data that is contained within each transmission request. The Proof
of Delivery Block Payload 470 has 49 blocks of alpha and numeric characters. As per the
block header 460, the first 12 digits is the Smart Contract ID, the second set of 10 alpha and
numeric characters is a short code hash of the requestors public key, the third set of 10 alpha
and numeric characters is a short code hash of the drivers public key, the fourth is the 8 digits
representing the cart ID relating to the smart contract, the fifth is a 1 digit number
representing the current delivery state and the final 8 digits relate to the current Dynamic
Proof of Delivery QR Code Image related to the current delivery state.
[0063] Figure 15 illustrates a schematic example of the well established and understood
industry standard process of a client-side digital signing application which is used, for
example, in digital wallets for crypto currency transfer. The purpose of this schematic is to
illustrate that all interactions with the Smart Contract Server require the installation of a valid
digital signing client software application to enable the digital signing of each state of the
Dynamic Proof of Delivery QR Code Image in order to request the Smart Contract Server to
generate the next Dynamic Proof of Delivery QR Code Image in the delivery sequence.

               Proof of Delivery on the Blockchain
CLAIMS
1.      The present invention provides a peer-to-peer method of causing a unique Dynamic
Proof of Delivery QR Code Image to be stored on the Blockchain, said Dynamic Proof of
Delivery QR Code Image contains data that relates specifically to the delivery state of goods
under a smart contract, said smart contract is for the supply and delivery of goods between a
seller and a buyer, said smart contract has a 3rd party delivery driver who is contracted to
provide the physical delivery of the goods under the smart contract, said Dynamic Proof of
Delivery QR Code Image is scanned throughout the physical delivery process and directly
stores pertinent delivery state data to the Blockchain, said delivery state data includes but is
not limited to, said Dynamic Proof of Delivery QR Code Image, photographic images,
timestamps and digital signatures at each point of delivery, said delivery state data then
becomes publically accessible Proof of Delivery information on the Blockchain.
2.      A method according to claim 1, wherein said method uses 5 delivery states in the
physical delivery process and said 5 delivery states directly correlate to a Dynamic Proof of
Delivery QR Code Image which has a delivery state, said Dynamic Proof of Delivery QR
Code Image which has a delivery state is stored on separate blocks on the Blockchain in
sequence to provide an immutable chronological sequence of the delivery of goods, the
identity of all smart contract parties at each delivery state and delivery point an interaction
between such parties, and stores irrefutable image evidence supporting the Proof of Delivery
sequence and process.
3.      A method according to any one of claim 1 or 2 wherein any said Dynamic Proof of
Delivery QR Code Image is displayed on one internet connected mobile device and said
Dynamic Proof of Delivery QR Code Image is scanned from another internet connected
mobile device, said scanning the QR code transmits the scan results to a known Smart
Contract Server over the internet for validation of any Dynamic Proof of Delivery QR Code
Image.
4.      A method according to any one of claim 1 to 3 wherein the signing for physical goods
is done by said digital signing application that must be used in this process, is installed on

                                               2
mobile devices, uses cryptographic tokens and both a public key and private key are required
to sign any said Dynamic Proof of Delivery QR Code Image.
5.      A method according to any one of claim 1 to 4 and illustrated in Figure 13 wherein
any Blockchain Gateway exists which serves the purpose to receive payload data from a
Smart Contract Interpreter, then generate a new Dynamic Proof of Delivery QR Code Image
from said payload data and submit said new Dynamic Proof of Delivery QR Code Images on
the Blockchain to track and provide immutable evidence of the Proof of Delivery on the
Blockchain for the physical process of delivering goods.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
