        USING BIOMETRIC AUTHENTICATION FOR
                             NFC-BASED PAYMENTS
                                                 ABSTRACT
5          In order to validate a user to facilitate conducting a high-valued financial transaction via
  wireless communication between an electronic device (such as a smartphone) and another
  electronic device (such as a point-of-sale terminal), the electronic device may authenticate the
  user prior to the onset of the high-valued financial transaction. In particular, a secure enclave
  processor in a processor may provide local validation information that is specific to the
0 electronic device to a secure element in the electronic device when received local authentication
  information that is specific to the electronic device (such as a biometric identifier of the user)
  matches stored authentication information. Moreover, an authentication applet in the secure
  element may provide the local validation information to an activated payment applet in the
  secure element. This may enable the payment applet to conduct the high-valued financial
5 transaction via wireless communication, such as near-field communication.
  1002108150

                                                      1
         USING BIOMETRIC AUTHENTICATION FOR
                              NFC-BASED PAYMENTS
 5                                      Inventor: Ahmer A. Khan
                                             BACKGROUND
 0 Field
             [001]  The described embodiments relate to techniques for validating financial
   transactions conducted by electronic devices via wireless communication.
   Related Art
 5           [002]  Many modern electronic devices include a networking subsystem that is used to
   wirelessly communicate with other electronic devices. For example, these electronic devices can
   include a networking subsystem with a cellular network interface (UMTS, LTE, etc.), a wireless
   local area network interface (e.g., a wireless network such as described in the Institute of
   Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE) 802.11 standard or Bluetooth T M from the Bluetooth
 O Special Interests Group of Kirkland, Washington), and/or another type of wireless interface
   (such as a near-field-communication interface). Because of the popularity of these electronic
   devices and the convenience provided by this wireless-communication capability, there is
   increasing interest in using electronic devices to conduct financial transactions. For example, a
   so-called 'digital wallet' application executing on a cellular telephone may be used to pay for a
25 purchase at a point-of-sale terminal.
             [002a] Incorporated herein by reference, in its entirety, is PCT/US2014/062657
   (published as WO 2015/066028), filed on 28 October 2014.
             [003]  However, security remains a concern in using wireless communication to conduct
   financial transactions. For example, many financial institutions (such as banks and credit-card
30 providers) require that a user provide some form of authentication (such as a signature or a
   personal identification number) that confirms the user's identity before a financial transaction
   can be completed. However, it can be challenging to provide a secure end-to-end system to
   communicate this authentication information during communication within the electronic
   1002108159

                                                        2
    devices and between the electronic devices. In addition, many existing approaches for
    communicating the authentication information when conducting a financial transaction via
    wireless communication are cumbersome (such as requiring users to repeat the same operations
    multiple times), and can consequently degrade the user experience. Therefore, security issues
 5  continue to restrict the use of electronic devices to conduct financial transactions, and thus
    constrain associated commercial activity.
              [003a] Reference to any prior art in the specification is not, and should not be taken as,
    an acknowledgment or any form of suggestion that this prior art forms part of the common
    general knowledge in Australia or any other jurisdiction or that this prior art could reasonably be
 0  expected to be understood and regarded as relevant by a person skilled in the art.
                                                 SUMMARY
              [003b] As used herein, except where the context requires otherwise, the term "comprise"
    and variations of the term, such as "comprising", "comprises" and "comprised", are not intended
 5  to exclude further features, components, integers or steps.
              [003c] According to a first aspect of the invention there is provided a first electronic
    device, comprising: a memory; and one or more processors coupled to the memory, wherein the
    one or more processors are configured to: receive, prior to initiation of a financial transaction in
    which the first electronic device is in proximity to a second electronic device, a manual input to
 '0 select a payment applet for conducting the financial transaction; activate, in response to the
    manual input, the payment applet; in response to activation of the payment applet, request local
    authentication information specific to the first electronic device; receive a status indication that
    the payment applet can conduct the financial transaction without further validation, wherein a
    value of the financial transaction can exceed a threshold value and the status indication is based
25  at least in part on the local authentication information specific to the first electronic device; and
    in response to determining that the first electronic device is within a threshold distance of the
    second electronic device, conduct the financial transaction with the payment applet without
    further validation.
              [003d] According to a second aspect of the invention there is provided a method,
30  comprising: receiving, prior to initiation of a financial transaction in which a first electronic
    device is in proximity to a second electronic device, manual input to select a payment applet for
    conducting the financial transaction; activating, in response to the manual input, the payment
    applet; in response to activation of the payment applet, requesting local authentication
    information specific to the first electronic device: accessing the local authentication information
    1002108159

                                                        2a
    specific to the first electronic device; and comparing the local authentication information
    specific to the first electronic device with an item of stored authentication information; receiving
    a status indication that the payment applet can conduct the financial transaction without further
    validation, wherein a value of the financial transaction can exceed a threshold value and the
 5  status indication is based at least in part on the local authentication information specific to the
    first electronic device; and in response to determining that the first electronic device is within a
    threshold distance of the second electronic device, conducting the financial transaction with the
    payment applet without further validation.
              [003e] According to a third aspect of the invention there is provided a non-transitory
 0  computer-readable storage medium having instructions stored therein, which when executed by a
    processor in a first electronic device cause the processor to perform operations, the operations
    comprising: receiving, prior to initiation of a financial transaction in which the first electronic
    device is in proximity to a second electronic device, manual input to select a payment applet for
    conducting the financial transaction; activating, in response to the manual input, the payment
 5  applet; in response to activation of the payment applet, requesting local authentication
    information specific to the first electronic device; determining that local authentication
    information specific to the first electronic device satisfies a match criterion with an item of
    stored authentication information; receiving a status indication that the payment applet can
    conduct the financial transaction without further validation, wherein a value of the financial
 '0 transaction can exceed a threshold value and the status indication is based at least in part on the
    local authentication information specific to the first electronic device; and in response to
    determining that the first electronic device is within a threshold distance of the second electronic
    device, conducting the financial transaction with the payment applet without further validation.
              [004]  The described embodiments relate to an electronic device. This electronic device
25  includes: a secure element with a payment applet that conducts a financial transaction with
    another electronic device; and a processor with a secure enclave processor that securely
    communicates with the secure element using one or more encryption keys. Moreover, the
    processor compares local authentication information specific to the electronic device with stored
    authentication information using the secure enclave processor, and provides local validation
30  information specific to the electronic device to the secure element via the secure enclave
    processor if a match is obtained between the local authentication information and the stored
    authentication information. This local validation information enables the payment applet to
    conduct the financial transaction exceeding a financial value without further validation.
    1002108159

                                                    2b
           [005]  In some embodiments, the local validation information is provided before an
  onset of the financial transaction.
            [006] Note that the payment applet may execute in an environment (such as an
  operating system) of the secure element.
5           [007] Moreover, the electronic device may include: an antenna; and an interface circuit
  that communicates with the other electronic device, where the financial transaction is conducted
  via wireless communication. For example, the electronic device may communicate with the
  other electronic device via near-field communication, and the financial transaction may be
  initiated by positioning the electronic device proximate to the other electronic device. In some
0 embodiments, the other electronic device includes a point-of-sale terminal that provides the
  financial value. In addition, the financial transaction may be conducted when the electronic
  device is positioned in close proximity to the other electronic device a single time.
            [008] Furthermore, the electronic device may include a biometric sensor, and the local
  authentication information may include a biometric identifier acquired by the biometric sensor.
5           [009] In some embodiments, the local authentication information includes: a passcode
  for unlocking at least some functionality of the electronic device.
            [010] Additionally, the secure element may include an authentication applet that
  communicates the local validation information to the payment applet via a sharable interface
  1002108159

    WO 2015/066028                                                          PCT/US2014/062657
object. This authentication applet may decrypt an encrypted token received from the secure
enclave processor using an encryption key, and the token may include the local validation
indicator.
         [011]  In some embodiments, the electronic device includes memory that stores a
program module that is executed by the processor to perform validation. In particular, the
program module may include instructions for at least some of the aforementioned operations,
such as: receiving the local authentication information; comparing the local authentication
information with the stored authentication information using the secure enclave processor; and
providing the local validation information to the secure element via the secure enclave processor
and the interface circuit if a match is obtained between the local authentication information and
the stored authentication information. Moreover, prior to the instructions for receiving the local
authentication information, the program module may include instructions for: providing an
activation command to the payment applet via the secure enclave processor and/or the interface
circuit, where the payment applet may conduct the financial transaction after receiving the
activation command and based on the local validation information; receiving an activation
response from the payment applet via the interface circuit and/or the secure enclave processor;
and requesting the local authentication information based on the activation response.
Furthermore, the program module may include instructions for conducting the financial
transaction after receiving information indicating that the electronic device is proximate to the
other electronic device.
         [012]  Another embodiment provides a computer-program product for use with the
electronic device. This computer-program product includes instructions for at least some of the
operations performed by the electronic device.
         [013]  Another embodiment provides a method for performing the validation, which may
be performed by the processor in the electronic device. During the method, the electronic device
may perform at least some of the operations described above.
                           BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE FIGURES
         [014]  FIG. 1 is a block diagram illustrating electronic devices wirelessly communicating
during a financial transaction in accordance with an embodiment of the present disclosure.
         [015]  FIG. 2 is a block diagram illustrating one of the electronic devices of FIG. 1 in
accordance with an embodiment of the present disclosure.
         [016]  FIG. 3 is a block diagram illustrating the secure element in the electronic device in
FIG. 2 in accordance with an embodiment of the present disclosure.

    WO 2015/066028                                                           PCT/US2014/062657
         [017]  FIG. 4 is a flow diagram illustrating a method for performing authentication using
one of the electronic devices in FIG. 1 in accordance with an embodiment of the present
disclosure.
         [018]  FIG. 5 is a drawing illustrating communication within one of the electronic
devices in FIG. 1 and between the electronic devices of FIG. 1 in accordance with an
embodiment of the present disclosure.
         [019]  FIG. 6 is a flow diagram illustrating a method for performing validation using one
of the electronic devices in FIG. 1 in accordance with an embodiment of the present disclosure.
         [020]  FIG. 7 is a drawing illustrating communication within one of the electronic
devices in FIG. 1 and between the electronic devices of FIG. 1 in accordance with an
embodiment of the present disclosure.
         [021]  Note that like reference numerals refer to corresponding parts throughout the
drawings. Moreover, multiple instances of the same part are designated by a common prefix
separated from an instance number by a dash.
                                    DETAILED DESCRIPTION
         [022]  In order to validate a user to facilitate conducting a high-valued financial
transaction via wireless communication between an electronic device (such as a smartphone) and
another electronic device (such as a point-of-sale terminal), the electronic device may
authenticate the user prior to the onset of the high-valued financial transaction. In particular, a
secure enclave processor in a processor may provide local validation information that is specific
to the electronic device to a secure element in the electronic device when received local
authentication information that is specific to the electronic device (such as a biometric identifier
of the user) matches stored authentication information. Moreover, an authentication applet in the
secure element may provide the local validation information to an activated payment applet in the
secure element. This may enable the payment applet to conduct the high-valued financial
transaction via wireless communication, such as near-field communication.
         [023]  For example, the financial transaction may be conducted between the electronic
device and the other electronic device by conveying packets that are transmitted and received by
radios in the electronic device and the other electronic device in accordance with a
communication protocol, such as an Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE)
802.11 standard, Bluetooth T M (from the Bluetooth Special Interests Group of Kirkland,
Washington), and/or another type of wireless interface, such as a near-field-communication

    WO 2015/066028                                                           PCT/US2014/062657
standard or specification (from the NFC Forum of Wakefield, Massachusetts). In the discussion
that follows, near-field communication is used as an illustrative example.
         [024]   The communication between the electronic device and the other electronic device
is shown in FIG. 1, which presents a block diagram illustrating electronic devices 110 and 112
wirelessly communicating during a financial transaction. In particular, these electronic devices
may wirelessly communicate during a financial transaction. For example, the financial
transaction may initiate when a user positions electronic device 110 (such as a cellular telephone)
proximate to electronic device 112 (such as a point-of-sale terminal). Note that proximity may
involve physical contact between electronic devices 110 and 112 (such as touching or tapping
electronic device 110 on electronic device 112) or may be contactless (e.g., electronic device 110
may be within the radiation pattern of an antenna in electronic device 112, such as within a few
inches to a foot). This wireless communication may use a radio-frequency-identification
communication protocol. Thus, the wireless communication may or may not involve a
connection being established between electronic devices 110 and 112, and therefore may or may
not involve communication via a wireless network (such as a cellular-telephone network).
         [025]   In response to detecting that electronic device 110 is proximate to electronic
device 112, electronic device 112 may provide information about the financial transaction (such
as items being purchased, an amount due, a financial threshold above which validation is
required in order to conduct the financial transaction, etc.). In addition, electronic device 112
may request payment information (such as credit- or debit-card data or information and, more
generally, information associated with a financial vehicle) from electronic device 110. When this
request is received, electronic device 110 may provide the payment information. This back-and
forth handshaking may continue until the financial transaction is complete.
         [026]   The wireless communication between electronic devices 110 and 112 may involve
the exchange of packets that include the information about the financial transaction, the payment
information, etc. These packets may be included in frames in one or more wireless channels.
         [027]   As described further below with reference to FIG. 2, electronic devices 110 and
112 may include subsystems, such as: a networking subsystem, a memory subsystem, a processor
subsystem and a secure subsystem. In addition, electronic devices 110 and 112 may include
radios 114 in the networking subsystems. More generally, electronic devices 110 and 112 can
include (or can be included within) any electronic devices with the networking subsystems that
enable electronic devices 110 and 112 to wirelessly communicate with another electronic device.
This can comprise transmitting frames on wireless channels to enable electronic devices to make
initial contact, followed by exchanging subsequent data/management frames (such as connect

       WO 2015/066028                                6                         PCT/US2014/062657
   requests to establish a connection), configuring security options (e.g., IPSEC), transmitting and
   receiving packets or frames, etc.
            [028]  As can be seen in FIG. 1, wireless signals 116 (represented by a jagged line) are
   transmitted from a radio 114-1 in electronic device 110. These wireless signals 116 are received
   by radio 114-2 in electronic device 112.
            [029]  In the described embodiments, processing a packet or frame in either of electronic
 5 devices 110 and 112 includes: receiving wireless signals 116 with the packet or frame;
   decoding/extracting the packet or frame from received wireless signals 116 to acquire the packet
   or frame; and processing the packet or frame to determine information contained in the packet or
   frame (such as the information about the financial transaction, the payment information, etc.).
            [030]  Although we describe the environment shown in FIG. 1 as an example, in
 0 alternative embodiments, different numbers or types of electronic devices may be present. For
   example, some embodiments comprise more or fewer electronic devices. As another example, in
   another embodiment, different electronic devices are transmitting and/or receiving packets or
   frames.
            [031]  We now describe embodiments of the electronic device. FIG. 2 presents a block
 5 diagram illustrating electronic device 110. This electronic device includes processing subsystem
   210, memory subsystem 212, networking subsystem 214, authentication subsystem 216 and
   secure subsystem 218. Processing subsystem 210 includes one or more devices configured to
   perform computational operations. For example, processing subsystem 210 can include one or
   more microprocessors, application-specific integrated circuits (ASICs), microcontrollers,
 D programmable-logic devices, and/or one or more digital signal processors (DSPs).
            [032]  In addition, processing subsystem 210 may include a secure enclave processor 220
   (which is a system-on-chip within one or more processors in processing subsystem 210) the
   performs security services for other components in the processing subsystem 210 and that that
   securely communicates with other subsystems in electronic device 110. Secure enclave
25 processor 220 may include one or more processors, a secure boot ROM, one or more security
   peripherals, and/or other components. The security peripherals may be hardware configured to
   assist in the secure services performed by secure enclave processor 220. For example, the
   security peripherals may include: authentication hardware implementing various authentication
   techniques, encryption hardware configured to perform encryption, secure-interface controllers
30 configured to communicate over the secure interface to other components, and/or other
   components. In some embodiments, instructions executable by secure enclave processor 220 are
   stored in a trust zone in memory subsystem 212 that is assigned to secure enclave processor 220,

      WO 2015/066028                                                          PCT/US2014/062657
  and secure enclave processor 220 fetches the instructions from the trust zone for execution.
  Secure enclave processor 220 may be isolated from the rest of processing subsystem 210 except
  for a carefully controlled interface, thus forming a secure enclave for secure enclave processor
  220 and its components. Because the interface to secure enclave processor 220 is carefully
5 controlled, direct access to components within secure enclave processor 220 (such as a processor
  or a secure boot ROM) may be prevented. In some embodiments, secure enclave processor 220
  encrypts and/or decrypts authentication information communicated with authentication
  subsystem 216, and encrypts and/or decrypts information (such as tokens) communicated with
  secure subsystem 218. Furthermore, secure enclave processor 220 may compare authentication
0 information with stored authentication and, if a match is obtained, may provide an encrypted
  token with an authentication-complete indicator to a secure element 230.
           [033]  Memory subsystem 212 includes one or more devices for storing data and/or
  instructions for processing subsystem 210, networking subsystem 214, authentication subsystem
  216 and/or secure subsystem 218. For example, memory subsystem 212 can include dynamic
  random access memory (DRAM), static random access memory (SRAM), and/or other types of
  memory. In some embodiments, instructions for processing subsystem 210 in memory
  subsystem 212 include: one or more program modules or sets of instructions (such as program
  module 246, e.g., a digital wallet, a passbook and/or a mobile payments application), which may
  be executed by processing subsystem 210. Note that the one or more computer programs may
  constitute a computer-program mechanism. Moreover, instructions in the various modules in
  memory subsystem 212 may be implemented in: a high-level procedural language, an object
  oriented programming language, and/or in an assembly or machine language. Furthermore, the
  programming language may be compiled or interpreted, e.g., configurable or configured (which
  may be used interchangeably in this discussion), to be executed by processing subsystem 210.
           [034]  In addition, memory subsystem 212 can include mechanisms for controlling
  access to the memory. In some embodiments, memory subsystem 212 includes a memory
  hierarchy that comprises one or more caches coupled to a memory in electronic device 110. In
  some of these embodiments, one or more of the caches is located in processing subsystem 210.
           [035]  In some embodiments, memory subsystem 212 is coupled to one or more high
  capacity mass-storage devices (not shown). For example, memory subsystem 212 can be
  coupled to a magnetic or optical drive, a solid-state drive, or another type of mass-storage device.
  In these embodiments, memory subsystem 212 can be used by electronic device 110 as fast
  access storage for often-used data, while the mass-storage device is used to store less frequently
  used data.

    WO 2015/066028                                 8                         PCT/US2014/062657
         [036]   Networking subsystem 214 includes one or more devices configured to couple to
and communicate on a wired and/or wireless network (i.e., to perform network operations),
including an interface circuit 222 (such as a near-field-communication circuit) and an antenna
224. For example, networking subsystem 214 can include a Bluetoothm networking system, a
cellular networking system (e.g., a 5G/4G network such as UMTS, LTE, etc.), a universal serial
bus (USB) networking system, a networking system based on the standards described in IEEE
802.11 (e.g., a Wi-Fi networking system), an Ethernet networking system, and/or another
communication system (such as a near-field-communication system).
         [037]   Networking subsystem 214 includes processors, controllers, radios/antennas,
sockets/plugs, and/or other devices used for coupling to, communicating on, and handling data
and events for each supported networking or communication system. Note that mechanisms used
for coupling to, communicating on, and handling data and events on the network for each
network system are sometimes collectively referred to as a 'network interface' for the network
system. Moreover, in some embodiments a 'network' between the electronic devices does not
yet exist. Therefore, electronic device 110 may use the mechanisms in networking subsystem
214 for performing simple wireless communication between electronic devices 110 and 112
(FIG. 1), e.g., transmitting advertising frames and/or near-field communication as described
previously.
         [038]   Authentication subsystem 216 may include one or more processors, controllers
and devices for receiving the authentication information from a user of electronic device 110, and
for securely communicating this authentication information to processor subsystem 210 (such as
by encrypting the authentication information). For example, the authentication information may
include: a biometric identifier acquired by a biometric sensor 226 (such as: a fingerprint sensor, a
retinal sensor, a palm sensor, a signature-identification sensor, etc.); a personal identification
number (PIN) associated with one of payment applets 236 that is received using a user-interface
device 228 (such as a keypad, a touch-sensitive display, optical character recognition and/or
voice recognition); and a passcode for unlocking at least some functionality of electronic device
110 that is received using user-interface device 228.
         [039]   Furthermore, secure subsystem 218 may include a secure element 230, which
includes one or more processors and memory. Note that secure element 230 may be a tamper
resistant component that is used in electronic device 110 to provide the security, confidentiality,
and multiple application environments required to support various business models. Secure
element 230 may exist in one or more of a variety of form factors, such as: a universal integrated

    WO 2015/066028                                                           PCT/US2014/062657
circuit card (UICC), an embedded secure element (on a circuit board in electronic device 110), a
smart secure digital (SD) card, a smart microSD card, etc.
         [040]   Moreover, secure element 230 may include one or more applets or applications
that execute in an environment of secure element 230 (such as in the operating system of secure
element 230, and/or in a Java runtime environment executing on the secure element 230). For
example, the one or more applets may include an authentication applet 232 that: performs
contactless registry services, encrypts/decrypts packets or tokens communicated with secure
enclave processor 220, sets one or more software flags (such as an authentication-complete flag
234) in an operating system of secure element 230, and/or conveys information to one or more
payment applets 236 via sharable interface objects. (While a sharable interface object is used as
an illustrative example in the present discussion, in other embodiments different mechanisms
may be used, such as global services, remote method invocation (RM1), etc.) In addition, the one
or more applets may include one or more payment applets 236 that conduct financial transactions
with electronic device 112 (FIG. 1) when they are activated by program module 246, and based
on the one or more software flags and/or when electronic device 110 is proximate to electronic
device 112 (FIG. 1).
         [041]   Authentication applet 232 may execute in a master or issuer security domain in
secure element 230, while payment applets 236 may execute in supplemental security domains.
Communication between these security domains may be encrypted using different
encryption/decryption keys that are security-domain specific. In electronic device 110, and
during communication between electronic devices 110 and 112 (FIG. 1), encryption/decryption
may involve symmetric and/or asymmetric encryption. In addition, the information
communicated may also include a digital signature that is specific to electronic device 110 and/or
components in electronic device 110.
         [042]   The data stored in secure element 230 is further illustrated in FIG. 3. In particular,
for each of payment applets 236, secure element 230 may store: whether a given payment applet
is active (in response to an activation command); and whether or not authentication-complete
flag 234 is supported by/applies to the given payment applet. In some embodiments there are
one or more payment applets (such as payment applet 236-4) for which authentication-complete
flag 234 does not apply. In some embodiments, secure element 230 stores, for at least for one of
payment applets 236, a PIN that is associated with this payment applet. For example, as shown
in FIG. 3, payment applets 236-1 and 236-2 may store associated PINs.
         [043]   As discussed further below, the user may use passbook 248 (FIG. 2) to select or
activate one or more of payment applets 236 (such as payment applets 236-1 and 236-4). If

    WO 2015/066028                                 10                        PCT/US2014/062657
payment applet 236-1 supports authentication-complete flag 234 (as indicated by enabling or
setting of authentication support in payment applet 236-1), in order for payment applet 236-1 to
conduct a financial transaction with electronic device 112 (FIG. 1), payment applet 236-1 may
need to be activated and authentication-complete flag 234 may need to be set or enabled in secure
element 230 (indicating that the user has been authenticated). In contrast, for payment applet
236-4, which does not support authentication-complete flag 234 (as indicated by disabling of
authentication support in payment applet 236-1), a financial transaction may be conducted when
payment applet 236-4 is active (i.e., operation of payment applet 236-4 is not gated by setting or
enabling of authentication-complete flag 234 in secure element 230). While the present
discussion illustrates the use of a global authentication-complete flag 234, note that in some
embodiments there are separate authentication-complete flags associated with at least some of the
payment applets 236 (i.e., there may be a specific authentication-complete flag for payment
applet 236-1, etc.). Alternatively or additionally, in some embodiments in which a user is
conducting a high-valued financial transaction, authentication applet 232 may communicate local
validation information (L.V.I.) to one or more of payment applets 236 (such as payment applet
236-1) via sharable interface object (S. O.) 310.
        [044]   Within electronic device 110, processing subsystem 210, memory subsystem 212,
networking subsystem 214, authentication subsystem 216 and secure subsystem 218 may be
coupled together using one or more interconnects, such as bus 238. These interconnects may
include an electrical, optical, and/or electro-optical connection that the subsystems can use to
communicate commands and data among one another. Note that different embodiments can
include a different number or configuration of electrical, optical, and/or electro-optical
connections between the subsystems. In some embodiments, electronic device 110 can detect
tampering with secure components (such as secure enclave processor 220, secure element 230
and/or bus 238) and may destroy encryption/decryption keys or authentication information (such
as a stored biometric identifier) if tampering is detected.
        [045]   In some embodiments, the electronic device includes a display subsystem 240 for
displaying information on a display, which may include a display driver and the display, such as
a liquid-crystal display, a multi-touch touchscreen, etc. In addition, in some embodiments the
electronic device includes a secure input/output (I/0) subsystem 242 (such as a keypad) for
receiving the PIN of the user that is associated with one of payment applets 236. As noted
previously, display subsystem 240 and/or secure I/O subsystem 242 may be included in
authentication subsystem 216.

    WO 2015/066028                                11                       PCT/US2014/062657
         [046]   Electronic device 110 can be (or can be included in) any electronic device with at
least one network interface. For example, electronic device 110 can be (or can be included in): a
desktop computer, a laptop computer, a server, a media player (such as an MP3 player), an
appliance, a subnotebook/netbook, a tablet computer, a smartphone, a cellular telephone, a piece
of testing equipment, a network appliance, a set-top box, a personal digital assistant (PDA), a toy,
a controller, a digital signal processor, a game console, a computational engine within an
appliance, a consumer-electronic device, a portable computing device, a personal organizer,
and/or another electronic device.
         [047]   Although specific components are used to describe electronic device 110, in
alternative embodiments, different components and/or subsystems may be present in electronic
device 110. For example, electronic device 110 may include one or more additional processing
subsystems, memory subsystems, networking subsystems, authentication subsystems, secure
subsystems, display subsystems and/or secure I/O subsystems. Additionally, one or more of the
subsystems may not be present in electronic device 110. Moreover, in some embodiments,
electronic device 110 may include one or more additional subsystems that are not shown in FIG.
2. For example, electronic device 110 can include, but is not limited to, a data collection
subsystem, an audio and/or video subsystem, an alarm subsystem, and/or a media processing
subsystem. Also, although separate subsystems are shown in FIG. 2, in some embodiments,
some or all of a given subsystem or component can be integrated into one or more of the other
subsystems or components in electronic device 110. For example, in some embodiments
program module 246 is included in operating system 244. Alternatively or additionally, at least
some of the functionality of program module 246 may be included in passbook 248.
         [048]   Moreover, the circuits and components in electronic device 110 may be
implemented using any combination of analog and/or digital circuitry, including: bipolar, PMOS
and/or NMOS gates or transistors. Furthermore, signals in these embodiments may include
digital signals that have approximately discrete values and/or analog signals that have continuous
values. Additionally, components and circuits may be single-ended or differential, and power
supplies may be unipolar or bipolar.
         [049]   An integrated circuit may implement some or all of the functionality of
networking subsystem 214 (such as a radio) and, more generally, some or all of the functionality
of electronic device 110. Moreover, the integrated circuit may include hardware and/or software
mechanisms that are used for transmitting wireless signals from electronic device 110 and
receiving signals at electronic device 110 from electronic device 112 (FIG. 1). Aside from the
mechanisms herein described, radios are generally known in the art and hence are not described

    WO 2015/066028                                 12                       PCT/US2014/062657
in detail. In general, networking subsystem 214 and/or the integrated circuit can include any
number of radios. Note that the radios in multiple-radio embodiments function in a similar way
to the radios described in single-radio embodiments.
         [050]  In some embodiments, networking subsystem 214 and/or the integrated circuit
include a configuration mechanism (such as one or more hardware and/or software mechanisms)
that configures the radio(s) to transmit and/or receive on a given communication channel (e.g., a
given carrier frequency). For example, in some embodiments, the configuration mechanism can
be used to switch the radio from monitoring and/or transmitting on a given communication
channel to monitoring and/or transmitting on a different communication channel. (Note that
'monitoring' as used herein comprises receiving signals from other electronic devices and
possibly performing one or more processing operations on the received signals, e.g., determining
if the received signal comprises an advertising frame, etc.)
         [051]  While a communication protocol compatible with a near-field communication
standard or specification was used as an illustrative example, the described embodiments of the
communication techniques may be used in a variety of network or communication interfaces.
Furthermore, while some of the operations in the preceding embodiments were implemented in
hardware or software, in general the operations in the preceding embodiments can be
implemented in a wide variety of configurations and architectures. Therefore, some or all of the
operations in the preceding embodiments may be performed in hardware, in software or both.
         [052]  We now describe embodiments of the authentication technique. FIG. 4 presents a
flow diagram illustrating a method 400 for performing authentication, which may be performed
by a processor in an electronic device (such as electronic device 110 in FIGs. 1 and 2). During
operation, the processor may optionally provide an activation command (operation 410) to a
payment applet (such as one of payment applets 236 in FIG. 2) via a secure enclave processor
(such as secure enclave processor 220 in FIG. 2) and/or an interface circuit (such as interface
circuit 222 in FIG. 2), where the payment applet may conduct a financial transaction after
receiving the activation command and based on an authentication-complete indicator. For
example, a user of the electronic device may use a digital wallet/passbook application (such as
passbook 248 in FIG. 2) to select one of the payment applets corresponding to a credit or a debit
card for use in paying for the financial transaction, which may result in the activation command
being provided to the selected payment applet. This selection may be made by activating an icon
displayed on a touch-sensitive display. Alternatively or additionally, the selection may be made
using a top-level button in a user interface of the electronic device. For example, the user may

   WO 2015/066028                                  13                         PCT/US2014/062657
perform a swiping gesture in a top-level user interface in a user-interface hierarchy or tree, and
then may select the payment applet from a set of possible payment applets that are displayed.
         [053]   In response to the activation command, the processor may optionally receive an
activation response (operation 412) from the payment applet via the interface circuit and/or the
secure enclave processor.
         [054]   Then, the processor may optionally request authentication information (operation
414) based on the activation response. For example, the processor may request that a biometric
sensor (such as biometric sensor 226 in FIG. 2) acquire a biometric identifier (such as a
fingerprint) of the user.
         [055]   In response to the request, the processor may receive the authentication
information (operation 416). For example, the authentication information may include the
biometric identifier, which is received from the biometric sensor.
         [056]   Next, the processor may compare the authentication information with stored
authentication information (operation 418) using the secure enclave processor. Note that stored
authentication information may be stored in the processor or the secure enclave processor. In
some embodiments, a PIN associated with the payment applet is be stored with the payment
applet in the secure element (e.g., there may be a pointer to a data structure in the operating
system of the secure element). However, in some other embodiments, the PIN is stored in the
processor after the user provides it the first time to the electronic device.
         [057]   Moreover, the processor may provide the authentication-complete indicator
(operation 420) to a secure element (such as secure element 230 in FIG. 2) via the secure enclave
processor and/or the interface circuit if a match is obtained between the authentication
information and the stored authentication information. This communication may involve secure
(encrypted) communication between the secure enclave processor and the secure element.
         [058]   For a payment applet that supports authentication (which may be set during
installation of the payment applet in the secure element), the authentication-complete indicator
may enable the activated payment applet to conduct the financial transaction. For example, an
authentication applet (such as authentication applet 232 in FIG. 2) in the secure element may set
an authentication-complete flag in an operating system of the secure element based on the
received authentication-complete indicator. Note that in some embodiments the authentication
complete flag is stored in random access memory in the secure element. (Storing the
authentication-complete flag in random-access memory may, in some instances, save power, and
may also have the effect that the authentication-complete flag is cleared when the electronic
device is powered off.) Furthermore, as noted previously, the authentication applet may decrypt

   WO 2015/066028                                 14                       PCT/US2014/062657
an encrypted token received from the secure enclave processor using an encryption key, and the
token may include the authentication-complete indicator.
        [059]   After the payment applet is activated and the authentication-complete flag is set
based on the authentication-complete indicator, the electronic device may conduct the financial
transaction (operation 422) after receiving information indicating that the electronic device is
proximate to another electronic device (such as electronic device 112 in FIG. 1). For example,
the authentication-complete flag may be set to 'true' to enable the activated payment applet if the
authentication-complete indicator indicates that a match was obtained; otherwise, the
authentication-complete flag may be set to 'false' to disable the activated payment applet if this
payment applet supports authentication.
        [060]   While the payment applet may be gated by the activation command and the
authentication-complete indicator or flag, the secure element may include a second payment
applet (such as another one of payment applets 236 in FIG. 2) that conducts a second financial
transaction via the interface circuit without enablement based on the authentication-complete
indicator or flag. For example, the second payment applet may include a mass-transit payment
applet that does not require authentication before it can be used to conduct the second financial
transaction.
        [061]   The handshaking in the aforementioned authentication technique is illustrated in
FIG. 5, which presents a drawing illustrating communication within electronic device 110 (FIG.
1) and between electronic devices 110 and 112 (FIG. 1). Note that the operations illustrated in
FIG. 5 may include challenge and response operations, which are not shown for clarity.
        [062]   During the communication in FIG. 5, in response to an instruction from a user of
electronic device 210, passbook 248 may provide an activation command associated with a
payment applet to an authentication applet 232 in secure element 230. In response,
authentication applet 232 may set an activated flag and may provide an activation response
associated with the payment applet to passbook 248.
        [063]   Then, passbook 248 may provide a request for a biometric identifier (and, more
generally, authentication information) to secure enclave processor 220, which may request that
biometric sensor 226 performs a fingerprint read. After acquiring the fingerprint of the user,
biometric sensor 226 provides the fingerprint to secure enclave processor 220.
        [064]   Next, secure enclave processor 220 compares the fingerprint to a stored
fingerprint of the user. If a match is obtained, secure enclave processor 220 provides an
authentication-complete indicator to authentication applet 232, which may set an authentication

    WO 2015/066028                                 15                        PCT/US2014/062657
flag and may provide a response indicating that the user is authenticated to secure enclave
processor 220 and, in turn, passbook 248.
         [065]   Subsequently, electronic device 212 may request credit-card data associated with
the now activated and authenticated payment applet via near-field communication with interface
circuit 222, which communicates the request to secure element 230. In response, secure element
230 provides the credit-card data to interface circuit 222, which communicates the credit-card
data via near-field communication to electronic device 212.
         [066]   In these ways, the electronic device may facilitate financial transactions between
electronic devices 110 and 112 (FIGs. 1 and 2) by providing end-to-end secure authentication of
a user of electronic device 110 (FIG. 1). In turn, by securely authenticating the user, this
authentication technique may reduce the risk of fraud or theft during the financial transactions,
and may reduce the number of operations the user needs to perform to complete financial
transactions. Thus, the authentication technique may reduce user frustration and may improve
the user experience. Consequently, the authentication technique may increase commercial
activity by making it safer and easier to conduct financial transactions using electronic devices
and wireless communication.
         [067]   We now describe embodiments of the validation technique. Referring back to
FIG. 1, financial transactions exceeding a financial value (such as 675 or $100, or whatever the
case may be) may be defined as 'high-valued financial transactions' (HVT) by a merchant or
vendor. In these cases, a user of electronic device 110 may be required to be authenticated
before the financial transaction can be completed. In existing financial-transaction flows, the
user of electronic device 110 may bring electronic device 110 in proximity to or into contact with
electronic device 112 to initiate the financial transaction. However, if the financial transaction is
a high-valued financial transaction, the user may then be asked to perform authentication (e.g.,
the user may be asked for a PIN). Once the user has been successfully authenticated, the user
may have to bring electronic device 110 in proximity to or into contact with electronic device
112 again in order to conduct the financial transaction. Performing these multiple operations is
cumbersome and can be frustrating for the user, thereby degrading the user's overall experience.
         [068]   Instead, as described below, during a validation technique electronic device 110
may be used to authenticate the user prior to the onset or initiation of the financial transaction.
This may allow the user to subsequently initiate and conduct the financial transaction by bringing
electronic device 110 in proximity to or into contact with electronic device 112 one time.
Moreover, the authentication may be based on so-called 'local authentication information,' which
is specific to electronic device 110 (such as a passcode or a biometric identifier), as opposed to

    WO 2015/066028                                 16                       PCT/US2014/062657
using global authentication information (such as a PIN), which is associated with one of payment
applets 236 (FIG. 2). However, in some embodiments the authentication in the validation
technique is based on a PIN.
        [069]   FIG. 6 presents a flow diagram illustrating a method 600 for performing
validation, which may be performed by a processor in an electronic device (such as electronic
device 110 in FIGs. 1 and 2). During operation, the processor may optionally provide an
activation command (operation 410) to a payment applet (such as one of payment applets 236 in
FIG. 2) via a secure enclave processor (such as secure enclave processor 220 in FIG. 2) and/or an
interface circuit (such as interface circuit 222 in FIG. 2), where the payment applet may conduct
a high-valued financial transaction exceeding a financial value after receiving the activation
command and based on local validation information. For example, a user of the electronic device
may use a digital wallet/passbook application (such as passbook 248 in FIG. 2) to select one of
the payment applets corresponding to a credit or a debit card for use in paying for the financial
transaction, which may result in the activation command being provided to the selected payment
applet. This selection may be made by activating an icon displayed on a touch-sensitive display.
Alternatively or additionally, the selection may be made using a top-level button in a user
interface of the electronic device. For example, the user may perform a swiping gesture in a top
level user interface in a user-interface hierarchy or tree, and then may select the payment applet
from a set of possible payment applets that are displayed.
        [070]   In response to the activation command, the processor may optionally receive an
activation response (operation 412) from the payment applet via the interface circuit and/or the
secure enclave processor.
        [071]   Then, the processor may optionally request local authentication information
(operation 610) specific to the electronic device based on the activation response. For example,
the processor may request that a biometric sensor (such as biometric sensor 226 in FIG. 2)
acquire a biometric identifier (such as a fingerprint) of the user.
        [072]   In response to the request, the processor may receive the local authentication
information (operation 612). For example, the local authentication information may include the
biometric identifier, which is received from the biometric sensor.
        [073]   Next, the processor may compare the local authentication information specific to
the electronic device with stored authentication information (operation 614) using the secure
enclave processor.
        [074]   Moreover, the processor may provide local validation information (operation 616)
specific to the electronic device to a secure element (such as secure element 230 in FIG. 2) via

      WO 2015/066028                                 17                         PCT/US2014/062657
  the secure enclave processor and/or the interface circuit if a match is obtained between the local
  authentication information and the stored authentication information. This communication may
  involve secure (encrypted) communication between the secure enclave processor and the secure
  element.
           [075]  The local validation information may enable the payment applet to conduct the
  financial transaction exceeding a financial value without further validation. For example, an
  authentication applet (such as authentication applet 232 in FIG. 2) in the secure element may
  communicate the local validation information directly to the payment applet using a sharable
5 interface object, which allows objects to be shared within the operating system of the secure
  element. Alternatively, in some embodiments the local validation information is used to set one
  of the software flags. Furthermore, as noted previously, the authentication applet may decrypt an
  encrypted token received from the secure enclave processor using an encryption key, and the
  token may include the local validation information.
           [076]  After the local validation information is received, the electronic device may
  conduct the financial transaction (operation 422) after receiving information indicating that the
  electronic device is proximate to another electronic device (such as electronic device 112 in FIG.
  1). In addition, the financial transaction may be conducted when the electronic device is
  positioned proximate to the other electronic device a single time (as opposed to requiring or
  involving multiple 'taps' in which the electronic device is brought proximate to or in contact with
  the other electronic device).
           [077]  In some embodiments, the other electronic device includes a point-of-sale
  terminal that provides the financial value, which defines a high-valued financial transaction.
  Moreover, in some embodiments the local validation information is provided (operation 616)
  before an onset of the financial transaction. Because the financial value may not be available
  until the onset of the financial transaction, the authentication in the validation technique may be
  performed when the payment applet is activated (operation 410), so that the local validation
  information is available to the payment applet during the financial transaction if the financial
  transaction turns out to be a high-valued financial transaction based on the financial value
  provided by the other electronic device.
           [078]  The handshaking in the aforementioned validation technique is illustrated in FIG.
  7, which presents a drawing illustrating communication within electronic device 110 (FIG. 1) and
  between electronic devices 110 and 112 (FIG. 1). Note that the operations illustrated in FIG. 7
  may include challenge and response operations, which are not shown for clarity. Furthermore,

    WO 2015/066028                                 18                        PCT/US2014/062657
note that the simplified flow illustrating the conducting of the financial transaction shown in FIG.
5 is not shown in FIG. 7 for clarity.
         [079]  During the communication in FIG. 7, in response to an instruction from a user of
electronic device 210, passbook 248 may provide an activation command associated with a
payment applet to an authentication applet 232 in secure element 230. In response,
authentication applet 232 may set an activated flag and may provide an activation response
associated with the payment applet to passbook 248.
         [080]  Then, passbook 248 may provide a request for a biometric identifier (and, more
generally, authentication information) to secure enclave processor 220, which may request that
biometric sensor 226 performs a fingerprint read. After acquiring the fingerprint of the user,
biometric sensor 226 provides the fingerprint to secure enclave processor 220.
         [081]  Next, secure enclave processor 220 compares the fingerprint to a stored
fingerprint of the user. If a match is obtained, secure enclave processor 220 provides an
authentication-complete indicator to authentication applet 232, which may set an authentication
flag.
         [082]  Moreover, authentication applet 232 may request local validation information
from one or more payment applets 238. These payment applets may response with their status to
conduct a financial transaction exceeding a financial value without further validation. This status
may be received by secure enclave processor 220 and, in turn, passbook 248.
         [083]  Subsequently, if the payment applet is activated, the user is authenticated and the
financial transaction is validated, electronic device 110 can conduct the financial transaction with
the other electronic device (such as electronic device 112 in FIG. 1), e.g., via near-field
communication.
         [084]  In these ways, the electronic device may facilitate high-valued financial
transactions between electronic devices 110 and 112 (FIGs. 1 and 2) by providing local
validation of a user of electronic device 110 (FIG. 1). This validation technique may simplify the
flow by reducing the number of operations the user needs to perform to complete the financial
transaction. Thus, the validation technique may reduce user frustration and may improve the user
experience. Consequently, the validation technique may increase commercial activity by making
it safer and easier to conduct financial transactions using electronic devices and wireless
communication.
         [085]  In some embodiments of methods 400 (FIG. 4) and 600 (FIG. 6), there may be
additional or fewer operations. For example, instead of performing operations 410 and 412 in
FIGs. 4 and 6, one of the payment applets may be defined as a default payment applet for use in

     WO 2015/066028                                   19                        PCT/US2014/062657
  financial transactions, so that it is always activated unless the user selects a different payment
  applet. Moreover, the order of the operations may be changed, and/or two or more operations
  may be combined into a single operation.
          [086]   In the preceding description, we refer to 'some embodiments.' Note that 'some
5 embodiments' describes a subset of all of the possible embodiments, but does not always specify
  the same subset of embodiments.
          [087]   The foregoing description is intended to enable any person skilled in the art to
  make and use the disclosure, and is provided in the context of a particular application and its
  requirements. Moreover, the foregoing descriptions of embodiments of the present disclosure
  have been presented for purposes of illustration and description only. They are not intended to
  be exhaustive or to limit the present disclosure to the forms disclosed. Accordingly, many
  modifications and variations will be apparent to practitioners skilled in the art, and the general
  principles defined herein may be applied to other embodiments and applications without
  departing from the spirit and scope of the present disclosure. Additionally, the discussion of the
  preceding embodiments is not intended to limit the present disclosure. Thus, the present
  disclosure is not intended to be limited to the embodiments shown, but is to be accorded the
  widest scope consistent with the principles and features disclosed herein.

                                                    20
                                                CLAIMS
1.       A first electronic device, comprising:
         a memory; and
         one or more processors coupled to the memory, wherein the one or more processors are
configured to:
                 receive, prior to initiation of a financial transaction in which the first electronic
         device is in proximity to a second electronic device, a manual input to select a payment
         applet for conducting the financial transaction;
                 activate, in response to the manual input, the payment applet;
                 in response to activation of the payment applet, request local authentication
         information specific to the first electronic device;
                 receive a status indication that the payment applet can conduct the financial
         transaction without further validation, wherein a value of the financial transaction can
         exceed a threshold value and the status indication is based at least in part on the local
         authentication information specific to the first electronic device; and
                 in response to determining that the first electronic device is within a threshold
         distance of the second electronic device, conduct the financial transaction with the
         payment applet without further validation.
2.       The first electronic device of claim 1, further comprising:
a secure enclave processor coupled to the memory, wherein the secure enclave processor is
configured to:
         access the local authentication information specific to the first electronic device;
         compare the local authentication information specific to the first electronic device with
an item of stored authentication information;
         determine that the comparison of the local authentication information and the item of
stored authentication information satisfies a match criterion; and
         provide local validation information specific to the first electronic device to a secure
element based on the comparison satisfying the match criterion.
3.       The first electronic device of claim 2, further comprising:
1002108955

                                                    21
         an interface circuit coupled to the secure enclave processor and the secure element,
wherein the secure element is configured to receive the local validation information specific to
the first electronic device via the interface circuit.
4.       The first electronic device of claim 3, wherein the secure element comprises:
the payment applet; and
an authentication applet, wherein the authentication applet is configured to:
         receive the local validation information specific to the first electronic device; and
         communicate the local validation information specific to the first electronic device to the
payment applet to enable the payment applet to conduct the financial transaction exceeding the
threshold value without further validation.
5.       The first electronic device of claim 4, wherein to communicate, the authentication applet
is configured to:
         utilize a sharable interface object (SIO).
6.       The first electronic device of claim 2, wherein to provide the local validation information
specific to the first electronic device, the secure enclave processor is configured to:
         generate a token comprising the local validation information specific to the first
electronic device;
         encrypt the token; and
         transmit the encrypted token to the secure element.
7.       The first electronic device of claim 1, further comprising:
         a secure enclave processor coupled to the memory, wherein the secure enclave processor
is configured to:
                  receive a request for authentication of a user associated with the manual input;
                  based at least on the request for authentication of the user, request the local
         authentication information specific to the first electronic device;
                  receive the local authentication information specific to the first electronic device;
                  compare the local authentication information specific to the first electronic device
         with an item of stored authentication information;
                  determine that the comparison of the local authentication information with the
         item of stored authentication information satisfies a match criterion; and
1002108955

                                                   22
                 responsive to the comparison satisfying the match criterion, providing an
         authentication-complete indicator to an authentication applet.
8.       The first electronic device of claim 7, further comprising:
         a secure element comprising the payment applet and the authentication applet, wherein
the authentication applet is configured to:
                 receive the authentication-complete indicator;
                 set a global authentication flag associated with the secure element; and
                 communicate the local validation information specific to the first electronic
         device to the payment applet, enabling the payment applet to conduct the financial
         transaction exceeding the threshold value without further validation.
9.       The first electronic device of claim 8, wherein the authentication applet is configured to:
         request local validation information from the payment applet; and
         receive a response to the request for local validation information, the response
comprising the status indication of the payment applet to conduct a financial transaction
exceeding the threshold value without further validation.
10.      The first electronic device of claim 9, wherein the secure enclave processor is further
configured to:
         receive the status indication; and
         transmit, to the one or more processors, the status indication that a user associated with
the manual input is authenticated and that the payment applet can be used to conduct a financial
transaction exceeding the threshold value without further validation.
 11.       The first electronic device of claim 3, wherein the first electronic device comprises:
         an antenna coupled to the interface circuit, wherein the interface circuit is configured to
communicate with the second electronic device, wherein the financial transaction is conducted
via wireless communication.
 12.       The first electronic device of claim 2, wherein the first electronic device comprises:
           a biometric sensor coupled to the secure enclave processor, wherein the local
 authentication information specific to the first electronic device includes a biometric identifier
 acquired by the biometric sensor.
1002108955

                                                    23
 13.       The first electronic device of claim 12, wherein the biometric sensor comprises at least
one of: a fingerprint sensor, a retinal sensor, a palm sensor, or a signature-identification sensor.
14.      The first electronic device of claim 12, further comprising:
         a user-interface device coupled to the biometric sensor comprising at least one of: a
keypad, a touch-sensitive display, an optical character recognition device, or a voice recognition
device.
15.      The first electronic device of claim 14, wherein the local authentication information
specific to the first electronic device comprises:
         a personal identification number (PIN) associated with the payment applet, wherein the
PIN is obtained via the user-interface device; or
         a passcode for unlocking at least a function of the first electronic device, wherein the
passcode is obtained via the user-interface device.
16.      A method, comprising:
                 receiving, prior to initiation of a financial transaction in which a first electronic
         device is in proximity to a second electronic device, manual input to select a payment
         applet for conducting the financial transaction;
                 activating, in response to the manual input, the payment applet;
                 in response to activation of the payment applet, requesting local authentication
         information specific to the first electronic device:
                 accessing the local authentication information specific to the first electronic
         device; and
                 comparing the local authentication information specific to the first electronic
         device with an item of stored authentication information;
                 receiving a status indication that the payment applet can conduct the financial
         transaction without further validation, wherein a value of the financial transaction can
         exceed a threshold value and the status indication is based at least in part on the local
         authentication information specific to the first electronic device; and
                 in response to determining that the first electronic device is within a threshold
         distance of the second electronic device, conducting the financial transaction with the
         payment applet without further validation.
1002108955

                                                     24
17.       The method of claim 16, further comprising:
          determining that the comparison of the local authentication information specific to the
first electronic device and the item of stored authentication information satisfies a match
criterion; and
          providing local validation information specific to the first electronic device to a secure
element based at least on the comparison satisfying the match criterion.
 18.        The method of claim 17, wherein the local authentication information specific to the
 first electronic device includes a biometric identifier.
 19.        The method of claim 18, wherein the biometric identifier is associated with at least one
 of: a fingerprint sensor, a retinal sensor, a palm sensor, or a signature-identification sensor.
20.       A non-transitory computer-readable storage medium having instructions stored therein,
which when executed by a processor in a first electronic device cause the processor to perform
operations, the operations comprising:
                  receiving, prior to initiation of a financial transaction in which the first electronic
          device is in proximity to a second electronic device, manual input to select a payment
          applet for conducting the financial transaction;
                  activating, in response to the manual input, the payment applet;
                  in response to activation of the payment applet, requesting local authentication
          information specific to the first electronic device;
                  determining that local authentication information specific to the first electronic
          device satisfies a match criterion with an item of stored authentication information;
                  receiving a status indication that the payment applet can conduct the financial
          transaction without further validation, wherein a value of the financial transaction can
          exceed a threshold value and the status indication is based at least in part on the local
          authentication information specific to the first electronic device; and
                  in response to determining that the first electronic device is within a threshold
          distance of the second electronic device, conducting the financial transaction with the
          payment applet without further validation.
1002108955

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
