                                          ABSTRACT
            A downhole apparatus comprising a tubular body; first and second ports in a
   wall of the body, and a fluid pressure-responsive valve arrangement having a locked
 5 first configuration associated with a first pressure in which the first port is open and
   the second port is closed, an unlocked second configuration associated with a
   second pressure higher than the first pressure in which the first port is open and the
   second port is closed, and a third configuration associated with a third pressure lower
   than the second pressure in which the second port is open and the first port is
10 closed.

                                                 1
                                  DOWNHOLE APPARATUS
   CROSS-REFERENCE
           The contents of each of Australian Patent Application No. 2013229230
 5 (Publication Nos. AU 2013229230 Al and AU 2013229230 B2), International Patent
   Application No. PCT/GB2013/050562 (Publication No. WO 2013/132254 A2) and
   United Kingdom Patent Application No. 1203986.3 are incorporated herein by way of
   reference.
10 FIELD
           This disclosure relates to downhole apparatus and in particular, but not
   exclusively, to flow control apparatus such as sand screens and associated
   apparatus and methods.
15 BACKGROUND
           WO 2009/001069 and WO 2009/001073, the disclosures of which are
   incorporated herein in their entirety, describe arrangements for supporting borehole
   walls and for applying predetermined stresses to borehole walls. Inflatable chambers
   are mounted on a base pipe such that inflation of the chambers increases the
20 diameter of the assembly. The chambers may support a sand control element.
           Any discussion of documents, acts, materials, devices, articles or the like
   which has been included in the present specification is not to be taken as an
   admission that any or all of these matters form part of the prior art base or were
   common general knowledge in the field relevant to the present disclosure as it
25 existed before the priority date of each claim of this application.
           Throughout this specification the word "comprise", or variations such as
   "comprises" or "comprising", will be understood to imply the inclusion of a stated
   element, integer or step, or group of elements, integers or steps, but not the
   exclusion of any other element, integer or step, or group of elements, integers or
30 steps.
   SUMMARY
           Disclosed herein is a downhole apparatus comprising:
           a tubular body;
35         first and second ports in a wall of the body, and
           a fluid pressure-responsive valve arrangement having a locked first

                                                  2
   configuration associated with a first pressure in which the first port is open and the
   second port is closed, an unlocked second configuration associated with a second
   pressure higher than the first pressure in which the first port is open and the second
   port is closed, and a third configuration associated with a third pressure lower than
 5 the second pressure in which the second port is open and the first port is closed,
            wherein the first port provides fluid communication with a first tool or device
   that comprises a fluid-deformable device.
            Also disclosed herein is a downhole apparatus comprising:
            a tubular body;
10          first and second ports in a wall of the body,
            a fluid pressure-responsive valve arrangement having a locked first
   configuration associated with a first pressure in which the first port is open and the
   second port is closed, an unlocked second configuration associated with a second
   pressure higher than the first pressure in which the first port is open and the second
15 port is closed, and a third configuration associated with a third pressure lower than
   the second pressure in which the second port is open and the first port is closed, and
            fluid deformable chambers mounted on a base pipe, which chambers are
   adapted to be activated by fluid passing through the first port.
            Also disclosed herein is a flow control method comprising:
20          applying a first pressure to a fluid pressure-responsive valve arrangement
   controlling the configuration of first and second ports in a wall of a tubular body,
   whereby the valve arrangement maintains a locked first configuration in which the
   first port is open and the second port is closed;
            applying a second pressure higher than the first pressure whereby the valve
25 arrangement assumes an unlocked second configuration in which the first port is
   open and the second port is closed;
            applying a third pressure lower than the second pressure whereby the valve
   arrangement assumes a third configuration in which the second port is open; and
            communicating fluid through the first port to a first tool or device that
30 comprises a fluid-deformable tool or device.
            Also disclosed herein is a flow control method comprising:
            applying a first pressure to a fluid pressure-responsive valve arrangement
   controlling the configuration of first and second ports in a wall of a tubular body,
   whereby the valve arrangement maintains a locked first configuration in which the
35 first port is open and the second port is closed;
            applying a second pressure higher than the first pressure whereby the valve

                                                  3
   arrangement assumes an unlocked second configuration in which the first port is
   open and the second port is closed;
            applying a third pressure lower than the second pressure whereby the valve
   arrangement assumes a third configuration in which the second port is open; and
 5          activating fluid deformable chambers mounted on a base pipe with fluid
   passing through the first port.
            Also disclosed herein is a flow control method comprising:
            applying a first pressure to a fluid pressure-responsive valve arrangement
   controlling the configuration of first and second ports in a wall of a tubular body,
10 whereby the valve arrangement maintains a locked first configuration in which the
   first port is open and the second port is closed;
            applying a second pressure higher than the first pressure whereby the valve
   arrangement assumes an unlocked second configuration in which the first port is
   open and the second port is closed;
15          applying a third pressure lower than the second pressure whereby the valve
   arrangement assumes a third configuration in which the second port is open; and
            providing one or more valve arrangements on a tubular body forming part of a
   completion including one or more sand screens, each sand screen associated with a
   respective valve arrangement, the first ports communicating with fluid deformable
20 chambers mounted on a base pipe, and the chambers supporting a filter member.
            Also disclosed herein is a downhole apparatus comprising a fluid pressure
   deformable chamber for location on a base member, the chamber having a body
   having a first portion of a first length, width and depth, a second portion having at
   least one of a second depth and width less than that of the first portion, and a
25 transition portion coupling the first and second portions and configured to provide for
   a progression between deformation characteristics of the first and second portions.
            Also disclosed herein is a downhole apparatus comprising:
            a tubular body;
            first and second ports in a wall of the body, and
30          a fluid pressure-responsive valve arrangement having a locked first
   configuration associated with a first pressure in which the first port is open and the
   second port is closed, an unlocked second configuration associated with a second
   pressure higher than the first pressure in which the first port is open and the second
   port is closed, and a third configuration associated with a third pressure lower than
35 the second pressure in which the second port is open.
            Also disclosed herein is a flow control method comprising:

                                                  4
            applying a first pressure to a fluid pressure-responsive valve arrangement
   controlling the configuration of first and second ports in a wall of a tubular body,
   whereby the valve arrangement maintains a locked first configuration in which the
   first port is open and the second port is closed;
 5          applying a second pressure higher than the first pressure whereby the valve
   arrangement assumes an unlocked second configuration in which the first port is
   open and the second port is closed, and
            applying a third pressure lower than the second pressure whereby the valve
   arrangement assumes a third configuration in which the second port is open.
10          The valve arrangement configuration may change in any appropriate
   sequence, for example the first configuration being followed by the second
   configuration which is then followed by the third configuration. Alternatively, the third
   configuration may be followed by the second configuration which is then followed by
   the first configuration.
15          The locked first configuration may be an initial configuration for the valve
   arrangement. Thus, for example, the apparatus may be run into a bore in the first
   configuration.
            The first port may be closed in the third configuration.
            The first port may include a check valve which closes the first port in the
20 absence of a positive pressure differential across the valve.
            The valve arrangement may include a valve member which closes the second
   port in the first and second configurations. The valve member may close the first port
   in the third configuration. The valve member may take any appropriate form, and
   may be a sleeve. The valve member may be biased towards a position to open the
25 second port.
            The valve arrangement may be locked in the first configuration by a lock
   arrangement which may comprise a releasable retaining member, such as a shear
   pin. The retaining member may retain a valve member in a first configuration relative
   to the body.
30          The valve arrangement may include more than one lock arrangement, for
   example elements of the valve arrangement may be locked in position when the
   valve arrangement is in the third configuration.
            The valve arrangement may define a differential piston. One piston face may
   be exposed to an internal pipe pressure and a second piston face may be exposed to
35 an external pressure, for example annulus pressure. Accordingly, a positive
   pressure differential between the pipe and the annulus will result in a fluid pressure

                                                   5
   force acting on the piston.
             The piston may be accommodated in a chamber with a port providing fluid
   communication with an external pressure. The port may dimensioned or otherwise
   configured to induce a pressure drop in fluid passing through the port.
 5           A pressure relief arrangement may be associated with the piston, whereby if
   the external pressure exceeds the internal pipe pressure, that is a negative pressure
   differential between the pipe and the annulus, the external pressure may be relieved,
   thus avoiding inadvertent or reverse activation of the piston. The external pressure
   may be relieved via a check valve or bleed valve which allows higher external
10 pressure to bleed across from the external side of the piston to the internal side of
   the piston. The valve may be dimensioned or otherwise configured to induce a
   pressure drop in fluid passing through the valve. The form of the valve and the
   number of valves provided may be selected as appropriate. In one embodiment a
   port extends through the piston and accommodates a ball urged into sealing
15 engagement with a seat by a spring. Of course, those of skill in the art will recognise
   that such a pressure relief arrangement may have utility in other forms of downhole
   apparatus, particularly those that utilise differential pistons, in accommodating
   reverse pressure differentials which might otherwise have an adverse effect on the
   operation of a pressure actuated tool.
20           The first port may provide fluid communication with a first tool or device, for
   example a fluid-deformable device, such as a chamber mounted on the body. The
   fluid-deformable device may support a sand screen, such that the apparatus may be
   utilised to facilitate fluid pressure activation of a sand screen. In one embodiment the
   first port provides communication between the interior of the body and a chamber
25 which extends axially along the exterior of the body.
             The second port may provide fluid communication between the interior of the
   tubular body and the exterior of the tubular body and be configured to, for example,
   permit flow of production fluid from a formation into the body, or to permit the
   passage of fluid, such as injection, fracking or treatment fluid, from the body and into
30 the formation. In some embodiments the second port may be utilised for passage of
   a fluid from the tubular body into the formation, and at some other time for passage
   of a fluid from the formation into the tubular body. The second port may be
   configured with an inflow control device (ICD) and thus the apparatus may be utilised
   to facilitate fluid pressure activation of an ICD.
35           In one embodiment the second port comprises an ICD in the form of an insert,
   for example an insert of erosion resistant material such as tungsten carbide. A disc

                                               6
   or other member may be provided with an insert and the disc may be adapted to be
   located in a second port. The form of the insert may be selected to provide a
   predetermined pressure drop in fluid flowing through the port. In some discs a blank
   insert may be provided, preventing flow through the second ports.
 5          One or more valve arrangements may be incorporated in a completion and
   provided one or more second ports provided with ICDs. Thus, based on surveys or
   other well profiling information, an operator may configure the ICDs to provide a
   desired flow profile from the surrounding formations and into the well.
            The apparatus may include two or more valve arrangements and associated
10 first and second ports. Each valve arrangement may be associated with a respective
   tool or device, for example each apparatus may be associated with a respective bore
   wall-supporting apparatus, packer, hanger, or sand screen. The valve arrangements
   and associated tools or devices may be axially spaced along the tubular body.
   Alternatively, or in addition, valve arrangements and associated tools or devices may
15 be circumferentially spaced around the tubular body. Thus, multiple valve
   arrangements may be activated simultaneously.
            The valve arrangement may be arranged in a fourth configuration with the
   second port closed. The valve arrangement may be adapted for mechanical
   actuation to the fourth configuration. Thus, for example, in the fourth configuration
20 the apparatus may prevent flow of production or other fluid from a formation into a
   completion, or prevent flow of fluid from a completion or other body into a formation.
            The apparatus may comprise fluid deformable members or chambers
   mounted on a base pipe, which members may be adapted to be activated by fluid
   passing through the first port. The activated members may provide support for filter
25 media, and may be utilised to locate filter media, such as a sand screen, in contact
   with a bore wall, or to increase the diameter described by filter media. The activated
   members may be adapted to provide support for a bore wall, or to load or compress
   material between the members and a bore wall, with or without provision of filter
   media, thus providing the beneficial effects as described in W02009/001069 and
30 W02009/001073. A check valve or the like may be associated with the first port, for
   retaining fluid in the fluid deformable members. Alternatively, or in addition, relief
   valves or the like may be associated with the fluid deformable members, the valves
   being configured to release pressure from the members to avoid over-inflation.
   Furthermore, the apparatus may be configured to permit deflation or de-activation of
35 the members, for example by provision of appropriate valves, thus facilitating
   removal or retrieval of an apparatus from a bore, although in most cases it is likely

                                                7
   that the apparatus will be intended for permanent installation.
            The present disclosure also relates to provision of a tubular body forming part
   of a completion including one or more sand screens, each screen incorporating an
   apparatus in accordance with the present disclosure. The first ports may
 5 communicate with fluid deformable members or chambers mounted on a base pipe,
   the chambers supporting a filter member. The screens may be run into a drilled hole
   to the desired depth with the valve arrangement in the locked configuration. A first
   pressure is then applied to the inside of the completion and fluid may pass through
   the first ports to simultaneously and at least partially inflate the chambers, increasing
10 the diameter of the screens to locate the filter members against the surrounding bore
   wall or casing. The pressure applied is then increased to a higher second pressure
   and the valve arrangement assumes the unlocked second configuration. This may
   be achieved by provision of a valve member in the form of a sleeve and which
   incorporates a differential piston, the valve member being initially locked in position
15 by a shear pin. The higher second pressure may shear the pin and move the sleeve
   a small distance, against the action of a spring, maintaining the first port open and
   the second port closed. The pressure may then be further increased to fully inflate
   and activate the chambers; the pressure necessary to cause the pins to shear may
   be less than the pressure necessary to fully activate the chambers. Maintaining the
20 pressure at this elevated level for a period of time ensures that all the pins shear and
   all of the screens are fully activated against the borehole. The activated screens may
   thus be compliant with the wall of the wellbore, that is the screens will tend to follow
   and maintain contact with the wellbore surface, even if the surface is non-cylindrical
   or otherwise irregular. Pressure is then bled off from the completion, check valves
25 associated with the first ports locking the elevated pressure inside the chambers and
   maintaining to sleeves fully activated. As pressure continues to be bled off, the
   sleeves are moved by the springs to assume the third configuration in which the first
   ports are closed and the second ports are open. An additional barrier may be
   provided to close the first ports, for example a shuttle valve may be provided
30 between the first ports and the valve sleeve and may be positioned to close the first
   ports. Production fluid may then flow from the formation, through the filter member
   and the second ports and into the completion, and then to surface. In other
   embodiments the apparatus may be used to control the flow of fluid in the opposite
   direction, for example the flow of injection, fracking or treatment fluid into the
35 formation.
            Thus the screens may be fully activated by modulation of the pressure

                                                  8
   applied to the inside of the completion. If desired, the entire completion or a section
   of completion may be pressurised to simultaneously activate all of the screens or a
   number of screens provided in the pressurised section, which in the great majority of
   cases will be achievable without provision of specialist equipment or expertise.
 5 Furthermore, no intervention is required, increasing the speed and reliability of the
   operation. Alternatively, screens may be activated individually or in groups, for
   example by utilising an appropriate tool or device to isolate individual screens or
   groups of screens. This allows different activation pressures to be utilised for
   selected screens and for selected locations in the well.
10         The completion will typically be intended to be a permanent installation.
   However, the completion, or indeed any other embodiment, may be configured to be
   retrievable or removable, typically by permitting deflation and deactivation of the
   chambers.
           Where the apparatus comprises fluid deformable members or chambers
15 mounted on a base pipe which have been activated by fluid passing through the first
   port, the activated apparatus may provide a structure with improved crush and
   collapse resistance.
           Also disclosed herein is downhole apparatus in the form of a fluid pressure
   deformable chamber for location on a base member, the chamber having a body
20 having a first portion of a first length, width and depth, a second portion having at
   least one of a second depth and width less than the first portion, and a transition
   portion coupling the first and second portions and configured to provide for a
   progression between deformation characteristics of the first and second portions.
           The second portion may be utilised to locate or secure the chamber on the
25 base member.
           The second portion may form an end of the chamber, and a second portion
   and an associated transition portion may be provided at one or both ends of the
   chamber. On filling the chamber with fluid the depth of the chamber may increase.
   The pressure of fluid utilised to deform the chamber may be selected based on a
30 number of criteria. For example, a pressure of between 1.4 and 5.5 MPa (200 and
   800 psi) may be used to fully activate the chamber, but of course other ranges of
   pressure may be effective in other embodiments.
           A plurality of chambers may be provided around a base member. The
   chambers may extend axially of the base member and be arranged side-by-side to
35 provide substantially complete circumferential coverage of the base member. The
   chambers may support a member or device, for example a filter member, such as a

                                                9
   sand screen.
           The chamber may have a wall formed to match the profile of an associated
   base member. Typically, the chamber will have an arcuate inner wall where the
   chamber is intended to be mounted externally of a cylindrical base member. As the
 5 chamber is filled with fluid an outer wall moves radially outwards, increasing the
   depth of the chamber and the diameter of the assembly.        The chamber may have
   an arcuate outer wall intended to match the surface of a surrounding bore wall.
           The chamber may include an activation port to provide for passage of
   chamber-deforming fluid. The port may be provided at any appropriate location on
10 the chamber. The port may be provided in the second portion, at an end of the
   chamber, which may form a spigot. The activation port may be located on a main
   axis of the chamber. The associated spigot may have, initially at least, the same
   depth as the body.
           The first width and depth may be substantially constant along the length of
15 the body.
           A fluid port may be provided at the other end of the chamber. Alternatively,
   the other end of the chamber may be closed or sealed and may serve primarily to
   locate the end of the chamber relative to the base member. A port at the chamber
   end may be open to, for example, facilitate filling of the chamber during fabrication or
20 assembly to remove air from the chamber, to accommodate a pressure relief valve,
   or to provide for communication with another chamber, for example a chamber on an
   adjacent device, which device may be a sand screen.
            Edges of the transition portion may feature an inner radius and an outer
   radius. The inner radius reduces stresses in the transition portion as the chamber is
25 deformed. The outer radius also reduces stresses in the transition portion as the
   chamber is deformed. Additionally, the outer radius reduces length and width
   shrinkage of the chamber as the chamber is deformed. The outer radius also
   reduces the potential for damaging a filter member extending over the chamber and
   tends to provide a smoother profile in the deformed chamber.
30         The transition portion may be configured to cooperate with a chamber block
   defining a fluid passage. The chamber block may be configured to maintain its form
   while the chamber is deformed. The block may define a female port configured to
   receive the transition portion. The transition portion may be bonded to the block, for
   example by welding, to provide a pressure-tight seal between the chamber and the
35 block. The block may be configured to be secured to a base member. The chamber
   may be bonded to the block prior to the block being secured to the base member.

                                                10
   Accordingly, the transition portion and block may be, for example, welded around the
   complete periphery to ensure pressure integrity before the assembly is mounted on
   the base member. The block may include an inlet port in an inner wall. The inlet port
   may include a check valve. The inlet port may be configured to communicate with
 5 the first port described earlier.
             There is also disclosed a method of connecting a fluid pressure-deformable
   chamber having an activation port at an end of the chamber to a base member, the
   method comprising forming a sealed connection between the activation port and a
   chamber block and then mounting the chamber block on the base member.
10           The block may take any appropriate form and may be relatively rigid with
   respect to the chamber such that the block substantially maintains its form when the
   chamber is deformed. The block may include a valve.
             The activation port may be provided in a transition portion as described
   above.
15           There is also disclosed a support layer for location between a downhole filter
   member and an associated base member, the support layer comprising a sheet of
   material, the sheet being apertured and formed to provide a fluid path.
             The support layer may function as a drainage layer.
             The support layer may be formed of a curved sheet.
20           The support layer may feature surface protrusions to space the sheet from an
   adjacent member. Alternatively, or in addition, the layer may have an undulating
   form, for example the layer may be corrugated or otherwise define peaks and
   troughs, or the layer may be formed of overlapping members, or multiple layers may
   be provided and adjacent layers overlapped.
25           The support layer may be utilised in a sand screen as used in the production
   of hydrocarbons from subterranean formations.
             The support layer may comprise a plurality of members.
             The support layer may be formed of any suitable material. The layer may
   comprise a solid sheet, for example solid steel plate, although other materials may be
30 utilised.
             The apertures may take any appropriate form, pattern, shape or size. For
   example, rows of openings may be punched or pressed from the sheet. In use the
   apertures may allow passage of oil or gas.
             The apertures may be of a consistent form over the support layer.
35 Alternatively, the form of the apertures may be varied to control the passage of fluid
   through the layer, and in particular to equalise flow through the layer over the length

                                                  11
   of the layer. For example, the number or dimensions of apertures may increase or
   decrease along the length of the layer depending of the distance between the
   apertures and a valve or flow port in the base support. Typically, apertures spaced
   further from the flow port will provide a larger flow area to compensate for the
 5 pressure drop that will occur as the fluid flows from the apertures to the flow port.
             If the support layer is provided with protrusions these may take any
   appropriate form, pattern, shape, size or depth. The protrusions may lift or space the
   support layer from the base member, allowing oil or gas to flow beneath between the
   layer and the base member. The protrusions may be arranged to allow fluid to flow
10 one or both of axially and circumferentially.
            The protrusions may be formed by embossing a pattern in the sheet of
   material to create protrusions on the inner surface.
            The support layer may be formed to match the profile or form of one or both
   of the filter member and base member. The support layer may be provided in
15 combination with fluid pressure-deformable base members or activation chambers,
   such as described in relation to the other aspects disclosed herein, and a support
   layer member may be configured to provide a bridge between adjacent activation
   chambers, to ensure support for the filter member, particularly as the chambers are
   activated and gaps open up between the chambers, and to provide radial support for
20 the surrounding well bore wall. The support layer may also assist in maintaining the
   circular form of the screen as the screen is activated. In other aspects the activation
   chambers may have surfaces formed to provide a fluid pathway along the surface of
   the support member.
            Also disclosed herein is a retainer for a sand screen filter member comprising
25 a clamp member configurable to clamp at least an end portion of a filter member
   against a clamp body configured for securing to a base member.
            There is also disclosed a method of retaining a filter member on a sand
   screen, the method comprising:
            locating the filter member around a base member; and
30          clamping at least end portions of the filter member against the base member.
            The filter member may be in the form of a weave. The filter member may be
   wrapped around the base member.
            The clamp member may comprise an axially translatable retainer having a
   clamping surface configured to cooperate with an opposing clamping surface on the
35 clamp body, whereby a portion of the filter member may be secured between the
   surfaces. The clamping surfaces may define tapers.

                                                  12
            The clamp member may be a clamp ring and may be threaded or otherwise
   securable to the clamp body. Where a threaded clamp ring is provided, relative
   rotation of the clamp ring and clamp body may induce axial movement of the clamp
   ring on the clamp body.
 5          The clamp body may be integral with the base member. Alternatively, the
   clamp body may be separate from the base member, and may float at least axially
   relative to the base member. This arrangement facilitates in accommodating axial
   shrinkage of the filter member if the filter member is to be subject to expansion.
            The clamp body may be recessed beyond the clamp body clamping surface
10 to accommodate an end of the filter member. If necessary or desirable, the filter
   member may be spot welded in the recess during assembly to retain the filter
   member in place before the clamp member is fixed to the clamp body.
            The disclosure also relates to a sand screen incorporating the retainer, and to
   a method of assembling a sand screen.
15          In one embodiment, filter media, which may be in the form of a weave, is
   wrapped around a base member having a clamp body secured at each end. The
   weave may be held in place, to facilitate assembly, using ratchet straps, spot welds,
   or the like. Spot welds may be provided along the length of the weave and the
   weave may be welded to the base member or to a support or drainage layer between
20 the base member and the filter member. The ends of the weave are tightly wrapped
   around recesses in the clamp bodies. Clamp or retainer rings are then screwed onto
   the clamp bodies. The weave is trapped between tapers on the clamp ring and the
   clamp body, thus securing the weave in place around the base member.
            The present disclosure provides a method of restricting flow between zones in
25 a well, the method comprising: providing a layer of deformable material
   circumferentially around and axially along a filter element of a sand screen; activating
   the sand screen such that the deformable material contacts and seals against a wall
   of the well, wherein the sand screen is activated using fluid deformable chambers
   mounted on a base pipe; and supporting the filter element over a gap formed
30 between adjacent fluid deformable chambers with a support layer that is disposed
   between the chambers and the filter element and that bridges the gap, the support
   layer relatively rigid with respect to the filter element.
            The deformable material may be provided on a portion of the sand screen, for
   example at one or both ends of a sand screen.
35          The deformable material may be arranged on the sand screen such that fluid
   may pass beneath the material, for example through or beneath the sand screen.

                                                13
           The wall of the well may be lined, for example with casing or liner, or may be
   unlined.
           The deformable material may be an elastomer, and may be a swellable
   material activated by water, oil, or some other material.
 5         There is also a method of increasing the strength of a base member
   comprising mounting chambers on the base member and inflating the chambers.
           The member may take any appropriate form, and may be a hollow or solid
   member, for example a pipe or a beam.
           The chambers may be arranged around a surface of the member and may
10 extend axially of the member. The chambers may be provided on an outer surface of
   the base member, or on an inner surface of the base member.
           The member may be restrained or contained within a bore or other
   surrounding wall. An external point load applied to a chamber, and which tends to
   deform the chamber wall, will tend to increase the internal fluid pressure in the
15 chamber and result in the load being spread along the length of the chamber.
   Further, when a load is applied on one side of the member, the chambers on the
   other side of the member may be compressed between the member and the bore
   wall and radially distribute the reaction force over the opposite surface of the
   member. For tubular members, such as downhole structures, the provision of the
20 chambers will thus enhance the collapse resistance of the members.
           A method of creating a crush-resistant structure in accordance with an aspect
   of the present disclosure comprises:
           locating a base pipe in a bore; and
           inflating chambers located between the base pipe and the bore with fluid,
25 thereby providing a structure having an elevated crush resistance.
           The structure may be compliant with the bore, that is an outer surface of the
   structure substantially follows the bore wall.
           The structure may comprise a sand screen.
           The structure may be located in a swelling formation or a formation with geo
30 mechanical movement.
           There is also disclosed a shroud for a sand control apparatus, the shroud
   having elongate slots and the shroud being configured to be located on a sand
   control apparatus with the slots inclined to the longitudinal axis of the apparatus.
           The shroud may be provided in combination with a sand control apparatus,
35 for example a sand screen. The shroud may be positioned on the exterior of the
   apparatus, adjacent a sand control element. The sand control apparatus may be

                                                 14
   radially expandable, that is at least a portion of the apparatus may be activated to
   define a larger diameter.
            The slots may be inclined at any appropriate angle, for example at 15
   degrees to the longitudinal axis.
 5          The inclination of the slots tends to increase the force or pressure required to
   extend or activate the shroud. Thus, the shroud may be utilised to control the
   activation of the apparatus. For example, where the activation is obtained by inflating
   pressure deformable chambers beneath the sand control element, the shroud may
   serve to control the pressure necessary to initiate activation. The inclination of the
10 slots may also serve to reduce the friction between the shroud and the sand control
   element as the sand screen activates.
            There is also disclosed a method of controlling the activation of a sand screen
   having a shroud surrounding a sand control element, the method comprising
   selecting the activation characteristics of the shroud such that the shroud controls the
15 radial force at which activation of the sand screen is initiated.
            This aspect of the disclosure has particular utility in sand screens which utilise
   fluid pressure to activate the screens. By selecting the shroud characteristics an
   operator may select the pressure which initiates activation. Thus, increases in
   pressure induced during other operations not intended to activate the screen lower
20 pressures will not induce premature activation of the screen.
            The various aspects of the disclosure as described above may be combined
   with one another as appropriate. Also, the various features described with reference
   to a particular aspect may be combined, individually or collectively, with the other
   aspects as appropriate.
25
   BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
            Embodiments will now be described, by way of example, with reference to the
   accompanying drawings, in which:
            Figure 1 is a schematic illustration of part of a completion including three sand
30 screens embodying principles disclosed herein;
            Figure 2 is a part cut-away view of part of one of the screens of Figure 1;
            Figure 3 corresponds to Figure 2 but shows the screen in an activated
   configuration;
            Figures 4, 5, 6 and 7 are sectional views of a valve arrangement of one of the
35 screens of Figure 1, showing the valve arrangement in first, second, third and fourth
   configurations, respectively;

                                                 15
             Figures 4a and 4b are views of an ICD insert assembly;
             Figure 4c is a schematic of a check valve;
             Figures 8 and 9 are views of ends of activation chambers of one of the sand
   screens of Figure 1;
 5           Figures 10 and 11 are views of activation chambers and chamber blocks of
   one of the sand screens of Figure 1;
             Figures 12a and 12b are views of elements of a drainage layer of one of the
   sand screens of Figure 1;
             Figure 13 is a sectional view of a clamp arrangement of one of the sand
10 screens of Figure 1;
             Figure 14 is a plan view of a sheet to be formed into a sand screen shroud;
             Figure 15 is an enlarged view of a portion of the sheet of Figure 14;
             Figures 16 and 17 are views of a sand screen embodying principles disclosed
   herein; and
15           Figures 18, 19, 20 and 21 are schematic sectional views of structures
   embodying principles disclosed herein.
   DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
             Reference is first made to Figure 1 of the drawings, which is a schematic
20 illustration of part of a well bore completion including three sand screens 10
   embodying principles disclosed herein. Of course the completion will include many
   other elements and devices not shown in the drawing, such as a shoe on the leading
   end of the completion, packers for zonal isolation, hangers, valves and the like.
   Typically a completion will incorporate more than three screens, the number of
25 screens being selected as appropriate.
             As will be described in further detail below, the screens 10 are run into the
   hole in a retracted or smaller diameter configuration and subsequently activated to
   assume a larger diameter configuration, in which the outer surface of the screens
   engages the bore wall, whether this be formed by casing, liner, or an unlined bore
30 section.
             Figure 2 of the drawings illustrates a part cutaway view of part of one of the
   screens of Figure 1, showing the screen 10 in an initial configuration. The screen 10
   comprises a base pipe 12 providing mounting for six activation chambers 14 which
   extend axially along the outer surface of the base pipe 12. The chambers 14 are
35 arranged side-by-side around the base pipe 12 and, as will be described, may be
   inflated or deformed by filling the chambers 14 with high pressure fluid such that the

                                               16
   chambers 14 assume an activated configuration as illustrated in Figure 3 of the
   drawings.
           A drainage layer is located externally of the chambers 14, the layer
   comprising six strips 18 of apertured steel sheet. Like the chambers 14, the strips 18
 5 are arranged side-by-side and extend axially along the screen 10, but are
   circumferentially offset relative to the chambers 14, as illustrated in the drawings,
   such that when the chambers 14 are extended the strips 18 bridge the gaps 20
   formed between the chambers 14. Further detail relating to the drainage layer will
   be provided below.
10         The drainage layer supports a filter media in the form of a weave 22, the
   weave form being selected such that the aperture size of the weave 22 does not vary
   as the weave 22 is extended to accommodate the deformation of the activation
   chambers 14. The weave 22 may comprise a single length of material wrapped
   around the drainage layer with the longitudinal edges overlapping, or may comprise
15 two or more lengths or strips of material. A protective shroud 24 is provided over the
   weave 22.
           Reference is now also made to Figures 4, 5, 6 and 7 of the drawings, which
   are sectional view of a valve arrangement 30 of one of the screens 10 of Figure 1,
   showing the valve arrangement in first, second, third and fourth configurations
20 respectively. In use, a valve arrangement 30 will be provided at the lower end of
   each screen 10 between the lower end of the activation chambers 14 and a stub
   acme connection 32 and a premium connection (not shown) at the end of the screen
   10. It will be noted that Figures 4, 5, 6 and 7 omit the drainage layer 16, weave 22
   and shroud 24.
25         The valve arrangement 30 comprises a body 34 comprising a number of inter
   connected cylindrical portions 34a, 34b which also form the lower end of the screen
   body. As will be described, the valve arrangement 30 also includes a number of
   generally cylindrical internal parts which are configurable to control passage of fluid
   through first and second ports 36, 38 in the body portion 34a. The first ports 36
30 provide communication with the activation chambers 14 via respective chamber
   blocks 40 which each incorporate a check valve 42 including a ball 44. The ball 44
   may be formed of any suitable material, for example PTFE, ceramic, steel, rubber,
   brass or aluminium. The second ports 38 also extend through the body portion 34a
   and, when open, allow production fluid to flow from the exterior of the screen 10 into
35 the base pipe 12, and subsequently to surface.
           The second ports 38 may be dimensioned or otherwise configured to provide

                                                17
   a predetermined pressure drop in production fluid flowing into the base pipe. Thus,
   over the length of the completion the operator may configure the second ports to
   provide a desired flow profile taking account of local formation conditions. In one
   embodiment each second port 38 is provided with an inflow control device (ICD)
 5 assembly in the form of a disc 39 for location in the port 38, the disc having a central
   flow port accommodating an appropriately sized tungsten carbide insert 41, as
   illustrated in Figures 4a and 4b of the drawings (the skilled person will note that the
   ports 38 as illustrated in the figures are non-circular, and thus ICDs in the form of
   discs 39 are intended for use in combination with an alternative embodiment
10 featuring circular second ports). The insert 41 is selected to provide the desired flow
   area or pressure drop and is pressed into the disc 39, which is then screwed into the
   port 38 from the outside of the body portion 34a, the disc outer face being provided
   with a screw thread configured to engage with a corresponding screw thread
   provided on the port 38. The disc 39 is also provided with an O-ring seal. If
15 appropriate, some ports 38 of a valve arrangement 30 may be fitted with a disc
   including a blank insert, preventing flow through selected ports.
            The valve arrangement 30 includes a primary valve sleeve 46. A central part
   of the sleeve 46 defines production ports 48 which, when the valve arrangement 30
   is in the third configuration, are aligned with the second ports 38. In the first
20 configuration, as illustrated in Figure 4, the production ports 48 are offset from the
   second ports 38, and isolated from the exterior of the valve sleeve 46 by seals 50,
   51.    A further seal 52 also serves to isolate the second port 38. The lower part of the
   valve sleeve 46 defines an internal profile 55 for engaging an intervention tool, as will
   be described. The upper end of the sleeve 46 includes collet fingers 49 which have
25 outer profiles for engaging with locating recesses 45 formed in the inner diameter of
   the body 34. The collet fingers 49 also define profiles 43 which allow for mechanical
   engagement with an intervention tool if required, as will be described.
            A secondary valve or shuttle sleeve 47 is located externally of the primary
   valve sleeve 46 and carries external seals 54 for isolation of the first port 36 when the
30 valve arrangement is in the third and fourth configurations, as illustrated in Figures 6
   and 7. The sleeves 46, 47 are initially fixed together by shear pins 59. In the first
   and second configurations the shuttle sleeve 47 is located downwards and clear of
   the first ports 36, and activation ports 56 in the primary valve sleeve 46, which may
   include a filter member 57, are aligned with the first ports 36, providing for fluid
35 communication between the interior of the screen 10 and the activation chambers 14.
            A valve actuating sleeve 58 is also located within the body 34 and features an

                                                18
   external shoulder 60 which provides a sealing contact with the body portion 34b.
   Shear pins 62 initially lock the sleeve 58 relative to the sleeve body against the action
   of a compression spring 63 contained in a chamber 67 between the sleeve 58 and
   the body portion 34b. While the upper face of the shoulder 60 is exposed to internal
 5 or pipe pressure, the lower face of the shoulder 60 is exposed to external or annulus
   pressure via a port 61 in the sleeve body, such that the shoulder 60 acts as a
   differential piston.
            To prevent accidental unlocking of the sleeve 58 due to reverse differential
   pressure, for example an rise in annulus pressure relative to internal pressure, check
10 valves 65 (one shown) extend through the shoulder 60, allowing fluid to bleed from
   the chamber between the sleeve 58 and the body portion 34b and into the valve, thus
   relieving any excess reverse pressure. A schematic of a check valve 65 is shown in
   Figure 4c of the drawings. Accordingly if, for example, during installation or retrieval
   of the completion, fluid is being circulated down through the completion and up the
15 surrounding annulus, there may be circumstances in which the annulus pressure
   (P1) rises above the internal pressure (P3). In this situation, fluid from the annulus
   may bleed through the port 61 and into the spring chamber 67, undergoing a
   pressure drop to a lower pressure (P2) in the process. This reduces the pressure
   differential across the shoulder 60. However, if sufficient, the remaining pressure
20 differential between the chamber 67 and the interior of the completion may then lift
   the check valve ball 69 off its seat 71, against the action of a spring 73, allowing the
   fluid to bleed from the chamber 67 and into the completion. Thus, an operator may
   employ relatively high circulation rates, safe in the knowledge that a higher pressure
   in the annulus will not result in premature shearing of the pins 62, and premature
25 release of the sleeves 58, 46, 47. The number and configuration of check valves 65
   may be selected as appropriate to the completion configuration and anticipated
   operating conditions.
            An upper end of the sleeve 58 extends externally of the lower end of the
   primary valve sleeve 46, and abuts the lower end of the shuttle sleeve 47.
30          As noted above, in the first configuration the activation ports 56 are aligned
   with the first ports 36, while the second ports 38 are closed due to the misalignment
   between the ports 38 and the production ports 48; the screens 10 are run in hole in
   this configuration. A positive pressure differential between the interior of the screens
   10 and the chambers 14 will open the check valve 42 and allow fluid to flow from the
35 interior of the completion into the activation chambers 14, via the chamber blocks 40.
   Thus, in use, when the completion is pressurised up to a first pressure, the chambers

                                                 19
   14 will undergo an initial degree of inflation or deformation with the valve
   arrangement 30 in this first configuration. The pipe pressure may be held at this first
   pressure for a period to provide an initial degree of inflation of the chambers 14. Of
   course, rather than pressurising the entire completion, an operator may run a wash
 5 pipe or the like inside the completion to communicate pressure from surface to the
   screens 10.
            After a predetermined interval the internal pipe pressure may be increased to
   a higher second level to bring the differential pressure experienced across the
   shoulder 60 to a level sufficient level to shear the pins 62, as illustrated in Figure 5.
10 This pressure differential causes the check valve balls 69 to seat, ensuring the check
   valves 65 remain closed. This results in a small downward movement of the sleeve
   58, against the action of the spring 63, until the lower end of the sleeve 58 engages a
   stop 64. However, this movement is not transferred to the primary valve sleeve 46,
   or the shuttle sleeve 47. Thus, the first port 36 remains open while the higher
15 second pressure fully inflates and activates the chambers 14.
            After a further predetermined interval, following which the operator may be
   confident that all of the screens 10 have been fully activated, pressure may be bled
   off from the completion, allowing the spring 63 to move the sleeve 58 upwards
   relative to the body 34, as illustrated in Figure 6. After an initial degree of
20 movement, this movement of the sleeve 58 is also translated to the valve sleeves 46,
   47, moving the sleeves 46, 47 upwards to close the first ports 36 and open the
   second ports 38, in particular aligning the ports 38 with the production ports 48 in the
   sleeve 46. This requires the collet fingers 49 to be dislodged from the lower recess
   45a and moved to engage with the upper recess 45b. Furthermore, alignment of the
25 ports 38, 48 is ensured by the provision of timing pins 31, which prevent relative
   rotation of the body portion 34a and sleeves 46, 47.
            In this third valve configuration high pressure fluid is locked in the inflated
   chambers 14 by the check valves 42 and the shuttle sleeve 47, while production fluid
   may flow into the screen through the aligned ports 38, 48.
30          If any of the valve sleeves 46, 47 do not move to the third configuration when
   pressure is bled off, and intervention tool may be employed to engage the collet
   profile 43 and mechanically shift the sleeves 46, 47 upwards. In addition, if at any
   point in the future an operator wishes to shut off production from a particular screen
   10, a mechanical intervention tool may be run into the bore to engage the sleeve
35 profile 55. The primary valve sleeve 46 may thus be pushed downwards, dislodging
   the collet fingers 49 from the upper recess 45b to the lower recess 45a, such that the

                                                  20
   ports 38, 48 are moved out of alignment, as illustrated in Figure 7 of the drawings.
   However, a split ring 66 located in a recess 68 in the body portion 34a engages with
   an external shoulder 70 on the upper end of the actuating sleeve 58 preventing
   downward movement of the sleeve 58 and also locking the shuttle sleeve 47 in the
 5 port-closing position; if sufficient force is applied by the intervention tool the
   connecting shear pins 59 between the sleeves 46, 47 will fail, allowing relative
   movement of the sleeves 46, 47, such that the first port 36 remains isolated.
             Reference is now made to figures 8, 9, 10 and 11 of the drawings, which
   illustrate details of the activation chambers 14 and the chamber blocks 40. In
10 particular, Figure 8 shows the lower end of an activation chamber 14, while Figure 9
   shows the upper end of an activation chamber 14. The activation chambers 14 are
   elongate and have a width W and depth D. In one embodiment, the chambers 14
   are formed by folding a long narrow sheet of metal in a series of steps to provide the
   desire profile, the meeting edges then being joined by a suitable method, for example
15 being laser or high frequency welded.        However, both ends of the chambers are cut
   away to provide a narrow tab or spigot 72. The cut metal edges which define the
   lower spigot 72a are welded to leave an opening for passage of fluid, while the upper
   spigot 72b is welded closed. Thus, the opening 74 on the lower spigot 72a is of a
   width w, less than the chamber width W. Also, the edges defining the transition from
20 the full width chamber to the spigots 72 are radiused, in particular being formed with
   an outer radius 76 and an inner radius 78. On inflation or deformation of the
   chambers 14, the outer radius 76 reduces the stresses at the end of the chambers
   14, reduces the shrinkage in length during activation, reduces the potential for
   damaging the weave 22, and smoothes out the end profile of the deformed chamber
25 14. The inner radius 78 reduces stresses in the transition area during activation.
            The open spigot 72a allows for fluid communication between the activation
   chamber 14 and the interior of the completion, via the chamber block 40 which
   includes an opening 80 in an end face to receive the spigot 72a. The spigot 72a and
   chamber block 40 are assembled while separated from the screen body, and the
30 components are then bonded together around the complete perimeter of the opening
   80 to provide pressure integrity, the bond 82 being perhaps most clearly visible in
   Figure 11 of the drawings. The bond 82 may be provided by any suitable method,
   typically welding, for example TIG, laser or robotic welding.
            Within the chamber block 40 there is a drilled hole 84 (Figure 7) which
35 extends to intercept a radial recess 85 which accommodates the check valve 42.
            The closed spigot 72b is restrained by an alternative clamp body (not shown).

                                                 21
   The upper end of the chambers 14 may be fixed to the respective upper clamp body
   or be mounted to permit a degree of axial movement, for example to allow for axial
   shrinkage of the chamber 14 on inflation. In other embodiments the spigot 72b may
   be provided with a relief valve to protect against over-pressurisation of the chambers
 5 14, or may provide fluid communication with other activating chambers in the same
   or an adjacent assembly.
           The chamber blocks 40 are retained in place on the screen body 34a by
   clamps 88 (Figure 7) which are bolted to the body 34a and engage with shoulders 90
   formed on the edges of the blocks 40.
10         As noted above, drainage strips 18 are mounted externally of the mounted
   chambers 14, and parts of a drainage layer strip 18 are illustrated in Figure 12a and
   12b of the drawings.    In use, the drainage layer formed by the strips 18 lifts the
   weave 22 from the activating chambers 14, maximising inflow through and around
   the screen. The strips 18 are of solid steel plate provided with perforations 92 which
15 allow oil or gas to flow through weave 22 and into the screen 10. The strips are
   produced by punching and embossing flat plate to provide the required pattern,
   before roll forming to the required radius and then cutting to length. The perforations
   92 may be any appropriate shape or size, and in the illustrated embodiment each
   strip 18 includes four axial rows of round holes. As noted above, the strips 18 are
20 also embossed to form protrusions on the inner surface of the strips 18, to lift the
   drainage layer up from the activation chambers 14 to permit flow under the layer and
   between the activating chambers 14 and the strips 18. Again, the embosses 94 may
   be any appropriate shape, size or depth, and in the illustrated embodiment the
   embosses 94 are formed as four axial rows, axially and circumferentially offset from
25 the perforations 92. The strips 18 are formed with an inner radius to match the outer
   radius of the activation chambers 14 to ensure that the outer diameter of the screen
   10 is minimised and that the drainage layer formed by the strips 18 provides optimum
   support across the activation chambers 14.
           The ends of the strips 18 are tapered and are secured on the screen 10 by
30 welding to shoulders 91 (Figure 7) provided on the chamber block clamps 88. The
   strip ends are also slotted to facilitate deformation; the strip ends must bend and
   extend to accommodate the activation of the chambers 14.
            Following activation and deformation of the chambers 14 the drainage layer
   strips 18 provide support to the weave 22 as the gaps 20 (Figure 3) between the
35 activation chambers 14 increases. Also, the radiused strips 18 assist in maintaining
   a substantially circular shape during the activation process. In the absence of such

                                               22
   support, the screen would assume a hexagonal shape due to the weave 22 and the
   outer shroud 24 forming straight lines between each activation chamber outer
   diameter.
            Reference is now also made to Figure 13 of the drawings, which illustrates a
 5 clamp arrangement for use in securing the weave 22 in place on the screen 10. The
   Figure shows the body portion 34a which serves as a clamp body and a retainer ring
   96 which may be threaded to the body 34a. The clamp body 34a defines a recess
   100 upwards of the thread 97, and a tapering surface 98 leading down into the
   recess 100. The ring 96 includes a corresponding tapering surface 102 on its upper
10 end, such that when the ring 96 is tightened on the body 34a the surfaces 98, 102
   come together and clamp a portion of the weave 22 therebetween.
            During the fabrication process, the weave 22 is wrapped around the screen
   body, over the drainage layer formed by the strips 18, with the upper and lower ends
   of the weave 22 positioned in the recesses 100 (a similar clamping arrangement is
15 provided at the upper end of the screen).
            The weave 22 may be held in place using rachet straps, spot welding or the
   like, and if desired the weave 22 may be spot welded in the recess 100. Spot welds
   may also be provided along the length of the screen 10, to secure the weave 22 to
   the strips 18. The clamping ring 96 is then screwed on to the clamp body 34a and
20 the taper surfaces 98, 102 clamp and secure the weave 22. The shroud 24 is then
   located over the clamped weave 22.
            Reference is now made to Figures 14 and 15 of the drawings, which illustrate
   details of the apertured sheet or plate 23 utilised to form the shroud 24.
   Conventional shrouds are formed with elongate longitudinally extending overlapping
25 slots, and on expansion of the sand screen the slots open to accommodate the
   increase in the circumference described by the shroud; the shroud is intended to
   provide a degree of protection for the weave but is intended to be readily extendable
   such that the expansion of the weave is not restricted. The screen 10 may be
   provided with such a conventional shroud. However, the shroud 24 of the illustrated
30 embodiment features 30 mm long slots 25 which are inclined at 15 degrees along the
   plate length. This results in a shroud 24 which will require greater pressure to
   expand, thus providing greater control of the activation pressure required to initiate
   expansion of the screen 10. The angled slots 25 also result in less friction between
   the outer surface of the weave 22 and the inner surface of the shroud 24 as the slots
35 25 open and the weave 22 slides underneath the shroud 24.
            For most applications it is envisaged that the shroud 24 will form the outer

                                                 23
   surface of the screen. However, in some embodiments a portion of the screen may
   be covered with an elastomer, as illustrated in Figures 16 and 17 of the drawings.           In
   this embodiment a neoprene elastomer coating 104 has been wrapped around a
   portion of the screen outside diameter. Once such a screen has been activated, the
 5 rubber coating 104 will be pushed out against the surrounding casing or formation
   and will provide a restriction or baffle to the flow of production fluids between zones;
   the coating 104 may provide a low pressure seal or a restriction to flow of fluid past
   the screen, but may permit fluid to flow beneath the coating 104 and into or along the
   screen. Of course in other embodiments different qualities of material may be
10 utilised to provide a higher pressure seal.
             Reference is now made to Figures 18, 19, 20 and 21 of the drawings which
   are schematic sectional view of structures in accordance with various further
   embodiments of the principles disclosed herein. In the screens described above, and
   as illustrated in Figure 18, activation chambers 14 are arranged around a circular
15 base pipe 12. Testing has demonstrated that the provision of inflated activation
   chambers 14 on the outside diameter of the base pipe 12 contained within a bore
   creates a structure with significantly enhanced crush resistance when compared to a
   structure consisting essentially of a base pipe 12 alone.      It is believed this is due, at
   least in part, to the cushioning effect of the activation chambers 14, compression of
20 an inflated activation chamber 14 by an externally applied mechanical load leading to
   an increase in internal fluid pressure which results in the load being spread along the
   length of the chamber 14 and radially around the screen. Also, when such a
   structure is subject to a high load on one side of the structure the pressure increases
   in the chambers on the other side of the structure: for example, if a high load is
25 applied in the region of the chamber 14(6), an elevated pressure is measured in the
   opposite chamber 14(3), and to a lesser extent in adjacent chambers 14(4) and
    14(2). Testing has further demonstrated that the chambers 14 tend to absorb at least
   initial deformation of the structure, such that the internal diameter of the base pipe 12
   remains substantially unobstructed. Also, the deformed chambers 14 tend to recover,
30 typically by around 50%, when the applied force is reduced.
            Testing also identified that the sand integrity of sand screens incorporating
   inflated chambers 14 as described herein when subject to crush or pinch loads was
   maintained at very high loading, as was the integrity of the chambers 14. In one test
   the pressure in the chambers 14 increased from an initial 1000 psi to almost 1200
35 psi, corresponding to a 1 inch deformation of a sand screen with an activated outer
   diameter of 8 % inches. Thus, a sand screen in accordance with an embodiment of

                                                  24
   the presently disclosed principles will withstand significant crush loading, for example
   from a swelling or partially collapsing formation, and will accommodate a degree of
   deformation without adversely affecting the base pipe 12. Of course this effect is not
   limited to sand screen, and inflatable chambers may be mounted on an impervious
 5 section of a completion intended to intersect a non-producing problem formation.
   Accordingly, an operator may be able to utilise significantly lighter and less expensive
   base pipe 12, and may be able to drill and then maintain bores through difficult
   formations, for example swelling formations which would otherwise be expected to
   crush bore lining tubing located in the bores.
10          Figures 19, 20 and 21 illustrate that this principle may be employed to
   increase the collapse and crush resistance of other tubular forms, such as the
   rectangular and triangular base pipes 106, 108 of Figures 19 and 20, and also in
   providing protection against internal loads as illustrated in Figure 21.
            It will be apparent to those of skill in the art that the above described
15 embodiments are merely exemplary of the principles disclosed herein, and that
   various modifications and improvements may be made to these embodiments without
   departing from the scope of the present disclosure.

                                                 25
            CLAIMS
   1.       Downhole apparatus comprising:
            a tubular body;
 5          first and second ports in a wall of the body, and
            a fluid pressure-responsive valve arrangement having a locked first
   configuration associated with a first pressure in which the first port is open and the
   second port is closed, an unlocked second configuration associated with a second
   pressure higher than the first pressure in which the first port is open and the second
10 port is closed, and a third configuration associated with a third pressure lower than
   the second pressure in which the second port is open and the first port is closed,
            wherein the first port provides fluid communication with a first tool or device
   that comprises a fluid-deformable device.
15 2.       The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the fluid-deformable device comprises a
   chamber mounted on the body.
   3.       The apparatus of claim 1 or claim 2, wherein the fluid-deformable device
   supports a sand screen, such that the apparatus may be utilised to facilitate fluid
20 pressure activation of a sand screen.
   4.       Downhole apparatus comprising:
            a tubular body;
            first and second ports in a wall of the body,
25          a fluid pressure-responsive valve arrangement having a locked first
   configuration associated with a first pressure in which the first port is open and the
   second port is closed, an unlocked second configuration associated with a second
   pressure higher than the first pressure in which the first port is open and the second
   port is closed, and a third configuration associated with a third pressure lower than
30 the second pressure in which the second port is open and the first port is closed, and
            fluid deformable chambers mounted on a base pipe, which chambers are
   adapted to be activated by fluid passing through the first port.
   5.       The apparatus of claim 4, wherein the activated chambers are arranged to
35 provide support for filter media.

                                                 26
   6.       The apparatus of claim 5, wherein the activated members are arranged to
   locate filter media in contact with a bore wall.
   7.       The apparatus of claim 4 or 5, wherein the activated members are arranged
 5 to increase the diameter described by filter media.
   8.       The apparatus of any one of claims 4 to 7, wherein the activated members
   are adapted to provide support for a bore wall.
10 9.       The apparatus of any one of claims 4 to 8, wherein the activated members
   are adapted to load or compress material between the members and a bore wall.
   10.      A flow control method comprising:
            applying a first pressure to a fluid pressure-responsive valve arrangement
15 controlling the configuration of first and second ports in a wall of a tubular body,
   whereby the valve arrangement maintains a locked first configuration in which the
   first port is open and the second port is closed;
            applying a second pressure higher than the first pressure whereby the valve
   arrangement assumes an unlocked second configuration in which the first port is
20 open and the second port is closed;
            applying a third pressure lower than the second pressure whereby the valve
   arrangement assumes a third configuration in which the second port is open; and
            communicating fluid through the first port to a first tool or device that
   comprises a fluid-deformable tool or device.
25
   11.      The method of claim 10, comprising supporting a sand control element on the
   fluid-deformable device and communicating fluid to the device to activate the
   element.
30 12.      A flow control method comprising:
            applying a first pressure to a fluid pressure-responsive valve arrangement
   controlling the configuration of first and second ports in a wall of a tubular body,
   whereby the valve arrangement maintains a locked first configuration in which the
   first port is open and the second port is closed;
35          applying a second pressure higher than the first pressure whereby the valve
   arrangement assumes an unlocked second configuration in which the first port is
   open and the second port is closed;

                                                 27
            applying a third pressure lower than the second pressure whereby the valve
   arrangement assumes a third configuration in which the second port is open; and
            activating fluid deformable chambers mounted on a base pipe with fluid
   passing through the first port.
 5
   13.      The method of claim 12, comprising supporting filter media on the activated
   chambers.
   14.      The method of claim 13, comprising activating the chambers to locate the
10 filter media adjacent a bore wall.
   15.      The method of claim 13 or 14, comprising activating the chambers to increase
   the diameter described by the filter media.
15 16.      The method of any one of claims 12 to 15, comprising activating the
   chambers to provide support for a bore wall.
   17.      The method of any one of claims 12 to 16, comprising activating the
   chambers to load or compress material between the members and a bore wall.
20
   18.      A flow control method comprising:
            applying a first pressure to a fluid pressure-responsive valve arrangement
   controlling the configuration of first and second ports in a wall of a tubular body,
   whereby the valve arrangement maintains a locked first configuration in which the
25 first port is open and the second port is closed;
            applying a second pressure higher than the first pressure whereby the valve
   arrangement assumes an unlocked second configuration in which the first port is
   open and the second port is closed;
            applying a third pressure lower than the second pressure whereby the valve
30 arrangement assumes a third configuration in which the second port is open; and
            providing one or more valve arrangements on a tubular body forming part of a
   completion including one or more sand screens, each sand screen associated with a
   respective valve arrangement, the first ports communicating with fluid deformable
   chambers mounted on a base pipe, and the chambers supporting a filter member.
35
   19.      The method of claim 18, comprising running the screens into a drilled hole to
   a desired depth with the valve arrangement in the first locked configuration.

                                               28
   20.      The method of claim 19, comprising applying a first pressure to the inside of
   the completion and passing fluid through the first ports to simultaneously and at least
   partially inflate the chambers, increasing the diameter of the screens to locate the
 5 filter members against a surrounding bore wall or casing.
   21.      The method of claim 20, comprising increasing the pressure applied to a
   higher second pressure and such that the valve arrangement assumes the second
   configuration.
10
   22.      The method of claim 21, comprising providing a valve member in the form of
   a sleeve and which incorporates a differential piston, the valve member being initially
   locked in position by a shear pin, the higher second pressure shearing the pin and
   moving the sleeve a small distance, against the action of a spring, maintaining the
15 first port open and the second port closed.
   23.      The method of claim 22, comprising further increasing the pressure to fully
   inflate and activate the chambers.
20 24.      The method of claim 23, wherein the pressure necessary to shear the pins is
   50 - 70% less than the pressure necessary to fully activate the chambers.
   25.      The method of claim 23 or 24, comprising maintaining the pressure at the
   further increased pressure for a period of time sufficient to ensure that all the pins
25 shear and all of the screens are fully activated against a surrounding borehole or
   casing wall.
   26.      The method of any one of claims 23 to 25, comprising bleeding pressure off
   from the completion, whereby check valves associated with the first ports lock the
30 elevated pressure inside the chambers and maintain the to sleeves fully activated.
   27.      The method of claim 26, comprising bleeding further pressure, moving the
   sleeves to the third configuration to close the first ports and open the second ports.
35 28.      The method of claim 27, further comprising locating an additional barrier to
   close the first ports.

                                                29
   29.      The method of claim 28, wherein the additional barrier is a shuttle valve
   provided between the first ports and the valve sleeve, and positioning the shuttle
   valve to close the first ports.
 5 30.      The method of any one of claims 27 to 29, comprising flowing production fluid
   from the formation, through the second ports and into the completion, and then to
   surface, or flowing fluid from the completion, through the second ports and into the
   formation.
10 31.      The method of any one of claims 23 to 30, comprising pressurising the
   completion to simultaneously activate a plurality of screens provided in the
   pressurised section.
   32.      The method of any one of claims 23 to 31, comprising activating at least one
15 selected screen by isolating and pressurising said at least one selected screen.
   33.      Downhole apparatus comprising a fluid pressure deformable chamber for
   location on a base member, the chamber having a body having a first portion of a
   first length, width and depth, a second portion having at least one of a second depth
20 and width less than that of the first portion, and a transition portion coupling the first
   and second portions and configured to provide for a progression between
   deformation characteristics of the first and second portions.
   34.      The apparatus of claim 33, wherein the second portion is adapted to locate or
25 secure the chamber on the base member.
   35.      The apparatus of claim 33 or 34, wherein the second portion forms an end of
   the chamber.
30 36.      The apparatus of any one of claims 33 to 35, wherein the chamber is
   configured such that on filling the chamber with fluid the depth of the chamber
   increases.
   37.      The apparatus of any one of claims 33 to 36, wherein a plurality of chambers
35 is provided around a base member.

                                                30
   38.      The apparatus of claim 37, wherein the chambers extend axially of the base
   member and are arranged side-by-side to provide substantially complete
   circumferential coverage of the base member.
 5 39.      The apparatus of any one of claims 33 to 38, wherein the chamber supports a
   member or device.
   40.      The apparatus of claim 39, wherein the chamber supports a filter member.
10 41.      The apparatus of any one of claims 33 to 40, wherein the chamber has a wall
   formed to match the profile of an associated base member.
   42.      The apparatus of any one of claims 33 to 41, wherein the chamber has an
   arcuate inner wall where the chamber is intended to be mounted externally of a
15 cylindrical base member.
   43.      The apparatus of any one of claims 33 to 42, wherein as the chamber is filled
   with fluid an outer wall moves radially outwards, increasing the depth of the chamber
   and the diameter of the assembly.
20
   44.      The apparatus of any one of claims 33 to 43, wherein the chamber has an
   arcuate outer wall.
   45.      The apparatus of any one of claims 33 to 44, wherein the chamber includes
25 an activation port to provide for passage of chamber-deforming fluid.
   46.      The apparatus of claim 45, wherein the port is provided in the second portion,
   at an end of the chamber.
30 47.      The apparatus of claim 45 or 46, wherein the activation port is located on a
   main axis of the chamber.
   48.      The apparatus of claim 46, or claim 47 when dependent on claim 46, wherein
   a fluid port is provided at the other end of the chamber.
35
   49.      The apparatus of claim 46, or claim 47 when dependent on claim 46, wherein
   the other end of the chamber is closed.

                                             31
  50.     The apparatus of any one of claims 33 to 49, wherein edges of the transition
  portion feature an inner radius and an outer radius.
5 51.     The apparatus of any one of claims 33 to 50, wherein the first width and depth
  are substantially constant along the length of the body.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
