                                           Abstract
An acetylated wood fibre suitable for the fabrication of wood products wherein the wood fibre
has a moisture content from about 5% to about 8.5% w/w.

    Title
    Acetylated Wood Fibre
    Field of the Invention
 5  [0001] This invention relates to the field of wood processing. More specifically, it relates to
    acetylated wood fibre and a method of processing acetylated wood materials for use in
    manufacturing of products from the acetylated wood material including wood board manufacture
    such as wood fibreboard manufacturing.
 0  Background to the Invention
    [0002] Boards constructed from wood such as wood fibreboards, for example medium density
    fibreboard (MDF) comprising wood fibres bound together with binder resin are superior in
    strength and are easily processed due to their homogeneity. Such wooden products including
 5  fibreboards can be used to obtain a variety of formed shapes. The shapes can be planar or flat
    in profile. Curved shapes are also easily formed. They are widely used as materials for furniture
    and for a variety of construction purposes.
    [0003] In resin fibreboards such as MDI (methylene diphenyl diisocyanate) resin type
 10 fibreboards such as MDF, in which the wood fibres are bonded together by means of MDI; the
    dimensional stability variations due to the hygroscopicity (water retaining property) of the
    material and water absorption are great. The fibreboard such as MDF can also be subject to
    biological decay.
Z5  [0004] Chemical modification of wood for improved dimensional stability and biological decay
    protection has been the subject of research for many years. Acetylation is one such method that
    has been well researched and documented. In the acetylation process, in order to make
    effective use of expensive acetic anhydride and to prevent it reacting with moisture in the wood,
    the wood may be dried to obtain a low moisture content, typically a content of less than about
30  3%. During acetylation, the chemical reaction of the acetic anhydride substitutes the hydroxyl
    groups in the wood cells with acetyl groups. This has the effect of bulking out the walls of the
    wood cells and preventing moisture uptake, and hence gives the treated wood a level of
    hydrophobicity (resistance to water intake) and dimensional stability much greater than that of
    non-acetylated wood. The resulting acetylated wood has low moisture content and enhanced
35  resistance to biological decay.
    [0005] Unprocessed green wood may have a moisture content of greater than 50%. When
    manufacturing wood fibreboard such as MDF, the manufacturing process normally involves

                                                        2
    reducing the moisture content of the green wood by mechanical compressing of wood chips and
    subsequent softening of the wood chip by heating with steam. This aids the extraction of the
    fibre for further processing into wood fibreboard. As wood is an excellent insulator of heat, the
    wood chip requires a high moisture content to allow an efficient thermal heat transfer into its
 5  core to enable the softening of the chip to take place.
    [0006] A thermo-mechanical defibration or refining process is generally performed to
    breakdown the softened chip into fibre. The results of the process are dependent on variations
    in the moisture content of the wood, the heat applied to the wood chip and the point at which the
 0  wood constituents enters their glass transition phases (i.e. the transition from a hard and
    relatively brittle state into a softened or rubber like state).
    [0007] Further conversion of the fibres into MDF is influenced by the fibre quality, density and
    moisture content.
 5
    [0008] In acetylated wood fibreboard manufacturing, the acetylated wood chip is low in moisture
    content (approx. 7% moisture content), has a higher density that non-acetylated wood chip and
    exhibits high levels of hydrophobicity. Unlike MDF processing using non-acetylated wood,
    processing of such a dry wood chip requires the introduction of moisture into the chip rather
 .0 than a reduction of moisture in the chip. Furthermore, the temperature/moisture conditions
    necessary to achieve the glass transition conditions for the thermo mechanical conversion chip
    into fibre must be established.
    [0009] In MDF wood fibreboard manufacturing using non-acetylated wood, there is a risk of
25  explosion associated with the possible ignition of a dry wood dust atmosphere. Much of this risk
    is mitigated by the relatively high moisture content state of the wood chips. However, in
    acetylated wood fibreboard manufacturing the risk of explosion is much greater due to the low
    moisture content of the wood elements, the high levels of hydrophobicity of the wood element
    and the associated generation of large amounts of dry dust. This is a significant issue to be
30  overcome.
    [0010] The capital cost of a plant in MDF wood fibreboard manufacturing is very high. In order
    to commercialise acetylated wood fibreboard manufacturing, the acetylated wood elements
    should ideally be processed on the same plant as the non-acetylated wood fibreboard. Yet the
35  differences in characteristics of non-acetylated and acetylated wood elements are significant
    and present particular challenges in getting the processing equipment to function effectively for
    both sets of wood elements. Changes in the processing techniques used to successfully

                                                       3
    process non-acetylated wood elements would be required to successfully process acetylated
    wood elements. The changes must be activatable and deactivable or reversible, as the plant
    must accommodate both sets of wood elements.
 5  [0011] There is a need for improvements to the process of manufacturing wood fibreboard
    comprising wood fibres bound together with a binder resin that will allow acetylated wood
    fibreboard to be manufactured on the same plant as non-acetylated wood fibreboard.
    [0012] Moisture plays an integral part in the composition of wood fibre in the manufacture of
 0  MDF panels and other products. The moisture in the fibre performs a number of functions. It
    enables even heat distribution to be achieved in the forming press across the fibres, and is
    necessary to initiate the chemical bonding action with bonding resins used to fabricate wood
    products. Thus, producing a wood fibre within a desired moisture range which allowed for the
    production of acetylated and non acetylated wood products on the same production line would
 5  provide significant advantages.
    [0013] Much of the prior art to date has been concerned with the acetylation process of the
    wood elements and whilst laboratory scale production of acetylated fibreboard has taken place
 .0 there is little literature available on overcoming the difficulties in upscaling the laboratory
    production into full commercial production onto existing MDF plants. There is an absence of
    guidance on how to commercially condition the wood chip, how to avoid explosive risks, and
    little guidance on how to press the acetylated fibres into uniform panel thicknesses.
25
    [0014] In the publication "ANEW PROCESS FOR THE CONTINUOUS ACETYLATION OF
    LIGNOCELLULOSIC FIBRE" by Rune Simonson and Roger M. Rowell, it is noted that the wood
    element is converted to fibre in green state prior to acetylation. Post acetylation, the acetylated
    fibre can be resinated for fibreboard production. There exists no further detail on how the
30  process is executed. In US 6,376,582, "WOOD FIBREBOARD AND MANUFACTURING
    METHOD THEREFOR," reference is made to the manufacture of acetylated MDF using a
    mixture of acetylated and non-acetylated materials. No guidance is provided as to how the
    fibres are formed for MDF panel processing.
35  [0015] US 6,632,326 MODYFING METHODS FOR WOOD ELEMENTS discloses a process of
    acetylating wood by subjecting it to a gaseous acetylating agent. The wood elements are then
    digested for 2-5 minutes under high-pressure steam at a temperature of around 150-170* C.
    Wood fibres are obtained by separation of the wood elements into fibres through a disk refiner.

                                                    4
    The experiemtnal section is based on labarotory scale work and provides no teaching on how
    to handle materials at a commercial scale. Furthermore the description provides little guidance
    on the hazards in processing excessively dry fibre. WO 2011/095824 Al PROCESS FOR THE
    ACETYLATION OF WOOD ELEMENTS discloses a process of breaking down acetylated chip
 5  to fibre by passing through a conventional defibrator, combining with pMDI adhesive, and
    converting to composite panel or board by applying high temperature and pressure. No
    guidance is provided as to how the fibres are formed for MDF panel processing. The description
    provides no guidance on the hazards in processing excessively dry fibre.
 0  Summary of the Invention
    [0016] The present invention provides for an acetylated wood fibre suitable for the fabrication of
    wood products wherein the acetylated wood fibre has a moisture content from about 5% to
    about 8.5% w/w. Unlike prior art fibre where acetylated and non-acetylated wood fibre is mixed,
    the present invention does not include wood fibre where fibre from a non-acetylated source is
 5  mixed in with the acetylated wood fibre. The acetylated wood fibre has this moisture content and
    is suitable for being combined with a binding material such as resin to form a product such as a
    fibreboard.
    [0017] The acetylated wood fibre may have a moisture content from about 5% to about 8% w/w,
 .0 for example from about 5.5 to about 7.5% w/w,
    [0018] The acetylated wood fibre may have a moisture content of from about 6% to about 7%
    w/w. Desirably the acetylated wood fibre has a moisture content from about 6.5% to about 6.8%
    w/w.
25
    [0019] Acetylated wood with moisture content in the ranges described above results in
    enhanced strength and water resistance in wood products fabricated from the fibre. Furthermore
    the moisture content of the acetylated fibre makes it safer for handling. Furthermore products
    formed from the acetylated fibre are much less likely to suffer defects such as blistering and/or
30  delamination.
    [0020] Moisture plays an integral part in the composition of wood fibre in the manufacture of
    fibreboards such as MDF panels. The moisture in the fibre performs a number of functions. It
    enables even heat distribution to be achieved in the forming press across the fibres, and is
35  necessary to initiate the chemical bonding action with the resin such as MDI resin.
    Internal voids are formed in fibreboards such as an MDF panel when the heat applied in the
    forming press causes the moisture to evaporate at a rate in the forming process which

                                                     5
   precludes its escape through the surface of the product such as a board. Surface blemishes can
   thus occur in the product when the moisture escapes through the surface of the product after
   the product has left the forming press. The primary factor in the formation of these defects
   arises from the actual moisture content of the wood fibre as introduced into the forming press
 5 and thus at the start of the forming part of the process. Other factors which influence the
   formation of the defects lie in the temperature, speed and pressure conditions experienced by
   the panel in the forming press. While these can influence the formation of the defects, moisture
   content is the major contributor.Surface blemishes and internal voids can also occur through
   insufficient moisture. The mechanism causing the defects lies in the lack of moisture needed to
 o initiate the resin (e.g. MDI) chemical bonding action or curing process occurring in the forming
   press.
   [0021] Empirical data indicates that a fibre moisture content of 12% increases the incidence of
   internal voids and surface blemishes being formed in the pressing process in the manufacture of
 5 MDF to 98% to 100% of total production.
   [0022] The acetylated wood fibre of the present invention may be provided by a process for
   forming wood fibre comprising breaking down acetylated wood to produce acetylated wood fibre
   having a moisture content from about 3 % w/w to about 10% w/w after it is comminuted to form
 0 wood fibre.
   [0023] The process provides the advantage of producing an acetylated wood fibre comprising a
   moisture content which results in enhanced strength and water resistance in wood products
   fabricated from the fibre. Furthermore, the process may be carried out in plants using machinery
25 which is also suitable for the production of non-acetylated wood fibre.
   [0024] The wood fibre of the process may be formed from breaking down pieces of wood such
   as wood chip.
30 [0025] The present invention further provides for wood product formed from the acetylated
   wood fibre.
   [0026] The present invention further provides for a process for forming wood fibre comprising
   breaking down acetylated wood to produce acetylated wood fibre having a moisture content
35 from about 3 % w/w to about 10% w/w after it is comminuted to form wood fibre.

                                                       6
    [0027] The wood fibre of the process may be formed from breaking down pieces of wood such
    as wood chip.
    [0028] The wood fibre may have a moisture content of about 5% w/w to about 8% w/w after it is
 5  comminuted to form wood fibre.
    [0029] The wood fibre may have a moisture content of about 5% w/w to about 8% w/w after it is
    comminuted to form wood fibre.
 0  [0030] The wood fibre may have a moisture content of about 7% w/w after it is comminuted to
    form wood fibre.
    [0031] Within the process, the moisture content of the acetylated wood may be adjusted by
    adding moisture in more than one processing step.
 5
    [0032] The process may comprise a first moisture-introducing step for increasing the moisture
    content of the acetylated wood elements; and a second moisture-introducing step, separate to
    the first, for increasing the moisture content of the acetylated wood elements.
 .o [0033] The moisture may be introduced to the process in the form of water and in the form of
    steam.
    [0034] A first moisture-introducing step may comprise introducing water, and introducing steam
    in order to heat the chip.
25
    [0035 Steam may be introduced to the process at a temperature in the range of about 1600C to
    about 190"C.
    [0036] Steam may be introduced to the process at a temperature in the range of about 1750C to
30  about 185"C.
    [0037] Steam may be to the process introduced at a temperature of about 180*C.
    [0038] The second moisture-introducing step of the process may comprise introducing steam in
35  order to heat the chip.

                                                     7
    [0039] The second moisture-introducing step of the process may comprise introducing steam at
    a temperature in the range of about 170*C to about 210*C.
    [0040] The second moisture-introducing step of the process may comprise introducing steam at
  5 a temperature in the range of about 180'C to about 2004C.
    The second moisture-introducing step of the process may comprise introducing steam at a
    temperature of about 190"C.
  0 [0041] The acetylated wood of the process may be in the form of wood pieces such as wood
    chip and a first moisture-introducing step is performed in a receptacle containing the pieces of
    acetylated wood.
    [0042] The receptacle may be a holding receptacle for feeding the acetylated wood for further
  5 processing.
    [0043] The receptacle may be a surge control receptacle, such as a surge bin, for consistent
    feeding of the acetylated wood for further processing.
 '0 [0044] In the process, the acetylated wood may be treated in a digester and moisture is added
    to the acetylated wood in the digester.
    [0045] Moisture may be added to the acetylated wood in the digester in a second moisture
    introducing step.
25
    [0046] The acetylated wood may be passed through a compressive screw feeder such as a
    plug screw feeder before being treated in a digester.
    [0047] The compressive screw feeder may be suitable for handling both acetylated and non
30  acetylated wood pieces, the screw feeder comprising: a housing for a screw element, the
    housing having an intake and an outlet, a rotatable screw element for rotating to compressively
    progress the wood pieces through the screw feeder from the intake to the outlet; wherein
    proximate the outlet, a compacting end of the screw is dimensioned to allow compressive
    progress of acetylated wood pieces so that acetylated wood pieces having a moisture content
35  from about 3 % to about 10% w/w exit the compressive screw feeder.

                                                    8
   [0048] The screw element of the screw feeder may be adapted by changing the pitch of the
   screw element at the outlet end thereof so that the screw element has two different pitches.
 5 [0049] Moisture may be added to the wood as it is fed to the screw feeder and/or as it passes
   through the screw feeder.
   The acetylated wood may be passed through a screw feeder after being treated in a digester
   and before being refined in a refiner.
 0
   [0050] Moisture may be added to the wood as it is fed to the screw feeder and/or as it passes
   through the screw feeder.
   [0051] The process may further comprise the acetylated wood being refined into wood fibre.
 5
   The refining step may be performed by refining the acetylated wood between two discs, for
   example a fixed disc and a rotating disc separated by a gap.
   [00523 The refining step may be performed in a pressurised chamber.
 0
   [0053] The present invention further provides for a process for forming an article from
   acetylated wood fibre, the process comprising taking acetylated wood fibre as described above
   or an acetylated wood fibre formed by the process as described above and forming the wood
   fibre into an article by bonding the wood fibre using a suitable bonding agent such as a resin.
25
   [0054] The process may be for forming a suitable fibreboard.
   [0055] The acetylated wood fibre may be formed by the process described above and may
   further comprise a drying step after the refining step.
30
   [0056] A binder resin may be injected into the wood fibre during the drying step.
   The drying step may comprise passing the fibre through one or more heaters comprising an
   inlet and an outlet.
35
   [0057] The temperature of the inlet of a first heater may be controlled at about 94*C and the
   temperature of the outlet of the first heater may be controlled at about 55"C.

                                                      9
    [0058] The temperature of the inlet of a second heater may be controlled at about 620 C and the
    temperature of the outlet of the first heater may be controlled at about 38*C.
 5  [0059] The article may be formed by compression wherein layers of wood fibre are passed
    through a forming press.
    [0060] The compression may further comprise a pre-compression and a continuous
    compression.
 0
    The pre-compression may reduce the height of the layers of wood fibre to produce pre
    compressed fibre.
    [0061] The continuous compression may further compress the pre-compressed fibre to produce
 5  the article.
    [0062] In the present invention the term "wood fibre(s)" as applied to materials for use in the
    production of articles made from wood fibre, does not include fibres naturally bound together
    within a piece of wood, instead it refers to the material obtained when wood has been broken
 .0 down (by processing) into particulate matter. It can be considered comminuted wood material.
    Of particular interest in the present invention is particulate matter which is fibrous in nature and
    of a type suitable for use in the manufacture of a fibreboard such as MDF.
    [0063] In the present invention reference is made to water and to steam. It will be appreciated
25  by the skilled person that the two terms are used to differentiate between water (whether heated
    or not) in liquid form and water in its gaseous form. For example where water and steam are
    added it is clear that this means that liquid water and gaseous steam are both added.
    Brief Description of the Drawings
30  [0064] Figure 1 shows a flow diagram of the process up the refiner stage including the moisture
    adding stages
    [0065] Figure 2 shows a flow diagram of the heating stages of the process
    Detailed Description
35
    [0066] The present invention will now be described with reference to the accompanying
    drawings.

                                                      10
    [0067] Figure 1 shows a typical plant set up suitable for the processing of wood fibreboard into
    fibreboard and for the formation of MDF from the fibre. The process has been modified to allow
    for the processing of acetylated wood chips into fibre and the formation of fibreboards from the
    fibre. The overall process for the formation of the fibreboards will be described below and the
 5  modifications from the typical MDF process to allow for the processing of acetylated wood
    elements will be highlighted.
    [0068] Acetylated wood material is cut into chips 1 and is held in storage 2 until required for
    processing.
 0
    [0069] A variety of acetylated wood materials may be used. However, preferred sources for the
    starting material include aspen, radiata pine, lodge-pole pine, Japanese cedar, Japanese
    cypress, larch, white fir and spruce.
 5  [0070] Acetylated wood pieces or elements are collected by an infeed hopper 3 and are
    conveyed along an infeed conveyor 4 into a surge bin 5. Preferably, elements are fed into the
    bin at a rate of about 20m 3/hr. Preferably, the average size of the wood elements at this stage is
    about 25mm x25mm x 6mm. In order to sustain such a rate, the surge bin 5 preferably has a
    capacity of about 7m3 . The surge bin 5 has the effect of changing an inconsistent flow of
 .o material into a controlled flow or a consistent flow.
    [0071] Water is added to the chip 1 in the surge bin 5. Preferably, a mains water supply of
    about 101/min is added as chip enters the bin. Water may be added through a series of nozzles.
    In a preferred embodiment, water is added through four nozzles into the top of the surge bin.
25  This has the effect of adding surface moisture and reducing the generation of dust. This is
    additional step compared to the processing of non-acetylated wood. Such a step is not
    necessary in non-acetylated wood element processing due to the higher moisture content of the
    non-acetylated wood. Steam at a pressure of 9 bar (0.9MPa) is injected to the base of the surge
    bin at a rate preferably in a range from 1900 kg/h to 2200 kg/h, for example at about 2099kg per
30  hour. In-a preferred embodiment, steam is added at a temperature of about 180"C. The steam
    may be added through nozzles at the base of the bin. In a preferred embodiment, steam is
    added through three nozzles positioned at 120degs at about 300mm from base of bin.
    [0072] The throughput of chips is dependent on line speed at the board forming end of the
35  process. i.e. it is dependent on how much volume of board per hour is to be produced. If the line
    speed is running at 10ms per hour then the throughput of chips will be 10m3 per hour.

                                                      11
    [0073] Steam is preferably added at a fairly constant rate. The line speed is preferably 10m3
    per, with about a 10% variance. The rate of addition of steam would not be adjusted for this
    variance. This has the effect of heating the chip. The chip is heated in order to soften it.
 5  [0074] Because of the low moisture content of acetylated chip, the time taken to heat the chip is
    longer compared to non-acetylated chip. As such, the steaming or heating step may be split and
    carried out in two locations. The first heating step may take place in the surge bin 5 as
    described above where the chip is heated to about 100*C and the second occurs later in the
    process, in a digester 8 (as described below). This allows additional time to be added to the
 0  heating process without affecting plant throughput. In an embodiment with a 5m3 running
    capacity of the bin and a 10m 3 per hour line speed, the chip will remain in the surge bin for
    about 30 minutes before being passed out of the bin.
    [0075] After being partially heated in the surge bin 5, the acetylated wood chip 1 passes
 5  through a chute 22. In a preferred embodiment, the dimensions of chute are about 600mm x
    600mm. Water is added to the chute at rate preferably in a range from 201/min to 30 1/min, for
    example at about 251/min to the chip 1. (The water is at the temperature of a mains water
    supply. At this point in the process, the volume of chip is line speed dependent, the size of the
    chip is the same as when it has left the surge bin as there has been no mechanical change
 .0 other than to heat the chip). The water is added using two injection points on the chute 22. In a
    preferred embodiment, water is added from injection points at 500mm from the base of the
    chute. This is an additional step compared to the processing of non-acetylated wood. A window
    is added to the area of the surge bin 5 which contains the partially steamed chip. Viewing the
    chip through this window allows the level of chip inserted to be monitored and verified. This aids
25  process control by allowing blockages with the wetted, heated acetylated chip to be detected.
    From the surge bin 5, the acetylated wood chip 1 passes through a modified plug screw feeder
    6. The plug screw feeder is modified in the sense that it differs from a plug screw feeder
    normally used for the feeding of non-acetylated wood. The compacting area 7 of the screw is
30  reduced compared to that of a feeder normally used with non-acetylated wood. This allows the
    acetylated wood chip to pass through this section of the process. The purpose of the plug screw
    in normal MDF manufacturing is to remove some of the moisture from the chip, to feed the chip
    into the digester 8, and to maintain a seal in the digester 8 which is at 9 bar (0.9 MPa) pressure.
    Acetylated chips are harder and much drier than non-acetylated chips, (starting moisture
35  content of acetylated chip in the screw feeder is approx. 12% w/w while non-acetylated chips
    >50% w/w). The acetylated chip has less moisture and is more brittle and has a higher density
    than non-acetylated wood. A compromise is needed in the screw design to allow it work over

                                                       12
    this wide range of physical conditions of the chip (i.e. the allow the same plug screw to work
    with the dryer denser harder acetylated chip and the wetter, softer, lighter non acetylated chip).
    Reducing the compression at the end of the screw, while maintaining its compression
    characteristics over its length, allows for the final passage of acetylated wood through the screw
 5  feeder, and also allows effective compression of non acetylated wood elements when these are
    being processed at other times. The compromise design, i.e., the reduction in compression at
    the end of the screw can be achieved in accordance to the ratio Lx0.1759 and DxO.734. For
    example a non acetylated wood screw of length L=2245mm and whose end diameter D
    =150mm over a length of 250mm will have a new reduced end diameter D= 110 over a length of
 0  395mm in an adaptation to an acetylated screw feeder. In a preferred embodiment, the overall
    dimensions of the plug screw feeder are about 3900mm x 420mm. The plug feeder load is from
    25 - 35% of maximum load, for example the plug feeder load is about 30% of its maximum load.
    In a preferred embodiment, the plug screw feeder is equipped with a 338 kW motor. The
    throughput of the plug screw feeder is limited to the line speed of the process. The maximum
 5  throughput of the plug screw feeder is 20m3 per hour on non acetylated chips. The maximum
    throughput, for acetylated chip is limited to line speed which is about 10m 3 per hour. The plug
    feeder speed is preferably from 15% to 25% of its maximum, for example, the plug feeder speed
    is about 20% of maximum.
 .o [0076] The acetylated wood chip 1 passes from the screw feeder 6 into a digester 8. The
    digester further softens the wood elements. The wood chip 1 is retained in the digester for 6
    minutes. Steam at about 9 bar (0.9 MPa) is injected. In a preferred embodiment, steam is
    injected through four nozzles. Two nozzles are located on either side of the digester. In a
    preferred embodiment, steam at 190*C is injected via continuous injection into the digester at a
25  rate preferably in a range from 2750 to 3048 kg/h. For example steam is injected at a rate of
    about 2898kg per hour. The temperature in the digester is maintained at about 182*C. This rate
    of steam injection is lower compared with non-acetylated wood element processing, where a
    rate of 5000 kg per hour may be expected.
30  [0077] Wood elements are discharged from the digester by way of internal discharge screw 9 at
    a rate dependent on the line speed. A-rotating action of the discharge screw transports the
    wood elements onto a defibrator feeder ribbon screw 23. Water is injected into the feeder ribbon
    screw 23 housing at a rate preferably in the range of 251/min to 35 I/min, for example water is
    injected at a rate of 301/min. In a preferred embodiment, water is injected through two nozzles
35  on either side of the screw at about 450mm from the entry point to the screw. The water
    injection is continuous for as long as the line is running. The injected water has a temperature

                                                        13
    preferably in a range of 50 "Cto 98 "C,for example at a temperature of 90"C. The chip 1 is feed
    via the feeder ribbon screw 23 into a low energy plate refiner 24.
    [0078] The addition of the hot water into the refiner in the manner described above is necessary
 5  to achieve the correct balance between moisture content and heat content of the acetylated chip
    in order to maintain the glass transition phase of the wood element. By contrast, no injection of
    water is necessary in the processing of non-acetylated wood elements as the chip arrives at the
    refiner 24 with the correct combination of moisture/temperature to maintain the glass transition
    state. The glass transition point is not a fixed defined point. The process deals with a natural
 0  wood which by its nature is not uniform in its makeup and consistency. So the quality of the fibre
    produced in the refiner will indicate that the glass transition point has been achieved.
    [0079] After being fed by the ribbon screw feeder 23 into the refiner 24, the chip 1 is retained in
    the refiner 24. The rate of feeding into the refiner is again line speed dependent. A differential
 5  pressure in a range preferably from 0.0063 to 0.0103 bar (630 Pa - 1030 Pa) is maintained in
    the refiner, for example a differential pressure of about 0.0083 bar (830 Pa) is maintained. The
    refiner blow valve position is held at 22% of full opening. The incoming pressure into the refiner
    comes from the pressure in the digester at about 9 bar (0.9MPa). As such, the refiner is
    essentially at a 9 bar pressure. The blow valve is used to regulate the flow of material through
 .o the refiner. The differential pressure is a means of controlling this flow. For example for wood
    fibreboard, with the blow valve opened at 56% of full opening, not a lot of back pressure is
    maintained as the material exits the refiner, so the difference in incoming pressure from the
    digester and the refiner pressure, i.e. the differential pressure, is 0.1712 bar (17 KPa) (9 bar (0.9
    MPa) in the digester and 8.8288 bar (0.882 MPa) in the actual refiner).
25
    [0080] For acetylated wood, the blow valve is shut down to 22% of full opening. This results in
    the incoming pressure from the digester being maintained in the refiner, hence the 'differential
    pressure' is reduced to 0.0083 bar (830 Pa). This differential pressure measurement indicates a
    retention time within the refiner which correlates to an amount of time the wood is in the refiner
30  being transformed into fibre. If it is in the refiner for too long a time, the wood fibre turns to fines
    or dust which cannot be used in mdf. If it is in the refiner for too short a time it is not refined
    enough and shives are produced which cannot be used to make mdf. In a preferred
    embodiment, the refiner consists of two discs, one fixed, the other rotating at about 1490 rpm.
    The discs have a gap of about 14mm. Chip slurry enters through the centre of the refiner similar
35  to a centrifugal pump and travels to outside of the disc. During this route it gets rubbed and cut
    which changes the chip into a fibre. The diameter of the discs are approx 1.5m, so for a 10m3
    per hour line speed and a rpm of 1490, a gap of 14mm, the retention time in the refiner will be

                                                     14
   about 0.115 secs. Again the retention time is fine tuned by the plate gap, and a discharge valve.
   What ultimately drives the fine tuning is the 'quality' of fibre on the forming line. Again, the
   process deals with a natural chip which is inconsistent, hence the range of parameters. The
   fibre size is measured by sieving the wood elements through meshes with different opening
 5 sizes. As such, 'good quality' board could be expected to be produced with approx. the following
   fibre sizes: 0%>4mm mesh size, 2% >2mm, 8%>1.25mm, 15%>0.8mm, 18%>0.5mm,
   20%>0.25mm, 20%>0.125mm and 17%<0.125mm.
   [0081] Other refiner 24 operating conditions may be set as follows: the refiner feed screw
 0 speed preferably operates in a range from 28 to 48% of maximum for example the feed screw
   speed may be about 38% of maximum. The refiner feed screw load is preferably in a range from
   18 to 28% of maximum, for example the feed screw load may be about 23% of maximum. The
   feed screw speed is not a set condition, as it is line speed dependent,e.g if line speed drops to
   5m3 p/h the feed screw will also drop to this amount. The refiner plate position is preferably in a
 5 range from 13 mm to 17 mm, for example the refiner plate position may be about 15mm. The
   chamber hydraulic pressure is preferably in a range from 10 to 14 bar (0.1 to 1.4 MPa), for
   example, the pressure may be about 12 bar (1.2 MPa). The refiner main drive power is
   preferably in a range from 539 kw/h to 739 kw/h, for example, the drive power may be 639kw/h.
   In a preferred embodiment, the refiner motor is sized to be about 3150kw. The refiner efficiency
 0 is preferably in a range from 79 kW/t to 99kW/t, for example the efficiency may be 89kW/t.
   [0082] The fibres from the refiner are passed through a blow valve 10 and further through a
   blow line to a stage 1 dryer 12 (Figure 2). The rate of passage or volume of fibre passed is line
   speed dependent. In a preferred embodiment, the diameter of the blow line is about 100mm.
25 The acetylated wood fibres 1 from the refiner 8 are coated with a binder resin such as
   methylene diphenyl diisocyanate (MDI). The binder resin at 6 % w/w is injected into the blow
   line 10 from the refiner 24 to the Stage 1 Dryer 12. In a preferred embodiment, the resin is
   injected in a continuous flow via a single point injection. The injection in the preferred
   embodiment is through a nozzle about 1.5m from the exit of refiner. In addition, curing agents,
30 curing catalysts, curing accelerators, diluents, thickeners, adhesive compounds, dispersing
   agents, and water repelling agents may be added to the binder resin as needed.
   [0083] By comparison, for a wood fibreboard process, binder resin is injected into the blow line
   at 4% w/w. In order to prevent the moisture in the acetylated fibre reducing to dangerous levels
35 and thus risking an explosion, flue gas dampers may be closed on the stage 1 dryer 12. A stack
   on dryer stage 1 may also be opened fully to reduce the temperatures in the dryer.

                                                      15
    [0084] The Stage 1 Dryer 12 inlet temperature is controlled preferably at a temperature in a
    range from 84oc to 10 4 4C, for example the temperature may be controlled at about 94*C. The
    Stage 1 outlet temperature is controlled preferably at a temperature in a range from 450 C to
    65"C, for example the temperature may be controlled at about 55"C. The moisture content of
 5  the acetylated fibre exiting the Stage 1 Dryer 12 is about 11% w/w. The fibre is dried until its
    moisture content is measured to be about 11%w/w.
    [0085] The acetylated fibre continues from the stage I dryer 12 to Stage 2 Dryer 13. The Stage
    2 Dryer 13 inlet temperature is controlled preferably at a temperature in a range from 52*C to
 0  7 2ac, for example the temperature may be controlled at about 62"C. The Stage 2 dryer 13 outlet
    temperature is controlled preferably at a temperature in a range from 28"C to 480C, for example
    the temperature may be controlled at about 38"C. The moisture content of the acetylated fibre
    exiting the Stage 2 Dryer 13 is about 8% w/w. The fibre is dried until its moisture content is
    measured to be about 8%w/w.
 5
    [0086] The words "comprises/comprising" and the words "having/including" when used herein
    with reference to the present invention are used to specify the presence of stated features,
    integers, steps or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more
    other features, integers, steps, components or groups thereof.
 '0
    [0087] It is appreciated that certain features of the invention, which are, for clarity, described in
    the context of separate embodiments, may also be provided in combination in a single
    embodiment. Conversely, various features of the invention which are, for brevity, described in
    the context of a single embodiment, may also be provided separately or in any suitable sub
25  combination.
    Experimental
    Moisture plays an integral part in the composition of wood fibre in the manufacture of
    fibreboards such as MDF panels. The moisture in the fibre performs a number of functions. It
30  enables even heat distribution to be achieved in the forming press across the fibres, and is
    necessary to initiate the chemical bonding action with the MDI resin.
    Internal voids are formed in an MDF panel when the heat produced in the forming press causes
    the moisture to evaporate at a rate in the forming process which precludes its escape through
    the surface of the board. Surface blemishes occur in the forming press when the moisture
35  escapes through the surface of the board after the board has left the forming press. The primary
    factor in the formation of these defects arises from the actual moisture content of the wood fibre
    at the start of the process. Other factors which influence the formation of the defects lie in the

                                                      16
  temperature, speed and pressure Conditions experienced by the panel in the forming press.
  While these can influence the formation of the defects, moisture content is the major contributor.
  Surface blemishes and internal voids can also occur through insufficient moisture. The
  mechanism causing the defects lies in the lack of moisture needed to initiate the MDI chemical
  bonding action or curing process occurring in the forming press.
   Empirical data indicates that a fibre moisture content of 12% increases the incidence of internal
  voids and surface blemishes being formed in the pressing process in the manufacture of MDF
  to 98% to 100% of total production.
  Typical ingredient profile of the fibre entering the forming press would be:
   Wood Fibre 80%, MDI resin 6%, Release Wax 2%, moisture 12%
  Acetylated wood fibre has inherent characteristics which differentiate its reactive performance
   under wood fibre processing conditions. Its molecular structure has been altered by the
   substitution of some of the hydroxyl groups with acetyl groups, this substitution imparts a
   degree of hydrophobicity to the acetylated fibre elements. As a consequence of the molecular
   substitution the density of the fibre increases by about 20%.
   Testing of the effects of different levels of moisture on defects levels were carried out according
   to the parameters below. In coallating the results, each panel in 1220 x 2440mm size format
   were passed under the Imal Ultrasonic detector. Any defect acknowledged by the detector
   would cause the board to be rejected. The results tabulated are percent rejected boards during
   each different fibre moisture set points test.
   Fibre composition
5  Acetylated Wood Fibre 80%, MDI resin 6%, Release Wax 2%, moisture varied
   Forming press temperature 1800 C,
    Forming Press pressure 18.7 kgf/cm 2
    Defect Detection: Imal Ultrasonic blow blister detector.
   The Forming Press Profile for each sample board is shown in figure 3.
0
                                     SUBSTITUTE SHEET (RULE 26)

                                                    17
Results:
Table I shows the percentage number boards rejected due to defects for a number of board
thicknesses (6 to 18mm) over for range of fibre moistures (3% to 12%).
For example, for a 9mm thick board with 8% moisture content, 4.4% of boards are rejected.
                                                 Table  I
                  12%        9%         8%       7%        6%        5%         4%       3%
         18mm     98%        52%        4.29     1.2       1.1       4.51       48.19    96.9
         12mm     95%        54%        4.0%     1.1%      1.0%      4.8%       50%      97%
                                        4* 4%    1.2%      1.1%      4.6%       48%      96%
        9mm       97%        50%
        6mm       100%      152%        4.1%     1.3%      1 09%     4.5%      147%      96%
Table |1 shows the percentage number boards rejected due to defects for board thickness of 12
 mm over for range of fibre moistures (5.5% to 7.5%).
 For example, for a 12mm thick board with 6.5% moisture content, 0.091% of boards are
 rejected.
                                                 Table ||
                       7.5%        17          16.8%       [6.5%        16%          15.5%
           12mrn       1.9%         1.17%       0.2%         0.091%       1.1%        2.0%
 Conclusions
 The first series of tests at different moisture levels on 4 different thicknesses of boards
 confirmed that the thickne ss of the board had little influence on the formation of defects within
 the board. Further testing at different moisture levels were thus confined to one thickness. Test
 data generated from this series of tests at different moisture levels suggest that at moisture
  level of 5.5% to 7.5%, the percentage reject panels decrease to 2%, while a moisture level in
 the range 6% to 7% will half this level of rejects. Ideally a range of 6.5% to 6.8% will minimise
  the formation of defects.
                                     SUlRSTITUITF SHFFT (RL F 261

                                                18
  Claims
      1.   An acetylated wood fibre suitable for the fabrication of wood products wherein the
           acetylated wood fibre has a moisture content from about 5% to about 8.5% w/w.
      2.   The acetylated wood fibre of claim 1 wherein the wood fibre has a moisture content
           from about 5% to about 8% w/w.
      3.   The acetylated wood fibre of any preceding claim wherein the wood fibre has a
           moisture content from about 5.5% to about 7.5% w/w.
      4.   The acetylated wood fibre of any preceding claim wherein the wood fibre has a
           moisture content of about 6.5% to about 6.8% w/w.
      5.   A process for forming wood fibre comprising breaking down acetylated wood to
            produce acetylated wood fibre having a moisture content from about 5% w/w to
            about 8.5% w/w after it is comminuted to form wood fibre.
      6.   A process according to claim 5 wherein the wood fibre is formed from breaking down
            pieces of wood such as wood chip.
      7.    The process of claim 5 or claim 6 wherein the wood fibre has a moisture content of
            about 5% w/w to about 8% w/w after it is comminuted to form wood fibre.
      8.    The process of claim 5 or claim 6 wherein the wood fibre has a moisture content of
            about 5.5% to about 7.5% w/w after it is comminuted to form wood fibre
       9.   The process of any of claims 4 to 6 wherein the wood fibre has a moisture content of
            about 6.5% to about 6.8% w/w after it is comminuted to form wood fibre.
D
       10.  A wood product formed from the acetylated wood fibre of any of claims 1 to 4 or the
            process of any of claims 5 to 9.
       11.  A wood product according to claim 10 which is a fibreboard.
5
       12.  A wood product according to claim 11 wherein the fibreboard is MDF.
                                SUBSTITUTE SHEET (RULE 26)

                                          19
  13. A wood product according to any of Claims 8 to 11 wherein the wood product is
      formed by the acEtylated wood fibre and MDI resin.
)
                          SUBSTITUTE SHEET (RULE 26)

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
