Abstract
The invention relates to a system (1) for loading and unloading during
port operations and equipment for supporting hatchway covers (11) of
marine-vessel holds, comprising: a loading and unloading crane (2); and
a base located in the body of the crane for supporting and stacking the
hatchway covers (11). The invention also relates to a method for
removing, stacking and returning hatchway covers in said system (1) for
loading and unloading during port operations and equipment for
supporting hatchway covers (11) of marine-vessel holds, comprising: i)
having said system (1) available; ii) removing the hatchway cover from
the hold and moving it using the carriage (9) of the crane; iii) transferring
the cover and placing it on the base installed in the body of the crane;
and iv) returning the cover to the vessel, transferring same from said
base to the vessel, once the loading and/or unloading operation has
been completed.

                                                1
     SYSTEM FOR LOADING AND UNLOADING DURING PORT OPERATIONS,
        COMPRISING A CRANE, AND A BASE LOCATED IN THE BODY OF THE
              CRANE THAT SUPPORTS AND STACKS HATCHWAY COVERS
5             The present application is a divisional application from Australian Patent
  Application No.<removed-apn>, the entire disclosure of which is incorporated
  herein by reference.
  Field of the Invention
3             The invention is related with the tasks of loading and unloading of ships
  or boats, and is specifically related with the procedure for removal of the hatch
  covers to allow access or exit of the cargo to the holds of the maritime vessels.
              The invention consists of a system of loading, unloading and supporting
  the hatch covers, which comprises a crane and a base for stacking the hatch
5 covers of the ship, so that these covers are not stockpiled somewhere else that
  it can be used for other operation.
  Background of the Invention
              A reference herein to a patent matter which is given as prior art is not to
0 be taken as an admission that the matter was known or that the information it
  contains was part of the common general knowledge as at the priority date of
  any of the claims.
              The holds of ships or boats are the space inside the hull which is used to
   hold the cargos that are transported. The opening that allows
   <filename>

                                        2
    access to the hold for introducing or removing the cargos is the hatch,
   which in most cases is on the deck of the ship which is the upper outer
    surface of the hull. When the ship sails these hatches must be closed,
    both to protect the cargo, and to maintain the water-tightness of the
 5 ship and so to not allow water to enter the holds and fill with water. The
   element that closes the hatch is called the hatch cover and should be
   tight enough so as not to allow water to enter which eventually passes
   on the deck of the ship during navigation.
          During the tasks of loading and unloading of the ships the hatch
io covers have to be removed from the hatches to allow access or egress
   of the cargo to the holds. Some ships are equipped with devices for
   opening and closing the hatch and have sufficient space to retain the
    hatch cover on the ship once it is removed from the hatch; while other
   ships neither have the space nor have the devices that will allow them
15 to retain the covers on them, so they must be removed and placed
   elsewhere, which in most cases is the surface of the docks,
   breakwaters or rafts used for loading or unloading of the goods.
          When hatch covers have to be removed from the boats and
   arranged on the surface of the docks, breakwaters or rafts or any other
20 surface which is used for this purpose and which is not the ship, the
   area used may have alternative uses such as gathering the cargos or
   the transit of the equipment transfer or transportation of goods. In
   some cases these areas may be critical for efficient operation of
   transfer and portage (transport of cargo within the port or maritime
25 terminal) of the cargos.
          In view of the above, it is necessary to have a place to put the
   hatch cover, which is other than the surface of the docks, breakwaters
   or rafts, and which has easy accessibility and adequate capacity. In
   this way, the hatch covers of the ship would not occupy the area of

                                       3
   operation where the cargo or other items can be gathered, used for the
   transit of the portage equipment or to locate the transfer equipments.
         The applicant has developed a system to store or stack the hatch
   covers, within the same crane that performs the loading and unloading
 s of the goods contained in the holds of ships
         The document US5538382 describes a system consisting of a
   crane that has a variable level suspended platform lift type having a
   mechanism for lifting, wherein said platform is for the transport of the
   cargo.
10       The document US4858775 describes a platform lift for the load of
   a container, which includes its own circulation engines motion to have
   autonomy of movement along the crane boom.
         Thus, it can be seen that although there exist platforms
   associated with loading cranes, these platforms are with elevator
15 movement and are installed on the cranes to assist with the loading
   and unloading processes in the maritime operations.
         It is desirable to provide a means for gathering the hatch covers,
   so that the hatch covers are not stacked or stored on the surface of the
   docks, breakwaters or rafts used for loading or unloading of the goods.
20
   Summary of the Invention
         The present invention corresponds to a system for loading,
   unloading in port operations and for supporting hatch covers
   comprising a crane for loading and unloading of maritime operations
25 and a base located in the body of the crane to hold and stack the hatch
   covers.

                                                4
             Throughout the description and claims of the specification, the word
  "comprise" and variations of the word, such as "comprising" and "comprises", is
  not intended to exclude other additives, components, integers or steps.
             In one form of the invention there is provided a system for loading and
5 unloading in port operations and supporting hatch covers of holds of maritime
  vessels, including:
             a) a crane for loading and unloading of maritime operations, wherein the
  crane has horizontal lateral beams one on each side of the body of the crane
  and two legs with angled shaped arch; each formed by two vertical profiles and
D a horizontal profile base; and
             b) a base located in the body of the crane to hold and stack hatch
  covers,
  wherein the base is an inner or an outer cover support wherein:
                   the inner cover support is installed on an inside of the body of the
5 crane and is formed by supports attached to the lateral horizontal beams, the
  supports being of an adequate and sufficient size to support the weight of the
  hatch covers, or
                    the outer cover support is installed on an outside of the body of the
  crane and is formed by supports attached to the vertical profiles of the legs of
D the crane; and further including some higher tensors attached to a top of the
  crane, wherein the supports are of an adequate and sufficient size to support
  the weight of the hatch covers.
  Brief Description of the Drawings
5            The    invention  will  be  described     below   with  reference   to   the
  accompanying drawings, in which:
             Figure 1 shows a side-rear view of the system of the present invention.
  Cfilename>

                                      5
          Figure 2 shows a side-front view of the system of the present
   invention.
          Figure 3 shows a side-rear view for the other side of the system
   of the present invention.
 s        Figure 4 shows a side view of the outer platform option of the
   system of the present invention.
          Figure 5 shows a side view of figure 1.
          Figure 6 shows a front view of the system with platform or with
   one support.
10        Figure 7 shows a top view of the system of the present invention
   with stacked covers.
          Figure 8 shows another side view of the system of the present
   invention.
15 Detailed Description of the Invention
          The present invention corresponds to a system (1) for loading,
   unloading in port operations and for supporting hatch covers (11)
   comprising a crane (2) for loading and unloading of maritime
   operations and a base to be located in the body of the crane for
20 holding and stacking the hatch covers.
          The crane (2) for loading and unloading in port operations
   corresponds to a gantry crane that has an elevated bridge (4) or a
   gantry supported by two legs (5) by way of an angled arch (15) formed
   by two verticals profiles, wherein each leg terminates in a horizontal
25 profile base (6); in the bottom half of the legs two lateral horizontal
   beams are located (7), one on each side of the body of the crane,

                                          6
   which links both legs of the crane on their lateral sides, allowing the
   crane to have free movement of jib trolley (8) in the front and back
   direction of the crane.
           The base to be placed in the body of the crane can be an inner
 5 platform (3) or outer platform (12) or only inner cover support (16) or
   outer cover support (13), said base is of a resistant material, preferably
   metal and is strongly adhered to the lateral horizontal beams (7) and /
   or to the verticals profiles of the legs of the crane, either joined by
   welding and / or bolted. The installation of the base in the crane (2)
10 may be made on the inside of the body of the crane between its legs or
   on the outside of the body of the crane as a horizontal extension.
          The installation of the platform (3) on the inside of the body of the
   crane comprises installing small supports attached strongly to the
   lateral horizontal beams (7) of the crane; a rear horizontal beam (9)
is attached to the vertical profiles of the rear leg; a front horizontal beam
   (10) attached to the lateral horizontal beams; and a platform (3) placed
   on the supports and the front and rear horizontal beams (10.9), tightly
   bound. The installation of the outer platform (12) on the outside of the
   body of the crane comprises installing supports attached to the vertical
20 profiles of the legs of the crane and a platform on said supports, also
   includes some higher tensors (14) attached to the top of the crane. The
   installation of the supports (16) on the inside of the body of the crane
   comprises placing supports attached to the lateral horizontal profiles
   where such supports are of an adequate size and sufficient to support
25 the weight of the hatch covers (11). The installation of the outer cover
   support (13) on the outside of the body of the crane comprises only
   installing supports attached to the vertical profiles of the legs of the
   crane, also including some higher tensors (14) attached to the top of
   the crane.

                                        7
         The distance between the legs of the crane is about 17 meters
   and the size of the hatch covers is about 12 to 13 meters, so the size
   of the platform (3) or the outer platform (12) or the support (16) or the
   outer cover support (13) has a length of about 14 to less than 17
 5 meters and a width of approximately 10 to 14 meters. The thickness of
   the inner or outer platform is in the range of 1.20 meters to less than
   30 cm.
         Optionally the platform (3) or support (16) contains flanges or
   wedges to make the operation safer.
10    The procedure of removing, stacking and returning of the hatch
   covers to the ship comprises:
         1. having a system (1) of loading, unloading and supporting
            hatch covers (11);
is       2. removing the hatch cover from the hold of the maritime vessel
            and moving it with the trolley (8) of the crane (2);
         3. moving the cover and placing it on the installed base in the
            body of the crane;
20
         4. once the operation of loading and / or unloading of the crane
            is over returning the cover to the ship moving it from the said
            base to the ship.

                                               8
  The claims defining the invention are as follows:
   1.       System for loading and unloading in port operations and supporting
  hatch covers of holds of maritime vessels, including:
            a)   a crane for loading and unloading of maritime operations, wherein
5 the crane has horizontal lateral beams one on each side of the body of the
  crane and two legs with angled shaped arch; each formed by two vertical
  profiles and a horizontal profile base; and
            b)   a base located in the body of the crane to hold and stack hatch
  covers,
D wherein the base is an inner or an outer cover support wherein:
                 the inner cover support is installed on an inside of the body of the
  crane and is formed by supports attached to the lateral horizontal beams, the
  supports being of an adequate and sufficient size to support the weight of the
  hatch covers, or
5                  the outer cover support is installed on an outside of the body of the
  crane and is formed by supports attached to the vertical profiles of the legs of
  the crane; and further including some higher tensors attached to a top.of the
  crane, wherein the supports are of an adequate and sufficient size to support
  the weight of the hatch covers.
0
  2.        System for loading and unloading in port operations and supporting
  hatch covers of holds of maritime vessels according to claim 1, wherein in the
  body of the crane is installed a rear horizontal beam attached to the vertical
  profiles of the rear leg and a front horizontal beam attached to the lateral
5 horizontal beams.
  3.        Procedure for removing, stacking and returning hatch covers in a system
  for loading and unloading in port operations and supporting hatch covers of
  holds of maritime vessels according to any of claims 1 or 2, including:
  <fiename>

                                                9
             i)    having a system for loading and unloading and supporting hatch
             covers which includes:
                   a)     a crane for loading and unloading in port operations; and
             ii)   a base located in the body of the crane to hold and stack the hatch
5            covers;
             iii)  removing the hatch cover from the hold of the maritime vessel and
             moving it with a trolley of the crane;
             iv)   moving the cover and placing it on the installed base in the body of
             the crane; and
)            v)    returning the cover to the ship moving it from the said base to the
             ship, once the operation of loading and/or unloading is over.
  <filename>

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
