   ABSTRACT
   The immune response to melanoma cells and tumors can be induced or significantly increased
   by administering to a subject a pharmaceutical composition comprising alphavirus particles,
   especially Venezuelan equine encephalitis virus replicon particles, which express the melanoma
 5 antigen dopachrome tautomerase (DCT, TRP2) in cells of the subject, with the result of tumor
   regression and/or inhibition of metastasis of a melanoma subject, or a decreased risk of the
   occurrence or recurrence of melanoma and/or decreased severity of melanoma in a subject not
   suffering from melanoma at the time of administration.          The pharmaceutical composition
   described herein can be used in conjunction with other therapeutic agents, it can be
10 administered on more than one occasion and it can be combined with administrations of other
   compositions such as protein or other immunogentic compositions, and/or adjuvants, with
   beneficial effects to the human or animal subject to which it has been administered.

   WO 20101118252                                                    PCT/US2010/030423
              ALPHAVIRUS REPLICON PARTICLES EXPRESSING TRP2
                  CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
[0001]     This application claims benefit of United States Provisional Application
61/167,774, filed April 8, 2009, which is incorporated by reference herein.
                          BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
[0002]     The present invention relates to recombinant DNA technology,
pharmaceutical compositions for prophylaxis or treatment of cancer, in particular,
comprising alphavirus replicon particles containing an expressible coding sequence
for a melanoma antigen of interest, and to methods for triggering or enhancing an
immune response to a melanoma antigen, especially dopachrome tautomerase
(DCT), which is also referred as tyrosinase-related protein (TRP2), introducing
foreign nucleic acid(s) encoding a cancer antigen into a eukaryotic cell via alphavirus
replicon particles, and more particularly, to the use of immunogenic compositions
comprising infectious, propagation-defective virus particles or virus-like particles,
especially Venezuelan Encephalitis Virus particles expressing TRP2, vaccines and
melanoma therapy applications. In particular, the present disclosure provides
alphavirus replicon particle (ARP) preparations, especially VEE particles expressing
a melanoma antigen (in particular TRP2), for use in human and veterinary medicine
and for enhancing or inducing the immune system's response to this antigen so that
the incidence, metastasis and/or severity of melanoma is reduced.
[0003]     Melanoma is an especially devastating disease, for which there is no
approved vaccine for use in therapy or for prevention of melanoma. There has been
relatively limited success in melanoma vaccine regimens or using immunogenic
compositions in the treatment of this cancer if it has advanced.
[0004]          The Alphavirus genus includes a variety of viruses, all of which are
members of the Togaviridae family. The alphaviruses include Eastern Equine
Encephalitis Virus (EEE), Venezuelan Equine Encephalitis Virus (VEE), Everglades
Virus, Mucambo Virus, Pixuna Virus, Western Equine Encephalitis Virus (WEE),
                                          1 nf AG

    WO 20101118252                                                   PCT/US2010/030423
Sindbis Virus, Semliki Forest Virus, among others. The viral genome is a single
stranded, messenger-sense RNA, modified at the 5'-end with a methylated cap and
at the 3'-end with a variable-length poly (A) tract. Structural subunits containing a
single viral protein, capsid, associate with the RNA genome in an icosahedral
nucleocapsid. In the virion, the capsid is surrounded by a lipid envelope covered
with a regular array of transmembrane protein spikes, each of which consists of a
heterodimeric complex of two glycoproteins, El and E2. See Pedersen et al., J.
Virol 14:40 (1974). The Sindbis and Semliki Forest viruses are considered the
prototypical alphaviruses and have been studied extensively. See Schlesinger, The
Togaviridae and Flaviviridae, Plenum Publishing Corp., New York (1986). The VEE
virus has been studied extensively, see, e.g., U.S. Patent No. 5,185,440.
[0005]         The studies of these viruses have led to the development of techniques
for vaccinating against the alphavirus diseases and against other diseases through
the use of alphavirus vectors for the introduction of foreign genes. One such system
is the alphavirus replicon system, as described in U.S. Patent No. 6,190,666 to
Garoff et al., U.S. Patent Nos. 5,792,462, 6,521,235 and 6,156,558 to Johnston et
al., U.S. Patent Nos. 5,814,482, 5,843,723, 5,789,245, 6,015,694, 6,105,686 and
6,376,236 to Dubensky et al; U.S. Patent Application No. 6,767,699 (Polo et al.),
U.S. Patent Nos. 7,045,335, 7,425,337, and 7,442,381 (Smith et al. and U.S.
Published Application 2009-0075384 (Kamrud et al.). Improved constructs, both
helper(s) and replicon, for use in producing alphavirus replicon particles are
described in U.S. Patent No. 7,045, 335 (Smith et al.) and WO 2004/085660 (Smith
et al.), and novel processes for their manufacture are described in U.S. Patent No.
7,078,218 (Smith et al.). Additional vectors and strategies are described in U.S
Published Application No. WO 2008/085557 and WO 2009/047255.
[0006]     There remains a need in the art for methods and compositions for the
treatment and prophylaxis of melanoma, an especially aggressive and deadly cancer
affecting large numbers of people every year.
                        BRIEF SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
                                          9 nf AQ

   WO 20101118252                                                      PCT/US2010/030423
[0007]     The present disclosure provides a method of enhancing an immune
response to a melanoma antigen, in particular dopachrome tautomerase (DCT,
TRP2)     in a human or animal subject via the administration of a pharmaceutical
composition comprising alphavirus replicon particles expressing TRP2 or an effective
fragment thereof. In the present methods and compositions, the TRP2 is desirably,
but not necessarily, identical in species source to that of the subject to whom the
composition is administered. In specific embodiments, the mouse TRP2 has the
amino acid sequence as set for in Table lb and an exemplary human TRP2 has the
amino acid sequence as set forth herein below. Additional coding sequences are
given in herein below, and further sequences are known to the art.
[0008]     Also provided herein are methods of preventing, reducing the likelihood of
developing, reducing the severity of melanoma, reducing the time to progression
after an initial intervention or increasing survival time after diagnosis of melanoma in
a human or animal subject comprising administering a pharmaceutical comprising an
effective amount of alphavirus replicon particles expressing the melanoma antigen
dopachrome tautomerase (DCT, TRP2). The composition can be administered to
the subject in any manner consistent with administration of immunogenic
compositions, intraperitoneal, intramuscular, intradermal, intranasal, intravaginal,
intrarectal, subcutaneous or intravenous, especially via the subcutaneous or
intramuscular routes of administration. In certain situations, especially for treatment
of prevention of metastatic melanoma, intravenous administration could be used. In
an animal subject, footpad injection is another route of administration for the present
compositions. In these methods, the administration is desirably repeated, although
subsequent dosages of the TRP2 may be via DNA vaccine or recombinant protein
as well as, or in addition to, the alphavirus replicon particles which express TRP2,
and any of the TRP2 administrations may be allogeneic or syngeneic with respect to
the TRP2 source and the subject.
[0009]     Further provided is a pharmaceutical composition, especially a vaccine
composition, comprising an immunogenic preparation comprising an alphavirus
replicon particle which expresses a melanoma antigen dopachrome tautomerase
(DCT, TRP2), together with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier, and optionally
additional components to provide an adjuvant and/or a slowed release benefit and/or
                                            Mnf AQ

    WO 20101118252                                                   PCT/US2010/030423
ingredients to improve storage stability or handling during or after lyophilization such
as one or more of a salt, surfactant, bulking agent, plasticizer, and hydrogen-bonding
sugar or other polyol.
[0010]      In the compositions and methods described herein, the alphavirus from
which the alphavirus replicon particles are derived can be Venezuelan Equine
Encephalitis (VEE) virus, desirably an attenuated VEE virus, which expresses TRP2
in the subject. VEE virus or other alphavirus-derived alphavirus replicon particles
(ARPs) can also be engineered for the production of IL-1 2 or other cytokine. Where
there are ARPs expressing IL-12 administered in conjunction with the TRP2
expressing ARP preparation, the dose of the TRP2-expressing VRP is most
preferably equal to or greater than the dose of VEE replicon particles expressing IL
12.
                      BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0011]     Figure 1A is a diagram of the VEE (mouse) TRP2 replicon. Starting at the
T7 promoter and moving clockwise, the solid arrows represent the four VEE viral
nonstructural protein genes (nsP1-nsP4), the murine TRP-2 gene and the kanamycin
resistance gene (KNr), respectively. Figure 1B is a diagram of the corresponding
human construct.
[0012]     Figure 2 shows the results of an experiment designed to determine which
of the indicated melanoma differentiation antigens works best when administered via
VRP expression. For this purpose, Groups of 10 mice were vaccinated according to
the schedule indicated, and then challenged i.d. with 7.5x10 4 B16 melanoma cells on
the right flank. Tumor growth was monitored every two-three days for 80 days.
Tumor free survival is plotted. In two independent experiments we observed that
VRP-TRP2 works significantly better than VRP-tyrosinase and VRP-gp100. 30% of
the mice treated withVRP-TRP2 were still tumor free 80 days after challenge.
[0013]     Figure 3 shows the results of an experiment which determined whether
combining the three different VRP preparations (VRP-tyr, VRP-gpl 00, VRP-TRP2)
was more effective than using VRP-TRP2 alone. For this purpose, groups of 15
                                          A nf AQ

   WO 20101118252                                                    PCT/US2010/030423
mice were vaccinated as described in the previous figure. Surprisingly, these
experiments indicated that, although the combination of VRP-tyrosinase+VRP-gp100
had a significantly better antitumor effect as compared to VRP-GFP, they were not
as effective as VRP-TRP2 alone (left panel). Furthermore, the combination of the
three different antigens does not increase the efficacy of VRP-TRP2 when
administered as a single agent (right panel).
[0014]     Figure 4 provides the results of a representative experiment where the
CD8+T cell response to the vaccine was analyzed. Mice were treated as indicated,
with VRP-TRP2, VRP-GP100, the immunodominant TRP2 peptide (TRP2-181)
emulsified in titermax (a commercial adjuvant), or left untreated. At week 5 CD8+ T
cells were purified from the spleen and re-stimulated with gpl 00-15 peptide, TRP2
181 peptide, irradiated B16 cells or not re-stimulated (n.r.). IFNy-secreting CD8+ T
cells were analyzed using the ELISPOT assay. Each dot represents an individual
mouse; mean and SEM are also indicated. These experiments indicate that VRP
TRP2 can induce CD8+ T cells specific for the 181 epitope and that these CD8+ T
cells can recognize B16 cells. VRP-gp100 is also able to activate gp-100 specific
CD8+ T cells, but these cells are unable to recognize B16 cells. Tumor specific CD8
T cell responses induced by VRP-TRP2 are significantly higher than those induced
by VRP-gpl 00.
[0015]     Figure 5 shows the results for analysis of the B cell response induced by
the vaccine. Mice were treated as shown, and at week 5, sera were extracted from
peripheral blood and analyzed by standard ELISA. On the x-axis is indicated the
dilution of the sera (titer). Each symbol represents an individual mouse. This
experiment is representative of several VRP-TRP2 induced detectable antibody
responses specific for TRP2.
[0016]     Figure 6A shows results for experiments designed to reveal which arm of
the adaptive immune response is more relevant in mediating tumor protection in the
prophylactic model. In this experiment mice were vaccinated as per the schedule
shown, but after the last immunization and prior to tumor inoculation, CD8+ or CD4+
T cells were depleted by administering depleting antibodies. This experiment
(representative of two) suggests that the anti-tumor effect of VRP-TRP2 prophylactic
                                          F nf AQ

   WO 20101118252                                                    PCT/US2010/030423
administration does not depend on the CD8+ T cell responses that it is able to
induce.
[0017]     Figure 6B shows the results for further experiments designed to analyze
the role of the T- lymphocytes and other immune cells in mediating tumor protection.
Mice were vaccinated as per the schedule shown, but after the last immunization,
CD8+ and CD4+ T cells, or Natural Killer (NK) and Natural Killer T (NKT) cells, were
depleted by administering the appropriate depleting antibodies for an extended
period of time, both before and after B1 6 tumor cell inoculation. Without wishing to
be bound by any particular theory, it is believed that this experiment (representative
of two) shows that the anti-tumor effect of VRP-TRP2 does not depend on the
induction of NK and NKT cells, but that it does, at least in part, depend on the
combined action of vaccine-induced CD8+ and CD4+ T cells.
[0018]     Figure 6C shows the results for additional experiments designed to assess
the contribution of CD8+ and CD4+ T lymphocytes and other immune cells in
mediating tumor protection. Wild-type (WT), MHC I -deficient, or MHC II-deficient
mice (which lack CD4+ T lymphocytes) were vaccinated as per the schedule shown,
before the inoculation of B1 6 tumor cells. Without wishing to be bound by any
particular theory, it is believed that MHC II expression is necessary for the anti-tumor
effect of VRP-TRP2. By contrast, the lack of MHC I decreases the anti-tumor effect
of the vaccine but does not completely eliminate it.
[0019]     Figure 6D shows the results for experiments designed to reveal the role of
IgGs in mediating tumor protection.     Groups of mice were vaccinated three times
two weeks apart with VRP encoding GFP, TRP2, gp100 or tyr. One week after the
last immunization, mice were bled to obtain IgG-containing sera. The sera were then
transferred into recipient animals which were inoculated with B16 tumor cells.
Without wishing to be bound by any particular theory, it is believed that sera
containing anti-TRP2 IgG elicited by the VRP-TRP2 vaccine has anti-tumor
properties.
[0020]     Figure 6E shows additional results for experiments designed to reveal the
role of IgGs in mediating tumor protection. Mice deficient in the Fc common gamma
chain receptor (FcgR-I-) were vaccinated prior to inoculation with B16 tumor cells.
                                          R nf AQ

   WO 20101118252                                                     PCT/US2010/030423
Control littermates were animals that were heterozygous for the deletions were used
(FcgR+/-). This experiment indicates that expression of FcgR is an important
requirement to achieve a potent anti-tumor effect.
[0021]     Figure 7 shows the results of experiments designed to evaluate the efficacy
of VRP-TRP2 in a therapeutic setting, where injection of the VRPs is started one day
after intradermal challenge with B16 melanoma cells (skin model). Mice and tumors
are analyzed as described.
[0022]     Figure 8 shows the results of an experiment to examine the efficacy of
VRP-TRP2 in a treatment model where B16 cells were injected intravenously (i.v.).
Following i.v. injection, B16 cells grow primarily in the lung, where they rapidly form
nodules (lung model). Typically, 20 to 30 days after B1 6 cell i.v. injection, mice die
with large tumor masses in the lungs. Mice were first challenged i.v. with B16 cells
and then treated with VRP-TRP2 as indicated. 24 days after tumor challenge, mice
were sacrificed, and lungs analyzed for the presence of lung nodules. 9-10 mice per
group were analyzed; lung weight is reported and representative examples are
imaged. Mice treated with control VRP-GFP (irrelevant antigen) had very large
tumors in the lungs; by contrast VRP-TRP2 treated mice were tumor free or had few
very small surface nodules.
[0023]     Figure 9 shows the efficacy of VRP-TRP2 in a treatment model where B1 6
cells were injected intradermally, and treatments were started a different time points
after B16 cell injection (skin model, time course). Tumor free survival is reported.
Groups of 15 mice were either untreated (naive), treated with VRP-GFP weekly from
day 1, or treated with VRP-TRP2 weekly starting from day 1, day 3 or day 5. This
experiment was done to evaluate how late the treatment could be started and still
provide a significant anti-tumor effect. Tumor free survival is reported in the chart.
Each group of treatment had 10 mice, p= 0.01.
[0024]     Figure 10 presents the results of an experiment designed to characterize
the tumor infiltrate after vaccination with VRP-TRP2, thereby providing an in vivo
analysis of the immune reaction elicited by the vaccine. B1 6 tumor cells were
inoculated into mice which had been previously vaccinated with the indicated VRP,
or left untreated (naive). Seven days following the B1 6 tumor cell inoculation, tumor
                                           7 nf AQ

    WO 20101118252                                                        PCT/US2010/030423
masses were resected and processed for flow cytometric analysis. Panel (a);
Representative picture of the tumor masses after resection; Panel (b) Representative
dot plots illustrating the flow cytometric strategy utilized for the analysis; Panel (c)
Quantification of the indicated population of the types of immune cells infiltrating the
tumor (representative of 4-5 mice per group analyzed).
                     DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
[0025]     There is a need in the art for cost-effective, potent and efficacious
pharmaceutical compositions for the treatment of a devastating cancer such as
melanoma and/or for reducing the incidence, metastasis and/or severity of a cancer
such as melanoma and for increasing survival time after onset of melanoma.
Provided herein is an RNA replicon vector system derived from an attenuated
alphavirus engineered to produce single-cycle, propagation-defective virus-like
alphavirus replicon particle (ARP) containing a self-replicating RNA (replicon)
expressing the melanoma antigen dopachrome tautomerase (DCT, also known as
TRP2). When inoculated into humans and/or animals, these ARP compositions
significantly enhance or induce the humoral and cellular immune responses to
melanoma cells, metastatic melanoma cells and tumors. It is particularly important
to generate a rapid and strong response to the melanoma cells and tumors in order
to increase survival time after diagnosis, delay recurrence, reduce the severity of the
cancer and its effects, and/or reduce the intensity and occurrence of this cancer and
its effects, which is notoriously difficult to treat, especially if advanced. Additionally,
administration of such compositions to subjects not yet having melanoma, e.g., those
subjects that may be at high risk for developing melanoma, prevents or reduces the
incidence and/or severity of melanoma.
[0026]     Immunization protocols can have repeated administrations or single
administrations, and a second or subsequent dose can be of a different species of
TRP2 and or it can comprise a different modality or an additional modality as the
initial VRP-TRP2 dosage. Subsequent doses can also be of a different amount,
either more or less, than the initial dose administered.
                                             R nf AQ

    WO 20101118252                                                    PCT/US2010/030423
[0027]     Melanocyte differentiation antigens are attractive candidates for melanoma
immunotherapy, but because they are expressed by malignant cells as well as their
normal counterpart eliciting effective immune responses is challenging.
[0028]     The use of an alphavirus replicon vector system as an immunotherapy to
prevent or treat melanoma and other TRP2-expressing cancers is described herein.
Use of propagation-defective virus-like replicon particles (VRP) based on an
attenuated strain of Venezuelan equine encephalitis (VEE) virus is especially
attractive because VRP express heterologous proteins to high levels and target
expression to dendritic cells. VRP vaccines have been shown to elicit both humoral
and cellular immune responses to the vectored gene products in many animal
disease models and in phase 1/11 clinical trials.
[0029]     The immunogenic protein can be a full-length dopachrome tautomerase
(DCT, TRP2) TRP2 protein or an immunogenic fragment thereof. In the alphavirus
replicon particle nucleic acid, the TRP2 can be from the same species as that to
which the immunogenic composition comprising the alphavirus replicon particles is
administered (syngeneic administration) or it can be from a different species
(allogeneic administration). A TRP2 protein which varies in sequence from that of
the subject but which is derived from the same species as the subject can also be
expressed by the VRP composition.
[0030]     The efficacies of VEE VRP compositions expressing the melanocyte
differentiation antigens tyrosinase, gpl 00 or TRP-2 were analyzed against challenge
with cells of the poorly immunogenic and highly aggressive B16 murine melanoma.
TRP-2-expressing VRP were the most effective in delaying tumor occurrence when
compared to the other antigens tested. Although both TRP2-specific CD8+ T cells
and TRP2-specific IgG are induced, the data suggest that B-cells may play a more
important role in the effector phase of tumor protection, at least in the prophylactic
approach. These studies demonstrate that VRP vaccines present a useful approach
for melanoma immunotherapy and prophylaxis.
[0031]     One aspect of the methods and compositions provided herein is the
surprising ability of TRP2 immune response to the melanoma cells, with the result
that in the B16 mouse models, there is significant tumor regression and prolonged
                                          Q nf AQ

   WO 20101118252                                                    PCT/US2010/030423
survival in mice treated after tumor development and postponed or no tumor
development in mice challenged with the B16 melanoma cells after vaccination with
the TRP2- expressing ARPs. Without wishing to be bound by theory, it is believed
that the administration of the TRP2-expressing ARPs enhanced the magnitude of the
humoral, or antibody, responses to the melanoma cells as well as the T cell
response to those cells. Similar benefit is achieved in humans suffering from
melanoma or in humans where protection against melanoma is desired.
[0032]     The role for the induction of humoral responses by TRP2-expressing ARPs
is supported by the observation that sera from mice immunized with TRP2
expressing ARP delayed tumor growth as compared to sera from mice immunized
with ARPs expressing other antigens. The induction of TRP-2 specific IgG is
dependent on MHC II, and the anti-tumor effect involves signaling through activating
Fc receptors.
[0033]     Immunization with TRP2-expressing ARPs induced a stronger CD8+ T-cell
response against the TRP-2 18 1 immunodominant epitope as compared to the
response elicted by VRPs expressing other melanocyte differentiation antigens.
Additionally, immunization with TRP-2-expressing ARPs significantly increased the
percentage of infiltrating CD45+ immune cells in the infiltrate of tumors implanted
after vaccination, and the quality of the CD45+ response was changed, since the
percentage of CD3+CD8+ T cells recruited at the tumor site was significantly
enhanced, indicating that the B16 tumor cell-reactive CD8+ T cells were trafficking to
the tumor in vivo.
[0034]     Such a synergistic activation of both IgGs and CD8+ T cell effector
mechanisms supports the particular efficacy of TRP-2 expressing ARPs.
[0035]     It is understood that the immunization approach described herein can be
combined with surgery and/or chemotherapeutic approaches in the treatment of a
diagnosed melanoma.
[0036]     In certain embodiments, the present methods are practiced as part of a
heterologous prime-boost immunization strategy, in which the "priming"
immunization, comprising the initial administration of one or more antigens to an
animal, especially a human patient, in one form (or "modality") in preparation for
                                          10 nf AQ

   WO 20101118252                                                     PCT/US2010/030423
subsequent administration(s) (often referred to as "boosting") of the same antigen in
a different form, or modality. Specifically, the term "priming", or alternatively
"initiating" or "activating" an immune response or "enhancing" and "potentiating",
defines a first immunization delivering an antigen which induces an immune
response to the desired antigen and recalls a higher level of immune response to the
desired antigen upon subsequent re-immunization with the same antigen when
administered in the context of a different vaccine delivery system (i.e. form or
modality). The forms of antigen to be administered can comprise alphavirus vectors,
immunogens derived from cultured or other melanoma cells or of the relevant tumor,
for example from the subject if it is a melanoma sufferer, recombinant TRP2 protein,
synthetic peptides comprising at least one epitope of TRP2, live, attenuated or killed
organisms or extracts where the TRP2 antigen is expressed, naked nucleic acids,
nucleic acids formulated with lipid-containing moieties, pox vectors, adenoviral
vectors, herpesvirus vectors, flavivirus vectors, vesicular stomatitis virus vectors,
paramyxoviral vectors, parvovirus vectors, papovavirus vectors, and retroviral
vectors, where a nucleic acid or vector expresses the TRP2 antigen in cells of the
subject into which it is administered. The viral vectors can be virus-like particles or
viral nucleic acids capable of expressing the TRP2 antigen. In the methods
described herein, the priming step is the administration of a composition that
comprises the TRP2- expressing ARP. Following the priming immunization a
"boosting immunization", or a "boost", is administered, a composition delivering the
same antigen as encoded in the priming immunization. The boost is sometimes
referred to as an anamnestic response, i.e., an immune response in a previously
sensitized animal. Multiple boosts can be administered, utilizing different or the
same amounts for each boost. Adjuvants and/or cytokines can be administered
together with the immunogenic composition.
[0037]      Illustrating the need for improvements in prophylaxis and/or treatment of
melanoma, over 60,000 Americans are diagnosed with melanoma every year, and
this disease causes over 8000 deaths per year (National Cancer Institute, 2008).
Melanoma is an especially serious disease, especially if not detected and treated
early in the progression of the disease, at least in part because untreated melanoma
often metastasizes aggressively. In addition, melanoma often does not respond well
to chemotherapeutic regimens.
                                           11 nffAQ

    WO 20101118252                                                     PCT/US2010/030423
[0038]     ARP expressing TRP2 serve as useful immunogens in treatment and/or
vaccination regimens to reduce incidence of melanoma and/or to ameliorate subject
clinical status or slow the melanoma disease process. In order to determine if ARPs
designed to express TRP2 could serve as functional immune-enhancing delivery
agents, the coding sequence encoding TRP2 was cloned into the ARP replicon DNA
plasmid, and the transcribed RNAs were packaged into VRPs. The procedures used
herein for making TRP2-expressing VRP, which are based on a replicon-helper
system, are described in detail in U.S. Patent Nos. 7,078,218, 7,045,335, 7,425,337,
7,442,381 and U.S. Published Application 2009-0075384. Mice were immunized
with immunogenic compositions containing VRPs which express the TRP2
melanoma antigen. Mice were then monitored for humoral responses to the antigen,
and cellular responses were measured in spleens obtained by necropsy performed
at the end of the studies. Surprisingly, VRP expressing TRP2 were particularly
potent in inducing not only cellular but also humoral responses active against the
melanoma tumor cells. No additional antigen type or antibody appeared to be
required to generate a beneficial effect in this mouse melanoma model for human
disease.
[0039]     In general, VRP vaccines direct the expression of the gene of interest to
the draining lymph node, which also is the site where antigen presentation to naive T
cells occurs. Prior PCR experiments with VRPS expressing a protein of interest
have shown that VRP expression of the gene of interest continues for a few days
until the expressing cell succumbs. While soluble protein rapidly disappears by
degradation as well as diffusion. VRP-mediated expression, on the other hand, is
transient and since there is no DNA stage in the alphavirus replicon cycle, there is no
risk of integration.
[0040]     The optimal dose for a given subject and a given disease target is easily
determined based on the teachings herein. A range of ARPs expressing TRP2, in a
dosage range from 104 to    1011, optionally 107 to 1010, especially 107, 5 x 107, 108, 5 x
108, 109, 5 x 109 or 1010, can be tested. The optimal dose for enhancing cellular
responses may not always be the optimal dose for enhancing humoral responses; if
both responses are desired, it may be advantageous to test several concentrations
                                          19 nf AQ

    WO 20101118252                                                   PCT/US2010/030423
of TRP2-ARPs within the range given to determine the optimal overall immune
response.
[0041]      The following discussion is provided to improve the understanding of the
present disclosure by one of ordinary skill in the relevant art.
[0042]       In the context of the present application, nm means nanometer, mL means
milliliter, VEE means Venezuelan Equine Encephalitis Virus, EMC means
Encephalomyocarditis Virus, BHK means baby hamster kidney cells, HA means
hemagglutinin gene, GFP means green fluorescent protein gene, N means
nucleocapsid, FACS means fluorescence activated cell sorter, IRES means internal
ribosome entry site, pfu means plaque forming units, iu means infectious units, and
FBS means Fetal Bovine Serum. The expression "E2 amino acid (e.g., Lys, Thr,
etc.) number" indicates designated amino acid at the designated residue of the E2
protein, and is also used to refer to amino acids at specific residues in the E3 or El
proteins. TRP2 refers to dopachrome tautomerase (also known as the "slaty" locus,
DCL or TRP2/DCL).
[0043]      As used herein, the term "alphavirus" has its conventional meaning in the
art, and includes the various species such as VEE Virus, Semliki Forest Virus (SFV),
Sindbis, Ross River Virus, Western Equine Encephalitis Virus, Eastern Equine
Encephalitis Virus, Chikungunya Virus, S.A. AR86, Everglades Virus, Mucambo
Virus, Barmah Forest Virus, Middleburg Virus, Pixuna Virus, O'nyong-nyong Virus,
Getah Virus, Sagiyama Virus, Bebaru Virus, Mayaro Virus, Una Virus, Aura Virus,
Whataroa Virus, Banbanki Virus, Kyzylagach Virus, Highlands J Virus, Fort Morgan
Virus, Ndumu Virus, and Buggy Creek Virus. Alphaviruses useful in the constructs
and methods described herein are VEE, S.A. AR86, Sindbis (e.g. TR339, see U.S.
Patent No. 6,008,035), and SFV. See also WO 2008/058035 and WO 2008/085557.
[0044]      The terms "5' alphavirus replication recognition sequence" and "3'
alphavirus replication recognition sequence" refer to the sequences found in
alphaviruses, or sequences derived therefrom, that are recognized by the
nonstructural alphavirus replicase proteins and lead to replication of viral RNA.
These are sometimes referred to as the 5' and 3' ends, or alphavirus 5' and 3'
sequences. The use of these 5' and 3' ends results in replication of the RNA
                                            1q~ n-fAQ

   WO 20101118252                                                     PCT/US2010/030423
sequence encoded between the two ends. The 3' alphavirus replication recognition
sequence as found in the alphavirus is typically approximately 300 nucleotides in
length, which contains a more well defined, minimal 3' replication recognition
sequence. The minimal 3' replication recognition sequence, conserved among
alphaviruses, is a 19 nucleotide sequence (Hill et al., J. Virology, 2693-2704, 1997).
These sequences can be modified by standard molecular biological techniques to
further minimize the potential for recombination or to introduce cloning sites, with the
proviso that they must be recognized by the alphavirus replication machinery.
[0045]    The term "minimal 5' alphavirus replication recognition sequence" refers to
the minimal sequence that allows recognition by the nonstructural proteins of the
alphavirus but does not result in significant packaging/recombination of RNA
molecules containing the sequence. In a preferred embodiment, the minimal 5'
alphavirus replication recognition sequence results in a fifty to one-hundred fold
decrease in the observed frequency of packaging/recombination of the RNA
containing that sequence. Packaging/recombination of helpers can be assessed by
several methods, e.g. the method described by Lu and Silver (J. Virol. Methods
2001, 91(1): 59-65).
[0046]    The terms "alphavirus RNA replicon", "alphavirus replicon RNA",
"alphavirus RNA vector replicon", and "vector replicon RNA" are used
interchangeably to refer to an RNA molecule expressing nonstructural protein genes
such that it can direct its own replication (amplification) and comprises, at a
minimum, 5' and 3' alphavirus replication recognition sequences (which may be the
minimal sequences, as defined above, but may alternatively be the entire regions
from the alphavirus), coding sequences for alphavirus nonstructural proteins, and a
polyadenylation tract. It may additionally contain one or more elements to direct the
expression, meaning transcription and translation, of a heterologous RNA sequence.
It may also be engineered to express alphavirus structural proteins. Johnston et al.,
Polo et al. (as cited in the background), and Smith et al. (U.S. Patent Nos.
7,045,335, 7,078,218, 7,425,337 and 7,442,381) describe numerous constructs for
such alphavirus RNA replicons, and such constructs are incorporated herein by
reference. Specific embodiments of the alphavirus RNA replicons may contain one
or more attenuating mutations, an attenuating mutation being a nucleotide deletion,
                                           1A nffAQ

   WO 20101118252                                                      PCT/US2010/030423
addition, or substitution of one or more nucleotide(s), or a mutation that comprises
rearrangement or chimeric construction which results in a loss of virulence in a live
virus containing the mutation as compared to the appropriate wild-type alphavirus.
Examples of an attenuating nucleotide substitution (resulting in an amino acid
change in the replicon) include a mutation at nsP1 amino acid position 538, nsP2
amino acid position 96, or nsP2 amino acid position 372 in the alphavirus S.A.AR86,
and an example of an attenuating mutation in the non-coding region of the replicon
nucleic acid is the substitution of A or C at nucleotide 3 in VEE.
[0047]     The terms "alphavirus structural protein/protein(s)" refers to one or a
combination of the structural proteins encoded by alphaviruses. These are produced
by the virus as a polyprotein and are represented generally in the literature as C-E3
E2-6k-El.     E3 and 6k serve as membrane translocation/transport signals for the two
glycoproteins, E2 and El. Thus, use of the term El herein can refer to El, E3-El,
6k-El, or E3-6k-El, and use of the term E2 herein can refer to E2, E3-E2, 6k-E2, or
E3-6k-E2. Attenuating mutations can be introduced into any one or more of the
alphavirus structural proteins.
[0048]     The term "helper(s)" or "helper construct(s)", refer to a nucleic acid
molecule that is capable of expressing one or more alphavirus structural proteins.
Johnston et al., Polo et al. (as cited in the background), Smith et al. (U.S. Patent No.
7,045,335 and 7,078,218) and Kamrud et al. (U.S. Published Application 2009
0075384) describe numerous helper constructs useful for expressing alphavirus
structural proteins in the production of ARPs.
[0049]     The terms "helper cell" and "packaging cell" are used interchangeably
herein and refer to the cell in which alphavirus replicon particles are produced. The
helper cell comprises a set of helpers that encode one or more alphavirus structural
proteins. As disclosed herein, the helpers may be RNA or DNA. The cell can be any
cell that is alphavirus-permissive, i.e. cells that are capable of producing alphavirus
particles upon introduction of a viral RNA transcript. Alphavirus-permissive cells
include, but are not limited to, Vero, baby hamster kidney (BHK), 293, 293T, chicken
embryo fibroblast (CEF), and Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cells. In certain
embodiments, the helper or packaging cell may additionally include a heterologous
RNA-dependent RNA polymerase and/or a sequence-specific protease. The nucleic
                                           1~C, fAQ

   WO 20101118252                                                     PCT/US2010/030423
acids encoding alphavirus structural proteins can be present in the helper cell
transiently or by stable integration into the genome of the helper cell. The nucleic
acid encoding the alphavirus structural proteins that are used to produce alphavirus
particles can be under the control of constitutive and/or inducible promoters. In one
embodiment, the alpha virus structural protein coding sequences can be provided on
a single DNA helper (see Smith et al. U.S. Patent No. 7,045,335) or as two helper
constructs comprising an IRES element in which the translation of these coding
sequences can be controlled by the activity of an IRES element. In such
embodiments, the IRES element can be active in the specific helper cell type and not
active, or minimally active in other cells types. In particular embodiments, the helper
cells comprise nucleic acid sequences encoding the alphavirus structural proteins in
a combination and/or amount sufficient to produce an alphavirus particle when a
recombinant replicon nucleic acid is introduced into the cell under conditions
whereby the alphavirus structural proteins are produced and the recombinant
replicon nucleic acid is packaged into alphavirus particles disclosed herein.
[0050]     The terms "alphavirus replicon particles", "virus replicon particles" or
"recombinant alphavirus particles", used interchangeably herein, mean a virion-like
structural complex incorporating an alphavirus replicon RNA that expresses one or
more heterologous RNA sequences. Typically, the virion-like structural complex
includes one or more alphavirus structural proteins embedded in a lipid envelope
enclosing a nucleocapsid that in turn encloses the RNA. The lipid envelope is
typically derived from the plasma membrane of the cell in which the particles are
produced. Preferably, the alphavirus replicon RNA is surrounded by a nucleocapsid
structure comprised of the alphavirus capsid protein, and the alphavirus
glycoproteins are embedded in the cell-derived lipid envelope. The structural
proteins and replicon RNA may be derived from the same or different alphaviruses.
In a specific embodiment, the replicon RNA and structural proteins are from VEE,
e.g. see Rayner et al., U.S. Patent Publication 2005-0266550. In another
embodiment, the replicon RNA is derived from VEE and the structural proteins are
derived from Sindbis Virus (see, e.g. Dubensky et al., U.S. Patent No. 6,376,236).
The alphavirus replicon particles are infectious but propagation-defective, i.e. the
replicon RNA cannot propagate beyond the host cell into which the particles initially
                                           1r, fAQ

    WO 20101118252                                                     PCT/US2010/030423
infect, in the absence of the helper nucleic acid(s) encoding the alphavirus structural
proteins.
[0051]      A promoter for directing transcription of RNA from DNA, i.e. a DNA
dependent RNA polymerase, is employed to produce the alphavirus replicon and
helper nucleic acids provided herein. In the present context, a promoter is a
sequence of nucleotides recognized by a polymerase and sufficient to cause
transcription of an associated (downstream) sequence. In some embodiments, the
promoter is constitutive (see below). Alternatively, the promoter may be regulated,
i.e., not constitutively acting to cause transcription of the associated sequence. If
inducible, there are sequences present which mediate regulation of expression so
that the associated sequence is transcribed only when (i) an inducer molecule is
present in the medium in or on which the cells are cultivated, or (ii) conditions to
which the cells are exposed are changed to be inducing conditions. In the present
context, a transcription regulatory sequence includes a promoter sequence and can
further include cis-active sequences for regulated expression of an associated
sequence in response to environmental signals.
[0052]      In certain embodiments of replicon and helper RNAs, transcription and
translation are controlled separately by different regulatory elements. The replicon
contains a promoter that directs transcription; an IRES element; and a coding
sequence (e.g. for a heterologous protein or fragment), in which the IRES element is
operably located such that translation of the coding sequence is via a cap
independent mechanism directed by the IRES element and not via a cap-dependent
mechanism (see U.S. Patent No. 7,442,381 to Smith et al.). The term "transcription"
as used herein includes the production of RNA from an alphavirus subgenomic
promoter of a recombinant replicon nucleic acid, which can itself be an RNA
molecule. That is, the subgenomic promoter on a recombinant replicon or helper
RNA molecule can direct the transcription of a messenger RNA encoding a
heterologous nucleic acid of interest or an alphavirus structural protein. Separately,
the recombinant replicon or helper nucleic acid can be "replicated," i.e., copied from
the 5' replication recognition sequence through to the replication recognition
sequence.
                                           17 nf AQ

    WO 20101118252                                                     PCT/US2010/030423
[0053]      In RNA helper embodiments and to produce the replicon RNA, a promoter
is utilized to synthesize RNA in an in vitro transcription reaction, and specific
promoters suitable for this use include the SP6, T7, and T3 RNA polymerase
promoters. In the DNA helper embodiments, the promoter functions within a cell to
direct transcription of RNA. Potential promoters for in vivo transcription of the
construct include eukaryotic promoters such as RNA polymerase 11promoters, RNA
polymerase Ill promoters, or viral promoters such as MMTV and MoSV LTR, SV40
early region, RSV or CMV. Many other suitable mammalian and viral promoters are
available in the art. Alternatively, DNA dependent RNA polymerase promoters from
bacteria or bacteriophage, e.g. SP6, T7, and T3, may be employed for use in vivo,
with the matching RNA polymerase being provided to the cell, either via a separate
plasmid, RNA vector, or viral vector. In a specific embodiment, the matching RNA
polymerase can be stably transformed into a helper cell line under the control of an
inducible promoter.
[0054]      In certain constructs, control of nucleic acid expression at the level of
translation is accomplished by introducing an internal ribosome entry site (IRES)
downstream of the promoter, e.g. the alphavirus 26S subgenomic promoter, and
upstream of the coding sequence, e.g. for the heterologous sequence or an
alphavirus structural protein, to be translated. The IRES element is positioned so
that it directs translation of the mRNA, thereby minimizing, limiting or preventing
initiation of translation of the mRNA from the methyl-7-guanosine (5')pppN structure
present at the 5' end of the subgenomic mRNA (the "cap"). These constructs result
in the IRES controlling translation of a heterologous sequence independently of
promoter-driven transcription. IRESes from many different sources can be employed,
including viral IRES elements from picornaviruses, e.g., poliovirus (PV) or the human
enterovirus 71, e.g. strains 7423/MS/87 and BrCr thereof; from
encephalomyocarditis virus (EMCV); from foot-and-mouth disease virus (FMDV);
from flaviviruses, e.g., hepatitis C virus (HCV); from pestiviruses, e.g., classical
swine fever virus (CSFV); from retroviruses, e.g., murine leukemia virus (MLV); from
lentiviruses, e.g., simian immunodeficiency virus (SIV); from cellular mRNA IRES
elements such as those from translation initiation factors, e.g., eIF4G or DAP5; from
transcription factors, e.g., c-Myc or NF-KB-repressing factor (NRF); from growth
factors, e.g., vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), fibroblast growth factor
                                            1R nf AQ

    WO 20101118252                                                    PCT/US2010/030423
(FGF-2) and platelet-derived growth factor B (PDGF B); from homeotic genes, e.g.,
Antennapedia; from survival proteins, e.g., X-linked inhibitor of apoptosis (XIAP) or
Apaf-1; from chaperones, e.g., immunoglobulin heavy-chain binding protein BiP,
plant viruses, as well as any other IRES elements now known or later.
[0055]     Any amino acids which occur in the amino acid sequences referred to in
the specification have their usual three- and one-letter abbreviations routinely used
in the art: A, Ala, Alanine; C, Cys, Cysteine; D, Asp, Aspartic Acid; E, Glu, Glutamic
Acid; F, Phe, Phenylalanine; G, Gly, Glycine; H, His, Histidine; I, lle, Isoleucine; K,
Lys, Lysine; L, Leu, Leucine; M, Met, Methionine; N, Asn, Asparagine; P, Pro,
Proline; Q, GIn, Glutamine; R, Arg, Arginine; S, Ser, Serine; T, Thr, Threonine; V,
Val, Valine; W, Try, Tryptophan; Y, Tyr, Tyrosine.
[0056]     As used herein, expression directed by a particular sequence is the
transcription of an associated downstream sequence. If appropriate and desired for
the associated sequence, there the term expression also encompasses translation
(protein synthesis) of the transcribed or introduced RNA. Alternatively, different
sequences can be used to direct transcription and translation.
[0057]     Alphavirus-permissive cells employed in the present methods are cells that,
upon transfection with a complete viral RNA transcript, are capable of producing viral
particles. Alphaviruses have a broad host range. Examples of suitable packaging
cells include, but are not limited to, Vero cells, baby hamster kidney (BHK) cells,
chicken embryo fibroblast cells, DF-1, 293, 293T, Chinese Hamster Ovary (CHO)
cells, and insect cells.
[0058]     The phrases "structural protein" or "alphavirus structural protein" as used
herein refer to one or more of the alphaviral-encoded proteins which are required for
packaging of the RNA replicon, and typically include the capsid protein, El
glycoprotein, and E2 glycoprotein in the mature alphavirus (certain alphaviruses,
such as Semliki Forest Virus, contain an additional protein, E3, in the mature coat).
The term "alphavirus structural protein(s)" refers to one or a combination of the
structural proteins encoded by alphaviruses. These are synthesized (from the viral
genome) as a polyprotein and are represented generally in the literature as C-E3-E2
6k-El.    E3 and 6k serve as membrane translocation/transport signals for the two
                                           10 nffAQ

   WO 20101118252                                                     PCT/US2010/030423
glycoproteins, E2 and El. Thus, use of the term El herein can refer to El, E3-El,
6k-El, or E3-6k-El, and use of the term E2 herein can refer to E2, E3-E2, 6k-E2, or
E3-6k-E2.
[0059]     The structural proteins of the alphavirus are distributed among one or more
helper nucleic acid molecules (e.g., a first helper RNA (or DNA) and a second helper
RNA (or DNA). In addition, one or more structural proteins may be located on the
same molecule as the replicon nucleic acid, provided that at least one structural
protein is deleted from the replicon RNA such that the replicon and resulting
alphavirus particle are replication defective. As used herein, the terms "deleted" or
"deletion" mean either total deletion of the specified segment or the deletion of a
sufficient portion of the specified segment to render the segment inoperative or
nonfunctional, in accordance with standard usage. See, e.g., U.S. Patent No.
4,650,764 to Temin et al. The term "replication defective" as used herein is
synonymous with "propagation-defective", and means that the particles produced in
a given host cell cannot produce progeny particles in the host cell, due to the
absence of the helper function, i.e. the alphavirus structural proteins required for
packaging the replicon nucleic acid. However, the replicon nucleic acid is capable of
replicating itself and being expressed within the host cell into which it has been
introduced.
[0060]     Methods for the economical and efficient production of high yield particles
are described in U.S. Patent No. 7,078,218, issued July 18, 2006, as are specific
attenuated strains and viruses useful for the expression of an expressible IL-12
coding sequence. Methods for preparing dried and reconstituted compositions
containing VEE-related VRPs are described in WO 2008/058035 and U.S. Published
Application 2009/0047255.
[0061]     The helper cell, also referred to as a packaging cell, used to produce the
infectious, replication defective alphavirus particles, must express or be capable of
expressing alphavirus structural proteins sufficient to package the replicon nucleic
acid. The structural proteins can be produced from a set of RNAs, typically two that
are introduced into the helper cell concomitantly with or prior to introduction of the
replicon vector. The first helper RNA includes RNA encoding at least one alphavirus
structural protein but does not encode all alphavirus structural proteins. The first
                                           9 nf AQ

   WO 20101118252                                                       PCT/US2010/030423
helper RNA may comprise RNA encoding the alphavirus El glycoprotein, but not
encoding the alphavirus capsid protein and the alphavirus E2 glycoprotein.
Alternatively, the first helper RNA may comprise RNA encoding the alphavirus E2
glycoprotein, but not encoding the alphavirus capsid protein and the alphavirus El
glycoprotein. In a further embodiment, the first helper RNA may comprise RNA
encoding the alphavirus El glycoprotein and the alphavirus E2 glycoprotein, but not
the alphavirus capsid protein. In a fourth embodiment, the first helper RNA may
comprise RNA encoding the alphavirus capsid, but none of the alphavirus
glycoproteins. In a fifth embodiment, the first helper RNA may comprise RNA
encoding the capsid and one of the glycoproteins, i.e. either El or E2, but not both.
[0062]     In combination with any one of these first helper RNAs, the second helper
RNA encodes at least one alphavirus structural protein not encoded by the first
helper RNA.       For example, where the first helper RNA encodes only the alphavirus
El glycoprotein, the second helper RNA may encode one or both of the alphavirus
capsid protein and the alphavirus E2 glycoprotein. Where the first helper RNA
encodes only the alphavirus capsid protein, the second helper RNA may include
RNA encoding one or both of the alphavirus glycoproteins. Where the first helper
RNA encodes only the alphavirus E2 glycoprotein, the second helper RNA may
encode one or both of the alphavirus capsid protein and the alphavirus El
glycoprotein. Where the first helper RNA encodes both the capsid and alphavirus El
glycoprotein, the second helper RNA may include RNA encoding one or both of the
alphavirus capsid protein and the alphavirus E2 glycoprotein.
[0063]     In the helper nucleic acids, it is understood that these molecules further
comprise sequences necessary for expression (encompassing translation and where
appropriate, transcription or replication signals) of the encoded structural protein
sequences in the helper cells. Such sequences can include, for example, promoters,
(either viral, prokaryotic or eukaryotic, inducible or constitutive), IRES elements, and
5' and 3' viral replicase recognition sequences. Helper nucleic acids with no
promoter can also be advantageous (see U.S. Published Application No. 2009
0075384). In the case of the helper nucleic acids expressing one or more
glycoproteins, it is understood from the art that these sequences are advantageously
expressed with a leader or signal sequence at the N-terminus of the structural
                                            91 nf AQ

    WO 20101118252                                                     PCT/US2010/030423
protein coding region in the nucleic acid constructs. The leader or signal sequence
can be derived from the alphavirus, for example E3 or 6k, or it can be a heterologous
sequence such as a tissue plasminogen activator signal peptide or a synthetic
sequence. Thus, as an example, a first helper nucleic acid may be an RNA
molecule encoding capsid-E3-E1, and the second helper nucleic acid may be an
RNA molecule encoding capsid-E3-E2. Alternatively, the first helper RNA can
encode capsid alone, and the second helper RNA can encode E3-E2-6k-E1.
Additionally, the packaging signal or "encapsidation sequence" that is present in the
viral genome is not present in all of the helper nucleic acids. Preferably, the
packaging signal(s) are deleted from all of the helper nucleic acids.
[0064]     These RNA helpers can be introduced into the cells in a number of ways.
They can be expressed from one or more expression cassettes that have been
stably transformed into the cells, thereby establishing packaging cell lines (see, for
example, U.S. Patent No. 6,242,259). Alternatively, the RNAs can be introduced as
RNA or DNA molecules that can be expressed in the helper cell without integrating
into the cell genome. Methods of introduction include electroporation, viral vectors
(e.g. SV40, adenovirus, nodavirus, astrovirus), and lipid-mediated transfection.
[0065]     An alternative to multiple helper RNAs is the use of a single DNA molecule,
which encodes all the polypeptides necessary for packaging the viral replicon RNA
into infective alphavirus replicon particles (see U.S. Patent No. 7,045,335). The
single DNA helper can be introduced into the packaging cell by any means known to
the art, including but not limited to electroporation, lipid-mediated transfection
(lipofection), viral vectored (e.g. adenovirus or SV-40), or calcium phosphate
mediated transfection. Preferably, the DNA is introduced via the electroporation
based methods. The DNA is typically electroporated into cells with a decrease in
voltage and an increase in capacitance, as compared to that required for the uptake
of RNA. In all electroporation reactions, the value for the voltage and capacitance
must be set so as to avoid destroying the ability of the packaging (host) cells to
produce infective alphavirus particles. Alternatively, the helper function, in this
format and under an inducible promoter, can be incorporated into the packaging cell
genome prior to the introduction/expression of the RNA vector replicon, and then
                                           99 n-f AQ

    WO 20101118252                                                     PCT/US2010/030423
induced with the appropriate stimulus just prior to, concomitant with, or after the
introduction of the RNA vector replicon.
[0066]    Advantageously, one or more of the nucleic acids encoding the alphavirus
structural proteins, i.e., the capsid, El glycoprotein and E2 glycoprotein, or the
replicon construct, contains one or more attenuating mutations. The phrases
"attenuating mutation" and "attenuating amino acid," as used herein, mean a
nucleotide mutation (which may or may not be in a region of the viral genome
encoding polypeptides) or an amino acid coded for by a nucleotide mutation, which
in the context of a live virus, result in a decreased probability of the alphavirus
causing disease in its host (i.e., a loss of virulence), in accordance with standard
terminology in the art, See, e.g., B. Davis, et al., Microbiology 156-158, (4th ed.
1990), whether the mutation be a substitution mutation, or an in-frame deletion or
addition mutation. The phrase "attenuating mutation" excludes mutations which
would be lethal to the virus, unless such a mutation is used in combination with a
"restoring" mutation which renders the virus viable, albeit attenuated. Methods for
identifying suitable attenuating mutations in the alphavirus genome are known in the
art. Olmsted et al. (1984; Science 225:424) describes a method of identifying
attenuating mutations in Sindbis virus by selecting for rapid growth in cell culture.
Johnston and Smith (1988; Virology 162:437) describe the identification of
attenuating mutations in VEE by applying direct selective pressure for accelerated
penetration of BHK cells. Attenuating mutations in alphaviruses have been
described in the art, e.g. White et al. 2001 J. Virology 75:3706; Kinney et al. 1989
Virology 70:19; Heise et al. 2000 J. Virology 74:4207; Bernard et al 2000 Virology
276:93; Smith et al 2001 J. Virology 75:11196; Heidner and Johnston 1994 J.
Virology 68:8064; Klimstra et al. 1999 J. Virology 73:10387; Glasgow et al. 1991
Virology 185:741; Polo and Johnston 1990 J. Virology 64:4438; and Smerdou and
Liljestrom 1999 J. Virology 73:1092.
[0067]     In certain embodiments, the replicon RNA comprises at least one
attenuating mutation. In other specific embodiments, the helper nucleic acid(s)
include at least one attenuating mutation. In embodiments comprising two helper
nucleic acid molecules, at least one molecule includes at least one attenuating
mutation, or both can encode at least one attenuating mutation. Alternatively, the
                                            9q~ n-f AQ

   WO 20101118252                                                     PCT/US2010/030423
helper nucleic acid, or at least one of the first or second helper nucleic acids includes
at least two, or multiple, attenuating mutations. Appropriate attenuating mutations
depend upon the alphavirus used. For example, when the alphavirus is VEE,
suitable attenuating mutations may be selected from the group consisting of codons
at E2 amino acid position 76 which specify an attenuating amino acid, preferably
lysine, arginine, or histidine as E2 amino acid 76; codons at E2 amino acid position
120 which specify an attenuating amino acid, preferably lysine as E2 amino acid
120; codons at E2 amino acid position 209 which specify an attenuating amino acid,
preferably lysine, arginine, or histidine as E2 amino acid 209; codons at El amino
acid 272 which specify an attenuating mutation, preferably threonine or serine as El
amino acid 272; codons at El amino acid 81 which specify an attenuating mutation,
preferably isoleucine or leucine as El amino acid 81; and codons at El amino acid
253 which specify an attenuating mutation, preferably serine or threonine as El
amino acid 253. Additional attenuating mutations include deletions or substitution
mutations in the cleavage domain between E3 and E2 such that the E3/E2
polyprotein is not cleaved; this mutation in combination with the mutation at El-253
can be used in the present methods and compositions. Similarly, mutations present
in existing live vaccine strains, e.g. strain TC83 (see Kinney et al., 1989, Virology
170: 19-30, particularly the mutation at nucleotide 3), can be used.
[0068]     Where the alphavirus is the South African Arbovirus No. 86 (S.A. AR86),
suitable attenuating mutations may be selected from the group consisting of codons
at nsP1 amino acid position 538 which specify an attenuating amino acid, preferably
isoleucine as nsP1 amino acid 538; codons at E2 amino acid position 304 which
specify an attenuating amino acid, preferably threonine as E2 amino acid position
304; codons at E2 amino acid position 314 which specify an attenuating amino acid,
preferably lysine as E2 amino acid 314; codons at E2 amino acid position 376 which
specify an attenuating amino acid, preferably alanine as E2 amino acid 376; codons
at E2 amino acid position 372 which specify an attenuating amino acid, preferably
leucine as E2 amino acid 372; codons at nsP2 amino acid position 96 which specify
an attenuating amino acid, preferably glycine as nsP2 amino acid 96; and codons at
nsP2 amino acid position 372 which specify an attenuating amino acid, preferably
valine as nsP2 amino acid 372. Suitable attenuating mutations useful in
                                            9A cnf A1Q

   WO 20101118252                                                     PCT/US2010/030423
embodiments wherein other alphaviruses are employed are known to those skilled in
the art.
[0069]     Attenuating mutations may be introduced into the RNA by performing site
directed mutagenesis on the cDNA which encodes the RNA, in accordance with
known procedures. See, Kunkel, Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 82:488 (1985), the
disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. Alternatively,
mutations may be introduced into the RNA by replacement of homologous restriction
fragments in the cDNA which codes for the RNA, in accordance with known
procedures, or in cDNA copies using mutagenic polymerase chain reaction methods.
[0070]     The alphavirus replicon vector is introduced into cells in culture that allow
replication of alphaviruses and in which the structural proteins of the alphavirus are
also expressed, so that the vector is packaged by the structural proteins into ARPs
which are eventually released from the cell. Methods for the preparation of
infective, propagation-defective, adjuvant alphavirus replicon particles in high yields
are described in U.S. Patent 7,078,218, and formulation methods are described in
WO 2008/058035 and U.S. Published Application US 2009/0047255.
[0071]     As used herein, TRP2 is a protein known to the art. The human melanoma
antigen can have amino acid and coding sequences as set forth below. The mouse
coding and amino acid sequences are given in Tables 1A and 1B, respectively.
Human sequences encoding TRP2 are given in Tables 2A, 3, 4A (see also SEQ ID
NOs:3, 4 and 5). Others are known to the art. It is understood that sequences that
are significantly similar to those provided herein can be used in place of those
provided. Advantageously, substantially similar sequences are 90, 91, 92, 93, 94,
95, 96, 97, 98, 99% identical to the amino acid set forth in SEQ ID NO:6, as
determined using sequence comparison methods well known to the art. There may
be substitutions of amino acids with similar properties (conservative amino
substitutions). For example, glutamate/aspartate;
alanine/leucine/isoluicine/methionine/valine; phenylanine/tyrosine/tryptophan;
histidine/arginine/asparagine/lysine; and serine/threonine representative similar
amino acids. A simple method to calculate percent identity is to align the reference
sequence (SEQ ID NO:6) with the query sequence for maximum matching, and
treating gaps introduced in either sequence for optimizing alignment as
                                          9C, n-f AQ

   WO 20101118252                                                       PCT/US2010/030423
mismatches. Then, the number of matches is divided by total number of residues of
SEQ ID NO:6 plus any mismatch (gaps) introduced into SEQ ID NO:6.
Advantageously, the sequence of a TRP2 used in a particular regimen of ARP
administration has an amino acid sequence substantially the same as that of the
species into which the TRP2-expressing ARPs are administered.
[0072]     It is recognized by those skilled in the art that the coding sequences may
vary due to the degeneracy of the genetic code and codon usage. All synonymous
sequences which code for the antigen or other polypeptide or protein of interest can
be used in the immunization protocols described herein, but proteins with limited
variation from a specifically exemplified sequence can also be used within the
present methods and compositions. Alternative human sequences and
polymorphisms can be found in Frudakis et al. (2003) Genetics 165:2071-2083; Lao
et al. (2007) Ann. Human Genet. 71:354-369;Khong and Rosenberg (2002) J.
Immunol. 168:951-956;
[0073]     Additionally, it is recognized by those skilled in the art that allelic variations
may occur in the coding sequences which do not significantly change activity of the
amino acid sequences of the peptides which those sequences encode. All such
immunologically equivalent sequences are included within the scope of this
application. It is understood that there may be low levels of nucleotide substitutions
within a population of TRP2-expressing ARPs or within the encoded proteins,
advantageously less than 15% variation in amino acid sequence from that of a
specifically disclosed protein.
[0074]     Standard techniques for cloning, DNA isolation, amplification and
purification, for enzymatic reactions involving DNA ligase, DNA polymerase,
restriction endonucleases and the like, and various separation techniques are those
known and commonly employed by those skilled in the art. A number of standard
techniques are described in such references as Sambrook et al. (1989) Molecular
Cloning, Second Edition, Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory, Plainview, New York;
Maniatis; Ausubel et al. (2000) Current Protocols in Molecular Biology, Wiley, New
York, NY, and other sources well known to the art Abbreviations and nomenclature,
where employed, are deemed standard in the field and commonly used in
professional journals such as those cited herein.
                                           9r, n-f AQ

   WO 20101118252                                                            PCT/US2010/030423
[0075]     Pharmaceutical formulations, such as vaccines or other immunogenic
compositions, as provided herein, comprise an immunogenic amount of the
infectious, propagation defective alphavirus replicon particles or live, attenuated
particles in combination with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. An
"immunogenic amount" is an amount of the infectious alphavirus particles which is
sufficient to evoke an immune response in the subject to which the pharmaceutical
formulation is administered. An amount of from about 104 to about 1011, optionally
107 to 1010, especially 10 7 , 5 x 10 7 , 108, 5 x 108, 10 9, 5 x 10 9 or 1010, infectious units,
or ARPs per dose is believed suitable, depending upon the age and species of the
subject being treated. Exemplary pharmaceutically acceptable carriers include, but
are not limited to, sterile pyrogen-free water and sterile pyrogen-free physiological
saline solution. Subjects to whom may be administered immunogenic amounts of
the infectious, replication defective alphavirus particles include human and animal
(e.g., dog, pig, cat, cattle, horse, donkey, mouse, hamster, monkeys, guinea pigs)
subjects. Administration may be by any suitable means, such as intraperitoneal,
intramuscular, intradermal, intranasal, intravaginal, intrarectal, subcutaneous or
intravenous administration.
[0076]     Immunogenic compositions comprising the ARPs (which direct the
expression of the sequence(s) of interest when the compositions are administered to
a human or animal) may be formulated by any of the means known in the art. Such
compositions, especially vaccines, are typically prepared as injectables, either as
liquid solutions or suspensions. Solid forms suitable for solution in, or suspension in,
liquid prior to injection may also be prepared. Lyophilized preparations are also
suitable, especially as described in WO 2008/058035 and U.S. Published Application
US 2009/0047255.
[0077]     The active immunogenic ingredients (the ARPs) are often mixed with
excipients or carriers which are pharmaceutically acceptable and compatible with the
active ingredient. Suitable excipients include but are not limited to sterile water,
saline, dextrose, glycerol, ethanol, or the like and combinations thereof, as well as
stabilizers, e.g. human serum albumin (HSA) or other suitable proteins and reducing
sugars
                                              97 nf AQ

   WO 20101118252                                                      PCT/US2010/030423
[0078]     In addition, if desired, the vaccines may contain minor amounts of auxiliary
substances such as wetting or emulsifying agents, pH buffering agents, and/or
adjuvants which enhance the effectiveness of the vaccine. Examples of adjuvants
which may be effective include but are not limited to: aluminum hydroxide; N-acetyl
muramyl-L-threonyl-D-isoglutamine (thr-MDP); N-acetyl-nor-muramyl-L-alanyl-D
isoglutamine (CGP 11637, referred to as nor-MDP); N-acetylmuramyl-L-alanyl-D
isoglutaminyl-L-alanine-2-(1'-2'-dipalmitoyl-sn-glycero-3hydroxyphosphoryloxy)
ethylamine (CGP 19835A, referred to as MTP-PE); and RIBI (which contains three
components extracted from bacteria, monophosphoryl lipid A, trehalose dimycolate
and cell wall skeleton (MPL+TDM+CWS) in a 2% squalene/Tween 80 emulsion),
MF-59 (a sub-micron oil-in-water emulsion of a squalene, polyoxyethylene sorbitan
monooleate (Tween TM 80) and sorbitan trioleate), and IC31 (from Intercell, a
synthetic formulation combining the immunostimulating properties of an anti
microbial peptide, KLK, and an immunostimulatory oligodeoxynucleotide, ODN1 a).
An immune stimulating protein such as interleukin-1 2 can also be included, either as
a coding sequence co-expressed with the TRP2 on the same or provided in a
separate IL-1 2 expressing VRP. The effectiveness of an adjuvant may be
determined by measuring the amount of antibodies and/or T cell response directed
against the immunogenic product of the ARP resulting from administration of the
immunogen in vaccines which are also comprised of the various adjuvants. Such
additional formulations and modes of administration as are known in the art may also
be used.
[0079]     The immunogenic (or otherwise biologically active) ARP-containing
compositions are administered in a manner compatible with the dosage formulation,
and in such amount as is prophylactically and/or therapeutically effective. The
quantity to be administered, which is generally in the range of about 104 to about
1011, or from 107 to 1010, especially 107, 5 x 107, 108, 5 x 108, 109, 5 x 109 or 1010,
infectious units per mL in a dose, depends on the subject to be treated, the route by
which the ARPs are administered, the immunogenicity of the expression product, the
types of effector immune responses desired, and the degree of protection desired.
Precise amounts of the active ingredient required to be administered may depend on
the judgment of the physician, veterinarian or other health practitioner and may be
                                           9R cnf ,1Q

    WO 20101118252                                                      PCT/US2010/030423
peculiar to each individual, but such a determination is within the skill of such a
practitioner.
[0080]     The vaccine or other immunogenic composition may be given in a single
dose or multiple dose schedules. A multiple dose schedule is one in which a primary
course of vaccination may include 1 to 10 or more separate doses, followed by other
doses administered at subsequent time intervals as required to maintain and or
reinforce the immune response, e.g., weekly, biweekly or at 1 to 4 months for a
second dose, and if needed, a subsequent dose(s) after several months/years. For
therapeutic vaccination, a multiple dosing regimen of monthly injections or
administrations over multiple years may be beneficial.
[0081]     All references cited herein are hereby incorporated by reference to the
extent there is no inconsistency with the present disclosure. The references cited in
the present disclosure reflect the level of skill in the relevant arts. It is intended that
this information can be employed herein, if needed, to exclude (for example, to
disclaim) specific embodiments that are in the prior art. For example, when a
compound is claimed, it should be understood that compounds known in the prior
art, including certain compounds disclosed in the references disclosed herein
(particularly in referenced patent documents), are not intended to be included in the
claim.
[0082]     Every formulation or combination of components described or exemplified
can be used to practice the invention, unless otherwise stated. The VRP
formulations of the present invention can be prepared according to art-known
techniques suitable for the relevant particles, especially as described in US
Publication 2009/0047255, which is incorporated by reference herein. Specific
names of compounds, viruses, genes and proteins are intended to be exemplary, as
it is known that one of ordinary skill in the art can name the same compounds
differently. When a protein (or the gene encoding it) is described herein such that a
particular variant, isoform, alternate splice variant or allele of the compound is not
specified, for example, in a formula or in a chemical name, that description is
intended to include each allele, isoform and/or variant of the protein or gene
individually or in any combination. One of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that
methods, starting materials, synthetic methods, formulations, vectors and additional
                                           90 nf AQ

   WO 20101118252                                                     PCT/US2010/030423
techniques other than those specifically exemplified can be employed in the practice
of the invention without resort to undue experimentation. All art-known functional
equivalents, of any such methods, proteins, coding sequences, vectors, starting
materials, formulations, and the like are intended to be included in this invention.
Whenever a range is given in the specification, for example, a temperature range, a
time range, or a composition range, all intermediate ranges and subranges, as well
as all individual values included in the ranges given are intended to be included in
the disclosure.
[0083]      As used herein, "comprising" is synonymous with "including," "containing,"
or "characterized by," and is inclusive or open-ended and does not exclude
additional, unrecited elements or method steps unless otherwise described. As used
herein, "consisting of" excludes any element, step, or ingredient not specified in the
claim element. As used herein, "consisting essentially of" does not exclude materials
or steps that do not materially affect the basic and novel characteristics of the claim.
Any recitation herein of the term "comprising", particularly in a description of
components of a composition or in a description of elements of a device, is
understood to encompass those compositions and methods consisting essentially of
and consisting of the recited components or elements. The invention illustratively
described herein suitably may be practiced in the absence of any element or
elements, limitation or limitations which is not specifically disclosed herein.
[0084]      The terms and expressions herein are meant to be descriptive and not
limiting, and there is no intention in the use of such terms and expressions of
excluding any equivalents of the features shown and described or portions thereof,
but it is recognized that various modifications are possible within the scope of the
invention as claimed. Thus, it should be understood that although the present
invention has been specifically disclosed by preferred embodiments and optional
features, modification and variation of the concepts herein disclosed may be resorted
to by those skilled in the art, and that such modifications and variations are
considered to be within the scope of this invention as defined by the appended
claims.
                                           'If) n-f AQ

   WO 20101118252                                                     PCT/US2010/030423
[0085]     The exact formulation, route of administration and dosage can be chosen
by the individual physician in view of the patient's condition (see e.g. Fingl et. al., in
The Pharmacological Basis of Therapeutics, 1975, Ch. 1).
[0086]     It should be noted that the attending physician would know how to and
when to terminate, interrupt, or adjust administration due to toxicity, or to organ
dysfunctions, or to debilitation of the subject. Conversely, the attending physician
would also know to adjust treatment to higher levels if the clinical response were not
adequate (precluding toxicity). The magnitude of an administered dose in the
management of a TRP2-expressing cancer, such as melanoma, will vary with the
severity of the condition to be treated and to the route of administration. The severity
of the condition may, for example, be evaluated, in part, by standard prognostic
evaluation methods. Further, the dose and optionally, dose frequency will also vary
according to the age, body weight, and response of the individual patient. A program
comparable to that discussed above also may be used in veterinary medicine.
[0087]     Where the subject is a melanoma sufferer, the physician (or veterinarian in
the case of an animal subject) may elect a comprehensive treatment strategy that
combines the administration of the immunogenic TRP2-expressing VRP
compositions with additional treatments (which may be administered prior to, at the
same time as, or after VRP administration), such as radioactive or chemical
chemotherapeutic agents, monoclonal antibodies specific for one or more cancer
specific antigens, e.g., CTLA4 or PD1, or melanoma antigens such as TRP2,
interleukins or conjugates of the foregoing, or with surgical intervention.
Immunosuppressive drugs may be used, e.g. paclitaxel or carboplatin as an initial
treatment for the cancer, and after their effect has waned, TRP2-expressing VRP
compositions may be given.
[0088]     Depending on the specific condition of the subject being treated or
prophylactically vaccinated, the compositions described herein may be formulated
and administered systemically or locally. Techniques for formulation and
administration may be found in various art references well known and readily
accessible to the art. Suitable routes of administration may include, for example,
oral, rectal, transdermal, vaginal, transmucosal, intestinal, intramuscular,
subcutaneous, intradermal, intramedullary, intrathecal, intravenous, or intraperitoneal
                                          '11 nffAQ

   WO 20101118252                                                        PCT/US2010/030423
injections. For example, for prophylactic applications, the immunogenic
compositions comprising as the active immunogenic agent the TRP2-expressing
VRPs are generally administered via a subcutaneous or intramuscular route. In the
case of the subject with metastatic melanoma, an intravenous route may be chosen,
or the subcutaneous or intramuscular route may be selected. There can also be
simultaneous administration via multiple routes.
[0089]     For injection, the immunogenic compositions of the present invention may
be formulated in aqueous solutions, preferably in physiologically compatible buffers
such as Hanks' solution, Ringer's solution, or physiological saline buffer. For
transmucosal administration, penetrants as generally known in the art and
appropriate to the barrier to be permeated are used in the formulation.
[0090]     Use of pharmaceutically acceptable carriers to formulate the compounds
herein disclosed for the practice of the invention into dosages suitable for systemic
administration is within the scope of the invention. With proper choice of carrier and
suitable manufacturing practice, the compositions of the present invention, in
particular those formulated as solutions, may be administered parenterally, such as
by intravenous injection. Appropriate compounds can be formulated readily using
pharmaceutically acceptable carriers well known in the art into dosages suitable for
oral administration.
[0091]     Pharmaceutical compositions suitable for use in the present invention
include compositions wherein the active ingredients are contained in an effective
amount to achieve the intended purpose. Determination of the effective amounts is
well within the capability of those skilled in the art, especially in light of the detailed
disclosure provided herein.
[0092]     The pharmaceutical compositions of the present invention may be
manufactured in a manner that is itself known, e.g., by means of conventional
mixing, dissolving, granulating, levitating, emulsifying, encapsulating, entrapping or
lyophilizing processes.
[0093]     Pharmaceutical preparations for use in the present methods can be
obtained by combining the immunologically active TRP2-expressing VRPs with solid
excipient, but liquid preparations can be prepared as described in U.S. Patent
                                           '19 n-f AQ

   WO 20101118252                                                     PCT/US2010/030423
Publication 2009/0047255 can be prepared and then lyophilized for reconstitution
prior to administration to the subject. Suitable excipients are, in particular, fillers such
as sugars, including lactose, sucrose, mannitol, or sorbitol; cellulose preparations
such as, for example, hydroxethyl starch, gelatin, gum tragacanth, methyl cellulose,
hydroxypropylmethyl-cellulose, sodium carboxymethylcellulose, and/or
polyvinylpyrrolidone (PVP). If desired, disintegrating agents may be added, such as
the cross-linked polyvinyl pyrrolidone, agar, or alginic acid or a salt thereof such as
sodium alginate, plasticizers, surfactants and other agents suitable for administration
in immunogenic compositions to humans and/or animals. Immunological adjuvants
and/or cytokines which enhance an immune response can also be included in these
compositions.
[0094]      In general the terms and phrases used herein have their art-recognized
meaning, which can be found by reference to standard texts, journal references and
contexts known to those skilled in the art. The following definitions are provided to
clarify their specific use in the context of the invention.
[0095]      Although the description herein contains certain specific information and
examples, these should not be construed as limiting the scope of the invention as
claimed but as merely providing illustrations of some of the possible embodiments of
the invention. For example, thus the scope of the invention should be determined by
the appended claims and their equivalents, rather than by the examples given, but
the invention may be further understood by the non-limiting examples given herein
above.
Murine TRP-2 cloning
[0096]      The full length murine TRP-2 gene was PCR amplified from a DNA plasmid
obtained from the NIH. Primers for PCR amplification of this plasmid are given
below:
         murine TRP-2 EcoR5 forward primer (SEQ ID NO:7)
         5'-GGGACTTGTAGGATGGGGACTTTTGTTGGGATGTTTGGG-3'
         murine TRP-2 Xba reverse primer (SEQ ID NO:8)
         5'-GGATGGCTCTAGATTAATTAATTATCATGCTTCCTCGGTATATC-3'

   WO 20101118252                                                 PCT/US2010/030423
[0097]    The resulting coding sequence for the TRP2 protein is given in Table 1B
and the encoded protein in Table 1A.
Replicon Production
[0098]    This TRP2 product was digested with Pacl and ligated into the pERK3
replicon vector to generate pERK3-murine TRP-2. The pERK3 VEE replicon vector
is derived from the pERK plasmid described in U.S. Patent No. 6,783,939, Example
2. pERK3 has two additional restriction endonuclease cleavage sites, Scal and
SnaBlI in the multiple cloning sequence (MCS), the VEE 5' end, the VEE
nonstructural proteins 1-4, the VEE 26S promoter, a multiple cloning site, and the
VEE 3' UTR (untranslated region).
                                       'IA cf A1Q

   WO 20101118252                                                       PCT/US2010/030423
VRP Production
[0099]     The TRP2-expressing replicon shown in Figure 1A or 1B is packaged using
a bipartite RNA helper system, which has been described in US Patent Nos.
5,792,462, US 6,783,939 (Olmsted, et al.), US 7,045,335 (Smith et al.), and US
7,078,218).
[00100] Vero cells were expanded in EMEM             + 5% FBS to p146, trypsinized,
washed and resuspended in 5% sucrose/60mM NaCl/1OmM NaPi buffer pH 7.3 to a
concentration of 1.2 x 108 cells/mL. 0.5 mL of cells were mixed with murine TRP-2
replicon, capsid helper (dHcap4, as described in U.S. Patent No. 7,045,335) and
glycoprotein (3.4.16; also referred to as GP 3014), helper RNAs at an RNA ratio of
replicon 30 pg:capsid helper 30 pg:GP helper 60 pg. The glycoprotein helper is fully
described, including its nucleic acid sequence, in U.S. Patent Number 6,783,939.
The capsid helper is fully described in U.S. Patent No. 7,045,335 (Smith et al.). The
mixture was transferred into 0.4 cm gap cuvettes and electroporated at 580 volts, 25
pFD for a total of 4 pulses. Electroporation mixes were held at room temperature for
approximately 10 min and then seeded into roller bottles containing 100 mL of
OptiPro growth media with 4 mM glutamine. Murine TRP-2 VRP were harvested
from cells by a high-salt elution (salt wash, see U.S. Patent No. 7,078,218) process
with a yield of 250 IU/cell. VRP were purified by Cellufine sulfate chromatography,
formulated into 1% mouse serum albumin (MSA), 4% sucrose, 30 mM sodium
gluconate, 500 mM sodium chloride, 10 mM sodium phosphate pH 7.3 and stored at
-800C. VRP were titered with VEE nsP2 antibody.
Human TRP-2 Viral Replicon Particles
[00101] First, the full length human TRP-2 gene is amplified from plasmid DNA.
The amplification products are digested with Pac and ligated into the pERK3
replicon vector similarly cut with Pacl to generate pERK3-humanTRP-2.
        Primers for PCR amplification
       human TRP-2 EcoR5 forward primer
       5'-GAGCCCCCTTTGGTGGGGGTTTCTGCTCAGTTGCTTGG                            -3'
                                          'Ic, nf AQ

   WO 20101118252                                                   PCT/US2010/030423
       human TRP-2 Xba/Pacl reverse primer
       5'-GGATGGCTCTAGATTAATTAATTACTAGGCTTCTTCTGTGTATC-3'
[00102] Starting at the T7 promoter and moving clockwise in Fig. 1B, the solid
arrows represent the four VEE viral nonstructural protein genes (nsP1 -nsP4), the
human TRP-2 gene and the kanamycin resistance gene [KN (R)], respectively.
[00103] Human TRP2-expressing VRPs are prepared as described above but
formulated with human serum albumin rather than MSA. In general, VRPs are
formulated with serum albumin derived from the same species as that to which the
preparation is to be administered.
VRP Immunization and Tumor Challenge
Mice and cell lines.
[00104] C57BL/6J (8-10-wk-old females) and C3 deficient mice (strain B6.129S4
C3tmlcrr/J) were obtained from the Jackson Laboratory (Bar Harbor, ME). MHC
class I deficient (strain B2MN12), MHC class II deficient (strain ABBN12) and wild
type (WT) controls mice (strain B6NTac) were purchased from Taconic Farms, Inc.
(Hudson, NY). Mice deficient in the FcR common g chain, provided by J. Ravetch
(Rockefeller University, New York, NY) were backcrossed onto wild type C57BL/6
and bred at MSKCC.
[00105] The B16-F10 mouse melanoma line was originally obtained from 1. Fidler
(M.D. Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, TX), B78H1 (a Tyrp-1 and TRP-2 negative
mouse melanoma cell line derived from B16) and the Lewis Lung carcinoma were
cultured in complete RPMI. Unless otherwise noted, mice were vaccinated three
times with 106 VRP diluted in PBS by subcutaneous injection into the plantar surface
of each footpad for each vaccination.
[00106] In the (prophylactic) tumor protection experiments, C57BL/6 mice were
vaccinated three times, at fourteen day intervals, with 106 VRP diluted in PBS by
subcutaneous injection into the plantar surface of each footpad. In a subset of these
mice, individual mice were challenged with 7.5 x 104 B16F10 melanoma cells
                                        'Ir, nf AQ

    WO 20101118252                                                    PCT/US2010/030423
injected intradermally (i.d.) two weeks after the third bi-weekly vaccination with
VRPs.
[00107]    In the therapeutic tumor protection experiments, C57BL/6 mice were first
injected with 7.5 x 104 B16F10 cells either intradermally (cutaneous therapeutic
model) or intravenously (lung therapeutic model), and then vaccinated weekly for
three times, beginning one day after the challenge. Following vaccination, tumor
diameters were measured with calipers; in some experiments, animals were sacrificed
when tumors reached 1 cm diameter, ulcerated or caused discomfort to the animals. For
other studies, animals were monitored every 2 to 3 days for 80 days. For the assessment
of lung tumor development, lungs were collected 24 days after the intravenous tumor cell
challenge, washed three times with PBS and weighed. Tumor-free survival is reported in
the figures herein. Each group of mice had 10 mice, p+0.01. For the Kaplan-Meier tumor
free survival curves, mice were considered tumor-free until tumors were visible or
palpable P values are calculated with Log-Rank (Mantel-Cox) test.
[00108]    In the T cell depletion experiments (Figure 6B), CD4+ cells, CD8+ cells and
NK/NKT cells were depleted by injecting 200pg of GK1.5, 2.43 and PK1 36
antibodies, respectively, intraperitoneally at day -11, -4, +4, +11, relative to tumor
inoculation.
ELISPOT and T-Cell Assays
[00109] Peptides analyzed, including TRP2 18 1-18 9 were synthesized by Genemed
Synthesis (San Antonio, TX) and were greater than 80% purity, as determined by
high performance liquid chromatography.
[00110]     Spleens harvested 5 to 7 days after the third VRP immunization were
mechanically disrupted, and RBCs were lysed. CD8+ T cells were positively selected
from this mixture by incubation with magnetic anti-CD8 beads (Miltenyi Biotec,
Bergisch Gladbach, Germany). Interferon 7 (IFN-7) production was determined
using the standard ELISPOT assay after 20 to 36 h of incubation of CD8+ T cells
(105 per well) with splenocytes pulsed with 1 pg/mL of the noted TRP2-specific
peptide. Plates were analyzed using an automated ELISPOT reader system with KS
                                          '17 nf AQ

   WO 20101118252                                                     PCT/US2010/030423
4.3 software (Carl Zeiss, Thornwood, NY). Flow cytometry based intracellular
staining assays were performed on CD8" T cells cultured as above, then incubated
overnight with monensin prior to staining with the fixation and permeabilization kit
(eBioscience, San Diego, CA) using anti-CD8-PE-Texas red, anti-CD3-FITC, anti
IFNy-APC (BD Biosciences, San Jose, CA) and LIVE/DEAD Fixable Aqua Dead Cell
Stain kit (ViD) (Invitrogen, Carlsbad, CA).
ELISA
[00111]     To detect TRP2-specific total IgGs circulating in sera, groups of mice were
immunized with TRP2-expressing VRPs three times, with each immunization two
weeks apart. Seven days to two weeks after the last vaccination, mice were bled
from the tail vein. Blood samples were incubated at 370 C for an hour and
centrifuged for 5 min at 7000g. The pooled serum was then collected in a separate
tube and stored at -200 C.
[00112] ELISA plates were (Costar) were coated O/N with 1 pg/ml of purified
recombinant TRP2 in PBS, blocked with 5% Nonfat reconstituted dry milk in PBS for
2 hours, and incubated at 40 C with serial dilutions of serum (4 fold: 1:100, 1:400,
1:1600, etc.) in blocking solution. After 18 hours, plates were washed 6 times with
PBS+0.1 %Tween 20 and incubated with the second antibody (goat anti mouse IgG
AP, Southern Biotech, Birmingham, AL) in blocking buffer for 1 hour at room
temperature. Plates were then washed and incubated in the dark for 30 min with the
substrate (Promega, Madison, WI, S1013), and color development was stopped by
adding 3N NaOH. Plates were analyzed using an ELISA reader at Excitation 450/50
and Emission 580/50 with gain of 25 (Perseptive Biosystems, Framingham, MA,
Cytoflour Series 4000).
Analysis of the tumor infiltrate
[00113] Seven days after B16-Matrigel subcutaneous injection (1 x 10 5 B16-F1O
cells in 0.2 ml of Matrigel Matrix Growth Factor Reduced; BD Biosciences), the
matrigel plug was resected, incubated for 1 hour at 37'C with 1 mg/ml Collagenase
D (Sigma-Aldrich, St. Louis, MO) and dissociated to obtain a single-cell suspension.
Cells were stained with anti-CD45.2 PercpCy5.5, anti-CD3-FITC, anti-NK1.1-APC,
anti-CD8-PE-Texas red, anti-CD4- Alexa Fluor 700 (Becton Dickinson) and DAPI.
                                          IR cnf A1Q

   WO 20101118252                                                 PCT/US2010/030423
[00114] Serum transfer
[00115] Serum samples were collected from mice seven days after the third bi
weekly VRP immunization. Fifty pl of serum was injected i.v. in recipient mice at day
0, 3 and 6. Recipient mice were then challenged with 7.5 x 104 B16-F10 tumor cells
intradermally at day 0, and tumor occurrence was monitored as described above.
                                       'IQ n-f AQ

   WO 20101118252                                           PCT/US2010/030423
Table 1A. Amino Acid Sequence of Murine TRP2 Protein (SEQ ID NO:1)
Met Gly Leu Val Gly Trp Gly Leu Leu Leu Gly Cys Leu Gly Cys Gly
Ile Leu Leu Arg Ala Arg Ala Gln Phe Pro Arg Val Cys Met Thr Leu
Asp Gly Val Leu Asn Lys Glu Cys Cys Pro Pro Leu Gly Pro Glu Ala
Thr Asn Ile Cys Gly Phe Leu Glu Gly Arg Gly Gln Cys Ala Glu Val
Gln Thr Asp Thr Arg Pro Trp Ser Gly Pro Tyr Ile Leu Arg Asn Gln
Asp Asp Arg Glu Gln Trp Pro Arg Lys Phe Phe Asn Arg Thr Cys Lys
Cys Thr Gly Asn Phe Ala Gly Tyr Asn Cys Gly Gly Cys Lys Phe Gly
Trp Thr Gly Pro Asp Cys Asn Arg Lys Lys Pro Ala Ile Leu Arg Arg
Asn Ile His Ser Leu Thr Ala Gln Glu Arg Glu Gln   Phe Leu Gly Ala
Leu Asp Leu Ala Lys Lys Ser Ile His Pro Asp Tyr Val Ile Thr Thr
Gln His Trp Leu Gly Leu Leu Gly Pro Asn Gly Thr Gln Pro Gln Ile
Ala Asn Cys Ser Val Tyr Asp Phe Phe Val Trp Leu His Tyr Tyr Ser
Val Arg Asp Thr Leu Leu Gly Pro Gly Arg Pro Tyr Lys Ala Ile Asp
Phe Ser His Gln Gly Pro Ala Phe Val Thr Trp His Arg Tyr His Leu
Leu Trp Leu Glu Arg Glu Leu Gln Arg Leu Thr Gly Asn Glu Ser Phe
Ala Leu Pro Tyr Trp Asn Phe Ala Thr Gly Lys Asn Glu Cys Asp Val
Cys Thr Asp Asp Trp Leu Gly Ala Ala Arg Gln Asp Asp Pro Thr Leu
Ile Ser Arg Asn Ser Arg Phe Ser Thr Trp Glu Ile Val Cys Asp Ser
Leu Asp Asp Tyr Asn Arg Arg Val Thr Leu Cys Asn Gly Thr Tyr Glu
Gly Leu Leu Arg Arg Asn Lys Val Gly Arg Asn Asn Glu Lys Leu Pro
Thr Leu Lys Asn Val Gln Asp Cys Leu Ser Leu Gln Lys Phe Asp Ser
 Pro Pro Phe   Phe Gln Asn Ser Thr Phe Ser Phe Arg Asn Ala Leu Glu
Gly Phe Asp Lys Ala Asp Gly Thr Leu Asp Ser Gln Val Met Asn Leu
His Asn Leu Ala His Ser Phe Leu Asn Gly Thr Asn Ala Leu Pro His
Ser Ala Ala Asn Asp Pro Val Phe Val Val Leu His   Ser Phe Thr Asp
Ala Ile Phe Asp Glu Trp Leu Lys Arg Asn Asn Pro Ser Thr Asp Ala
Trp Pro Gln Glu Leu Ala Pro Ile Gly His Asn Arg Met Tyr Asn Met
Val Pro Phe Phe Pro Pro Val Thr Aen Glu Glu Leu Phe Leu Thr Ala
Glu Gln Leu Gly Tyr Asn Tyr Ala Val Asp Leu Ser Glu Glu Glu Ala
                                    An nf AQ

   WO 20101118252                                           PCT/US2010/030423
Pro Val Trp Ser Thr Thr Leu Ser Val Val Ile Gly Ile Leu Gly Ala
Phe Val Leu Leu Leu Gly Leu Leu Ala Phe Leu Gln Tyr Arg Arg Leu
Arg Lys Gly Tyr Ala Pro Leu Met Glu Thr Gly Leu Ser Ser Lys Arg
Tyr Thr Glu Glu Ala
Table 1B. Coding Sequence for Murine TRP-2 (SEQ ID NO:2)
ATGGGACTTGTAGGATGGGGACTTTTGTTGGGATGTTTGGGATGTGGAATCCTGCTGCGCGCCCGAGCTC
AATTCCCCAGAGTGTGTATGACCCTTGACGGGGTGCTGAACAAAGAATGCTGTCCTCCCCTCGGCCCAGA
GGCAACTAATATTTGCGGCTTCTTGGAAGGCAGGGGACAGTGTGCCGAGGTCCAGACCGATACAAGGCCC
TGGTCCGGGCCATACATTCTTCGGAATCAAGATGACAGGGAACAGTGGCCTCGGAAGTTCTTCAACCGGA
CCTGCAAATGCACAGGAAATTTTGCAGGGTATAATTGCGGCGGATGTAAGTTCGGGTGGACTGGCCCAGA
TTGTAATAGAAAGAAGCCTGCTATCCTGAGGCGGAACATTCACAGTTTGACAGCTCAGGAGAGAGAGCAG
TTTCTGGGTGCCCTCGATTTGGCCAAGAAGAGTATTCATCCTGATTATGTGATAACTACTCAACATTGGC
TGGGACTGCTCGGTCCAAACGGGACACAACCTCAGATCGCCAACTGTTCTGTGTACGACTTCTTCGTGTG
GCTTCACTATTACAGCGTCCGGGACACTCTCCTCGGACCTGGGCGCCCTTATAAAGCAATCGACTTCTCC
CATCAGGGTCCAGCATTTGTCACTTGGCACCGCTACCATCTGCTCTGGCTTGAGCGCGAGTTGCAGCGAC
TGACCGGGAATGAGTCATTTGCACTGCCTTACTGGAATTTTGCAACAGGCAAGAATGAGTGTGATGTTTG
CACTGATGATTGGCTCGGAGCCGCAAGGCAGGATGACCCTACTCTCATCAGCCGGAATAGCCGGTTTTCC
ACCTGGGAGATTGTGTGTGATAGTTTGGATGACTACAACAGGCGCGTGACACTGTGTAATGGGACATACG
AGGGACTCCTGCGCCGGAATAAGGTGGGACGCAACAATGAAAAGCTGCCCACGCTGAAGAATGTGCAGGA
TTGCCTGAGCCTTCAGAAATTCGATTCCCCACCATTCTTTCAGAACTCCACCTTCTCTTTTCGAAATGCA
CTTGAGGGGTTTGACAAGGCCGATGGGACTTTGGATTCTCAGGTTATGAATTTGCACAATCTGGCGCACA
GCTTCCTGAACGGAACCAATGCATTGCCGCACTCCGCTGCAAACGATCCCGTGTTTGTGGTCCTCCATTC
CTTTACGGACGCTATATTTGATGAATGGTTGAAAAGAAATAATCCTTCAACCGACGCGTGGCCCCAAGAG
CTTGCTCCGATTGGCCATAACAGGATGTATAATATGGTGCCCTTCTTTCCTCCCGTGACTAATGAAGAGC
TTTTCTTGACCGCAGAGCAGCTCGGCTATAATTATGCCGTAGACCTTAGTGAGGAAGAGGCTCCCGTGTG
GAGCACCACTCTCTCAGTGGTGATAGGGATCTTGGGCGCGTTTGTACTGCTGCTGGGCCTGCTTGCCTTC
TTGCAGTACAGGAGGCTGAGGAAGGGATATGCTCCTTTGATGGAAACCGGTTTGTCTAGCAAAAGATATA
CCGAGGAAGCATGA
Table 2A. Human TRP-2 (NCBI Reference Sequence: NT_009952.14) (SEQ
ID NO:3)
AACTGAGTTCAAGGCAATTAAAGTCAAGAGCTAAGGAGGGAGGGAGAGGGTTTAGAAAT
ACCAGCATAATAAGTAGTATGACTGGGTGCTCTGTAAATTAACTCAATTAGACAAAGCC
TGACTTAACGGGGGAAGATGGTGAGAAGCGCTACCCTCATTAAATTTGGTTGTTAGAGG
CGCTTCTAAGGAAATTAAGTCTGTTAGTTGTTTGAATCACATAAAATTGTGTGTGCACG
TTCATGTACACATGTGCACACATGTAACCTCTGTGATTCTTGTGGGTATTTTTTTAAGA
AGAAAGGAATAGAAAGCAAAGAAAAATAAAAAATACTGAAAAGAAAAGACTGAAAGAGT
AGAAGATAAGGAGAAAAGTACGACAGAGACAAGGAAAGTAAGAGAGAGAGAGAGCTCTC
CCAATTATAAAGCCATGAGCCCCCTTTGGTGGGGGTTTCTGCTCAGTTGCTTGGGCTGC
AAAATCCTGCCAGGAGCCCAGGGTCAGTTCCCCCGAGTCTGCATGACGGTGGACAGCCT
AGTGAACAAGGAGTGCTGCCCACGCCTGGGTGCAGAGTCGGCCAATGTCTGTGGCTCTC
AGCAAGGCCGGGGGCAGTGCACAGAGGTGCGAGCCGACACAAGGCCCTGGAGTGGTCCC
TACATCCTACGAAACCAGGATGACCGTGAGCTGTGGCCAAGAAAATTCTTCCACCGGAC
CTGCAAGTGCACAGGAAACTTTGCCGGCTATAATTGTGGAGACTGCAAGTTTGGCTGGA
CCGGTCCCAACTGCGAGCGGAAGAAACCACCAGTGATTCGGCAGAACATCCATTCCTTG
AGTCCTCAGGAAAGAGAGCAGTTCTTGGGCGCCTTAGATCTCGCGAAGAAGAGAGTACA
                                    Al nf AQ

  WO 20101118252                                          PCT/US2010/030423
CCCCGACTACGTGATCACCACACAACACTGGCTGGGCCTGCTTGGGCCCAATGGAACCC
AGCCGCAGTTTGCCAACTGCAGTGTTTATGATTTTTTTGTGTGGCTCCATTATTATTCT
GTTAGAGATACATTATTAGGACCAGGACGCCCCTACAGGGCCATAGATTTCTCACATCA
AGGACCTGCATTTGTTACCTGGCACCGGTACCATTTGTTGTGTCTGGAAAGAGATCTCC
AGCGACTCATTGGCAATGAGTCTTTTGCTTTGCCCTACTGGAACTTTGCCACTGGGAGG
AACGAGTGTGATGTGTGTACAGACCAGCTGTTTGGGGCAGCGAGACCAGACGATCCGAC
TCTGATTAGTCGGAACTCAAGATTCTCCAGCTGGGAAACTGTCTGTGATAGCTTGGATG
ACTACAACCACCTGGTCACCTTGTGCAATGGAACCTATGAAGGTTTGCTGAGAAGAAAT
CAAATGGGAAGAAACAGCATGAAATTGCCAACCTTAAAAGACATACGAGATTGCCTGTC
TCTCCAGAAGTTTGACAATCCTCCCTTCTTCCAGAACTCTACCTTCAGTTTCAGGAATG
CTTTGGAAGGGTTTGATAAAGCAGATGGGACTCTGGATTCTCAAGTGATGAGCCTTCAT
AATTTGGTTCATTCCTTCCTGAACGGGACAAACGCTTTGCCACATTCAGCCGCCAATGA
TCCCATTTTTGTGGTGATTTCTAATCGTTTGCTTTACAATGCTACAACAAACATCCTTG
AACATGTAAGAAAAGAGAAAGCGACCAAGGAACTCCCTTCCCTGCATGTGCTGGTTCTT
CATTCCTTTACTGATGCCATCTTTGATGAGTGGATGAAAAGATTTAATCCTCCTGCAGA
TGCCTGGCCTCAGGAGCTGGCCCCTATTGGTCACAATCGGATGTACAACATGGTTCCTT
TCTTCCCTCCAGTGACTAATGAAGAACTCTTTTTAACCTCAGACCAACTTGGCTACAGC
TATGCCATCGATCTGCCAGTTTCAGTTGAAGAAACTCCAGGTTGGCCCACAACTCTCTT
AGTAGTCATGGGAACACTGGTGGCTTTGGTTGGTCTTTTTGTGCTGTTGGCTTTTCTTC
AATATAGAAGACTTCGAAAAGGATATACACCCCTAATGGAGACACATTTAAGCAGCAAG
AGATACACAGAAGAAGCCTAGGGTGCTCATGCCTTACCTAAGAGAAGAGGCTGGCCAAG
CCACAGTTCTGACGCTGACAATAAAGGAACTAATCCTCACTGTTCCTTCTTGAGTTGAA
GATCTTTGACATAGGTTCTTCTATAGTGATGATGATCTCATTCAGAAGATGCTTAGCTG
TAGTTTCCGCTTTGCTTGCTTGTTTAACAAACCCAACTAAAGTGCTTGAGGCTACCTCT
ACCTTCAAATAAAGATAGACCTGACAATTTGTGATATCTAATAATAACCCCCCCCCCAA
TATTGATTAAGCCTCCTCCTTTTCTGAAAGCATTTAAAAAAAA
Table 3. Human TRP-2 Transcription variant2 (NCBI Reference Sequence:
NM_001129889.1) (SEQ ID NO:4)
AACTGAGTTCAAGGCAATTAAAGTCAAGAGCTAACGAGGGAGGGAGAGGGTTTAGAA
ATACCAGCATAATAAGTAGTATGACTGGGTGCTCTGTAAATTAACTCAATTAGACAA
AGCCTGACTTAACGGGGGAAGATGGTGAGAAGCGCTACCCTCATTAAATTTGGTTGT
TAGAGGCGCTTCTAAGGAAATTAAGTCTGTTAGTTGTTTGAATCACATAAAATTGTG
TGTGCACGTTCATGTACACATGTGCACACATGTAACCTCTGTGATTCTTGTGGGTAT
TTTTTTAAGAAGAAAGGAATAGAAAGCAAAGAAAAATAAAAAATACTGAAAAGAAAA
GACTGAAAGAGTAGAAGATAAGGAGAAAAGTACGACAGAGACAAGGAAAGTAAGAGA
GAGAGAGAGCTCTCCCAATTATAAAGCCATGAGCCCCCTTTGGTGGGGGTTTCTGCT
CAGTTGCTTGGGCTGCAAAATCCTGCCAGGAGCCCAGGGTCAGTTCCCCCGAGTCTG
CATGACGGTGGACAGCCTAGTGAACAAGGAGTGCTGCCCACGCCTGGGTGCAGAGTC
GGCCAATGTCTGTGGCTCTCAGCAAGGCCGGGGGCAGTGCACAGAGGTGCGAGCCGA
CACAAGGCCCTGGAGTGGTCCCTACATCCTACGAAACCAGGATGACCGTGAGCTGTG
GCCAAGAAAATTCTTCCACCGGACCTGCAAGTGCACAGGAAACTTTGCCGGCTATAA
TTGTGGAGACTGCAAGTTTGGCTGGACCGGTCCCAACTGCGAGCGGAAGAAACCACC
AGTGATTCGGCAGAACATCCATTCCTTGAGTCCTCAGGAAAGAGAGCAGTTCTTGGG
CGCCTTAGATCTCGCGAAGAAGAGAGTACACCCCGACTACGTGATCACCACACAACA
CTGGCTGGGCCTGCTTGGGCCCAATGGAACCCAGCCGCAGTTTGCCAACTGCAGTGT
TTATGATTTTTTTGTGTGGCTCCATTATTATTCTGTTAGAGATACATTATTAGGACC
AGGACGCCCCTACAGGGCCATAGATTTCTCACATCAAGGACCTGCATTTGTTACCTG
GCACCGGTACCATTTGTTGTGTCTGGAAAGAGATCTCCAGCGACTCATTGGCAATGA
                                  A9 cnf A1Q

  WO 20101118252                                   PCT/US2010/030423
GTCTTTTGCTTTGCCCTACTGGAACTTTGCCACTGGGAGGAACGAGTGTGATGTGTG
TACAGACCAGCTGTTTGGGGCAGCGAGACCAGACGATCCGACTCTGATTAGTCGGAA
CTCAAGATTCTCCAGCTGGGAAACTGTCTGTGATAGCTTGGATGACTACAACCACCT
GGTCACCTTGTGCAATGGAACCTATGAAGGTTTGCTGAGAAGAAATCAAATGGGAAG
AAACAGCATGAAATTGCCAACCTTAAAAGACATACGAGATTGCCTGTCTCTCCAGAA
GTTTGACAATCCTCCCTTCTTCCAGAACTCTACCTTCAGTTTCAGGAATGCTTTGGA
AGGGTTTGATAAAGCAGATGGGACTCTGGATTCTCAAGTGATGAGCCTTCATAATTT
GGTTCATTCCTTCCTGAACGGGACAAACGCTTTGCCACATTCAGCCGCCAATGATCC
CATTTTTGTGGTGATTTCTAATCGTTTGCTTTACAATGCTACAACAAACATCCTTGA
ACATGTAAGAAAAGAGAAAGCGACCAAGGAACTCCCTTCCCTGCATGTGCTGGTTCT
TCATTCCTTTACTGATGCCATCTTTGATGAGTGGATGAAAAGATTTAATCCTCCTGC
AGATGCCTGGCCTCAGGAGCTGGCCCCTATTGGTCACAATCGGATGTACAACATGGT
TCCTTTCTTCCCTCCAGTGACTAATGAAGAACTCTTTTTAACCTCAGACCAACTTGG
CTACAGCTATGCCATCGATCTGCCAGTTTCAGTTGAAGAAACTCCAGGTTGGCCCAC
AACTCTCTTAGTAGTCATGGGAACACTGGTGGCTTTGGTTGGTCTTTTTGTGCTGTT
GGCTTTTCTTCAATATAGAAGACTTCGAAAAGGATATACACCCCTAATGGAGACACA
TTTAAGCAGCAAGAGATACACAGAAGAAGCCTAGGGTGCTCATGCCTTACCTAAGAG
AAGAGGCTGGCCAAGCCACAGTTCTGACGCTGACAATAAAGGAACTAATCCTCACTG
TTCCTTCTTGAGTTGAAGATCTTTGACATAGGTTCTTCTATAGTGATGATGATCTCA
TTCAGAAGATGCTTAGCTGTAGTTTCCGCTTTGCTTGCTTGTTTAACAAACCCAACT
AAAGTGCTTGAGGCTACCTCTACCTTCAAATAAAGATAGACCTGACAATTTGTGATA
TCTAATAATAACCCCCCCCCCAATATTGATTAAGCCTCCTCCTTTTCTGAAAGCATT
TAAAAAAAA
TABLE 4A. Human TRP-2 (SEQ ID NO:5)
ATGAGCCCCCTTTGGTGGGGGTTTCTGCTCAGTTGCTTGGGCTGCAAAATCCTGCCA
GGAGCCCAGGGTCAGTTCCCCCGAGTCTGCATGACGGTGGACAGCCTAGTGAACAAG
GAGTGCTGCCCACGCCTGGGTGCAGAGTCGGCCAATGTCTGTGGCTCTCAGCAAGGC
CGGGGGCAGTGCACAGAGGTGCGAGCCGACACAAGGCCCTGGAGTGGTCCCTACATC
CTACGAAACCAGGATGACCGTGAGCTGTGGCCAAGAAAATTCTTCCACCGGACCTGC
AAGTGCACAGGAAACTTTGCCGGCTATAATTGTGGAGACTGCAAGTTTGGCTGGACC
GGTCCCAACTGCGAGCGGAAGAAACCACCAGTGATTCGGCAGAACATCCATTCCTTG
AGTCCTCAGGAAAGAGAGCAGTTCTTGGGCGCCTTAGATCTCGCGAAGAAGAGAGTA
CACCCCGACTACGTGATCACCACACAACACTGGCTGGGCCTGCTTGGGCCCAATGGA
ACCCAGCCGCAGTTTGCCAACTGCAGTGTTTATGATTTTTTTGTGTGGCTCCATTAT
TATTCTGTTAGAGATACATTATTAGGACCAGGACGCCCCTACAGGGCCATAGATTTC
TCACATCAAGGACCTGCATTTGTTACCTGGCACCGGTACCATTTGTTGTGTCTGGAA
AGAGATCTCCAGCGACTCATTGGCAATGAGTCTTTTGCTTTGCCCTACTGGAACTTT
GCCACTGGGAGGAACGAGTGTGATGTGTGTACAGACCAGCTGTTTGGGGCAGCGAGA
CCAGACGATCCGACTCTGATTAGTCGGAACTCAAGATTCTCCAGCTGGGAAACTGTC
TGTGATAGCTTGGATGACTACAACCACCTGGTCACCTTGTGCAATGGAACCTATGAA
GGTTTGCTGAGAAGAAATCAAATGGGAAGAAACAGCATGAAATTGCCAACCTTAAAA
GACATACGAGATTGCCTGTCTCTCCAGAAGTTTGACAATCCTCCCTTCTTCCAGAAC
TCTACCTTCAGTTTCAGGAATGCTTTGGAAGGGTTTGATAAAGCAGATGGGACTCTG
GATTCTCAAGTGATGAGCCTTCATAATTTGGTTCATTCCTTCCTGAACGGGACAAAC
GCTTTGCCACATTCAGCCGCCAATGATCCCATTTTTGTGGTTCTTCATTCCTTTACT
GATGCCATCTTTGATGAGTGGATGAAAAGATTTAATCCTCCTGCAGATGCCTGGCCT
CAGGAGCTGGCCCCTATTGGTCACAATCGGATGTACAACATGGTTCCTTTCTTCCCT
CCAGTGACTAATGAAGAACTCTTTTTAACCTCAGACCAACTTGGCTACAGCTATGCC
                               Aq cf A1Q

    WO 20101118252                                             PCT/US2010/030423
ATCGATCTGCCAGTTTCAGTTGAAGAAACTCCAGGTTGGCCCACAACTCTCTTAGTA
GTCATGGGAACACTGGTGGCTTTGGTTGGTCTTTTTGTGCTGTTGGCTTTTCTTCAA
TATAGAAGACTTCGAAAAGGATATACACCCCTAATGGAGACACATTTAAGCAGCAAG
AGATACACAGAAGAAGCCTAG
Table 4B. Human TRP2 Amino Acid Sequence (SEQ ID NO:6)
Met Ser Pro Leu Trp Trp Gly Phe Leu Leu Ser Cys Leu Gly Cys Lys
Ile Leu Pro Gly Ala Gin Gly Gin Phe Pro Arg Val Cys Met Thr Val
Asp Ser Leu Val Asn Lys Glu Cys Cys Pro Arg Leu Gly Ala Glu Ser
Ala Asn Val Cys Gly Ser Gin Gin Gly Arg Gly Gin Cys Thr Glu Val
Arg Ala Asp Thr Arg Pro Trp Ser Gly Pro Tyr Ile Leu Arg Asn Gin
Asp Asp Arg Glu Leu Trp Pro Arg Lys Phe Phe His Arg Thr Cys Lys
Cys Thr Gly Asn Phe Ala Gly Tyr Asn Cys Gly Asp Cys Lys Phe Gly
Trp Thr Gly Pro Asn Cys Glu Arg Lys Lys Pro Pro Val Ile Arg Gin
Asn Ile His Ser Leu Ser Pro Gin Glu Arg Glu Gin     Phe Leu Gly Ala
Leu Asp Leu Ala Lys Lys Arg Val His Pro Asp Tyr Val Ile Thr Thr
Gin His Trp Leu Gly Lou Leu Gly Pro Asn Gly Thr Gin Pro Gin Phe
Ala Asn Cys Ser Val Tyr Asp Phe Phe Val Trp Leu His Tyr Tyr Ser
Val Arg Asp Thr Leu Leu Gly Pro Gly Arg Pro Tyr Arg Ala Ile Asp
  Phe Ser His Gin Gly Pro Ala Phe Val Thr Trp His Arg Tyr His Leu
Leu Cys Leu Glu Arg Asp Leu Gin Arg Leu Ile Gly Asn Glu Ser Phe
Ala Leu Pro Tyr Trp Asn Phe Ala Thr Gly Arg Asn Glu Cys Asp Val
  Cys Thr Asp Gln Leu Phe Gly Ala Ala Arg Pro Asp Asp    Pro Thr Leu
Ile  Ser Arg Asn Ser Arg Phe   Ser Ser Trp Glu Thr Val Cys Asp Ser
Leu Asp Asp Tyr Asn His Leu Val Thr Leu Cys Asn Gly Thr Tyr Glu
Gly Leu Leu Arg Arg Asn Gin Met Gly Arg Asn     Ser Met Lys Leu Pro
Thr Leu Lys Asp Ile    Arg Asp Cys Leu Ser Leu Gin Lys Phe Asp Asn
Pro Pro Phe Phe    Gin Asn Ser Thr Phe  Ser Phe Arg Asn Ala Leu Glu
Gly Phe Asp Lys Ala Asp Gly Thr Leu Asp Ser Gin Val Met Ser Leu
His Asn Leu Val His Ser Phe Leu Asn Gly Thr Asn Ala Leu Pro His
Ser Ala Ala Asn Asp Pro Ile Phe Val Val Leu His     Ser Phe Thr Asp
Ala Ile Phe Asp Glu Trp Met Lys Arg Phe Asn Pro Pro Ala Asp Ala
                                      AA nf AQ

   WO 20101118252                                                 PCT/US2010/030423
Trp Pro Gln Glu Leu Ala Pro Ile Gly His Asn Arg Met Tyr Asn Met
Val Pro Phe Phe Pro Pro Val Thr Asn Glu Glu Leu Phe Leu Thr Ser
Asp Gln Leu Gly Tyr Ser Tyr Ala Ile Asp Leu Pro Val Ser Val Glu
Glu Thr Pro Gly Trp Pro Thr Thr Leu Leu Val Val Met Gly Thr Leu
Val Ala Leu Val Gly Leu Phe Val Leu Leu Ala Phe Leu Gln Tyr Arg
Arg Leu Arg Lys Gly Tyr Thr Pro Leu Met Glu Thr His Leu Ser Ser
Lys Arg Tyr Thr Glu Glu Ala
[00116] Various TRP2 sequences are available to the public via the worldwide web.
Examples on the NCBI site include, but are not limited to, human (NM_01129889,
DQ 902581, BC028311, L 18967, DQ894649.3, DQ891466), sheep
(NM_001130024,) pig (AB207241.1), cattle (NM_00101012666, AY278108), horse
(XM_001491619), macaque (XM_001083014, XM_001083129, XM_001082890) and
dog (XM_542639.2).
                                      AC, cf A1Q

   WO 20101118252                                                  PCT/US2010/030423
CLAIMS
We claim:
        1. A method of enhancing or inducing an immune response to melanoma
cells in a human or animal subject, said method comprising the step of administering
to a subject a pharmaceutical composition comprising an effective amount of
alphavirus replicon particles which direct expression of dopachrome tautomerase
(TRP2) in the subject.
        2. The method of claim 1, wherein there are no melanoma antigens other
than the TRP2 in the pharmaceutical composition or whose expression is directed by
any nucleic acid in the pharmaceutical composition.
        3. The method of claim 1 or 2, wherein the alphavirus replicon particle is a
Venezuelan Equine Encephalitis (VEE) virus replicon particle.
        4. The method of claim 3, wherein the alphavirus is an attenuated alphavirus.
        5. The method of claim 4, wherein the attenuated alphavirus is TC-83 VEE.
        6. The method of claim 1, wherein the pharmaceutical composition is
administered subcutaneously, intramuscularly, intradermally or intravenously.
        7. The method of claim 6, wherein the pharmaceutical composition is
administered subcutaneously or intramuscularly.
        8. The method of claim 1, wherein the TRP2 is derived in sequence from the
same species as the subject.
        9. A method of reducing the risk of contracting melanoma in a human or
animal subject, reducing the severity or delaying progression of melanoma in a
human or animal subject with melanoma, comprising the step of administering a
                                        Ar, cf A1Q

   WO 20101118252                                                  PCT/US2010/030423
pharmaceutical composition comprising an effective amount of alphavirus replicon
particles expressing dopachrome tautomerase (TRP2).
         10. The method of claim 9, wherein there are no melanoma antigens other
than the TRP2 in the pharmaceutical composition or whose expression is directed by
any nucleic acid in the pharmaceutical composition.
         11. The method of claim 9, wherein the alphavirus replicon particle is a
Venezuelan Equine Encephalitis (VEE) virus replicon particle.
         12. The method of claim 14, wherein the VEE is an attenuated VEE.
         13. The method of any of claims 9 to 12, wherein the pharmaceutical
composition is administered subcutaneously, intramuscularly, intradermally or
intravenously.
         14. The method of claim 13, wherein the pharmaceutical composition is
administered subcutaneously or intramuscularly.
         15. The method of claim 14, wherein the TRP2 is derived in sequence from
the same species as the subject.
         16. An immunogenic composition comprising alphavirus replicon particles
which express dopachrome tautomerase (TRP2) and a pharmaceutically acceptable
carrier.
         17. The immunogenic composition of claim 22, wherein there are no
melanoma antigens other than the TRP2 in the pharmaceutical composition or
whose expression is directed by any nucleic acid in the pharmaceutical composition.
         18. The immunogenic composition of claim 16 or claim 17 further comprising
an immunological adjuvant, and optionally further comprising a cytokine.
                                        A7 nf AQ

   WO 20101118252                                                     PCT/US2010/030423
         19. The immunogenic composition of any of claims 22 to 24, wherein the
alphavirus replicon particle is a Venezuelan Equine Encephalitis (VEE) virus replicon
particle.
         20. The immunogenic composition of claim 25, wherein the VEE is an
attenuated VEE.
         21. A method of reducing melanoma tumor size, reducing or delaying the
recurrence of a melanoma tumor or melanoma metastasis, and/or reducing or
preventing metastasis of melanoma in a subject, said method comprising the step of
administering a single dose of the immunogenic composition of any of claims 16 to
20.
         22. The method of any of claims 1 to 15, further comprising a subsequent
step of administering a second dose of a pharmaceutical composition comprising
TRP2 protein or comprising a nucleic acid capable of expressing TRP2 in the
subject.
         23. The method of claim 22, wherein the modality of the second dose is
selected from the group consisting of protein, inactivated virus, DNA, viral-vectored
antigens, alphavirus replicon particles and virus-like particles displaying or
expressing TRP2.
         24. The method of any of claims 1 to 15, further comprising at least one
subsequent step of administering a pharmaceutical composition comprising
Venezuelan equine encephalitis virus replicon particles which express TRP2.
         25. The method of any of claims 1 to 15 or 21 to 24, wherein the
pharmaceutical composition administered to a subject in a dose is from 104 to 1010
virus replicon particles.
         26. The method of claim 25, wherein the dose is 107, 5 x 107, 10 , 5 x 108,
10 9 , 5 x 10 9 , or 1010 virus replicon particles.
                                              AR cnf AQ

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
