                                                     11
Abstract
A fastener extension 10 comprises a body 12 having a central aperture 14 through which the shank
of a normal fastener (e.g., screw, nail or bolt) can extend through, while the head of the fastener is
held by the body 12. The body 12 comprises a washer shaped head portion 16 and a tubular
shoulder portion 18. The aperture 14 in the head portion 18 comprises a recess 20 which is shaped
to receive the head of the fastener extending through the aperture 14. The shoulder portion 18 has
an external diameter larger than the shank of the fastener extending through its central aperture 14.
The shoulder portion 18 defines a stop surface 21 at a distal end thereof spaced from the head
portion 16. The head portion 16 further comprises attachment means 30 formed in the first surface
24, which in one embodiment are three prongs spaced around the aperture 14. The prongs 14
extend in an opposite direction to the shoulder portion 18.

     10                                1/7                           10b
                         30/
                                                                           30
      30                         30
 24                                        24
                                     16                                        16
12
                                    1420                                 14
       181
                       118
           14                                        14                 1
                 1(c).                                        2(c).
                                  30                                        30
   24                   1()24                            14       20
                                     16                                        16
     26                                        26
    18                                        18
              14             21                       1421
                 1(b).                                142(b).
                       30                                         30
        14                                        14                      2
                                    16                                         1
  30                                30      30                                30
             24               20                      &              24
               Figure 1(a).                          Figure 2(a).

                                                  1
FASTENER EXTENSION AND DRIVING TOOL
Field of the Invention
(1)  The present invention relates to fasteners and in particular to fasteners for wood
     products and the like.
(2)  The invention has been developed primarily for the carpentry and building industries
     and will be described hereinafter with reference to this application. However, it will be
     appreciated that the invention is not limited to this particular field of use.
Background of the Invention.
(3)  Fasteners such as screws, nails and anchor bolts have been manufactured with a
     variety of heads and drive designs, each requiring a different kind of tool to drive or
     extract them. All fasteners employ the same general fixing principle, with the shank,
     which may be threaded or serrated, providing gripping and the head providing a
     bearing surface and means to drive the fastener. One difficulty with such fasteners is
     the head by design is left exposed.        In building applications, this leads to additional
     finishing work for the builder to finish the workpiece around the head.
(4)  There is thus a need for a fastener which provides concealed fixing, in that the
     workpiece can be fixed in place as desired with the fastener concealed. This will allow
     builders to use pre-finished workpieces with further finishing work not being required.
(5)  The inventor performed a comprehensive search of the market place and published
     patent publications and did not find a product which satisfies the inventor's
     requirements.
(6)  The present invention seeks to overcome or substantially ameliorate at least some of
     the deficiencies of the prior art, or to at least provide an alternative.
(7)  It is to be understood that, if any prior art information is referred to herein, such
     reference does not constitute an admission that the information forms part of the
     common general knowledge in the art, in Australia or any other country. The present
     invention seeks to overcome or substantially ameliorate at least some of the
     deficiencies of the prior art, or to at least provide an alternative.
(8)  It is to be understood that, if any prior art information is referred to herein, such
     reference does not constitute an admission that the information forms part of the
     common general knowledge in the art, in Australia or any other country.
Summary of the Invention
(9)  According to a first aspect, the present invention provides a fastener extension for a
     fastener, the fastener having a fastener head and a fastener shank, the fastener
     extension comprising:

                                               2
     a body having an aperture through which the fastener shank can extend through, the
     aperture being shaped for receiving the fastener head, and
     an attachment means formed in the body and extending generally in an opposite
     direction to the fastener shank in use.
(10) Preferably, the body comprises means for holding the fastener head at least
     rotationally locked therewith.
(11) In one embodiment, the body is shaped as a washer.
(12) Preferably, the body is circular, rectangular or polygonal shaped.
(13) Preferably, the fastener extension further comprises means for locking the fastener
     head to the body.
(14) Preferably, the locking means comprises a correspondingly shaped recess in the head
     for engaging the fastener head.
(15) Preferably, the body comprises a head portion and a generally tubular shoulder portion
     extending from the head portion and opposite to the attachment means.
(16) Preferably, the shoulder portion defines a stop surface spaced from the head.
(17) Preferably, the shoulder portion has an external diameter larger than the diameter of
     the fastener shank.
(18) Preferably, the attachment means are prongs.
(19) Preferably, the body further comprises a depth measuring means for indicating the
     distance of the body from the workpiece in use.
(20) Preferably, the depth measuring means comprises a shoulder portion extending from
     the body.
(21) In another embodiment, the attachment means comprises prongs which are slightly
     splayed relative to each other.
(22)  In another embodiment, each prong is adapted to substantially curl and/or skew into a
     second workpiece as the second workpiece is forced against the attachment means.
(23) Preferably, the aperture is formed at a central portion of the body.
(24) Preferably, the attachment means effectively extend from the fastener head in use.
(25) Preferably, the body comprises a recess correspondingly shaped to the fastener head.
(26) Preferably, the recess comprises converging side walls or polygonal side walls.
(27) In another embodiment, the recess comprises a formation for receiving a locking piece
     for engaging the fastener head in use.

                                                3
(28) Preferably, the fastener extension further comprises a drive tool for the fastener
     extension, the drive tool comprising a corresponding formation for receiving the
     attachment means of the fastener extension.
(29) Preferably, the attachment means are prongs and the drive tool comprises cavities for
     receiving the prongs.
(30) In another aspect the present invention provides a fastener extension for a fastener,
     the fastener having a fastener head and a fastener shank, the fastener extension
     comprising:
     a body having an aperture through which the fastener shank can extend through, the
     body adapted to engage the fastener head, and
     an attachment means formed in the body and extending generally in an opposite
     direction to the fastener shank in use.
(31) There is also provided herein a fastener in combination with the fastener extension of
     any one of the above.
(32) Other aspects of the invention are also disclosed.
Brief Description of the Drawings
(33) Notwithstanding any other forms which may fall within the scope of the present
     invention, preferred embodiments of the present invention will now be described, by
     way of examples only, with reference to the accompanying drawings in which:
(34) Fig. 1 shows a fastener extension in accordance with a first embodiment of the present
     invention, where (a) is a top view, (b) is a side cross-section view, and (c) is a
     perspective view;
(35) Fig. 2 shows a fastener extension in accordance with a second embodiment of the
     present invention, where (a) is a top view, (b) is a side cross-section view, and (c) is a
     perspective view;
(36) Fig. 3 shows a fastener extension in accordance with a third embodiment of the
     present invention, where (a) is a top view, (b) is a side cross-section view, and (c) is a
     perspective view;
(37) Fig. 4 shows the fastener extension of Figure 3 with the prongs thereof skewed in use,
     where (a) is a top view, (b) is a side cross-section view, and (c) is a perspective view;
(38) Fig. 5 shows a fastener extension in accordance with a fourth embodiment of the
     present invention, where (a) is a top view, (b) is a side cross-section view, and (c) is a
     perspective view;

                                               4
(39) Fig. 6 shows a fastener extension in accordance with a fifth embodiment of the present
     invention, where (a) is a top view, (b) is a side cross-section view, and (c) is a
     perspective view;
(40) Fig. 7 shows a fastener extension in accordance with a sixth embodiment of the
     present invention, where (a) is a top view, (b) is a side cross-section view, and (c) is a
     perspective view;
(41) Fig. 8 shows a fastener extension in accordance with a seventh embodiment of the
     present invention, where (a) is a top view, (b) is a side cross-section view, and (c) is a
     perspective view;
(42) Fig. 9 shows the fastener extension of Figure 1;
(43) Fig. 10 shows a drive tool for the fastener of Figures 1, 2, 5, 6 and 8;
(44) Fig. 11 schematically shows the fastener of Figure 1 in use; and
(45) Fig. 12 schematically shows the fastener of Figure 5 in use.
Description of Embodiments
(46) It should be noted in the following description that like or the same reference numerals
     in different embodiments denote the same or similar features.
(47) Fig. 1 shows a fastener extension 10 in accordance with a preferred embodiment of
     the present invention.     The fastener extension 10 comprises a body 12 having a
     central aperture 14 through which the shank of a normal fastener (e.g., screw, nail or
     bolt) can extend through, while the head of the fastener is held by the body 12.
(48) The body 12 comprises a washer shaped head portion 16 and a tubular shoulder
     portion 18. The head portion 16 comprises a first surface 24 and an opposite second
     surface 26. The shoulder portion 18 extends from the second surface 26.
(49) The aperture 14 in the head portion 16 comprises a recess 20 which is shaped to
     receive the head of the fastener extending through the aperture 14. In the fastener
     extension 10, the recess 20 is shaped to have converging sidewalls for receiving the
     correspondingly shaped head of a screw. The recess 20 also includes a locking means
     or an engagement formation such as ribs for engaging the screw head and providing a
     tight fit therewith.  The screw head is received such that the screw is locked and
     rotatable with the fastener extension 10.
(50) The shoulder portion 18 has an external diameter larger than the shank of the fastener
     extending through its central aperture 14.      The shoulder portion 18 defines a stop
     surface 21 at a distal end thereof spaced from the head portion 16.
(51) The head portion 16 further comprises attachment means 30 formed in the first surface
     24, which in this embodiment are three prongs spaced around the aperture 14. The

                                                5
     prongs 30 extend in an opposite direction to the shoulder portion 18.     The prongs are
     of a length sufficient to attach a workpiece thereto as described below.
(52) In use, as for example shown in Figure 11, the threaded shank 112 of a screw fastener
      100 is inserted through the aperture 14 with the head 110 of the fastener held by the
     recess 20.     The attachment means of the fastener, being its shank 112, will thus
     extend in a first direction, being a downward direction in Figures 1(b) and (c).      The
     attachment means 30 of fastener extension 10, being the prongs 30, will extend in the
     opposite direction, being upward in Figures 1(b) and (c).
(53) Fig. 11 schematically shows the fastener extension 10 in use. The fastener extension
      10 is added to a fastener 100 to provide the fastener 100 with an additional oppositely
     directed attachment means. In this example, the fastener 100 is used for fixing a
     plasterboard wall lining 42 to a frame stud 40, and the fastener extension 10 is used
     for fixing a pre-finished timber skirting 44 to the wall lining 42 to cover the gap 43
     between the wall lining 42 and the flooring 46.
(54) The wall lining 42 has already been painted its final coat and is fixed to the frame stud
     40 (timber, metal or masonry) via the threaded shank 112 of the fastener 100, up until
     the stop surface 21 of the fastener extension 10 engages the frame stud 40.           The
     shoulder portion 18 thus also penetrates the wall lining 42. The head portion 16
     engages the wall lining 42 providing a clamping force thereto towards the frame stud
     40. This also locks the fastener extension 10 further in place with the prongs 30
     extending outwardly. The fastener head 110 is substantially flush with the first surface
     24, and the prongs 30 thus effectively extend from the fastener head 110. The timber
     skirting 44 is then forced into the additional attachment means 30, being the prongs
     30.    The face (front surface) 24 of the head portion 16 can also provide a stop to
     control/prevent flex of the skirting 44.
(55) Only the back surface of the skirting 44 is engaged by the prongs 30 and the front pre
     finished surface 49 thereof is left unmarked. Thus, the fastener 100 and the fastener
     extension 10 provides concealed fixing of the skirting 44 and no further finishing is
     needed.     The shoulder portion 18 via the stop surface 21 acts a depth measuring
     means in that the distance of the head portion 16 from the first workpiece (being the
     frame stud 40) for all of the fastener extensions 10 will be consistent.
(56) It is possible to drive the fastener 100 into the frame stud 40 via conventional means,
     such as a screwdriver.       Preferably however, the screw head 110 is tightly fitted and
     locked to the head portion 16 such that the screw fastener 100 is rotatable with the
     faster extension 10. Fig. 10 shows a drive tool 120 for the fastener extension 10, also
     shown in Figure 9. The drive tool 120 is shaped as a socket having three cavities 122
     for respectively receiving the prongs 30 of the fastener extension 10, such that the

                                              6
     drive tool 120 can rotate and drive the fastener extension 10 with the fastener 100.
     Where the fastener extension has differently shaped prongs, such as that shown in
     Figure 3, the cavities 122 can be correspondingly shaped.
(57) Figure 2 shows a fastener extension 10b which is substantially similar to the fastener
     extension 10 above.      The fastener extension 10b however has a hexagon socket
     recess 20 shaped to receive the hexagonal head of a bolt. The fastener extension 1Ob
     is thus mostly suitable for use with a bolt fastener with a hexagonal head, which is
     locked for rotation with the fastener extension 10b via the hexagon socket shaped
     recess 20 (which acts as a rotation locking means).
(58) Figure 3 shows a fastener extension 10c which is substantially similar to the fastener
     extension 10 above. The fastener extension 10c however has flat prongs 30 having
     pointed ends as their attachment means 30, instead of the rounded prongs in the
     fastener extension 10. The prongs 30 are slightly splayed from each other.
(59) Figures 4a, 4b & 4c schematically show the skewing of the prongs 30 away from each
     other, when the prongs 30 for example engage the timber skirting 44 in use. The fixing
     prongs 24 skew away from each other and the end portions thereof curl outwardly as
     the skirting 44 is forced thereto. The skewed prongs curl to lock into the pre-finished
     timber.
(60) Figure 5 shows a fastener extension 10d which is substantially similar to the fastener
     extension 10 above, except the fastener extension 1Oc does not include the shoulder
     portion 18.    The fastener extension 10c only comprises the washer shaped head
     portion 16 and the prongs 30.
(61) Use of the fastener extension 1Od is shown in Figure 12, which is similar to that shown
     in Figure 11.   The fastener extension 10d is used in applications where the shoulder
     portion 18 will not penetrate the wall lining 42, such as where the wall lining 42 is
     painted cement render or a tile made from ceramic or stone.
(62) Figure 6 shows a fastener extension 10e which is substantially similar to the fastener
     extension 1Od above. The recess 20 of the fastener extension 1Oe however is shaped
     to include radial teeth recesses 22 for receiving the teeth of a washer lock which
     further assists in engaging the head of the fastener 100 and stopping rotation of the
     fastener head relative to the fastener extension 1Oe. The teeth of the washer lock are
     locked in the recesses 22 as the washer lock further engages the fastener head.
(63) Figure 7 shows a fastener extension 10f which is substantially similar to the fastener
     extension 10d above, except comprising a square or rectangular shaped head portion
      16 rather than a circular head portion.    The square head portion 16 can thus be
     engaged by a spanner for driving the fastener extension 1Of with the fastener attached

                                               7
     thereto in use.    The fastener extension 10f also comprises four prongs 30 at the
     corners thereof.
(64) Figure 8 shows a fastener extension lOg which is substantially similar to the fastener
     extension 10e above, except comprising a hexagonal shaped head portion 16 rather
     than a circular head portion. The hexagon head portion 16 can thus be engaged by a
     spanner for driving the fastener extension 1Of with the fastener attached thereto in use.
(65) The shaped bodies 16 of Figures 7 and 8 can also be applied to the fasteners of
     Figures 1 to 4.
(66) Whilst preferred embodiments of the present invention have been described, it will be
     apparent to skilled persons that modifications can be made to the embodiments
     described.
(67) For example, the fastener extensions can have any desired number of prongs and
     differently shaped prongs, such as serrated prongs.           Another variation is the
     incorporation of 50% leading smooth pin that penetrates easier into the dense MDF
     and 50% serrations, and with fewer serrations, provides less resistance requiring less
     force for penetration into the dense MDF material.
(68) In other embodiments, the serrated prongs can also be slightly splayed, and can be
     adapted to curl outwardly similar to the prongs above.
(69) The fastener extensions of the preferred embodiment thus provides the ability to add
     an additional attachment means to conventional fasteners.        The resulting assembly
     provides two-directional concealed fixing via a threaded shank or nail in one direction,
     and integrated fixing prongs in the opposite direction. The preferred fastener extension
     has integrated fixing prongs that are designed to bite, skew and curl into pre-finished
     timber. The preferred fastener extension has the integrated fixing prongs that provide
     a skewing and curling action locking the pre-finished timber towards the screw head.
     The integrated fixing prongs can generate a gripping a force greater than that of single
     trimming nails through the timber.
(70) The preferred fastener extension can comprise a varying number of integrated fixing
     prongs in the screw head.        The preferred fastener extension has a shoulder that
     provides a depth gauge to ensure all integrated fixing prongs protrude past the face of
     the plasterboard wall lining equidistantly.      The preferred fastener extension can
     accommodate any variation of drive system within the head. The preferred fastener
     extension provides fixing from the back face of the material, and without penetrating
     the surface, allows for pre-finished timber to be used.
(71) The preferred fastener extension provides concealed fixing as an alternative to the
     current nailing of internal timbers. This has been achieved with the threaded shank

                                               8
     providing gripping to the wall frame, and the integral fixing prongs providing bite and
     penetration to pull the timber towards the crown, which provides for a very strong
     connection. The fixing prongs are an integral part of the screw head giving the screw
     head a crown like appearance.
(72) The preferred extension is driven to the wall frame with the shoulder providing the pre
     determined bearing depth, ensuring correct engagement of the crown. The timber is
     positioned for fastening, with pressure being applied to the face of the timber,
     engaging the fixing prongs which bite into the timber. As more pressure is applied and
     the timber is forced home, the fixing prongs skew and curl into the timber which
     provides a powerful locking strength.
(73) The fixing detail is such that the fasteners are secured to each stud frame via the
     threaded shank, with the shoulder of the fastener providing the bearing surface to
     ensure all screw heads are set at the same depth, thus providing consistent bite force
     to the timber skirting. The fixing prongs in the set position, protrude forward of the face
     of the Plasterboard Wall Lining, and have been designed to bite and skew into the
     timber Skirting, curling and pulling the pre-finished timber tight with the Plasterboard
     Wall Lining. The result is that the skirting remains a tight fit along the entire length of
     wall, thus minimising (or eliminating) the need for gap filler.
(74) In another possible embodiment, the body can simply be a flat washer which does not
     have a recess fro receiving the fastener head. The fastener head will engage the head
     portion of the fastener extension when the fastener is driven into a workpiece.

                                                8a
(75) The invention provides:
(a)     a cylindrical shoulder which comprises a larger diameter than the shank to form a
stop surface with the shank;
(b)     wherein the stop surface is spaced from the head;
(c)     wherein the stop surface engages the first workpiece in use and acts as a depth
measuring means for indicating the distance of the head from the first workpiece in use;
(d)     and wherein the head is wider than the shoulder.
The present fastener extension with fastener locks three workpieces together - (1) skirting
44 to (2) wall lining 42 to (3) frame stud 40. The shoulder (which forms the stop surface) and
wider screw head are advantageous features of the present fastener. The wider screw head
engages the wall lining 42 in use and provides clamping attachment of the wall lining 42 to
the frame stud 40. The shoulder forms the stop surface which engages the frame stud 40
and prevents further driving of the fastener - this ensure all screw heads are set at the same
depth relative to the frame studs 40 - which ensures that the skirting 44 will be attached in
a straight orientation relative to the wall.

                                               9
Claims
The claims defining the invention are as follows:
1.   A fastener extension for a fastener, the fastener having a fastener head and a fastener
      shank, the fastener extension comprising:
      a body having an aperture through which the fastener shank can extend through, the
      aperture being shaped for receiving the fastener head, and
      an attachment means formed in the body and extending generally in an opposite
      direction to the fastener shank in use.
2.    The fastener extension of claim 1 wherein the body comprises means for holding the
     fastener head at least rotationally locked therewith.
3.    The fastener extension of claim 1 wherein the body is shaped as a washer.
4.    The fastener extension of claim 3 wherein the body is circular, rectangular or polygonal
      shaped.
5.    The fastener extension of claim 1 further comprising means for locking the fastener
      head to the body.
6.    The fastener extension of claim 5 wherein the locking means comprises a
      correspondingly shaped recess in the head for engaging the fastener head.
7.    The fastener extension of claim 1 wherein the body comprises a head portion and a
      generally tubular shoulder portion extending from the head portion and opposite to the
      attachment means.
8.    The fastener of claim 7 wherein the shoulder portion defines a stop surface spaced
     from the head.
9.    The fastener extension of claim 8 wherein the shoulder portion has an external
      diameter larger than the diameter of the fastener shank.
10.   The fastener extension of claim 1 wherein the attachment means are prongs.
11.   The fastener extension of claim 1 further comprising a depth measuring means for
      indicating the distance of the body from the workpiece in use.
12.   The fastener extension of claim 11 wherein the depth measuring means comprises a
      shoulder portion extending from the body.
13.   The fastener extension of claim 1 wherein the attachment means comprises prongs
     which are slightly splayed relative to each other.
14.    The fastener extension of claim 14 wherein each prong is adapted to substantially curl
      and/or skew into a second workpiece as the second workpiece is forced against the
      attachment means.

                                              10
15. The fastener extension of claim 1 wherein the aperture is formed at a central portion of
    the body.
16. The fastener extension of claim 1 wherein the attachment means effectively extend
    from the fastener head in use.
17. The fastener extension of claim 2 wherein the body comprises a recess
    correspondingly shaped to the fastener head.
18. The fastener extension of claim 17 wherein the recess comprises converging side
    walls or polygonal side walls.
19. The fastener extension of claim 17 wherein the recess comprises a formation for
    receiving a locking piece for engaging the fastener head in use.
20. The fastener extension of claim 1 further comprising a drive tool for the fastener
    extension, the drive tool comprising a corresponding formation for receiving the
    attachment means of the fastener extension.
21. The fastener extension of claim 20 wherein the attachment means are prongs and the
    drive tool comprises cavities for receiving the prongs.
22. A fastener extension for a fastener, the fastener having a fastener head and a fastener
    shank, the fastener extension comprising:
    a body having an aperture through which the fastener shank can extend through, the
    body adapted to engage the fastener head, and
    an attachment means formed in the body and extending generally in an opposite
    direction to the fastener shank in use.
23. A fastener in combination with the fastener extension of any one of claims 1 to 21.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
