                SPORTING OR AMUSEMENT APPARATUS
According to the present invention, there is provided a goal assembly including: a frame (11) defining
the border or mouth of the goal; a controller (13); at least one scoring sensor (17) for detecting
passage of a ball past the frame and into the goal, the sensor then providing a signal to the controller
(13); and a visual display system Including one or more light source (14 or 14'); the visual display
system being activated by the controller (13) so as to provide a visual display. Preferably, the visual
display incorporates a changing or non-static light pattern on part or all of the frame (11) or a post
(12) or surface on which the frame is disposed, As well as the visual display system, the goal
assembly may incorporate an audio transmitter (20) which is activated by the controller (13) so as to
provide an audio transmission. The frame (11) may, for example. be a hoop such as the ring of a
netball goal or the hoop section of the basket of a basketball goal or the frame forming the mouth of a
soccer goal.

                                                 1
                         SPORTING OR AMUSEMENT APPARATUS
TECHNICAL FIELD
This invention relates to sporting or amusement apparatus, and in particular a netball,
basketball or soccer goal assembly with interactive features.
BACKGROUND TO THE INVENTION
There are many examples of sporting equipment (such as the equipment used on netball or
basketball courts) which incorporate coaching features, or features to enhance player or
spectator interest.
United States Patent No. 5,684,453 entitled "Basketball Training Apparatus" discloses
electronic basketball training apparatus which incorporates a switch sensor in the net to
sense when a goal is made, and laser beam sensors on the floor to locate the player's
position. The apparatus computes statistics and results from the information provided by the
sensors, so as to evaluate the player's performance. It can instruct the player by means of
automated commands, and display or print off results and statistics. For example, the
apparatus's display unit can provide an automatically varying display of visual
representations in accordance with the player's results and statistics and, at the end of a
training session, the player's statistics can be printed off so as to provide the player with
feedback and encourage better play.
United States Patent No. 6,280,352 entitled "Apparatus and Method for Performing Timed
Basketball Drills" discloses apparatus incorporating a basketball goal assembly and one or
more goal return unit(s). A transmitter provides an encoded signal from the basketball goal
assembly or the ball return unit(s) to a timer/counter. The timer/counter senses, processes,
stores and displays a number of results or statistics, including the number of goals scored.
United States Patent No. 6,389,368 entitled "Basketball Goal Sensor for Detecting Shots
Attempted and Made" discloses basketball score-keeping apparatus incorporating sensors
or other detection devices for detecting and tracking a player's shooting characteristics. For
example, the apparatus can track the trajectory of a basketball being shot at a goal, and can
also track a player's shooting statistics. The apparatus may incorporate a display.
United States Patent Application No. 2005/0130772 entitled "Automated Ball Game Training
and Playing System" discloses a ball game system for training and/or play comprising one or

                                                   2
more playing area(s) suitably large to accommodate running and jumping players. The
system includes a basketball hoop, an automatic ball feeder and sensors for monitoring the
positions and trajectories of one or more players and/or balls on the playing area(s). The
sensors provide to a computer system position and trajectory information relating to the
player(s) and ball(s) on the playing area(s). In particular, a scoring sensor provides
information as to whether a ball has passed through the hoop. From that information, the
computer creates a visual display and/or audio output reflective of player
performance. Visual display options include a visual display of the player's statistics, and
audio output options include simulated crowd noise and training instruction in response to
the player's measured performance. A camera may be incorporated for recording the
player's performance.
International (PCT) Patent Application No. W02004/009188 entitled "Apparatus for a
Competitive Game involving a Basketball and Basketball Basket" discloses apparatus for
measuring the performance of a basketball player aiming balls at a basket hoop alternately
from different throwing zones. Photoelectric barriers measure the player's running
performance and his/her height of jump during the throw. The baskets scored are also
measured by sensors positioned on the basket hoop. A computer system evaluates the
player's performance, and provides feedback to the player.
The present invention provides sporting or amusement apparatus with interactive features to
add to its value as a coaching aid, and to enhance player or spectator interest. In particular,
the present invention provides sporting or amusement apparatus which utilises audio and/or
visual aids to stimulate and enhance play, instruction or training.
It is to be understood that, if any prior art information is referred to herein, such reference
does not constitute an admission that the information forms part of the common general
knowledge in the art, in Australia or any other country.
SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
In a first aspect, the present invention provides a goal assembly including:
          (a) a frame defining the border or mouth of the goal;
          (b) a controller;
          (c) at least one scoring sensor for detecting passage of a ball past the frame and into
the goal, said sensor then providing a signal to the controller; and

                                                 3
         (d) a visual display system including one or more light source; the visual display
system being activated by the controller so as to provide a visual display, and the visual
display incorporating a changing or non-static light pattern on part or all of the frame or a
post or surface on which the frame is disposed.
The frame may, for example, be a hoop (such as the ring of a netball goal or the hoop
section of the basket of a basketball goal) or the frame forming the mouth of a soccer goal.
In a second aspect, the present invention provides a goal assembly including:
         (a) a substantially vertical post;
         (b) a hoop disposed on the post;
         (c) a controller;
         (d) at least one scoring sensor for detecting passage of a ball through the hoop, and
then providing a signal to the controller; and (e) a visual display system including one or
more light source; the visual display system being activated by the controller so as to provide
a visual display, and the visual display incorporating a changing or non-static light pattern on
part or all of the post and/or hoop.
In a third aspect, the present invention provides a goal assembly including:
         (a) a frame defining the border or mouth of the goal;
         (b) a controller;
         (c) at least one scoring sensor for detecting passage of a ball past the frame and into
the goal, said sensor then providing a signal to the controller;
         (d) a visual display system including one or more light source, and being activated by
the controller so as to provide a visual display; and (e) an audio transmitter activated by the
controller so as to provide an audio transmission.
In a fourth aspect, the present invention provides a goal assembly including:
         (a) a substantially vertical post;
         (b) a hoop disposed on the post;
         (c) a controller;

                                                   4
         (d) at least one scoring sensor for detecting passage of a ball through the hoop, and
then providing a signal to the controller;
         (e) a visual display system including one or more light source, and being activated by
the controller so as to provide a visual display; and
         (f) an audio transmitter activated by the controller so as to provide an audio
transmission.
In a preferred embodiment, the goal assembly incorporates a hoop defining a substantially
circular opening through which a ball passes in order to score a goal. The hoop can, for
example, be the ring of a netball goal or the hoop section of the basket of a basketball goal.
The hoop is preferably disposed on a substantially vertical goal post or on a generally flat
surface such as a wall or board.
Alternatively, in the first and third aspects of the invention, the goal assembly can
incorporate a soccer goal.
The scoring sensor(s) are disposed at any convenient location so as to enable the sensor(s)
to detect when a goal is scored. In a preferred embodiment, they are located on the frame
itself.
Alternatively, where a net is associated with the goal (e.g. in the case of basketball or
soccer), the sensor(s) may be attached to the net.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
Notwithstanding any other forms which may fall within the scope of the present invention, a
preferred embodiment / preferred embodiments of the invention will now be described, by
way of example only, with reference to the accompanying drawings in which:
Figure 1 is a pictorial diagram illustrating a goal assembly according to the present invention,
as used in the game of netball;
Figure 2 is a block diagram showing the interaction of the various components of the goal
assembly of Figure 1;

                                                    5
Figure 3A is a side view of a pictorial representation of a complete sporting system in use,
the sporting system being according to the present invention and incorporating illuminated
features; and
Figure 3B is a view from above of a pictorial representation of the complete sporting system
of Figure 3A.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF VARIOUS EMBODIMENTS OF THE INVENTION
It should be noted in the following description that like or the same reference numerals in
different embodiments denote the same or similar features.
The goal assembly will now be described in terms of preferred embodiments, which are
illustrative, but not restrictive, of the present invention.
This goal assembly 10, depicted diagrammatically in Figures 1 and 2, is an entertainment
and training tool which uses electronic audio and visual aids to stimulate and enhance both
entertainment and training or instruction in the game of netball. Its design is based on a
standard netball goal post.
A hoop 11 of standard dimensions is mounted at a regulation height from ground level on a
substantially vertical post 12. The terms "standard dimensions" and "regulation height" relate
to any requirements specified in the rules of the relevant game (in this case, netball).
The goal assembly incorporates a controller, such as a Central Processing Unit (CPU) 13, to
control its many features. These features may include, for example: .
     .   An array of light sources 14 on post 12;
     " A message/scoring display 15;
     e   A beacon 16;
     " Scoring sensor(s) 17, which are conveniently located on or proximal to hoop 11;
     *   Audio detector(s) 18 (not shown in Figure 1);
     " Image recorder(s) such as a video camera 19; and
     " Audio transmitter(s) 20.
Preferably, the apparatus will incorporate an automated electronic scoring system, in which
the CPU 13 controls the message/scoring display 15, being an electronic scoreboard (e.g.
an LED numerical or alpha-numeric display), such that the score changes automatically in
response to information/data received from scoring sensor(s) 17.

                                                  6
In a version of the apparatus which is adapted for two-team play, two goal post units are
linked together. When a team scores, light sources 14 on one or both of the goal posts are
activated to turn the goal post(s) the team colour(s) of the scoring team. In particular, when
one team scores, the light sources 14 on the other goal post can be activated to turn that
goal post the team colour(s) of the scoring team.
The sporting or amusement apparatus of this version may, for example, be a portable netball
court, shaped similarly to a traditional netball court.
As shown in Figure 2, the apparatus of the present invention may also include one or more
external CPU's 21. These external CPU's allow for additional external scoreboards 15', and
for audio transmissions and video displays to be provided and controlled based on the
information/data received and processed from one or two goal post units (for example, in the
case of a goal assembly to be used for two-team play). These external message/scoring
displays 15', external audio transmitters 20' and external video displays 22 can, for example,
be provided at any desired remote location (for example, in the vicinity of spectator seating,
for the convenience of spectators).
The apparatus of the present invention may further include one or more external hard drive
(not shown), which may be used to store images recorded by an image recorder such as
video camera 19. In a particularly preferred embodiment, as shown in Figure 1, at least the
front surface (i.e. the side facing play) of post 12 is provided with an array of segmented light
emitting diodes (LED's) 14 or other light sources. These LED's can, for example, be lit up in
the team colour(s) of a team in play. The LED's can be set to flash on and off, and can be
activated sequentially, to form a light sequence moving or "chasing" up and down the
post. The rate at which the LED's flash or "chase" up and down the post can be controlled by
the CPU 13, in response to audience or player input (as detected by one or more audio
detector 18) or in response to a goal (as detected by one or more scoring sensor 17).
The hoop 11 may also be illuminated, for example by LED lighting 14'. This lighting may be
static except for when a player scores a goal, at which time lights can be activated to flash
intermittently or in a sequence so as, for example, to "chase" around the hoop.
The message/scoring displays 15,15' may conveniently be LED panels, which can function
as scoreboards providing numerical or alpha-numeric displays on the post 12, and also at
any desired remote location (for example, in the vicinity of spectator seating, for the

                                                  7
convenience of spectators). Scoring sensor(s) 17, such as a micro-switch inside the hoop
11, will provide a signal to CPU 13 to automatically change the score displayed on the
scoreboards 15,15'.
An image recorder, such as a video camera 19, can be placed at any convenient location.
For example, video camera 19 can be mounted at or proximal to the top of the post 12. This
video camera can be used to take video footage of the players. Footage can be stored on
the hard drive of an external CPU 21, and played back as an aid to coaches, or to assist in
instructing players/coaches. The footage can also be transmitted directly to external video
displays 22, for the convenience of coaches and/or for the convenience and entertainment of
spectators. An audio transmitter 20, for example an audio board, can be placed at any
convenient location. For example, it can be incorporated in the base of post 12. The audio
transmitter can play (and repeatedly replay) pre-recorded music programs or themes, or
music programs or themes transmitted from an external source. Vocal messages, for
example messages of encouragement such as "great shot", "try again" etc., can be
periodically transmitted through the audio transmitter 20, or may be transmitted in response
to the scoring of a goal. These vocal messages may be pre-recorded or transmitted directly
(e.g. by a coach or commentator) to audio transmitter 20 for re-transmission to players or
spectators. For the convenience and entertainment of spectators, external audio
transmitter(s) 20' can provide similar audio transmissions at any desired remote location (for
example, in the vicinity of spectator seating).
An additional feature which may be incorporated is an audio detector 18, such as a sound
sensitive meter, which communicates with the CPU 13 so as to (for example) increase the
intensity level of lighting on a post 12, or the rate at which lights flash or "chase" up and
down the post, in response to audio input such as the cheering of spectators.
CPU 13 and external CPU's 21 (if present) allow multiple goal assemblies to be linked to
electronic scoreboards 15, 15' and to each other. For example, for two-team play, two goal
posts 12 at opposite ends of a playing arena (such as a netball court) may be linked in this
way, allowing appropriate visual displays and/or audio transmissions to be provided
individually on each post.
Similarly, the lighting levels of two goal posts 12 at either end of the playing arena can be
individually controlled, depending upon such factors as sound levels (e.g. spectator
cheering), state of play or the score.

                                                 8
The following is a description of how a goal assembly according to the present invention may
be used as a training aid, and to encourage player participation and enjoyment. It should be
noted that this description is merely an example of one of the many possible ways in which
the sporting or amusement apparatus of the present invention can be utilised.
At the start of play, light sources 14 (preferably, a segmented array of LED's) illuminate the
goal post 12 in a single colour indicative of one of the teams at play. Light sources 14'
(preferably LED's) similarly illuminate the hoop 11 in a single colour. Video camera 19 relays
images (e.g. images of players) to be shown on video screens 22 and/or stored on an
external hard drive. Beacon 16 is switched off, the audio transmitter 20 is silent, and the LED
scoreboards 15, 15' indicate a zero score.
During play, and before any goals have been scored, the LED's 14 will illuminate goal post
12 with flashing lights or a changing pattern of colours flashing in sequence or "chasing" up
and down the length of the post. Video camera 19 continues to relay images (e.g. images of
players) to be shown on video screens 22 and/or stored on the external hard drive. Beacon
16 is switched off, and the LED scoreboards 15, 15' indicate a zero score. The audio
transmitter provides sound effects such as the sound of cheering or words of
encouragement ("have a shot" etc.). Hoop 11 is illuminated in a single colour by LED's 14'.
During play, when a goal is scored, this is detected by scoring sensor(s) 17, such as a micro
switch inside the hoop 11. The LED's 14 illuminate goal post 12 with flashing lights in the
team colour(s) of the team which scored the goal. These lights flash in sequence or "chase"
up and down the length of the post. Video camera 19 relays images to be shown on video
screens 22 and/or stored on the external hard drive, and can be set to provide action replays
(i.e. to repeat images of, for example, the 5 seconds prior and after the goal was scored) on
screens 22. Beacon 16 is switched on and flashing. The LED scoreboards 15, 15' display
the updated score. The audio transmitter 20 provides sound effects such as the sound of
cheering or words of encouragement ("great shot" etc.). Hoop 11 is illuminated in flashing
lights by LED's 14'.
The sporting or amusement apparatus of the present invention may form part of a complete
concept sporting system. For example, as illustrated in Figures 3A and 3B, the apparatus
may be combined with such additional features as the use of a glowing/fluorescent ball 23,
illuminated/fluorescent lines 24 on the playing arena, the wearing of illuminated/fluorescent
uniforms 25 by the players etc. In a particularly preferred embodiment, these various
features of illumination are combined to provide an illuminated court or rink 26 (e.g. an

                                                  9
illuminated netball or basketball court or rink) forming part of a complete illuminated sporting
system.
In a further preferred embodiment, the playing arena may incorporate video walls on the
perimeter.
In order to facilitate better understanding of the invention, the present invention has been
described in terms of preferred embodiments, and with regard to the particular elements
and/or features described or depicted therein. It should however be appreciated that various
modifications can be made without departing from the principles of the invention. Therefore,
the invention should be understood to include all such modifications within its scope.
Interpretation
Embodiments:
Reference throughout this specification to "one embodiment" or "an embodiment" means
that a particular feature, structure or characteristic described in connection with the
embodiment is included in at least one embodiment of the present invention. Thus,
appearances of the phrases "in one embodiment" or "in an embodiment" in various places
throughout this specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment, but
may. Furthermore, the particular features, structures or characteristics may be combined in
any suitable manner, as would be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art from this
disclosure, in one or more embodiments.
Similarly it should be appreciated that in the above description of example embodiments of
the invention, various features of the invention are sometimes grouped together in a single
embodiment, figure, or description thereof for the purpose of streamlining the disclosure and
aiding in the understanding of one or more of the various inventive aspects. This method of
disclosure, however, is not to be interpreted as reflecting an intention that the claimed
invention requires more features than are expressly recited in each claim. Rather, as the
following claims reflect, inventive aspects lie in less than all features of a single foregoing
disclosed embodiment. Thus, the claims following the Detailed Description of Specific
Embodiments are hereby expressly incorporated into this Detailed Description of Specific
Embodiments, with each claim standing on its own as a separate embodiment of this
invention.
Furthermore, while some embodiments described herein include some but not other features

                                                10
included in other embodiments, combinations of features of different embodiments are
meant to be within the scope of the invention, and form different embodiments, as would be
understood by those in the art. For example, in the following claims, any of the claimed
embodiments can be used in any combination.
Different Instances of Objects
As used herein, unless otherwise specified the use of the ordinal adjectives "first", "second",
"third", etc., to describe a common object, merely indicate that different instances of like
objects are being referred to, and are not intended to imply that the objects so described
must be in a given sequence, either temporally, spatially, in ranking, or in any other manner.
Specific Details
In the description provided herein, numerous specific details are set forth. However, it is
understood that embodiments of the invention may be practiced without these specific
details. In other instances, well-known methods, structures and techniques have not been
shown in detail in order not to obscure an understanding of this description.
Terminology
In describing the preferred embodiment of the invention illustrated in the drawings, specific
terminology will be resorted to for the sake of clarity. However, the invention is not intended
to be limited to the specific terms so selected, and it is to be understood that each specific
term includes all technical equivalents which operate in a similar manner to accomplish a
similar technical purpose. Terms such as "forward", "rearward", "radially", "peripherally",
"upwardly", "downwardly", and the like are used as words of convenience to provide
reference points and are not to be construed as limiting terms.
Comprising and Including
In the claims which follow and in the preceding description of the invention, except where the
context requires otherwise due to express language or necessary implication, the word
"comprise" or variations such as "comprises" or "comprising" are used in an inclusive sense,
i.e. to specify the presence of the stated features but not to preclude the presence or
addition of further features in various embodiments of the invention.
Any one of the terms: including or which includes or that includes as used herein is also an

                                                  11
open term that also means including at least the elements/features that follow the term, but
not excluding others. Thus, including is synonymous with and means comprising.
Scope of Invention
Thus, while there has been described what are believed to be the preferred embodiments of
the invention, those skilled in the art will recognize that other and further modifications may
be made thereto without departing from the spirit of the invention, and it is intended to claim
all such changes and modifications as fall within the scope of the invention. For example,
any formulas given above are merely representative of procedures that may be
used. Functionality may be added or deleted from the block diagrams and operations may
be interchanged among functional blocks. Steps may be added or deleted to methods
described within the scope of the present invention.
Although the invention has been described with reference to specific examples, it will be
appreciated by those skilled in the art that the invention may be embodied in many other
forms.
Industrial Applicability
It is apparent from the above, that the arrangements described are applicable to sporting
apparatuses for play of sport such as netball for example in low light conditions.

                                                    12
CLAIMS:
    1. A goal assembly including:
        a frame defining the border or mouth of the goal;
        a controller;
        at least one scoring sensor for detecting passage of a ball past the frame and into the goal,
        said sensor then providing a signal to the controller; and
        a visual display system including one or more light source;
        the visual display system being activated by the controller so as to provide a visual display
        and the visual display incorporating a changing or non-static light pattern on part or all of
        the frame or post or surface on which the frame is disposed.
    2. A goal assembly according to Claim 1, wherein the frame is a hoop.
   3.   A goal assembly according to Claim 1, wherein the frame forms the mouth of a soccer goal.
   4.   A goal assembly including:
        a substantially vertical post;
        a hoop disposed on the post;
        a controller;
        at least one scoring sensor for detecting passage of a ball through the hoop, and thereupon
        providing a signal to the controller;
        a visual display system including one or more light source;
        the visual display system being activated by the controller so as to provide a visual display
        and the visual display incorporating a changing or non-static light pattern on part or all of
        the post and/or hoop.
   5.   A goal assembly according to any one of Claims I to 4, further including an audio transmitter
        activated by the controller so as to provide an audio transmission.
   6.   A goal assembly including:
        a frame defining the border or mouth of the goal;
        a controller; at least one scoring sensor for detecting passage of a ball past the frame and
        into the goal, said sensor then providing a signal to the controller;

                                                13
    a visual display system including one or more light source, and being activated by the
    controller so as to provide a visual display; and
    an audio transmitter activated by the controller so as to provide an audio transmission.
7.  A goal assembly according to Claim 6, wherein the frame is a hoop.
8.  A goal assembly according to Claim 6, wherein the frame forms the mouth of a soccer goal.
9.  A goal assembly including:
    a substantially vertical post;
    a hoop disposed on the post; a controller;
    at least one scoring sensor for detecting passage of a ball through the hoop, and then
    providing a signal to the controller;
    a visual display system including one or more light source, and being activated by the
    controller so as to provide a visual display; and
    an audio transmitter activated by the controller so as to provide an audio transmission.
10. A goal assembly according to Claim 2, 4, 7 or 9, wherein the hoop is the ring of a netball goal
    or the hoop section of the basket of a basketball goal.
11. A goal assembly according to any one of Claims I to 10, wherein the visual display system
    includes an electronic scoreboard.
12. A goal assembly according to Claim 11, wherein the score shown on the electronic
    scoreboard changes automatically in response to information or data transmitted from the
    scoring sensor(s) to the controller and processed by the controller.
13. A goal assembly according to any one of Claims I to 12, wherein the light source(s) include
    light emitting diodes (LED's).
14. A goal assembly according to any one of Claims I to 13, further including at least one image
    recorder.
15. A goal assembly according to Claim 14, wherein the image recorder(s) are video camera(s).

                                                14
16. A goal assembly according to Claim 14 or 15, further including video display screens for
    displaying material recorded by the image recorder(s).
17. A goal assembly according to any one of Claims I to 16, wherein the visual display system
    includes an array of light sources which is activatable by the controller to provide a light
    sequence moving along part or all of the frame, hoop or post of the goal assembly.
18. A goal assembly according to any one of Claims I to 17, wherein the visual display system
    includes light sources in the team colour(s) of a team of players.
19. A goal assembly according to any one of Claims 1 to 18, further including at least one audio
    detector.
20. A goal assembly according to any one of Claims I to 19, substantially as described herein and
    with reference to any of Figures 1, 2, 3A and 3B.
21. A combination of two goal assemblies according to any one of Claims I to 20, adapted for
    two-team play, and wherein the two goal assemblies are linked together.
22. A combination of two goals assemblies according to Claim 21 wherein, when one team
    scores a goal, the light sources on one or both of the goal assemblies are activated to turn
    the goal assembly/assemblies the team colour(s) of the scoring team.
23. A combination of two goal assemblies according to Claim 21 or 22 wherein, when one team
    scores a goal, the light sources on the other goal assembly are activated to illuminate that
    goal assembly in the team colour(s) of the scoring team.
24. A combination of two goal assemblies according to any one of claims 21 to 24 substantially
    as described herein and with reference to either of Figures 3A and 3B.
25. A game apparatus comprising a plurality of linked goal assemblies and a portable court
    wherein a game court can be defined by locating the portable goal assemblies according to
    any one of claims I to 20 at respective ends of the portable court to provide a game of a
    reduced size or standard official size at a preferred location.

                                               15
26. The game apparatus according to claim 25 including circumferentially locatable video walls.
27. A game using a goal assembly according to any one of claims I to 20 wherein the goal
    assembly is adjustable.
28. A game apparatus for substantially following the rules of netball, including
    a. a court having illuminated/fluorescent lines;
    b. a goal assembly having border or mouth of the goal illuminated;
    c. a visual display system connected to sensor in goal for providing a visual display when a
    goal is scored;
    d. the ball for playing being illuminated or fluorescent;
    whereby game apparatus and players are illuminated or fluoresce by light source to provide
    a focused illuminated/fluorescent effect.
29. The game apparatus according to claim 28 including circumferentially locatable video walls.
30. A training system using a goal assembly having scoring sensors and a video camera mounted
    at or proximal to the top of post of the goal assembly; and an audio transmitter can be
    located at, on, or near the base of the goal assembly and can include pre-recorded material
    from a coach or the like whereby the training system can provide a training method or
    routine to a player.
31. A goal assembly including:
             a frame defining the border or mouth of the goal;
             a height adjustable post formed from a plurality of removable segments, the frame
    being mountable to one end of the post at a predetermined distance from the ground;
             a base member for supporting the post;
             a controller and power source for powering the controller;
             at least one scoring sensor mounted proximal the frame for detecting passage of a
    ball past the frame and into the goal, said sensor then providing a signal to the controller;
             an electronic scoreboard located on a removable segment of the post, wherein the
    score shown on the electronic scoreboard changes automatically in response to information
    or data transmitted from the scoring sensor(s) to the controller and processed by the
    controller;

                                               16
             a visual display system including one or more light source(s), the visual display
    system being activated by the controller so as to provide a visual display, wherein the visual
    display incorporates a changing or non-static light pattern on part or all of the frame or the
    post segments; and
             an audio transmitter activated by the controller so as to provide an audio
    transmission of pre-recorded music programs or themes, or music programs or themes
    transmitted from an external source.
32. A goal assembly according to Claim 31, wherein the frame is a hoop.
33. A goal assembly according to Claim 32, wherein the hoop is the ring of a netball goal or the
    hoop section of the basket of a basketball goal.
34. A goal assembly according to claim 31 wherein the light source(s) include light emitting
    diodes (LED's) on a play facing side of the post segments, and whereby the LED's can be
    illuminated in team colors of a team in play or can be activated sequentially to form a light
    sequence moving up and down the post and/or across the frame.
35. A goal assembly according to claim 31, further including at least one image recorder.
36. A goal assembly according to claim 35 wherein the image recorder(s) are video camera(s).
37. A goal assembly according to claim 35 or 36, further including video display screens for
    displaying material recorded by the image recorder(s).
38. A goal assembly according to any one of claims 31 to 37, wherein the visual display system
    includes an array of light sources which is activatable by the controller to provide a light
    sequence moving along part or all of the frame, hoop or post of the goal assembly.
39. (New claim 8) A goal assembly according to claim 31, further including at least one audio
    detector.
40. A goal assembly according to any one of claims 31 to 39, substantially as described herein
    and with reference to any of Figures 1, 2, 3A and 3B.

                                                17
41. A combination of two goal assemblies according to any one of claims 31 to 39, adapted for
    two-team play, and wherein the two goal assemblies are electronically or wirelessly linked
    together.
42. A combination of two goals assemblies according to claim 41 wherein, when one team
    scores a goal, the light sources on one or both of the goal assemblies are activated to turn
    the goal assembly/assemblies into team color(s) of the scoring team.
43. A combination of two goal assemblies according to any one of claims 41 or 42 substantially
    as described herein and with reference to either of Figures 3A and 3B.
44. A goal assembly according to claim 31, wherein the audio transmitter is incorporated in the
    base for supporting the post.
45. A system for playing a sport such as netball or the like in low or minimal light conditions
    including a goal assembly according to claim 31, wherein the light source(s) of the visual
    display system are operable to illuminate the goal post(s) and frame and thereby signify
    playing of netball or the like game can commence, and wherein the electronic scoreboard is
    set to zero at the start of play; and wherein when an object such as a netball enters the
    mouth of the goal a goal is scored, whereby the sensors detect such scoring, and the light
    source(s) are activated by the controller to flash a predetermined light display, and the
    electronic scoreboard displays an updated score.
46. A system for playing a sport such as netball or the like in low or minimal light conditions
    providing a combination of two goal assemblies adapted for two-team play wherein said
    goal assemblies including:
             a frame defining the border or mouth of the goal;
             a substantially vertical post adapted to obtain a regulation height for a desired sport,
    the post being formed from a plurality of segments, the frame being mountable to the post
    at a predetermined distance from the ground;
             a base member for supporting the post;
             a controller and power source for powering the controller;
             at least one scoring sensor mounted proximal the frame for detecting passage of a
    ball past the frame and into the goal, said sensor then providing a signal to the controller;

                                               18
             an electronic scoreboard located on one of the plurality of segments of the vertical
    post, wherein the score shown on the electronic scoreboard changes automatically in
    response to information or data transmitted from the scoring sensor(s) to the controller and
    processed by the controller;
             a visual display system including one or more light source(s), wherein the light
    source(s) include light emitting diodes (LED's) on a play facing side of the post segments, and
    whereby the LED's are illuminated in team colors of a team in play or activated sequentially
    to form a light sequence moving up and down the post and/or across the frame, the visual
    display system being activated by the controller so as to provide a visual display, wherein the
    visual display incorporates a changing or non-static light pattern on part or all of the frame
    or the post segments; and
             an audio transmitter activated by the controller so as to provide an audio
    transmission of pre-recorded music programs or themes, or music programs or themes
    transmitted from an external source;
             wherein the two goal assemblies are electronically or wirelessly linked together,
             wherein, when one team scores a goal, the light sources on one or both of the goal
    assemblies are activated to turn the goal assembly/assemblies into team color(s) of the
    scoring team; and
             wherein the LED's of the visual display system are operable to illuminate the goal
    post(s) and frame and thereby signify playing of netball or the like game can commence, and
    wherein the electronic scoreboard is set to zero at the start of play; and wherein when an
    object such as a netball enters the mouth of the goal a goal is scored, whereby the sensors
    detect such scoring, and the light source(s) are activated by the controller to flash a
    predetermined light display, and the electronic scoreboard displays an updated score.
47. A goal assembly according to Claim 46, wherein the frame is a hoop.
48. A goal assembly according to Claim 47, wherein the hoop is the ring of a netball goal or the
    hoop section of the basket of a basketball goal.
49. A goal assembly according to any one of claims 46, further including at least one image
    recorder.
50. A goal assembly according to claim 49, wherein the image recorder(s) are video camera(s).

                                                19
51. A goal assembly according to claim 49 or 50, further including video display screens for
    displaying material recorded by the image recorder(s).
52. A goal assembly according to any one of claims 46 to 51, wherein the visual display system
    includes an array of light sources which is activatable by the controller to provide a light
    sequence moving along part or all of the frame, hoop or post of the goal assembly.
53. A goal assembly according to claim 46, further including at least one audio detector.
54. A goal assembly according to any one of claims 46 to 53, substantially as described herein
    and with reference to any of Figures 1, 2, 3A and 3B.
55. A combination of two goal assemblies according to claim 46 substantially as described
    herein and with reference to either of Figures 3A and 3B.
56. A goal assembly according to claim 46, wherein the audio transmitter is incorporated in the
    base for supporting the post.
57. A goal assembly, for playing or training of a sport such as netball, the goal assembly
    including:
                      a frame defining the border or mouth of the goal;
                      a post, the frame being mountable to one end of the post at a
             predetermined distance from the ground;
                      a base member for supporting the post;
                      a controller and power source for powering the controller;
                      at least one scoring sensor mounted proximal the frame for detecting
             passage of a ball past the frame and into the goal, said sensor then providing a signal
             to the controller;
                      an electronic scoreboard located on the post, wherein the score shown on
             the electronic scoreboard changes automatically in response to information or data
             transmitted from the at least one scoring sensorto the controller and processable by
             the controller;
                      a visual display system including one or more light sources, including light
             emitting diodes (LED's), for providing a changing, flashing or non-static light pattern
             on part or all of the goal assembly including the frame or the post, wherein the
             visual display system is activated by the controller ; and

                                                20
                      an image recorder mounted on the frame at or proximal to the of the post
             of the goal assembly for taking video footage of the players and providing for playing
              back as an aid to coaches, or to assist in instructing players or for video display for
             the coaches and/or entertainment of spectators;
                      an audio transmitter activated by the controller so as to provide an audio
             transmission of pre-recorded music programs or themes, or music programs or
             themes transmitted from an external source to stimulate and enhance
             entertainment, play, and instruction and training;
             wherein the light source(s) of the visual display system are operable to illuminate
    the goal post(s) and frame and thereby allow playing of netball or the like game, and with
    the electronic scoreboard is set to zero at the start of play; and wherein when an object such
    as a netball enters the mouth of the goal a goal is scored, whereby the sensors detect such
    scoring, and the light source(s) are activated by the controller to flash a predetermined light
    display, and the electronic scoreboard displays an updated score.
58. A goal assembly, for playing or training of a sport such as netball according to claim 57,
    wherein the light source(s) goal assembly include light emitting diodes (LED's) on a play
    facing side of the post segments, and whereby the LED's can be illuminated in team colors of
    a team in play or can be activated sequentially to form a light sequence moving up and down
    the post and/or across the frame.
59. A goal assembly, for playing or training of a sport such as netball according to any one of
    claims 57 or 58, wherein the goal assembly further including the at least one image recorder
    such as a video camera mounted at or proximal to the top of the post provides for taking of
    video footage of a player making an attempt of a goal by attempting passage of a ball past
    the frame and into the goal for use in playback for entertainment, play, and instruction and
    training.
60. A goal assembly, for playing or training of a sport such as netball according to claim 59,
    wherein scoring sensors detect scoring of a goal and initiates video camera to relay images
    to be shown on video screens and/or stored on external hard drive to provide action replays
    of, for example, the 5 seconds prior and after the goal was scored.

                                                21
61. A goal assembly, for playing or training of a sport such as netball according to claim 59,
    wherein the goal assembly further includes video display screens for displaying material
    recorded by the image recorder(s).
62. A goal assembly, for playing or training of a sport such as netball according to claim 57,
    wherein the visual display system of the goal assembly includes an array of light sources
    which is activated by the controller to provide a light sequence moving along part or all of
    the frame, hoop or post of the goal assembly.
63. A system for playing a sport such as netball , providing:
             a first and second goal assembly according to any one of claims 57 to 62 forming a
    combination of two goal assemblies adapted for two-team play,
             wherein each goal assembly is illuminated with a changing, flashing or non-static
    light pattern on part or all of each goal assembly by the one or more light sources, including
    light emitting diodes (LED's),
             illuminated or fluorescent lines or circumferentially locatable walls defining a playing
    arena or court or rink,
             a glowing/fluorescent ball, and
             illuminated/fluorescent uniforms for the players,
             wherein the system with the features of illumination are combined to provide an
    illuminated court or rink forming a complete illuminated sporting system which aids play,
    entertainment and training.
64. A system for playing a sport such as netball according claim 63, wherein the two goal
    assemblies are electronically or wirelessly linked together to allow interactive operation.
65. A system for playing a sport such as netball according claim 64, wherein the interactive
    operation includes when one team scores a goal the light sources on one or both of the goal
    assemblies are activated to turn the goal assembly/assemblies into team color(s) of the
    scoring team.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
