                   COATING COMPOSITIONS AND METHODS OF USE
                                          ABSTRACT
        Coating compositions and methods of use are described herein. The coating composition
may contain water one or more acrylic compounds. Wherein application of the coating
composition as a prime coat to a pavement structure or other permeable structures enhances the
physical properties of the pavement structure or other structures as compared to conventional
prime coat application or other conventional coatings.
                                            33

                                  1/6
         Permeability Comparison for the Effect of CB
   0 0012
     0.001
   0.0008
   0.0006
   0.0004
0
  S0.0002  K
         0
               Unmodified Polymer Based  CB Modified Polymer Based
                       Material                   Material
                                FIG. I
           Strength Comparison for the Effect of CB
    120 .
    100
   280                                        E
     60
0)
   040
       0
             Unmodified Polymer Based   CB Modified Polymer Based
                     Material                    Material
                                FIG. 2

                   COATING COMPOSITIONS AND METHODS OF USE
                                         BACKGROUND
                                       TECHNICAL FIELD
 [0001] The present disclosure relates to coating compositions and uses thereof. In particular, the
invention relates to coating compositions for treatment of roads and/or other permeable
materials.
                                         BACKGROUND
 [0002] The composition and properties of soils and/or roadbases may vary greatly. Such
variations may significantly affect the performance of road surfaces constructed thereon. In
many instances, soils must be stabilized prior to the construction of a road surface. Conventional
stabilization methods include mechanical methods, such as, for example, compaction and/or
mixing fibrous or other reinforcement materials with the soil, and chemical methods, such as, for
example, blending binders, water repellents, and/or emulsifiers to the soil to, for example, reduce
dusting and modify the behavior of clays within the soil.
 [0003] Conventional stabilization aids that are mixed with soils include cements, for example,
Portland cement, lime, gypsum, fly ash, and polymers. These conventional stabilization aids are
be costly and/or difficult to handle and mix with soils. Thus, there is a need to address the
aforementioned problems and other shortcomings associated with conventional soil stabilization
aids. These needs and other needs are satisfied by the compositions and methods of the present
disclosure.
 [0004] U.S. Patent Nos. 4,545,820 to Mallow; 4,391,926 to Creyf; 4,464,200 to Duval;
5,746,546 to Hubbs et al.; and 5,670,567 to Lahalth, describe various stabilizers. International
Application Publication No. 2012/018416 to Yildirim describes soil stabilizers containing
carbonaceous materials.
 [0005] When used in pavements, the desired function of the asphalt is to bind aggregate particles
together in a way that they can effectively carry vehicular loading. Secondly, asphalt prevents
water from penetrating into the pavement layers below the riding surface. Asphalt can be used in
hot applications after extensive heating, or it can be turned into an emulsion by mixing with
water. In hot applications, very high temperatures are required to achieve the desired functional
properties. Reaching these temperatures requires significant energy consumption and can be a
very expensive process and/or pose safety issues. If proper temperatures are not achieved during
the mixing and compaction processes, premature failure of the roadway may occur.
 [0006] According to ASTM D 8-02 Standard Terminology Relating to Materials for Road and
Pavements, a prime coat is an application of a low-viscosity bituminous material to an absorptive

surface, designed to penetrate, bond, and stabilize the existing surface and to promote adhesion
between it and the construction course that follows. The Asphalt Institute describes a prime coat
as a spray application of a medium curing cutback asphalt or emulsified asphalt applied to an
untreated base course. The most common type of prime coat is medium curing cutback asphalt,
MC-30. A prime coat is applied to the base course of a pavement before construction of any
subsequent layers. The main purpose of prime coats is to provide a waterproof base to protect
the subsequent layers against wet weather conditions. Another function of prime coats is to bind
surface fines together. Prime coat materials can be classified under two main groups: cutback
asphalt and emulsified asphalt. Cutback asphalt is a mixture of asphalt cement and petroleum
solvent. Emulsified asphalt is a suspension of asphalt cement in water.
 [0007] Prime coat application has long been a common procedure in the highway industry.
Cutback asphalts such as MC-30 persist as the most common prime coat material despite many
concerns about these products. Cutbacks are manufactured by combining asphalt with a
petroleum solvent, and as a result, these materials release an exceptionally high level of volatile
organic compounds (VOCs) into the atmosphere during their curing process. In order for the
prime coat to take hold and properly seal the base, sufficient evaporation must occur leaving the
suspended asphalt cement as a rigid layer absent of the petroleum solvent. The solvent
evaporates into the atmosphere in the form of VOCs. In addition to this negative impact on the
atmosphere, cutbacks like MC-30 also pose a health and safety risk to construction personnel.
One concern is that cutback asphalt poses a fire hazard with its relatively low flashing point.
According to a manufacturer, MC-30 has a flashing point between 1200 F and 140 F. What's
more, inhalation of the vapors by construction personnel during installation has side effects such
as headache, dizziness, and nausea. In addition, physical exposure to kerosene in cutback asphalt
could cause dermatitis. MC-30 also falls short in providing good strength for base layers after
application. MC-30 does not sufficiently bind the particles in the base layer and therefore does
not provide good strength values. Especially for low volume roads where only a very thin layer
is used to cover the base, problems with load bearing capacity is observed in situations where
MC-30 is used. Environmentally friendly prime coat alternatives such as EC-30 have shown
problems with permeability, while other water-based materials have problems with penetration
into the base. If surface moisture is allowed to permeate into the base, or if sufficient penetration
of the coat material does not occur, then the prime coat cannot properly function.
 [0008] Light and heat energy behave differently depending on the color of the surface that light
and energy contact. Light, white colored surfaces reflect light and heat energy, while dark, black
colored surfaces absorb much of this light and heat energy. Asphalt materials have traditionally
                                              2

been black, and thus, the majority of roadways are dark colored (e.g., black) in color. Dark
colored roadways absorb an enormous amount of heat during the day that would otherwise be
reflected back into the atmosphere that is subsequently released (for example, at night) when
such heat energy would not naturally be present in the area. Thus, black roads may contribute to
changes in environmental patterns.
 [0009] Just as roadway bases are sealed using seal coats in order to protect them from water
damage, many different materials are used in wood treatment for the same reasons. If water is
allowed to penetrate into wood, then weakening, rot and fungus growth will likely occur. It is
not uncommon for hazardous materials to be used in wood treatment. For example, arsenic is
still used in many wood treatments. Arsenic replacement materials, such as copper, tantalite, and
creosote may pose a health risk to the general public. The health risk may result from treated
decayed wood release materials considered toxic into the environment. For example, utility
poles such as telephone or power lines are typically wooden poles that have been treated in order
to resist adverse weather conditions. Creosote is often used on such poles. Even after
application on these poles, the material remains viscous. Over the course of many years, the
toxic wood treatment creeps down the pole and into the soil below. Growing concerns about
these hazardous materials, coupled with rising prices of these materials, has led to new
developments in wood treatment. Today, asphalt emulsions utilizing 25-pen bitumen asphalt are
commonly used as a wood treatment in place of arsenic. While effective at reducing moisture
penetration, this extremely stiff material is considerably brittle and has a risk of cracking, thus
negating its function as a sealant.
[0010] In some instances, silty clay is used as a building construction material when dried in the
shape of a block. These blocks do not have strong resistance to rain and their service life is only
a couple of years depending on the weather and climatic conditions.
[0011] Based on the above, better coating compositions for road applications and/or other
porous materials are desired.
                                             SUMMARY
[0012] Embodiments described herein relate to coating compositions, methods of making coating
compositions and uses thereof.
[0013] In some embodiments, a coating composition for prime coat applications includes one or
more acrylic polymers; and water, wherein application of the coating composition as a prime coat
to a pavement structure enhances the physical properties of the pavement structure as compared
to conventional prime coat application.
                                               3

 [0014] In some embodiments, a method of applying a prime coat to pavement structure includes
providing a coating composition to one or more portions of a pavement structure, wherein the
coating composition comprises one or more acrylic compounds; and curing the pavement
structure for a desired period of time.
 [0015] In some embodiments, a coating composition for fog coat applications includes one or
more spent toners, wherein at least one of the toners is non-black; one or more acrylic polymers;
and water, wherein application of the coating composition as a fog coat to a pavement structure
enhances the physical properties of the pavement structure.
 [0016] In some embodiments, a pavement structure composition includes one or more acrylic
polymers; and water, wherein the pavement structure composition enhances the physical
properties of the pavement structure.
 [0017] In some embodiments, a coating composition for prime coat applications includes one or
more paraffinic resins; and water; wherein application of the coating composition as a prime coat
to a pavement structure enhances the physical properties of the pavement structure as compared
to conventional prime coat application.
 [0018] In some embodiments, a coating composition for prime coat applications includes one or
more soybean processing by-products; and water, wherein application of the coating composition
as a prime coat to a pavement structure enhances the physical properties of the pavement
structure as compared to conventional prime coat application.
 [0019] In some embodiments, a coating composition for prime coat applications includes one or
more one or more vinyl acetate compounds; and water, wherein application of the coating
composition as a prime coat to a pavement structure enhances the physical properties of the
pavement structure as compared to conventional prime coat application.
 [0020] In some embodiments, a coating composition for prime coat applications includes one or
more acrylonitrile butadiene styrene compounds; and water, wherein application of the coating
composition as a prime coat to a pavement structure enhances the physical properties of the
pavement structure as compared to conventional prime coat application.
 [0021] In some embodiments, a coating composition for prime coat applications includes one or
more styrene-butadiene rubber compounds; and water, wherein application of the coating
composition as a prime coat to a pavement structure enhances the physical properties of the
pavement structure as compared to conventional prime coat application.
 [0022] In some embodiments, a coating composition for prime coat applications includes one or
more lignin sulfonates; and water, wherein application of the coating composition as a prime coat
                                             4

to a pavement structure enhances the physical properties of the pavement structure as compared
to conventional prime coat application.
 [0023] In some embodiments, a coating composition for prime coat applications includes
magnesium chloride; and water, wherein application of the coating composition as a prime coat
to a pavement structure enhances the physical properties of the pavement structure as compared
to conventional prime coat application.
 [0024] In some embodiments, a coating composition for prime coat applications includes
calcium chloride; and water, wherein application of the coating composition as a prime coat to a
pavement structure enhances the physical properties of the pavement structure as compared to
conventional prime coat application.
 [0025] In some embodiments, a method of preparing soil blocks includes providing one or more
vinyl acrylic polymers to soil; mixing the acrylic polymer with the soil to form a mixture; and
forming the mixture into one or more blocks, wherein the block has increased strength properties
as compared to an untreated soil block.
 [0026] In some embodiments, a method of treating a landfill, comprising providing a coating
composition to portion of a landfill, wherein the coating composition comprises one or more
vinyl acrylic polymers; allowing the coating composition to dry; and forming a coating on the
base of the landfill so that the base of the landfill is substantially impermeable to water.
 [0027] In some embodiments, a method of treating a water structure includes providing a coating
composition to one or more portions of a water structure, wherein at least one of the portions is at
a base of the water structure, and wherein the coating composition comprise one or more vinyl
acrylic polymers; allowing the coating composition to dry; and forming a coating on the base of
the structure so that the structure is substantially impermeable to water.
[0028] In some embodiments, a method of treating wood includes providing a coating
composition to one or more portions of wood, wherein the coating composition comprise one or
more vinyl acrylic polymers; forming a coating on the wood so that the wood is substantially
impermeable to water.
                          BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0029] Features and advantages of the methods and apparatus of the present invention will be
more fully appreciated by reference to the following detailed description of presently preferred
but nonetheless illustrative embodiments in accordance with the present invention when taken in
conjunction with the accompanying drawings
                                                5

[0030] FIG. 1 depicts bar graphs of the coefficient of permeability in cm/sec of unmodified
materials and an embodiment of soil stabilized with carbon black.
[0031] FIG. 2 depicts bar graphs of the strength properties in kg/cm 2 of unmodified materials and
an embodiment of soil stabilized carbon black.
[0032] FIG. 3 depicts bar graphs of the coefficient of permeability in cm/sec of unmodified
materials and an embodiment of soil modified with about 6.5 wt.% carbon black.
[0033] FIG. 4 depicts bar graphs of the dry strength properties in kg/cm2 of unmodified
materials and an embodiment of soil modified with about 13 wt.% carbon black/
[0034] FIG. 5 depicts bar graphs of the wet strength properties in kg/cm2 of unmodified
materials and an embodiment of soil modified with about 8 wt.% carbon black.
[0035] FIG. 6 depicts a graphical representation of composition vs. wet strength in pounds per
square inch (psi) of a prime coat made with a coating composition containing vinyl acrylic latex
and conventional prime coats.
[0036] FIG. 7 depicts a graphical representation of composition vs. wet strength in pounds per
square inch (psi) of a prime coat made with a coating composition containing vinyl acrylic latex
and conventional prime coats.
[0037] FIG. 8 depicts a graphical representation of composition vs. permeability (cm/s) of a
prime coat made with a coating composition containing vinyl acrylic latex and conventional
prime coats.
[0038] FIG. 9 depicts a graphical representation of composition vs. penetration (mm) of a prime
coat made with a coating composition containing vinyl acrylic latex and conventional water
based prime coats.
[0039] FIG. 10 depicts a graphical representation of composition vs. curing time (hours) for
pavement structure after an application of a prime coat made with a coating composition
containing vinyl acrylic latex and conventional prime coats.
[0040] FIG. 11 depicts a graphical representation of composition vs. permeability (cm/s) of a fog
seal application made with a coating composition containing vinyl acrylic latex and untreated
pavement.
[0041] FIG. 12 depicts a graphical representation of composition vs. water absorption
(mg/mm 3 /hr) for a yellow pine after an application of a coating composition containing vinyl
acrylic latex and untreated wood.
[0042] While the invention may be susceptible to various modifications and alternative forms,
specific embodiments thereof are shown by way of example in the drawings and will herein be
described in detail. The drawings may not be to scale. It should be understood that the drawings
                                              6

and detailed description thereto are not intended to limit the invention to the particular form
disclosed, but to the contrary, the intention is to cover all modifications, equivalents, and
alternatives falling within the spirit and scope of the present invention as defined by the
appended claims.
                                           DESCRIPTION
 [0043] The present invention is understood more readily by reference to the following detailed
description of the invention and the Examples included therein.
 [0044] Before the present compounds, compositions, articles, systems, devices, and/or methods
are disclosed and described, it is to be understood that they are not limited to specific synthetic
methods unless otherwise specified, or to particular reagents unless otherwise specified, as such
can, of course, vary. It is also to be understood that the terminology used herein is for the
purpose of describing particular aspects only and is not intended to be limiting.
 [0045] Although any methods and materials similar or equivalent to those described herein may
be used in the practice or testing of the present invention, example methods and materials are
now described.
 [0046] Unless defined otherwise, all technical and scientific terms used herein have the same
meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which this invention
belongs. Although any methods and materials similar or equivalent to those described herein
may be used in the practice or testing of the present invention, example methods and materials
are now described.
[0047] As used in the specification and the appended claims, the singular forms "a," "an" and
"the" include plural referents unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. Thus, for example,
reference to "a polymer" includes mixtures of two or more polymers.
[0048] Ranges are expressed herein as from "about" one particular value, and/or to "about"
another particular value. When such a range is expressed, another aspect includes from the one
particular value and/or to the other particular value. Similarly, when values are expressed as
approximations, by use of the antecedent "about," it will be understood that the particular value
forms another aspect. It will be further understood that the endpoints of each of the ranges are
significant both in relation to the other endpoint, and independently of the other endpoint. It is
also understood that there are a number of values disclosed herein, and that each value is also
herein disclosed as "about" that particular value in addition to the value itself. For example, if
the value "10" is disclosed, then "about 10" is also disclosed. It is also understood that each unit
between two particular units are also disclosed. For example, if 10 and 15 are disclosed, then 11,
 12, 13, and 14 are also disclosed.
                                               7

 [0049] Disclosed are the components to be used to prepare the compositions of the invention as
well as the compositions themselves to be used within the methods disclosed herein. These and
other materials are disclosed herein, and it is understood that when combinations, subsets,
interactions, groups, etc. of these materials are disclosed that while specific reference of each
various individual and collective combinations and permutation of these compounds cannot be
explicitly disclosed, each is specifically contemplated and described herein. For example, if a
particular compound is disclosed and discussed and a number of modifications that can be made
to a number of molecules including the compounds are discussed, specifically contemplated is
each and every combination and permutation of the compound and the modifications that are
possible unless specifically indicated to the contrary. Thus, if a class of molecules A, B, and C
are disclosed as well as a class of molecules D, E, and F and an example of a combination
molecule, A-D is disclosed, then even if each is not individually recited each is individually and
collectively contemplated meaning combinations, A-E, A-F, B-D, B-E, B-F, C-D, C-E, and C-F
are considered disclosed. Likewise, any subset or combination of these is also disclosed. Thus,
for example, the sub-group of A-E, B-F, and C-E would be considered disclosed. This concept
applies to all aspects of this application including, but not limited to, steps in methods of making
and using the compositions of the invention. Thus, if there are a variety of additional steps that
can be performed it is understood that each of these additional steps can be performed with any
specific embodiment or combination of embodiments of the methods of the invention.
[0050] References in the specification and concluding claims to parts by weight, of a particular
element or component in a composition or article, denotes the weight relationship between the
element or component and any other elements or components in the composition or article for
which a part by weight is expressed. Thus, in a compound containing 2 parts by weight of
component X and 5 parts by weight component Y, X and Y are present at a weight ratio of 2:5,
and are present in such ratio regardless of whether additional components are contained in the
compound.
[0051] "Carbon black" refers to elemental carbon having aciniform morphology (e.g., shaped
like a cluster of grapes). Carbon black may have conductive properties.
[0052] "Porosity" or "permeability" refers to flow of fluid through a material. Porosity and/or
permeability are measured using nitrogen surface area (NSA) and/or statistical thickness surface
area (STSA) surface area measurements).
[0053] "Carbonaceous" refers to a solid material of substantially elemental carbon. For example,
a solid material that includes about 97 wt.% to about 99 wt.% elemental carbon is considered
carbonaceous.
                                                8

 [0054] "Carbonaceous material" refers to, without limitation, i) carbonaceous compounds having
a single definable structure; or ii) aggregates of carbonaceous particles, wherein the aggregate
does not necessarily have a unitary, repeating, and/or definable structure or degree of
aggregation.
[0055] "Particulate" means a material of separate particles.
[0056] Each of the materials disclosed herein are either commercially available and/or the
methods for the production thereof are known to those of skill in the art.
[0057] It is understood that the compositions disclosed herein have certain functions. Disclosed
herein are certain structural requirements for performing the disclosed functions, and it is
understood that there are varieties of structures that can perform the same function that are
related to the disclosed structures, and that these structures will typically achieve the same result.
[0058] Coating compositions and uses thereof described herein. The coating composition
includes one or more vinyl acrylic compounds. In some embodiments, the coating composition
includes vinyl acrylic latex. The use of compounds that may be mixed with water instead of
cutback asphalt (for example, MC-30) in prime coat applications for paving produces a more
environmentally friendly and safer composition.
[0059] Many prime coat applications have petroleum solvents as the base material so that the
asphalt material may be dissolved or partially dissolved in the solvent. When the coating
composition described herein is mixed with water, an environmentally friendly and safe
composition is realized as compared to typical coating compositions is used in prime coat paving
applications and/or other applications such as wood treatment at elevated temperatures. For
example, a composition that includes vinyl acrylic latex. Thus, upon heating to cure the coating
composition only water instead of volatile organic compounds is emitted. Thus, no, or
substantially no, volatile organic compounds are emitted to the atmosphere. Due to the ability to
replace petroleum solvents with water, the coating composition has a lower flash point, thus may
be considered non-flammable.
[0060] It has been unexpectedly discovered that the use of a water based coating compositions
described herein has superior properties as compared to conventional prime coat materials, in
strength testing in both wet and dry conditions. In some embodiments, the coating composition
described herein is used as a stabilizer in road applications. The coating composition provides an
environmental friendly alternative to other coating compositions. For example, cutback used in
prime coat applications.
[0061] The coating composition described herein includes additives. The additive may include
one or more acrylate compounds, soybean processing by-products, one or more vinyl acetate
                                               9

compounds, one or more acrylonitrile butadiene styrene compounds, one or more rubber
compounds, one or more styrene butadiene rubber compounds, one or more paraffinic resins, one
or more lignin sulfonates, one or more low molecular weight polymers, one or more soybean
processing by-products, magnesium chloride, calcium chloride, or mixtures thereof. In some
embodiments, the coating composition includes vinyl acrylate monomer. Acrylate compounds
include, but is not limited to, monomers, polymers, and co-polymers of acrylic acid and
derivatives acrylic acid. In some embodiments, an acrylate compound is a polymer derived from
acrylic acid and vinyl acetate. A commercially available vinyl acrylic polymer latex is ENCOR
DC 387 (Arkema Inc., Cary NC)
 [0062] In some embodiments, the coating composition (for example, a composition containing
vinyl acrylic polymer and water) may have a pH of from about 3.5 to about 6.5, for example,
about 3.5, 3.7, 3.9, 4.1, 4.3, 4.5, 4.7, 4.9, 5.1, 5.3, 5.5, 5.7, 5.9, 6.1, 6.3, or 6.5; or from about 4.5
to about 5.5, for example, about 4.5, 4.6, 4.7, 4.8, 4.9, 5.0, 5.1, 5.2, 5.3, 5.4, or 5.5. In some
embodiments, a composition may include at least 10% by weight of vinyl acrylic polymer
(latex). For example, a composition may include 10% by weight of vinyl acrylic polymer (latex)
and 10% by weight carbonaceous material.
 [0063] In some embodiments, the coating composition is an aqueous mixture, slurry, suspension
or emulsion of the additive. In some embodiments, the coating composition includes a
dispersion of the additive in water and/or an aqueous medium. In such an aspect, it is not
necessary that the additive have any specific level of dispersion in the water and/or aqueous
medium. In one aspect, all or a portion of the additive is at least partially dispersed in the water
and/or aqueous medium.
 [0064] In some embodiments, the coating composition includes a carbonaceous material. The
carbonaceous material may a particulate carbonaceous material and/or a finely divided
particulate carbon. In some embodiments, the carbonaceous material is carbon black. In some
embodiments, the carbonaceous material is a particulate carbon material having a turbostractic
structure. A turbostractic structure is a structure in which the basal planes are not in alignment.
In some embodiments, particulate carbon material is produced from a flame process.
 [0065] In some embodiment, the carbonaceous material includes particulate carbonaceous
particles (e.g., carbon black) formed from a flame or partial combustion process. In another
aspect, carbonaceous material (e.g., carbon black) is produced from a thermal process, for
example, without the use of a flame.
 [0066] In some embodiments, the carbonaceous material (e.g., carbon black) is produced from a
petroleum feedstock that, for example, has a high degree of aromaticity. In some embodiments,
                                                 10

the carbonaceous material (e.g., carbon black) is derived from a pyrolysis process, such as, for
example, a pyrolytic char. In other aspects, the carbonaceous material may include recycled
and/or recovered carbon, for example, from a tire recycling process. For example, carbon black
produced from waste tires may be used in the coating composition. In other aspects, a
carbonaceous material may include activated carbon. It should be understood that the
carbonaceous material may include a mixture of varying types of carbonaceous materials. In
some embodiments, the carbonaceous material is spent toner.
 [0067] In various aspects, the surface of any one or more carbonaceous material may include
functional groups that may, for example, be hydrophobic or hydrophilic. In one aspect, a carbon
black is produced and/or modified such that the surface chemistry thereof is suitable for blending
with a particular soil and/or other optional stabilizers. In yet another aspect, a carbonaceous
material is heat treated to remove a portion of or substantially all of the surface functional groups
from the surface.
 [0068] In one example, the carbonaceous material has a hydrophilic surface. In another
example, the carbonaceous material has a hydrophobic surface. In yet another aspect, the surface
chemistry of a carbonaceous material may be specifically tailored to interact with another
species.
 [0069] In another aspect, the carbonaceous material includes an aggregate structure wherein
multiple primary particles are agglomerated. In such an aspect, the size and/or morphology of
any individual aggregates may vary. In one aspect, the carbonaceous material has a large
aggregate size and, for example, a high degree of branching. In such an aspect, the carbonaceous
material provides a reinforcing effect to soil particles and/or roadbase surfaces adjacent thereof,
and may occlude fluids, such as, for example, hydrocarbons, to increase the viscosity of a
mixture of, for example, soil and stabilizing aids. In another aspect, the morphology (e.g., size
and degree of branching) of a carbonaceous material may be selected so as to impart one or more
desired rheological properties to a soil, a roadbase, or a mixture thereof with a stabilizing aid.
 [0070] In some embodiments, the carbonaceous material may include a single grade of carbon
black. It should be noted that the properties, such as, for example, particle size, aggregate size,
morphology, surface chemistry, and the like, are distributional properties, and that even within a
single grade of carbon black variations in properties may occur. For example, the carbonaceous
material includes a mixture of two or more grades of carbon black. Carbon black materials are
commercially available (e.g., Columbian Chemicals Company, Marietta, GA, USA; Cabot
Corporation, Billerica, MA, USA), and one of skill in the art in possession of this disclosure
could readily select an appropriate carbon black material.
                                               11

 [0071] A carbon black, if present as all or a portion of a carbonaceous material, includes any
grade or mixture of grades of carbon black. In various aspects, a carbon black may include, but
is not limited to, one or more of the following ASTM grades: N 110, N220, N330, N550, N700,
N880, or N990. In one aspect, a carbon black, if present, may have properties similar to a N700
carbon black. In some embodiments, a carbon black, if present, may have a small average
primary particle size, for example, less than about 50 nm, less than about 40 nm, or less than
about 30 nm.
 [0072] In some embodiments, the carbonaceous material of the present invention may be mixed
with one or more additives described herein. In various aspects, a carbonaceous material may be
blended with one or more of lime, cement, gypsum, fly ash, combinations thereof, and/or other
paving application aids.
[0073] In some embodiments, additive described herein blended with carbonaceous material
contacted, and/or blended, with a soil may provide a desired change in the resulting soil. For
example, carbon black may reduce permeability and/or water penetration into the pavement
structure. In one aspect, the reduction of the water entrance to the road structure may improve
durability.
 [0074] In some embodiments, the coating composition may be contacted with a portion of soil,
for example, in a roadbase. In various aspects, the coating composition may be applied to an
otherwise unamended, a soil or mixture of soil and other materials to be used as a road surface, a
roadbase, or a combination thereof. The degree of mixing and/or uniformity of the resulting soil
may vary, and no specific amount of mixing or level of homogeneity is required. A portion of
the coating composition may be contacted with soil or may be sprayed onto a soil or roadbase.
 [0075] In some embodiments, a portion of the coating composition may be mixed and/or blended
with a soil or mixture of materials that form a roadbase. For example, a portion of the coating
composition may be mixed and/or blended with a soil and/or roadbase such that the coating
composition is uniformly or substantially uniformly distributed throughout the material. In yet
another aspect, a portion of the coating composition may be mixed and/or blended with a soil or
mixture of materials such that the coating composition is not uniformly or substantially
uniformly distributed throughout the same.
[0076] The additive may be mixed with water in various concentrations. A coating composition
may include from about 0.5 parts to about 1.5 parts by weight, for example, about 0.5, 0.6, 0.7,
0.8, 0.9, 1, 1.1, 1.2, 1.3, 1.4, or 1.5 parts by weight of water; and from about 2 parts to about 4
parts by weight, for example, about 2, 2.2, 2.4, 2.6, 2.8, 3, 3.2, 3.5, 3.6, 3.8, or 4 parts by weight
of the additive. In some embodiments, about 1 part by weight water, and about 3 parts by weight
                                                 12

of the additive is used. It should be understood that the concentrations of any one or more
components may vary, and the present invention is not intended to be limited to any particular
concentration or range of concentrations. In some embodiments, the coating composition
includes from about 0.5 parts to about 1.5 parts by weight, for example, about 0.5, 0.6, 0.7, 0.8,
0.9, 1, 1.1, 1.2, 1.3, 1.4, or 1.5 parts by weight of carbonaceous material.
[0077] In some embodiments, the coating composition includes less than about 0.5 parts by
weight or greater than about 1.5 parts by weight of carbonaceous material, less than about 0.5
parts by weight or greater than about 1.5 parts by weight of water, and/or less than about 2 parts
by weight or greater than about 4 parts by weight of the additive.
[0078] The coating composition may be prepared, stored, and/or transported in a ready to use
concentration. In another aspect, the coating composition may be prepared in a concentrated
form and may be diluted, for example, with water, prior to use. It should be understood that the
concentrations recited above may provide a composition suitable for use as-is. In some
embodiments, the coating composition includes from about 10%, about 25%, about 50% or about
90% by weight vinyl acrylic latex. In some embodiments, the coating composition includes from
about 10% by weight to about 30% by weight carbon black and/or from about 10% by weight to
about 90% by weight vinyl acrylic latex.
[0079] In some embodiment, the additive and/or coating composition may be diluted with water
in a ratio of from about 1:1 to about 1:10 (parts by weight of concentrate: diluent water), for
example, about 1:1, 1:2, 1:3, 1:4, 1:5, 1:6, 1:7, 1:8, 1:9, or 1:10, prior to use. In a specific
example, the additive may be prepared and then diluted about 1:5 with water before use.
[0080] In some embodiments, one or more stabilization aids, such as, for example, Portland
cement, lime, gypsum, fly ash, may be added to the coating composition. If added, a
conventional stabilization aid may be present in any suitable concentration, such as, for example,
from about 0.1 parts by weight to about 10 parts by weight, or more.
[0081] The components of the coating composition, such as, for example, water, and vinyl
acrylic latex may be contacted and/or mixed in any manner suitable for an intended application.
In one aspect, no specific order of addition and/or degree of mixing is required. In another
aspect, the components may be contacted and mixed prior to use such that the coating
composition is homogeneous or substantially homogeneous.
[0082] In some embodiments, carbonaceous material and at least a portion of the additive may be
contacted prior to the addition of water and/or any other components. In still another aspect, the
carbonaceous material and additive may be contacted prior to the addition of water. Once at
least two of the components are contacted, the mixture may optionally be mixed using any
                                                13

conventional means, such as, for example, a slow rotational mixer in a blending tank. In one
aspect, a mixer element and/or means for mixing may move through at least a portion of the
mixture, for example, in a continuous up and down manner, until the mixture is at least partially
blended. It should be understood that particular carbonaceous materials may be difficult to
disperse and that the use of such carbonaceous materials may, in some aspects, require the use of
energetic mixing methods, such as, for example, high shear mixers. In other aspects, no specific
degree of mixing and/or dispersion is required.
 [0083] The coating compositions may, in some embodiments, have a solids content of from
about 40% to about 60 %, for example, about 40, 45, 50, 56, or 60 %. In one embodiment, a
coating composition has a solids content of about 56 %. In other embodiments, a coating
composition may have a solids content of less than about 40 % or greater than about 60 %.
 [0084] The coating composition may also have a Brookfield viscosity of from about 250
centipoise (cP) to about 600 cP, for example, about 250, 300, 350, 400, 450, 500, 550 or 600 cP.
In some embodiments,, a coating composition has a Brookfield viscosity of about 500 cP.
 [0085] A coating composition, as described herein, may be applied to any soil or roadbase
surface. In one aspect, a soil or roadbase surface may be scarified prior to application of a
coating composition. In some embodiments, a surface should be at least partially stabilized and
compacted prior to application of the coating composition. In other embodiments, a surface
should be stabilized and well compacted prior to application of the coating composition. In
another aspect, the concentration of a coating composition may vary depending on, for example,
the type of surface and degree of compaction thereof. For example, a coating composition may
be diluted with a greater amount of water when applied to a well compacted soil and/or roadbase
surface, so as to facilitate greater penetration of the coating composition into the soil and/or
roadbase. In contrast, a coating composition may be applied in a more concentrated (or less
diluted) form when applied to a less compacted and/or granular soil or roadbase surface. Such a
soil or roadbase surface may, in some aspects, be more difficult to compact, and are thus more
suitable for a higher concentration of coating composition. In yet another aspect, a coating
composition may be applied to an uncompacted or partially compacted soil or roadbase surface,
and then the soil or roadbase surface may optionally be compacted after the application. It
should be understood that an appropriate concentration and/or dilution level is used for a
particular soil and/or roadbase surface.
 [0086] In another aspect, the coating composition may be utilized as an additive in a surface
coating, such as, for example, a chip seal and/or asphalt coating. In such an aspect, the coating
                                               14

composition may provide extended wear of the surface to which the coating is applied and/or an
improved appearance for the coated surface.
 [0087] The coating composition may be applied to a soil or roadbase surface in any suitable
manner. For example, the coating composition may be sprayed, for example, from a water truck,
using a pressurized spray system. The pressure and application rate should be such that the spray
pattern provides an even or substantially even distribution of coating composition on the soil or
roadbase surface. In another aspect, the coating composition may be applied in a seamless
manner, such that only a small overlap, if at all, exists between portions of the treated (e.g.,
sprayed) soil or roadbase surface. The coating composition may be sprayed using other known
methods of spraying, for example, a hose, wand, or non-pressurized systems. In some
embodiments, a non-spraying method may be utilized. For use in a prime coat application spray
application rate on compacted base layer before the placement of the next pavement layer ranges
between 0.03 gal/sqyd to 0.60 gal/sq. yd.
 [0088] The coating composition may be applied as a single layer application or as multiple
layers. In one aspect, a single application of the coating composition may be made to provide a
single layer on the soil and/or roadbase surface. In another aspect, multiple applications of the
coating composition may be made, wherein each layer may be in contact with the previous layer
of applied coating composition or in contact with a different layer. For example, multiple layers
of varying composition of the coating composition containing different additives may be applied
to a soil or roadbase surface. In such an aspect, it is not necessary that any one or more layers
comprise a continuous layer across the soil or roadbase surface. In some embodiments, one or
more applications of a commercially available stabilizer may be applied to a soil or roadbase as a
first layer, followed by one or more applications of the coating composition, followed by
additional one or more applications of a coating composition of the same or differing
composition. In a specific example, two applications of a sealant, such as Top-Seal White, may
be applied to a soil or roadbase surface, followed by two applications of the coating composition,
followed by a final application of the Top-Seal White sealant.
 [0089] In some embodiments the coating composition may be applied as a fog coat, for example,
as a sprayed slurry, onto a road surface or base therefore. In such an aspect, an applied fog coat
layer containing the coating composition may reduce permeability of the surface to which the fog
coat is applied. In some embodiments, a fog coat may at least partially seal one or more cracks
in the surface to which the fog coat is applied. A fog coat containing the coating composition, if
used, may optionally include other components as desired for the intended application.
                                              15

 [0090] In another aspect, the coating composition may be used in a tack coat application. In
such an aspect, the coating composition may provide a traceless tack coat. In another aspect, the
coating composition may improve adhesion between any two or more layers of pavement or road
material. In yet another aspect, the coating composition may reduce the permeability between
any two or more layers of pavement or road material. In one aspect, if the coating composition is
applied as a fog coat and/or a tack coat application, the soil or roadbase surface to which it is
applied should be free or substantially free from dust prior to application. In another aspect, the
coating composition may be applied to a soil or roadbase surface as-is, without further
preparation or cleaning of the surface.
 [0091] In one aspect, contacting and/or mixing a carbonaceous material and/or a coating
composition containing a carbonaceous material may improve one or more properties of a
roadbase surface, such as, for example, increasing strength, reducing permeability, reducing the
amount of compaction necessary to form a suitable road surface, and increasing the surface
smoothness of a road surface.
 [0092] The properties of the coating composition are such that the coating composition may be
applied to a material (for example, a road and/or a wood product) without heating of the coating
composition. In some embodiments, the coating composition is stable at above freezing (for
example 10 degrees Celsius) to about 70 degree Celsius. Since, the coating composition is stable
at ambient temperatures or below, the coating composition may be applied to a roadbase under
"cold" conditions. For example, the coating composition may be applied at ambient
temperatures or below. The ability to apply the coating composition under "cold" allows treating
applications (for example, paving applications) to be performed in colder climates and winter
applications.
 [0093] In some embodiments, the coating composition (for example, a coating composition
containing vinyl acrylate polymer or derivatives thereof and/or carbonaceous material (for
example, carbon black and/or spent toner) may be mixed with asphalt compounds (for example,
asphalt cut-back, asphalt emulsions, or unmodified asphalt) and water and applied to a road
surface as described herein.
 [0094] Under high temperature conditions, for example, temperatures above 80 'F (summer or
tropical conditions), asphalt may separate from the road and/or road base under high friction
conditions. For example, asphalt may separate from a highly traveled road in the summer due to
the friction of the tires on the road. Application of the coating composition as described herein to
a road surface may bind to the surface and/or seal the surface, and thus inhibiting or substantially
                                              16

inhibiting the asphalt from separating from the roadbase. Addition of the coating composition
may also enhance the friction properties of the road.
 [0095] In some embodiments, colored spent toner is used in road applications. The color in the
spent toner may be sufficient to provide color to the roadbase. For example, a finished road may
be red, blue, yellow, or combinations thereof. In some embodiments, the coating composition
may be mixed with spent toner or pigment to produce a light colored material, which may be
used for road surfacing operations (for example, fog seal). In some embodiments, one or more
spent pigments are used in the composition. Pavement made with the coating composition
containing spent non-black toner may have lower thermal properties (heat absorption) as
compared to pavement made with asphalt. Furthermore, the use of spent toner or pigments in
pavement recycles the spent toner. In some embodiments, black roads may be lightened by
application of a coating composition containing spent non-black toner or pigments. Production
of light colored road surfaces may produce aesthetic looking roads for urban planning, and/or
enhance roadway markings on the surface of black pavements.
[0096] In some embodiments, a coating composition described herein, is used with spent asphalt.
 For example, asphalt removed from a road may be melted and mixed with a coating composition
containing carbonaceous compounds and at least one vinyl acrylic polymer may be mixed and
applied to a roadbase.
[0097] In some embodiments, after application of the coating composition to a soil or roadbase
surface, at least a portion of the coating composition may be bound to the soil or roadbase
surface. For example, a vinyl acrylic polymer in the coating composition may bind to the soil or
roadbase. Because of the binding, a hardened wear surface may form. In some embodiments,
the coating composition may be tightly bound to the soil or roadbase surface after application. In
another aspect, the coating composition may have adhesive properties that may ensure that the
coating composition will remain bound to the soil or roadbase surface and provide an at least
partial barrier to moisture penetration.
[0100] In another aspect, contacting and/or mixing a coating composition containing a vinyl
acrylic polymer with a soil may reduce the permeability of the resulting soil to, for example,
water. For example, the use of a coating composition containing a vinyl acrylic polymer and
carbon black, may reduce the coefficient of permeability (cm/sec) by up to about 35 % or more,
for example, at least about 20 %, at least about 25 %, at least about 30 %, at least about 35 %, at
least about 37 % or more, as compared to soils containing conventional stabilizers. In some
embodiments, use of a coating composition containing carbon black and vinyl acrylic polymer
may reduce the coefficient of permeability by about 37.1 % as compared to an unmodified
                                              17

material not including a carbon black. FIG. 1 illustrates a reduction in permeability of from
0.000978 cm/sec to 0.000615 cm/sec when using a carbon black containing and the coating
composition as a stabilizer as compared to an unmodified polymeric material, such as a sealant.
[0101] In some embodiments, contacting and/or mixing a coating composition containing a vinyl
acrylic polymer with a soil may increase the strength of the resulting soil. The coating
composition may improve the wet strength and/or dry strength of the resulting soil.
[0102] In some embodiments, the strength (kg/cm2) of a soil mixed with coating composition
containing a vinyl acrylic polymer and a carbonaceous material increases by up to about 100 %
or more, for example, about 50 %, about 60 %, about 70 %, about 80 %, about 90 %, about 100
%, about 105 %, or more over soil stabilized with an unmodified stabilizer not containing a
carbonaceous material or vinyl acrylic polymer. In a specific aspect, as illustrated in FIG. 2, a
composition including the coating composition and carbon black increases the strength of a soil
by about 107.9 %, for example, from 48.17 kg/cm2 to 100.14 kg/cm2) as compared to a
conventional stabilizer. Wet and/or dry strength of a soil or roadbase surface may be determined
using a penetrometer, such as, for example, a pocket penetrometer, available from Durham Geo
Slope Indicator, Mulkiteo, Washington, USA. Soil strength may be determined using ASTM test
method WK27337.
[0103] In some embodiments, contacting and/or mixing a coating composition containing a vinyl
acrylic polymer with a soil provides a resulting soil that requires less effort to achieve a desired
degree of compaction. In some embodiments, contacting and/or mixing a coating composition
containing a vinyl acrylic polymer with a soil provides a road surface having increased surface
smoothness.
[0104] In some embodiments, soil contacted and/or mixed with the coating composition, exhibits
improved workability as compared to unamended soils or soils containing conventional
stabilizers.
[0105] In some embodiments, soil contacted and/or mixed with the coating composition provides
a road surface having improved functional properties as compared to an unamended soil or a soil
containing conventional stabilizers.
[0106] In some embodiments, a pavement formed on a soil contacted and/or mixed with the
coating composition exhibits reduced long-term maintenance costs and/or improved performance
over unamended soils or soils containing conventional stabilizers.
[0107] In some embodiments, the coating composition (for example, a coating composition
containing vinyl acrylic latex) is used as a prime coat in road construction. The mixture may be
applied as an aqueous emulsion, suspension, or neat to a base layer. The resulting prime coat
                                              18

mixture penetrates into the base layer and may coat and/or bond loose material properties on the
surface of the base layer. The resulting prime coat mixture may also harden or toughen the base
layer, protect the base layer from moisture and/or provide adhesion between the base layer and
the succeeding layer of the road construction and/or paving.
[0108] In some embodiments, using the coating composition as a prime coat may improve the
wet strength and/or dry strength of the resulting road. The strength (kg/cm2) of a paved road
treated with a prime coat containing the coating composition (for example, containing a vinyl
acrylic polymer) increases by up to about 100 % or more, for example, about 50 %, about 60 %,
about 70 %, about 80 %, about 90 %, or more over roads treated with conventional prime coat
composition. In some embodiments, applying using the coating composition as a prime coat in
paving applications may reduce the permeability of the resulting pavement to, for example,
water. For example, the use of a coating composition containing a vinyl acrylic polymer may
produce improved or similar road permeability properties treated with conventional prime coats.
[0109] In some embodiments, coating compositions described herein when used as a prime coat
in paving application reduces the permeability and/or water penetration into the pavement
structure. Some prime coat materials are available that use water rather than a petroleum solvent.
However, these materials suffer from an inability to sufficiently penetrate into the base. Deeper
penetration of the prime coat material into the base results in a more durable surface. It has been
unexpectedly found that the coating compositions described herein have higher penetration
depths as compared to other water based prime coat material.
 [0110] The time that it takes for pavement structure to cure after application of a prime coat may
take at least 100 hours or more. This long curing time leads to delays in use of roads. Applying
a prime coat containing the coating compositions described herein may have a curing time of less
than 100 hours.
[0111] In some embodiments, coating compositions for fog seal applications are made by mixing
vinyl acrylic latex with spent toner, carbon black, grinded old tire rubbers, pigments, or mixtures
thereof. In some embodiments, the coating composition contains vinyl acrylic latex. Use of the
coating composition in fog seal application may result in better penetration results as compared
to conventional fog seal application. Better penetration results in a less slippery riding surface
and, thus driving safety of the road is enhanced. In some embodiments, use of a coating
composition in a fog seal application lowers the permeability of the pavement structure. Lower
permeability may reduce aging of pavements by preventing oxidation.
[0112] In some embodiments, the coating composition is used as an alternative to asphalt or
asphalt modifier. Since the coating composition is a water based, liquid material it may be mixed
                                             19

with aggregate without heating or minimal heating. The use of no or minimal heating may result
in significant savings in energy and production costs, and/or negate the risks associated with the
high temperatures required for hot-applied asphalts. The coating composition provides similar or
better bonding properties than asphalt while making the pavement structure impermeable. In
some embodiments, the coating composition may be used with asphalt to modify its properties
for the same usage. When the coating composition is used as an asphalt modifier, the amount of
asphalt used in the application is reduce, engineering properties of the asphalt are enhanced.
 [0113] In some embodiments, the coating composition may be used in pavement patching, micro
surfacing, slurry seals, crack sealing, and pavement recycling processes.
 [0114] In some embodiments, a coating composition may be used to seal minor cracks in a road
surface. Cracks may be sealed using a fog seal method. A fog seal is designed to coat, protect
and rejuvenate the existing asphalt binder. During the fog seal, material (emulsion) to be applied
must fill the voids in the surface of the pavement. Therefore, during its application it must have
sufficiently low viscosity so as to not break before it penetrates the surface voids of the
pavement. This is accomplished by using a slow setting emulsion that is diluted with water.
Emulsions that are not adequately diluted with water may not properly penetrate the surface
voids resulting in excess asphalt on the surface of the pavement after the emulsion breaks, which
can result in a slippery surface.
[0115] In some embodiments, the coating composition when mixed with aggregates may be used
as patching materials for pavement repair and/or to increase the friction coefficient for roads
losing their friction properties. For example, when a coating composition that includes vinyl
acrylic polymer and selected aggregates is provided to a pavement structure, a high friction
surfaces may be formed.
[0116] In some embodiments, the coating composition may be used as a binder to replace asphalt
in micro surfacing, slurry seals applications.
[0117] Due to the engineering properties of asphalt, the attractive appearance of asphalt shingles,
and the industries level of familiarity with asphalt shingles a substantial portion of residential
roof shingles contain asphalt. For examples, asphalt shingles are substantially impermeable
which allows the shingles to be effective throughout annual temperature fluctuations.
[0118] In some embodiments, the coating composition is used as a replacement for or in
combination with asphalt to produce asphalt shingles. In some embodiments, a coating
composition that includes one or more vinyl acrylic polymers may have enhanced performance
through climate fluctuations due to the coating compositions having lower temperature
susceptibility (e.g., more consistent viscosity and high and low temperatures), and enhanced
                                              20

impermeability characteristics. Temperature susceptibility refers to the ability of a compound to
be fluid enough at elevated temperatures to permit it to be mixed with aggregates, but viscous
enough at normal air temperatures to hold aggregates in place. In some embodiments, the
coating composition may be mixed with spent toner or pigments to provide different colors for
roofing.
[0119] In some embodiments, the coating composition may seal in soil blocks and bind the
particles together such that the service life of the soil blocks and their structural properties may
be improved. In some embodiments, one or more soil blocks are produce from a mixture of soil
and one or more vinyl acrylic polymers (for example, vinyl acrylic latex). For example, a
coating composition that includes a vinyl acrylic latex may be mixed with soil and formed into a
block. An amount of vinyl acrylic latex may range from 15 mL to about 35 mL for every 1000
liters of soil. The resulting blocks may have dimensions of 30 cm (12 inches) length, 15 cm (6
inches) width, and 7.5 cm (3 inches) thickness. Blocks may be made with or without internal
holes (for example, 6.66 cm (2.64 inches) holes). Soil blocks be used for buildings and for
straight walls, corners, columns, colored walls, and semi-heat resistant or impermeable walls.
[0120] In some embodiments, soil blocks are made from a combination of soil, one or more vinyl
acrylic compounds, and cement. For example, one bag (94 pounds (42.6 kilograms)) cement per
450 liters of soil and about 5 mL to about 20 mL of vinyl acrylic latex may be mixed together
and formed into block. Depending on the amount of mortar, about 45 soil blocks per square
meter may be produced.
[0121] In some embodiments, the coating composition may be used to treat wood. Typically
wood is treated with compounds containing arsenic to kill fungus. The wood, however, when
burnt releases arsenic to the air, which may be harmful when inhaled. Concerns about direct
exposure as well as concerns about contaminated soil have resulted in a need for a non-hazardous
alternative for wood treatment that does not present the problem of brittleness posed by 25 pen
asphalt. A coating composition that includes vinyl acrylic polymer may be used to treat wood to
inhibit insect and/or fungus infestation. Wood treated with the coating composition (for
example, a coating composition containing vinyl acrylic latex) may have the same or similar
impermeable properties as wood treated with hazardous materials.
[0122] In some embodiments, the coating composition may be applied to on soil, pond or
artificial lake constructions. The coating composition may form an impermeable layer. In some
embodiments, the coating composition binds soil particles together and provides strength to the
soil. As a result of these properties, the coating composition may be in landfill applications by
forming an impermeable layer as opposed to liners, which are difficult to install. In some
                                              21

embodiments, the coating composition may be used for erosion control due to its engineering
characteristics.
 [0123] In some embodiments, a method of treating a landfill includes providing the coating
composition to one or more portions of a landfill. The portions may include side wall and/or a
base of the landfill. For example, a coating composition that includes a vinyl acrylic latex may
be sprayed on a base portion of the landfill. The coating composition may be allowed to dry.
After drying a coating is formed on the treated soil that is impermeable or substantially
impermeable to water or moisture.
 [0124] In some embodiments, a method of treating a water structure includes providing the
coating composition to one or more portions of a water structure. The water structure may be a
pond, artificial lake, or other similar water structures. The portions may include side wall and/or
a base of the water structure. For example, a coating composition that includes a vinyl acrylic
latex may be sprayed on a base portion of the water structure. The coating composition may be
allowed to dry. After drying, a coating is formed on the treated portion that is impermeable or
substantially impermeable to water.
 [0125] After placing fresh concrete, satisfactory moisture content must be maintain within the
concrete for the sake of a chemical reaction called "hydration" that occurs during the curing
process. Exposed slab surfaces are especially sensitive to curing. Surface strength development
can be reduced significantly when curing is defective. Most freshly mixed concrete contains
considerably more water than is required for complete hydration of the cement; however, any
appreciable loss of water by evaporation or otherwise will delay or prevent hydration. Retaining
water during this period is important. Good curing means evaporation should be prevented or
reduced. Multiple methods are currently used in order to minimize the amount of evaporation
that occurs following concrete installation. One method is to spray the fresh concrete with
liquid, membrane-forming compounds to act as a moisture barrier. A second method is to cover
the fresh concrete with polyethylene sheets. Lastly, some fresh concrete are covered with
saturated burlap in order to maintain moisture.
 [0126] In some embodiments, vinyl acrylic latex's impermeability properties results in its
standing as a viable candidate for use in the hydration process of concrete curing. As stated
above, one method used during the curing of concrete is to spray the surface with a thin layer of
sealant in order to trap the existing moisture within the fresh concrete installation. As a water
based sealant material, vinyl acrylic latex provides the desired characteristics for application atop
fresh concrete. A thin layer of vinyl acrylic latex (0.021b/ft2 to 0.06 lb/ft2) will seal the concrete
surface and protect the lower layer from excessive evaporation. The color of the vinyl acrylic
                                               22

latex application may also be controlled by adding waste toner and/or pigments to the vinyl
acrylic latex mixture. Without sacrificing any performance characteristics, vinyl acrylic latex
may be modified to achieve the desired appearance of the concrete surface.
 [0127] Examples
 [0128] The following examples are put forth so as to provide those of ordinary skill in the art
with a complete disclosure and description of how the compounds, compositions, articles,
devices and/or methods claimed herein are made and evaluated, and are intended to be purely
exemplary of the invention and are not intended to limit the scope of what the inventors regard as
their invention. Efforts have been made to ensure accuracy with respect to numbers (e.g.,
amounts, temperature, etc.), but some errors and deviations should be accounted for. Unless
indicated otherwise, parts are parts by weight, temperature is in 'C or is at ambient temperature,
and pressure is at or near atmospheric.
 [0129] Example 1. A test section was constructed to evaluate the effectiveness of application of
composition containing a coating composition carbon black on soil. The amount of carbon black
in the composition was determined based on lab design work. Conventional stabilizers not
containing carbon black were mixed with carbon black. Using a laboratory design, the
convention stabilizer and carbon black were mixed at a 3 to 1 ratio respectively. After mixing is
completed, this new mixture was combined with water at a 4 to 1 ratio respectively to elongate
its shelf life. This new mixture was shipped to a test section where it is mixed with water at a 1
to 5 ratio respectively before application on the road surface. After the application of this
material on the road surface, compaction is applied to the road.
 [0130] Example 2. An unmodified asphalt emulsion (SS1h) not containing an added carbon
black was applied to a soil. In comparison, a modified SS1h asphalt emulsion containing about
6.5 wt.% carbon black was added to a separate portion of the soil. The unmodified emulsion
exhibited a Saybolt viscosity at 770 F of about 55 SSU (Saybolt seconds Universal), a specific
gravity of about 1.019 at 600 F, as determined by gallon weight cup, a distillation residue of
about 66.03 %, having an oil portion of about 0.45 % and a penetration residue at 770 F of about
95 penetration unit (p.u.) The permeability of each of the resulting soils was measured. As
illustrated in FIG. 3, the permeability of the soil treated with carbon black modified coating
composition was significantly reduced, from greater than about 0.001 cm/sec to about 0.0004
cm/sec.
 [0131] Example 3. An unmodified asphalt emulsion (CSSLh) not containing carbon black was
applied to a soil. In comparison, a modified CSS1h asphalt emulsion containing about 13 wt.%
carbon black was added to a separate portion of the soil. The unmodified emulsion exhibited a
                                              23

Saybolt viscosity at 770 F of about 25 SSU (Saybolt seconds Universal), a specific gravity of
about 1.0416 at 600 F, as determined by gallon weight cup, a distillation residue of about 61.69
%,having no detectable oil portion and a penetration residue at 770 F of about 82 p.u. The dry
condition strength of each of the resulting soils was measured. As illustrated in FIG. 4, the dry
strength of the soil treated with carbon black modified coating composition was significantly
increased, from about 10 kg/cm2 to about 17 kg/cm2.
 [0132] Example 4. An unmodified asphalt cutback (MC 30) not containing carbon black was
applied to a soil. In comparison, a modified MC 30 asphalt cutback containing about 8 wt.%
carbon black was added to a separate portion of the soil. The unmodified asphalt cutback
exhibited a kinematic viscosity at 1400 F of about 51.13 centistokes (cSt), a specific gravity of
about 0.9265 at 600 F, as determined by hydrometer, a distillation residue of about 56.95 % by
volume, having portions of distillate to 437* F, 5000 F, and 6000 F, of 21.18 %, 58.82 %, and
88.24 %, respectively, a penetration residue at 770 F of about 186 p.u., and an absolute viscosity
at 1400 F of about 661.93 P. The wet condition strength of each of the resulting soils was
measured. As illustrated in FIG. 5, the wet strength of the soil treated with carbon black
modified coating composition was significantly increased, from about 18 kg/cm2 to greater than
about 24 kg/cm2.
[0133] Example 5. Prime Coat Application. Testing of prime coat applications was conducted
using 473 ml (16 oz.) circular sample cans 10.2 cm (4 inches) in diameter and 6.1 cm (2.4
inches) in height. These cans were filled with 300 grams of crushed limestone compacted with a
wooden rammer.       The prime coat material was sprayed onto the top of the specimens.          The
application rate was 1.23 L/m 2 (0.27 gallon per square yard). A 10 ml of prime coat was applied
for all conventional specimens other than the composition containing vinyl acetate latex. The
vinyl acetate latex composition was prepared by diluting vinyl acetate latex with water 1 to 5
ratio. The water based prime coat was applied to specimens.
 [0134] Dry strength tests were performed on each specimen after the curing of the prime coat
material. Strength values were acquired by applying a pocket penetrometer to the cured prime
coat surface. For each specimen, strength was measured in five locations and the average of these
values produced the sample's strength value.        FIG. 6 depicts a graphical representation of
composition vs. wet strength in pounds per square inch (psi) of a prime coat made with a coating
composition containing vinyl acrylic latex and conventional prime coats.
 [0135] Wet strength tests were performed on each specimen after completion permeability
testing (which results in a wet sample). Strength values were acquired by applying a pocket
penetrometer to the cured prime coat surface. For each specimen, strength was measured in five
                                             24

locations and the average of these values produced the sample's strength value. FIG. 7 depicts a
graphical representation of composition vs. wet strength in pounds per square inch (psi) of a
prime coat made with a coating composition containing vinyl acrylic latex and conventional
prime coats.
 [0136] Permeability tests were performed by weighing each specimen after the prime coat
material was allowed to cure. Next, 100 ml of water was poured into each specimen. The water
was left in the specimen for 10 minutes. After this time, the water that remained on the surface
of the specimen was decanted and weighed. The amount of water left subtracted from the
original 100 ml results in the amount of water that managed to permeate through the seal coat
material. FIG. 8 depicts a graphical representation of composition vs. permeability (cm/s) of a
prime coat made with a coating composition containing vinyl acrylic latex and conventional
prime coats.
 [0137] Penetration tests on the samples were performed by placing five grams of prime coat
material was poured onto the surface of the sand at a constant rate from a height of
approximately 11 cm. The prime coat material was allowed to stand in the sample cans for 24
hours. After the waiting period, the specimen was cut vertically in order to view the penetration
depth achieved by the prime coat material. Depth of penetration was measured with a caliper.
FIG. 9 depicts a graphical representation of composition vs. penetration (mm) of a prime coat
made with a coating composition containing vinyl acrylic latex and conventional water based
prime coats.
 [0138] Curing of Pave Coat Applications. After the samples were prepared, they were exposed
to the natural weather to cure. The test was conducted when average temperatures ranged from
23.1 'C to 38.6 *C. The sample were not left outside to cure during rain fall. Specimen weight
was measured regularly to determine the curing time based on the weight change. Once the
weight change stabilizes, curing time was recorded for the sample. FIG. 10 depicts a graphical
representation of composition vs. curing time (hours) for pavement structure after an application
of a prime coat made with a coating composition containing vinyl acrylic latex and conventional
prime coats.
 [0139] Example 6. Fog Seal Application. Compacted hot mix asphalt specimens were merged
into vinyl acrylic latex and water mixture for 2 hours for two times. Control specimens were not
treated with any fog seal materials.    After curing completed treated and untreated specimens
merged into water for 1 hour. Water absorption is measured based on the change in the weight at
the end of 1 hour period.       FIG. 11 depicts a graphical representation of composition vs.
permeability (cm/s) of a fog seal application made with a coating composition containing vinyl
                                            25

acrylic latex and untreated pavement.
 [0140] Example 7. Wood Treatment. Yellow pine specimens were merged into a vinyl acrylic
latex and water mixture for 8 hours for two times. Control specimens were not treated. After
curing completed treated and untreated specimens merged into water for 2 hours. Water
absorption is measured based on the change in the weight at the end of 2 hour period. FIG. 12
depicts a graphical representation of compositions vs. water absorption (mg/mm 3/hr) for a yellow
pine after an application of a coating composition containing vinyl acrylic latex and untreated
wood.
 [0141] In this patent, certain U.S. patents and U.S. patent applications have been incorporated by
reference.    The text of such U.S. patents and U.S. patent applications is, however, only
incorporated by reference to the extent that no conflict exists between such text and the other
statements and drawings set forth herein. In the event of such conflict, then any such conflicting
text in such incorporated by reference U.S. patents and U.S. patent applications is specifically not
incorporated by reference in this patent.
 [0142] Further modifications and alternative embodiments of various aspects of the invention
will be apparent to those skilled in the art in view of this description. Accordingly, this
description is to be construed as illustrative only and is for the purpose of teaching those skilled
in the art the general manner of carrying out the invention. It is to be understood that the forms
of the invention shown and described herein are to be taken as examples of embodiments.
Elements and materials may be substituted for those illustrated and described herein, parts and
processes may be reversed, and certain features of the invention may be utilized independently,
all as would be apparent to one skilled in the art after having the benefit of this description of the
invention. Changes may be made in the elements described herein without departing from the
spirit and scope of the invention as described in the following claims.
                                               26

WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
 1. A coating composition for prime coat applications, comprising:
        one or more acrylic polymers; and
        water, wherein application of the coating composition as a prime coat to a pavement
structure enhances the physical properties of the pavement structure as compared to conventional
prime coat application.
2. The coating composition of claim 1, further comprising carbonaceous compounds.
3. The coating composition of claim 1, wherein at least one of the acrylic compounds comprises
a vinyl moiety.
4. The coating composition of claim 1, wherein at least one of the acrylic compounds comprises
a vinyl acrylic latex.
5. The coating composition of claim 1, wherein at least one of the acrylic compounds comprises
a styrene moiety.
6. The coating composition of claim 1, wherein a solids content of the coating composition
ranges from about 50% to about 60%.
7. The coating composition of claim 1, wherein at least one of the vinyl acrylic materials has a
pH ranging about 4.0 to about 6.0.
8. The coating composition of claim 1, wherein at least one of the physical properties comprises
dry strength.
9. The coating composition of claim 1, wherein at least one of the physical properties comprises
wet strength.
 10. The coating composition of claim 1, wherein at least one of the physical properties comprises
permeability.
 11. The coating composition of claim 1, wherein at least one of the physical properties comprises
penetration depth.
 12. The coating composition of claim 1, wherein composition dries in less than 100 hours.
 13. The coating composition of claim 1, where at least one of the acrylic compounds is vinyl
acrylic latex.
 14. The coating composition of claim 1, wherein a weight ratio of water to at least one of the
acrylic compounds is 1 to 3.
 15. A method of applying a prime coat to pavement structure, comprising:
        providing a coating composition to one or more portions of a pavement structure, wherein
the coating composition comprises one or more acrylic compounds; and
        curing the pavement structure for a desired period of time.
                                            27

 16. The method of claim 13, wherein the at least one of the portions of pavement structure
comprises a roadbed.
 17. The method of claim 13, wherein providing one or more portions of coating composition to
the pavement structure comprises spraying the coating composition on the portion of pavement
structure.
 18. A coating composition for fog coat applications, comprising:
         one or more spent toners, wherein at least one of the toners is non-black;
         one or more acrylic polymers; and
         water, wherein application of the coating composition as a fog coat to a pavement
structure enhances the physical properties of the pavement structure.
 19. The coating composition of claim 16, further comprising carbonaceous compounds.
20. The coating composition of claim 16, wherein at least one of the acrylic compounds
comprises a vinyl moiety.
21. The coating composition of claim 16, wherein at least one of the acrylic compounds
comprises a styrene moiety.
22. The coating composition of claim 16, wherein a solids content of the coating composition
ranges from about 50% to about 60%.
23. The coating composition of claim 16, wherein at least one of the vinyl acrylic materials has a
pH ranging about 4.0 to about 6.0.
24. The coating composition of claim 16, further comprising one or more pigments.
25.      A pavement structure composition, comprising:
         one or more acrylic polymers; and
         water;
         wherein the coating composition enhances the physical properties of the pavement
         structure.
26. The composition of claim 25, wherein the composition is suitable as a prime coat.
27. The composition of claim 25, wherein the composition is suitable in fog seal applications.
28. The composition of claim 25, further comprising aggregates, wherein the composition is
     suitable for a patching material for the pavement structure.
29. The composition of claim 25, further comprising aggregates, wherein the composition forms
high friction surface on the pavement structure.
30. The composition of claim 25, wherein the composition is suitable for micro surfacing of the
pavement structure.
                                               28

31. The composition of claim 25, wherein the composition is suitable for slurry sealing of the
pavement structure.
32. The composition of claim 25, wherein the composition is suitable to seal cracks in the
pavement structure.
33. A coating composition for prime coat applications, comprising:
        one or more paraffinic resins; and
        water, wherein application of the coating composition as a prime coat to a pavement
structure enhances the physical properties of the pavement structure as compared to conventional
prime coat application.
34. A coating composition for prime coat applications, comprising:
        one or more soybean processing by-products; and
        water, wherein application of the coating composition as a prime coat to a pavement
structure enhances the physical properties of the pavement structure as compared to conventional
prime coat application.
35. A coating composition for prime coat applications, comprising:
        one or more one or more vinyl acetate compounds; and
        water, wherein application of the coating composition as a prime coat to a pavement
structure enhances the physical properties of the pavement structure as compared to conventional
prime coat application.
36. A coating composition for prime coat applications, comprising:
        one or more acrylonitrile butadiene styrene compounds; and
water, wherein application of the coating composition as a prime coat to a pavement structure
enhances the physical properties of the pavement structure as compared to conventional prime
coat application.
37. A coating composition for prime coat applications, comprising:
        one or more styrene-butadiene rubber compounds; and
        water, wherein application of the coating composition as a prime coat to a pavement
structure enhances the physical properties of the pavement structure as compared to conventional
prime coat application.
38. A coating composition for prime coat applications, comprising:
        one or more lignin sulfonates; and
        water, wherein application of the coating composition as a prime coat to a pavement
structure enhances the physical properties of the pavement structure as compared to conventional
prime coat application.
                                            29

39. A coating composition for prime coat applications, comprising:
        magnesium chloride; and
        water, wherein application of the coating composition as a prime coat to a pavement
structure enhances the physical properties of the pavement structure as compared to conventional
prime coat application.
40. A coating composition for prime coat applications, comprising:
        calcium chloride; and
        water, wherein application of the coating composition as a prime coat to a pavement
        structure enhances the physical properties of the pavement structure as compared to
        conventional prime coat application.
41. A method of preparing soil blocks, comprising
        providing one or more vinyl acrylic polymers to soil;
        mixing the vinyl acrylic polymer with the soil to form a mixture; and
        forming the mixture into one or more blocks, wherein the formed block has increased
        strength properties as compared to an untreated soil block.
42. A method of treating a landfill, comprising:
        providing a coating composition to one or more portions of a landfill, wherein at least one
        of the portions is at a base of the landfill, and wherein the coating composition comprise
        one or more vinyl acrylic polymers;
        allowing the coating composition to dry; and
        forming a coating on the base of the landfill so that the base of the landfill is substantially
        impermeable to water.
43. A method of sealing a landfill, comprising:
        providing a coating composition to one or more a closed landfill, wherein the coating
        composition comprise one or more vinyl acrylic polymers;
        allowing the coating composition to dry; and
        forming a coating on the top landfill to inhibit release of gas from the landfill.
44. A method of treating a water structure, comprising:
        providing a coating composition to one or more portions of a water structure, wherein at
least one of the portions is at a base of the water structure, and wherein the coating composition
comprise one or more vinyl acrylic polymers;
        allowing the coating composition to dry; and
        forming a coating on the base of the structure so that the structure is substantially
        impermeable to water.
                                              30

45. A method of treating wood, comprising:
      providing a coating composition to one or more portions of wood, wherein the coating
      composition comprise one or more vinyl acrylic polymers; and
      forming a coating on the wood so that the wood is substantially impermeable to water.
46. A method for coloring roofing shingles, comprising:
                providing one or more vinyl acrylic latex polymers and one or more spent toner or
        one or more pigments to material suitable for shingle construction; and
                forming a shingle.
47. A method of treating wood, comprising:
        providing a coating composition to one or more portions of wood, wherein the coating
        composition comprise one or more styrene-butadiene polymers; and
        forming a coating on the wood so that the wood is substantially impermeable to water.
48. A method of inhibiting erosion of land, comprising:
        providing a coating composition to one or more portions of land, wherein the coating
composition comprise one or more vinyl acrylic polymers;
        allowing the coating composition to dry; and
        forming a coating on the portion of land so that the erosion of the land is substantially
        inhibited.
49. A method of marking roads, comprising:
      providing a coating composition to one or more portions of a road, wherein the coating
composition comprise one or more vinyl acrylic polymers; and
      forming a marking on the road with the coating composition.
50. The method of claim 49, wherein the coating composition further comprises one or more
spent toners.
51. The method of claim 49, wherein the coating composition further comprises one or more
pigments.
52. An asphalt modifier composition, comprising:
        asphalt; and
        one or more vinyl acrylic polymer latex;
        wherein the coating composition enhances low temperature and high temperature
engineering properties of asphalt binders used in Paving applications.
53. A method of treating concrete, comprising:
      providing a coating composition to one or more portions of wet concrete, wherein the
coating composition comprise one or more vinyl acrylic polymers and spent toner; and
                                            31

allowing the concrete to dry.
                              32

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
