ABSTRACT
Provided are systems and methods for delivery of fluid to a wound therapy dressing. In
exemplary embodiments, a pressure source provides negative pressure to a wound dressing
and a biasing mechanism provides positive pressure to a fluid reservoir.
FIG. 1

         1/4
              100
105           1
                      110
                        130
                  125
    120
       FIG. 1

                                                -1
   SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR DELIVERING FLUID TO A WOUND THERAPY
                                            DRESSING
BACKGROUND
             1. Cross-Reference to Related Application
[0001]       This application is a divisional of Australian Patent Application No. 2013215380
which is based on International Patent Application No. PCT/US2013/023482 and claims
priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61/594,033 filed February 2, 2012, entitled
SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR DELIVERING FLUID TO A WOUND THERAPY DRESSING,
the disclosure of each of these earlier applications is hereby incorporated by reference in its
entirety.
             2. Field
[0002]       The subject matter of this specification relates generally to healing of wounds and
wound-treatment therapies. More particularly, but not by way of limitation, the subject matter
relates to systems and methods for improving fluid-instillation and negative pressure wound
therapy (NPWT) apparatuses and methods.
             3. Discussion
[0003]       Clinical studies and practice have shown that providing a reduced pressure in
proximity to a tissue site augments and accelerates the growth of new tissue at the tissue site.
The applications of this phenomenon are numerous, but application of reduced pressure has
been particularly successful in treating wounds. This treatment (frequently referred to in the
medical community as "negative pressure wound therapy," "reduced pressure therapy," or
"vacuum therapy") provides a number of benefits, including faster healing and increased
formulation of granulation tissue. Typically, reduced pressure is applied to tissue through a
porous pad or other manifold device. The porous pad contains cells or pores that are capable
of distributing reduced pressure to the tissue and channeling fluids that are drawn from the
tissue. The porous pad may be incorporated into a dressing having other components that
facilitate treatment.

                                                   -2
[0004]     Typical instillation therapy instills fluid into a wound under a low positive pressure.
For maximum therapeutic effect, the instilled fluid should reach all exposed tissue surfaces.
The practice of fully filling a wound with instillation fluid, combined with the application of
porous wound fillers and negative pressure to help distribute fluid, are techniques used to try
and achieve good instillation therapy. Such techniques include numerous disadvantages,
including difficulty in delivering the desired volume of fluid without overfilling the system and
causing leakage.
[0005]     Large volumes of fluid may be involved in certain systems, requiring frequent
canister changes that may lead to user dissatisfaction. Although low positive pressures are
typically used to fill the wound cavity, the hydraulic (essentially incompressible) nature of the
fluid means that over filling can quickly cause leakage. Tortuous contours within a wound
cavity may be difficult to reach with both foam dressings and liquid-fill techniques as gas
pockets may be created. Applying a low vacuum during liquid instillation (to help maintain a
seal and reduce leaking, to minimize patient discomfort, and to aid fluid distribution) can be
problematic as instilled fluid may be removed before it is fully distributed through the dressing.
Furthermore, the complexity of the system is increased when separate pumping mechanisms
are incorporated into the wound therapy system.
[0006]     The referenced shortcomings are not intended to be exhaustive, but rather are
among many that tend to impair the effectiveness of previously known techniques in fluid
delivery to wound dressings; however, those mentioned here are sufficient to demonstrate that
the methodologies appearing in the art have not been satisfactory and that a significant need
exists for the techniques described and claimed in this disclosure. For at least the reasons
described above, improved wound treatment systems and methods are therefore desired.
SUMMARY
[0007]     From the foregoing discussion, it should be apparent that a need exists for a system
and method for improved delivery of fluid to a wound therapy dressing. The method in the
disclosed embodiments substantially includes the steps necessary to carry out the functions
presented above with respect to the operation of the described system.
[0008]     Certain embodiments comprise a system configured for delivering fluid to a negative
pressure wound therapy dressing, wherein the system comprises a biasing mechanism
configured to compress a fluid reservoir. In particular embodiments, the system comprises a
housing configured to receive a fluid reservoir. In specific embodiments, the biasing

                                                  -3
mechanism is configured to secure a fluid reservoir within the housing. In certain
embodiments, the biasing mechanism is configured as a spring. In particular embodiments the
spring is a constant-force spring. In certain embodiments, the positive pressure exerted on the
fluid in the reservoir is greater than or equal to approximately 75 mm Hg.
[0009]      In particular embodiments, the fluid reservoir is a polyethylene bag. Specific
embodiments comprise a control circuit configured to control a flow of fluid from the fluid
reservoir. In certain embodiments, the control circuit is coupled to a flow sensor configured to
detect the flow rate of fluid from the fluid reservoir and to provide a fluid flow rate signal to the
control circuit. In particular embodiments, the control circuit is coupled to a flow controller. The
flow controller may be adapted to be positioned in fluid communication between the fluid
reservoir and the wound therapy dressing. In specific embodiments, the flow controller is
configured as a control valve. Certain embodiments also comprise a conduit in fluid
communication with a wound dressing. Particular embodiments also comprise a negative
pressure source in fluid communication with the wound dressing. In specific embodiments, the
biasing mechanism is disposed within a receptacle configured to extend from a housing.
[0010]      Certain embodiments also include a method of delivering a fluid to a wound
dressing. The method comprises exerting a force from a biasing mechanism on a fluid
reservoir and compressing the fluid reservoir, wherein a fluid is directed from the fluid reservoir
to the wound dressing via a conduit. Specific embodiments further comprise controlling a flow
of fluid from the fluid reservoir via a flow controller. In particular embodiments, the flow
controller is controlled by a control circuit. In certain embodiments, the biasing mechanism is a
spring. Particular embodiments also comprise securing the fluid reservoir within a housing via
the biasing mechanism. Exerting the force from the biasing mechanism may create a positive
pressure on the fluid in the reservoir that is, for example, greater than or equal to
approximately 75 mm Hg. Certain embodiments also comprise providing a negative pressure
to the wound dressing.
[0011]      Particular embodiments also include a method of providing instillation fluid and
negative pressure to a wound dressing. The method comprises: applying negative pressure to
the wound dressing while inhibiting instillation fluid flow to the wound dressing; ceasing to
apply negative pressure to the wound dressing and measuring a volumetric leak rate from the
wound dressing; enabling instillation fluid flow to the wound dressing; measuring the flow rate
of the instillation fluid and the pressure at the wound dressing; verifying wound dressing
pressure is approximately atmospheric pressure; ceasing the flow of instillation fluid to the

                                                -4
wound dressing; allowing the instillation fluid to remain in the wound dressing; and removing
the instillation fluid from the wound dressing.
[0012]      In particular embodiments, enabling instillation fluid flow to the wound dressing
comprises creating a pressure in a fluid reservoir by exerting a force from a biasing
mechanism. In certain embodiments, the biasing mechanism is a spring.
[0013]      Specific embodiments also include a system for treating a wound with a wound
dressing. The system comprises: a housing with a receptacle configured to receive a fluid
reservoir; a biasing mechanism disposed within the receptacle for compressing the fluid
reservoir; a negative pressure source disposed within the housing; and a conduit for fluidly
connecting the reservoir, the negative pressure source, and the wound dressing. In particular
embodiments, the biasing mechanism is a spring. In certain embodiments, the negative
pressure source comprises a vacuum pump and a negative pressure controller. The vacuum
pump and the negative pressure controller may be adapted to be controlled by a control circuit
according to a negative pressure input signal received from the wound therapy dressing. In
particular embodiments, the receptacle is slideably received within the housing and configured
to extend from the housing. Certain embodiments also comprise a flow sensor and a flow
controller coupled to the conduit. The flow sensor and the flow controller may be adapted to be
positioned in fluid communication between the fluid reservoir and the wound therapy dressing.
[0014]      In yet another embodiment, provided is a system adapted to deliver fluid to a wound
therapy dressing including a negative pressure source, a housing, a biasing mechanism, and a
control circuit. The negative pressure source is adapted to be in fluid communication with the
wound therapy dressing to provide negative pressure to the wound therapy dressing. The
housing is adapted to receive a fluid reservoir, the fluid reservoir adapted to be in fluid
communication with the wound therapy dressing to provide fluid from the fluid reservoir to the
wound therapy dressing. The biasing mechanism is adapted to secure the fluid reservoir in the
housing and to exert a positive pressure on the fluid in the fluid reservoir. The control circuit is
adapted to control the negative pressure in the wound therapy dressing.
[0015]      In yet another embodiment, provided is a system adapted to deliver fluid to a wound
therapy dressing including a negative pressure source, a housing, a flow sensor, a flow
controller, and a control circuit. The negative pressure source is adapted to be in fluid
communication with the wound therapy dressing to provide negative pressure to the wound
therapy dressing. The housing is adapted to receive a fluid reservoir, the fluid reservoir

                                                 -5
adapted to be in fluid communication with the wound therapy dressing to provide fluid from the
fluid reservoir to the wound therapy dressing. The flow sensor is adapted to be positioned in
fluid communication between the fluid reservoir and the wound therapy dressing and to detect
a flow rate of the fluid from the fluid reservoir to the wound therapy dressing. The flow
controller is adapted to be positioned in fluid communication between the fluid reservoir and
the wound therapy dressing and to control a flow of the fluid from the fluid reservoir to the
wound therapy dressing. The control circuit is adapted to control the negative pressure source.
Additionally, the control circuit is adapted to receive a fluid flow rate signal from the flow sensor
that corresponds to the flow rate of the fluid from the fluid reservoir and a negative pressure
signal that corresponds to the negative pressure in the wound therapy dressing.
[0016]      In yet another embodiment, disclosed is a method of providing instillation fluid and
negative pressure to a wound dressing including: applying negative pressure to the wound
dressing; ceasing to apply negative pressure to the wound dressing when the negative
pressure in the wound dressing reaches a target negative pressure; measuring a volumetric
leak rate of the negative pressure from the wound dressing; enabling instillation fluid flow to
the wound dressing after the wound dressing reaches the target negative pressure, wherein
the instillation fluid flow to the wound dressing is substantially inhibited prior to the negative
pressure in the wound dressing reaching the target negative pressure and the volumetric leak
rate being measured; measuring a flow rate of the instillation fluid to the wound dressing;
monitoring the negative pressure in the wound dressing as the instillation fluid flows into the
wound dressing; ceasing the instillation fluid flow to the wound dressing when the negative
pressure in the wound dressing is approximately atmospheric pressure; allowing the instillation
fluid to remain in the wound dressing for a predetermined time period; and removing the
instillation fluid from the wound dressing after the predetermined time period.
[0017]      In yet another embodiment, disclosed is a method of providing instillation fluid and
negative pressure to a wound dressing including applying negative pressure to the wound
dressing until the negative pressure in the wound dressing reaches a target negative pressure;
determining a required volumetric flow rate of the negative pressure to the wound dressing to
maintain the negative pressure in the wound dressing substantially at the target negative
pressure, the        required volumetric flow     rate of the      negative   pressure   substantially
corresponding to a volumetric leak rate of the negative pressure from the wound dressing;
enabling instillation fluid flow to the wound dressing after the wound dressing reaches the
target negative pressure; monitoring the negative pressure in the wound dressing as the
instillation fluid flows into the wound dressing; applying negative pressure to the wound

                                                -6
dressing while the instillation fluid flows into the wound dressing, wherein a flow rate of the
negative pressure applied while the instillation fluid flows substantially corresponds to the
volumetric leak rate of the negative pressure from the wound dressing; and ceasing the
instillation fluid flow to the wound dressing when the negative pressure in the wound dressing
is approximately atmospheric pressure.
[0018]      Other features and associated advantages will become apparent with reference to
the following       detailed  description of specific embodiments       in   connection with     the
accompanying drawings.
[0019]      The term "coupled" is defined as connected, although not necessarily directly, and
not necessarily mechanically.
[0020]      The terms "a" and "an" are defined as one or more unless this disclosure explicitly
requires otherwise.
[0021]      The term "substantially" and its variations are defined as being largely but not
necessarily wholly what is specified as understood by one of ordinary skill in the art, and in one
non-limiting embodiment "substantially" refers to ranges within 10%, preferably within 5%,
more preferably within 1%, and most preferably within 0.5% of what is specified.
[0022]      The terms "comprise" (and any form of comprise, such as "comprises" and
"comprising"), "have" (and any form of have, such as "has" and "having"), "include" (and any
form of include, such as "includes" and "including") and "contain" (and any form of contain,
such as "contains" and "containing") are open-ended linking verbs. As a result, a method or
device that "comprises," "has," "includes" or "contains" one or more steps or elements
possesses those one or more steps or elements, but is not limited to possessing only those
one or more elements. Likewise, a step of a method or an element of a device that
"comprises," "has," "includes" or "contains" one or more features possesses those one or more
features, but is not limited to possessing only those one or more features. Furthermore, a
device or structure that is configured in a certain way is configured in at least that way, but may
also be configured in ways that are not listed.
[0023]      The term "negative pressure" refers to an absolute pressure that is lower than the
absolute atmospheric pressure at the location of use of the device. A stated level of negative
pressure in a region is therefore a relative measure between the absolute atmospheric

                                                -7
pressure and the absolute pressure in the region. A statement that the negative pressure is
decreasing means the pressure in the region is moving towards atmospheric pressure (i.e. the
absolute pressure is increasing). Where numeric values are used a negative sign is placed in
front of the numeric pressure value to indicate the value is a negative pressure relative to
atmospheric pressure.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0024]      The following drawings form part of the present specification and are included to
further demonstrate certain aspects of exemplary embodiments of the subject matter described
herein.
[0025]      FIG. 1 is a schematic diagram illustrating one embodiment of a system for delivering
fluid to a wound therapy dressing.
[0026]      FIG. 2 is a section view of the embodiment of FIG. 1.
[0027]      FIG. 3 is a schematic diagram illustrating the embodiment of FIG. 1 during insertion
of a fluid reservoir.
[0028]      FIG. 4 is schematic flowchart diagram illustrating one embodiment of a method for
delivering fluid to a wound therapy dressing.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF EXEMPLARY EMBODIMENTS
[0029]      Various features and advantageous details are explained more fully with reference to
the non-limiting embodiments that are illustrated in the accompanying drawings and detailed in
the following description. For brevity, descriptions of well known starting materials, processing
techniques, components, and equipment may be omitted. It should be understood, however,
that the detailed description, the specific examples, and embodiments are given by way of
illustration only, and not by way of limitation. Various substitutions, modifications, additions,
and/or rearrangements within the scope of this specification will become apparent to those
skilled in the art.
[0030]      FIGS. 1-3 illustrate an exemplary embodiment of a system 100 for providing fluid
delivery to a wound therapy dressing. As shown, system 100 includes a housing 105 with a
receptacle 130 configured to receive a reservoir 110. In this embodiment, system 100 further

                                                -8
comprises a conduit 125 and a wound dressing 120. Conduit 125 may be, for example, a muli
lumen conduit including more than one individual lumen or tube (not shown) housed within
conduit 125. The individual lumens or tubes within conduit 125 may be in fluid communication
with wound dressing 120. Each lumen or tube may be utilized for a different purpose, such as,
for example, instillation of fluid to wound dressing 120, communication of negative pressure to
wound dressing 120, and receipt of negative pressure feedback from wound dressing 120 as
described further below. Reservoir 110 may be, for example, configured as a polyethylene bag
similar to those used for intravenous fluid delivery. Compression of reservoir 110 can exert a
positive pressure on fluid in reservoir 110 and force the fluid from reservoir 110 as described in
more detail below.
[0031]     As shown in FIG. 2, receptacle 130 comprises a biasing mechanism 136 configured
to securely position reservoir 110. In addition, biasing mechanism 136 is configured to
compress reservoir 110 by exerting an external force on reservoir 110. Continuing with FIG. 2,
housing 105 of system 100 may include a negative pressure source 112, a negative pressure
controller 113, a control circuit 114, a flow controller 116 and a flow sensor 118. Negative
pressure source 112 may be, for example, a vacuum pump. Negative pressure controller 113
may be a valve, including for example, a control valve or a manually operated valve. Flow
controller 116 may also be configured as a valve, including a control valve in certain
embodiments.
[0032]     Referring now to FIG. 3, housing 105 may be configured to receive reservoir 110. As
shown in FIG. 3, receptacle 130 may be moved away from housing 105 in the direction
indicated by arrow 131 for insertion of reservoir 110 into receptacle 130 in the direction
indicated by arrow 111. Receptacle 130 can then be moved toward housing 105 (e.g., in the
direction opposite of arrow 131) so that reservoir 110 is received by housing 105 and in fluid
communication with conduit 125, as depicted in FIGS. 1-2. The exemplary embodiment of FIG.
3 depicts receptacle 130 slidably received within housing 105 and configured to extend from
housing 105 in a lateral direction for insertion of reservoir 110 into receptacle 130. In another
embodiment, receptacle 130 may be configured to extend from housing 105 in any suitable
direction for inserting reservoir 110. In yet another embodiment, receptacle 130 may be
coupled to housing 105 and stationary relative to housing 105.
[0033]     With reservoir 110 in the position shown in FIGS. 1 and 2, system 100 is ready for
operation. Biasing mechanism 136 is configured to bias reservoir 110 toward housing 105,
thereby securing reservoir 110. Extending receptacle 130 from housing 105 as described

                                                  -9
above reduces the bias from biasing mechanism 136 on reservoir 110 so that a user may more
easily insert reservoir 110 into receptacle 130. In addition, biasing mechanism 136 is
configured to compress reservoir 110, thereby exerting a positive pressure on fluid in reservoir
110. The compression of reservoir 110 from biasing mechanism 136 exerts a positive pressure
on the fluid in reservoir 110, providing fluid flow from reservoir 110 through conduit 125 without
the need for an external pumping mechanism (e.g., a peristaltic pump). The ability to provide
fluid flow from reservoir 110 to wound dressing 120 without a separate pumping mechanism
can greatly reduce the complexity of a wound therapy system that provides both negative
pressure treatment and fluid instillation. Such a configuration can also reduce the power
requirements associated with fluid delivery.
[0034]     Biasing mechanism 136 may be configured as a constant-force type spring adapted
to deliver a substantially constant mechanical load over a full length of travel of the spring. The
pressure created by biasing mechanism 136 in reservoir 110 may reduce the potential for
inconsistencies in fluid flow experienced by system 100 caused by, for example, height
differences between wound dressing 120 and reservoir 110. In an exemplary embodiment,
biasing mechanism 136 may exert a substantially constant pressure on reservoir 110 that is
greater than the pressure required to hold a static column of instillation fluid to a height
approximating the typical distance reservoir 110 may be positioned below wound dressing 120
during use. For example, biasing mechanism 136 may exert a substantially constant pressure
on reservoir 110 of approximately 75mm Hg, corresponding to the pressure required to hold a
static column of instillation fluid to a 1 meter height. In other exemplary embodiments, biasing
mechanism 136 may be configured to exert pressure greater than or less than 75mm Hg.
[0035]     Referring to FIG. 2, in operation, fluid in conduit 125 is directed through flow sensor
118 and flow controller 116. Flow sensor 118 and flow controller 116 are electrically coupled to
control circuit 114 and in fluid communication with conduit 125 between fluid reservoir 110 and
wound dressing 120. Flow sensor 118 can detect the rate and/or volume of fluid flow from
reservoir 110 through conduit 125 and provide a corresponding measurement signal, such as
a fluid flow rate signal, to control circuit 114. Based on the measurement signal from flow
sensor 118, control circuit 114 can send a control signal to flow controller 116 to control the
flow of fluid through conduit 125 to wound dressing 120. For example, if the flow rate is
detected to be greater than desired, control circuit 114 can send a signal to flow controller 116
to reduce the amount of fluid flow to wound dressing 120. In one embodiment, flow controller
116 may be a control valve adapted to reduce the amount of fluid flow by partial or complete
closure of the control valve. In another embodiment, flow controller 116 may stop fluid flow to

                                              - 10
wound dressing 120 after a particular volume of fluid has been delivered to wound dressing
120. The volume of fluid may be calculated, for example, based on the fluid flow rate and the
length of time of fluid flow.
[0036]     Referring now to FIG. 4, a flow chart is provided to illustrate an exemplary method
for operating system 100. The order and labeled steps of the method depicted in FIG. 4 are
indicative of one non-limiting embodiment. The format and symbols employed are understood
not to limit the scope of the method, or the order of execution of the steps depicted in the
method.
[0037]     As illustrated in FIG. 4, a method 400 depicted therein includes steps that may be
executed for the operation of an exemplary system according to this disclosure, including
system 100 of FIGS. 1-3. Certain embodiments may include a tangible computer readable
medium comprising computer readable code that, when executed by a computer, causes the
computer to perform operations and calculations comprising the steps described herein and
depicted in FIG. 4.
[0038]     Continuing with FIG. 4, step 401 represents the start of the therapy cycle. Step 402
includes bringing system 100 to a target negative pressure (via negative pressure source 112
and negative pressure controller 113) while inhibiting the instillation fluid flow (e.g., by
maintaining flow controller 116 in the closed position). Step 403 includes turning off negative
pressure source 112 and/or closing negative pressure controller 113 in system 100 when the
target negative pressure has been attained in wound dressing 120.
[0039]     Control circuit 114 may be adapted to control negative pressure source 112 for
bringing wound dressing 120 up to the target negative pressure, or otherwise regulating the
negative pressure in wound dressing 120. For example, control circuit 114 may be adapted to
receive a negative pressure signal that corresponds to the negative pressure in wound therapy
dressing 120. Control circuit 114 may control the application of negative pressure from
negative pressure source 112 to wound therapy dressing 120 by, for example, sending a
signal to negative pressure controller 113 and/or negative pressure source 112 to increase or
decrease the negative pressure applied to wound dressing 120 according to the negative
pressure signal. Control circuit 114 may receive the negative pressure signal from, for
example, a negative pressure feedback lumen (not shown) in fluid communication with a
pressure sensor (not shown) associated with control circuit 114. The negative pressure
feedback lumen may be housed within conduit 125, providing a multi-lumen configuration for

                                               - 11
conduit 125. In other embodiments, the negative pressure feedback lumen may be coupled to
wound dressing 120 separate from conduit 125.
[0040]     The volumetric leak rate of system 100 and wound                 dressing 120 can be
characterized in step 404, followed by an evaluation of whether the volumetric leak rate is
acceptable in step 405. If the volumetric leak rate is not acceptable, the user can address the
cause of the leak rate in step 406 and return to step 402 in the method.
[0041]     The volumetric leak rate of the negative pressure from wound dressing 120 may be
substantially equal to a volumetric flow rate of the negative pressure to wound dressing 120
that is required to maintain the negative pressure in wound dressing 120 substantially at the
target negative pressure. Thus, the volumetric leak rate may be measured, or characterized,
by determining a required volumetric flow rate of the negative pressure to wound dressing 120
for maintaining the negative pressure in wound dressing 120 substantially at the target
negative pressure. The required volumetric flow rate of the negative pressure may be
determined, for example, by successively decreasing the volumetric flow rate of the negative
pressure to wound dressing 120 as wound dressing 120 approaches the target negative
pressure. The required volumetric flow rate of the negative pressure to wound dressing 120 is
measured when the volumetric flow rate is decreased to a value that maintains wound
dressing 120 at the target negative pressure without fluctuation of the negative pressure, i.e., a
steady state condition. A processor including software that is associated with control circuit
114 may be employed to monitor the negative pressure in wound dressing 120 and the
volumetric flow rate of the negative pressure from negative pressure source 112 as wound
dressing 120 reaches the steady state condition at the target negative pressure.
[0042]     Once the volumetric leak rate has been determined to be acceptable, a user can
again bring the system to the target negative pressure in step 407 as previously described for
step 402. Negative pressure source 112 can then be turned off and/or negative pressure
controller 113 closed in step 408, followed by enabling instillation fluid flow in step 409, e.g., by
opening a valve in system 100, such as flow controller 116. Biasing mechanism 136 can
provide sufficient positive pressure on fluid in fluid reservoir 110 to enable instillation fluid flow
in step 409 without the use of a separate pumping mechanism as previously described. In
addition, instillation fluid flow may be enabled by operation of the negative pressure in wound
dressing 120 drawing fluid from fluid reservoir 110 into wound dressing 120. As fluid from
reservoir 110 enters wound dressing 120, the negative pressure in wound dressing 120

                                               -  12
gradually approaches or otherwise returns to atmospheric pressure, i.e., the negative pressure
decreases. In one embodiment, biasing mechanism 136 may be omitted.
[0043]      In step 410, system 100 can monitor the volumetric flow rate of the instillation fluid,
as well as the negative pressure at wound dressing 120. The monitored parameters of system
100 can be evaluated in step 411 to determine, for example, whether an unexpected change in
pressure is present, such as the negative pressure at wound dressing 120 returning to
atmospheric pressure sooner than expected based on the previously-measured volumetric
leak rate. If the pressure change is not acceptable, the instillation fluid flow can be
discontinued in step 412 and operation of system 100 can be terminated in step 413.
[0044]      If the pressure is changing at an acceptable rate (e.g., due to the flow of instillation
fluid from reservoir 110 to wound dressing 120), system 100 can verify that the pressure has
reached atmospheric pressure in step 414. System 100 may then stop the flow of instillation
fluid in step 415 (e.g., by closing flow controller 116 in the instillation fluid flow path) and allow
the wound to soak for a predetermined time period. The predetermined time period may be
any suitable time period determined by a clinician as appropriate for the circumstances. In step
416, system 100 can store the instilled volume for clinical reference and monitor the wound
reduction. The wound reduction, or healing of the wound, may reduce the total volume of fluid
instilled into wound dressing 120 by the method described above.
[0045]      In one embodiment (not shown), the method may include the step of applying
negative pressure to wound dressing 120 while the fluid from reservoir 110 flows into wound
dressing 120. The flow rate of the negative pressure applied while the fluid flows into wound
dressing 120 may substantially correspond to the previously-measured volumetric leak rate of
the negative pressure from wound dressing 120. In this manner, system 100 can enhance the
accuracy of the volume of the fluid from reservoir 110 drawn into wound dressing 120 by
operation of the negative pressure in wound dressing 120, i.e., the decreasing negative
pressure in wound dressing 120 corresponds substantially to the fluid from reservoir 120 being
instilled into wound dressing 120 rather than leakage of the negative pressure from wound
dressing 120.
[0046]      System 100 can then determine if the soak time is complete in step 417. If the soak
time is not complete, system 100 can continue to soak the wound as described in step 415. If
the soak time is determined to be complete, system 100 can recover fluid in step 418 (e.g. by
operating the negative pressure source 112 and opening negative pressure controller 113 to

                                                - 13
apply negative pressure to wound dressing 120). The cycle can then be completed in step 419
and system 100 can be powered off.
[0047]      In one embodiment (not shown), the method may include determining a total volume
of the fluid flow from reservoir 110 into wound dressing 120. The total volume of the fluid flow
may substantially correspond to the flow rate of the fluid into wound dressing 120 and a time
period required for wound dressing 120 to reach approximately atmospheric pressure after
enabling the fluid flow to wound dressing 120. As the method described above is utilized
during various stages of healing of a particular wound, variations in the total volume of fluid
instilled into wound dressing 120 may be logged and compared to one another to indicate a
rate of healing or reduction for the particular wound.
[0048]      While the apparatus and methods herein have been described in terms of preferred
embodiments, it will be apparent to those of skill in the art that variations may be applied
without departing from the scope of this specification as defined by the appended claims.

                                                 - 14
CLAIMS
1.          A system adapted to deliver fluid to a wound therapy dressing, comprising:
            a negative pressure source adapted to be in fluid communication with the wound
therapy dressing to provide negative pressure to the wound therapy dressing;
            a housing adapted to receive a fluid reservoir, the fluid reservoir adapted to be in
fluid communication with the wound therapy dressing to provide fluid from the fluid reservoir to
the wound therapy dressing;
            a biasing mechanism adapted to secure the fluid reservoir in the housing and to
exert a positive pressure on the fluid in the fluid reservoir; and
            a control circuit adapted to control the negative pressure in the wound therapy
dressing.
2.          The system of claim 1, wherein the negative pressure source is disposed within the
housing.
3.          The system of claim 1, wherein the biasing mechanism is configured to compress
the fluid reservoir to secure the fluid reservoir within the housing and to exert the positive
pressure on the fluid in the fluid reservoir.
4.          The system of claim 1, wherein the biasing mechanism is a spring.
5.          The system of claim 4, wherein the spring is a constant-force spring.
6.          The system of claim 1, wherein the positive pressure exerted on the fluid in the fluid
reservoir is at least approximately 75 mm Hg.
7.          The system of claim 1, wherein the fluid reservoir is a polyethylene bag.
8.          The system of claim 1, wherein the control circuit is configured to control a flow of
the fluid from the fluid reservoir to the wound therapy dressing and to detect a flow rate of the
fluid from the fluid reservoir to the wound therapy dressing.
9.          The system of claim 8, wherein the control circuit is coupled to a flow sensor
configured to detect the flow rate of the fluid from the fluid reservoir and to provide a fluid flow
rate signal to the control circuit.

                                                 -15
10.        The system of claim 1, wherein the control circuit is coupled to a flow controller
adapted to be positioned in fluid communication between the fluid reservoir and the wound
therapy dressing.
11.        The system of claim 10, wherein the flow controller is a control valve.
12.        The system of claim 9, wherein the flow sensor is adapted to be positioned in fluid
communication between the fluid reservoir and the wound therapy dressing.
13.        The system of claim 1, wherein the negative pressure source comprises a vacuum
pump and a negative pressure controller, wherein the control circuit is adapted to control the
vacuum pump and the negative pressure controller according to a negative pressure signal
received from the wound therapy dressing.
14.        The system of claim 1 wherein the biasing mechanism is disposed within a
receptacle, the receptacle slidably received within the housing and configured to extend from
the housing.
15.        A system adapted to deliver fluid to a wound therapy dressing, comprising:
            a negative pressure source adapted to be in fluid communication with the wound
therapy dressing to provide negative pressure to the wound therapy dressing; a housing
adapted to receive a fluid reservoir, the fluid reservoir adapted to be in fluid communication
with the wound therapy dressing to provide fluid from the fluid reservoir to the wound therapy
dressing;
            a flow sensor adapted to be positioned in fluid communication between the fluid
reservoir and the wound therapy dressing and to detect a flow rate of the fluid from the fluid
reservoir to the wound therapy dressing;
            a flow controller adapted to be positioned in fluid communication between the fluid
reservoir and the wound therapy dressing and to control a flow of the fluid from the fluid
reservoir to the wound therapy dressing; and
            a control circuit adapted to control the negative pressure source and the flow
controller, the control circuit further adapted to receive a fluid flow rate signal from the flow
sensor that corresponds to the flow rate of the fluid from the fluid reservoir and a negative
pressure signal that corresponds to the negative pressure in the wound therapy dressing.
16.        The system of claim 15, wherein the fluid reservoir is a polyethylene bag.

                                                  - 16
17.        The system of claim 15, wherein the flow controller is a control valve adapted to be
controlled by the control circuit.
18.        The system of claim 15, further comprising a biasing mechanism adapted to exert a
positive pressure on the fluid in the fluid reservoir, wherein the biasing mechanism is a
constant-force spring.
19.        The system of claim 18, wherein the biasing mechanism is disposed within a
receptacle to secure the fluid reservoir in the housing, the receptacle slidably received within
the housing and configured to extend from the housing.
20.        The system of claim 18, wherein the positive pressure on the fluid in the fluid
reservoir is at least approximately 75 mm Hg.
21.        The system of claim 15, wherein the negative pressure source comprises a vacuum
pump and a negative pressure controller, the control circuit adapted to control the vacuum
pump and the negative pressure controller according to the negative pressure signal.
22.        A method of providing instillation fluid and negative pressure to a wound dressing,
comprising:
           applying negative pressure to the wound dressing;
           ceasing to apply negative pressure to the wound dressing when the negative
pressure in the wound dressing reaches a target negative pressure;
           measuring a volumetric leak rate of the negative pressure from the wound dressing;
enabling instillation fluid flow to the wound dressing after the wound dressing reaches the
target negative pressure, wherein the instillation fluid flow to the wound dressing is
substantially inhibited prior to the negative pressure in the wound dressing reaching the target
negative pressure and the volumetric leak rate being measured;
           measuring a flow rate of the instillation fluid to the wound dressing;
           monitoring the negative pressure in the wound dressing as the instillation fluid flows
into the wound dressing;
           ceasing the instillation fluid flow to the wound dressing when the negative pressure
in the wound dressing is approximately atmospheric pressure;
           allowing the instillation fluid to remain in the wound dressing for a predetermined
time period; and

                                                   - 17
             removing the instillation fluid from the wound dressing after the predetermined time
period.
23.         The method of claim 22, wherein enabling instillation fluid flow to the wound dressing
comprises creating a positive pressure in a fluid reservoir in fluid communication with the
wound dressing by exerting a force on instillation fluid in the fluid reservoir with a biasing
mechanism and permitting the negative pressure in the wound dressing to draw the instillation
fluid into the wound dressing.
24.         The method of claim 23, wherein the biasing mechanism is a constant-force spring.
25.         The method of claim 22, wherein measuring the volumetric leak rate comprises
determining a required volumetric flow rate of the negative pressure to the wound dressing to
maintain the negative pressure in the wound dressing substantially at the target negative
pressure, wherein the volumetric leak rate is substantially equal to the required volumetric flow
rate of the negative pressure.
26.         The method of claim 22, further comprising applying negative pressure to the wound
dressing while the instillation fluid flows into the wound dressing, wherein a flow rate of the
negative pressure applied while the instillation fluid flows substantially corresponds to the
volumetric leak rate of the negative pressure from the wound dressing.
27.         The method of claim 22, further comprising determining a total volume of the
instillation fluid flow to the wound dressing, the total volume of the instillation fluid flow to the
wound dressing, the total volume of the instillation fluid flow substantially corresponding to the
flow rate of the instillation fluid and a time period required for the wound dressing to reach
approximately atmospheric pressure after enabling the instillation fluid flow to the wound
dressing.
28.         A method of providing instillation fluid and negative pressure to a wound dressing,
comprising:
             applying negative pressure to the wound dressing until the negative pressure in the
wound dressing reaches a target negative pressure;
             determining a required volumetric flow rate of the negative pressure to the wound
dressing to maintain the negative pressure in the wound dressing substantially at the target

                                                    -18
negative pressure, the required volumetric flow rate of the negative pressure substantially
corresponding to a volumetric leak rate of the negative pressure from the wound dressing;
             enabling instillation fluid flow to the wound dressing after the wound dressing
reaches the target negative pressure;
             monitoring the negative pressure in the wound dressing as the instillation fluid flows
into the wound dressing;
             applying negative pressure to the wound dressing while the instillation fluid flows into
the wound dressing, wherein a flow rate of the negative pressure applied while the instillation
fluid flows substantially corresponds to the volumetric leak rate of the negative pressure from
the wound dressing; and
             ceasing the instillation fluid flow to the wound dressing when the negative pressure
in the wound dressing is approximately atmospheric pressure.
29.         The method of claim 28, wherein enabling instillation fluid flow to the wound dressing
comprises exerting a force on instillation fluid in a fluid reservoir with a biasing mechanism and
permitting the negative pressure in the wound dressing to draw the instillation fluid into the
wound dressing, the fluid reservoir being in fluid communication with the wound dressing,
wherein the instillation fluid flow to the wound dressing is substantially inhibited prior to the
negative pressure in the wound dressing reaching the target negative pressure.
30.         The method of claim 28, further comprising determining a total volume of the
instillation fluid flow to the wound dressing, the total volume of the instillation fluid flow
substantially corresponding to a flow rate of the instillation fluid to the wound dressing and a
time period required for the wound dressing to reach approximately atmospheric pressure after
enabling the instillation fluid flow to the wound dressing..

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
