         HYDROPYROLYSIS OF BIOMASS-CONTAINING FEEDSTOCKS
                                        ABSTRACT
        Various techniques are disclosed for pretreating municipal solid waste (MSW) and
other biomass-containing feedstocks that may be of a poorer quality and consequently more
difficult, or even impossible, to convert to higher value liquid products (e.g., transportation
fuels) using conventional processes.       Such conventional processes may otherwise be
satisfactory for the conversion of the biomass portion of the feedstock alone.             The
pretreatment of biomass-containing feedstocks may generally include steps carried out
prior to a hydropyrolysis step and optionally further steps, in order to change one or more
characteristics of the feedstock, rendering it more easily upgradable.
                                               1

     HYDROPYROLYSIS OF BIOMASS-CONTAINING FEEDSTOCKS
               CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
[01] This application claims the benefit of priority of U.S. Application Serial No.
     14/321,147, filed July 1, 2014, the contents of which are hereby incorporated by
     reference in their entirety.
                             FIELD OF THE INVENTION
[02] The    invention   relates   to  processes  for thermochemically       (pyrolytically)
     transforming various biomass-containing feedstocks, including municipal solid
     waste (MSW) and algae, into high quality liquid hydrocarbon fuels.
                                     BACKGROUND
[03] Biomass refers to biological material derived from living or deceased organisms
     and includes lignocellulosic materials (e.g., wood), aquatic materials (e.g., algae,
     aquatic plants, and seaweed), and animal by-products and wastes (e.g., offal, fats,
     and sewage sludge).       In the conventional pyrolysis of biomass, typically fast
     pyrolysis carried out in an inert atmosphere, a dense, acidic, reactive liquid bio-oil
     product is obtained, which contains water, oils, and char formed during the
     process. Much of the oxygen present in biomass ultimately resides in the bio-oil,
     thereby increasing its chemical reactivity.
[04] Characteristic total acid numbers (TAN) of conventional bio-oil are in the range
     of 100-200, rendering it highly corrosive.       Moreover, this product tends to
     undergo polymerization, is generally incompatible with petroleum hydrocarbons
     due to water miscibility and very high oxygen content (on the order of about 40%
     by weight), and has a low heating value. The unstable bio-oils of conventional
     pyrolysis tend to thicken over time and can also react to a point where hydrophilic
     and hydrophobic phases form. As a result, transportation and utilization of this
     product are problematic. Also, it is difficult to upgrade this product to a liquid
     hydrocarbon fuel, due to the retrograde reactions that typically occur in
     conventional pyrolysis processes, including fast pyrolysis. Dilution with methanol
                                            1

     or other alcohols has been shown to reduce the activity and viscosity of the
     formed bio-oils, but this approach is not considered practical or economically
     viable, due to the large amounts of unrecoverable alcohol that are required to
     stabilize pyrolysis liquids.
[05] The removal of char, generated by conventional pyrolysis, from the liquid
     pyrolysis product while it is still in the vapor phase presents an additional
     technical challenge.     Significant amounts of oxygen and free radicals in the
     pyrolysis vapors remain highly reactive and form a pitch-like material upon
     contact with char particles on the surface of a filter or other solid separator.
     Consequently, devices used to separate char from the hot pyrolysis vapors can
     become quickly plugged, due to the reactions of char and pyrolysis vapor
     constituents that occur on and within the layer of char on the surfaces of such
     devices, as well as within the pores of porous filter elements. Finally, it is noted
     that the upgrading of pyrolysis          oils, using conventional   hydroconversion
     processes, consumes large quantities of H 2 and extreme process conditions,
     including high hydrogen pressures needed to meet product quality requirements,
     make such processes uneconomical. The reactions are inherently out of balance
     in that, due to the high pressures required, too much water is created while too
     much H2 is consumed.        In addition, conventional hydroconversion reactors can
     rapidly develop high pressure differentials, due to reactive coke precursors
     present in the pyrolysis oils or from coke produced as a result of catalysis.
[06] More recently, the use of hydrogen in biomass pyrolysis (i.e., hydropyrolysis) has
     been disclosed. For example, hydropyrolysis processes taught in US 8,492,600
     have been found to overcome a number of the drawbacks of conventional fast
     pyrolysis processes, including those described above, and have led to a number of
     other processing advantages.
[07] Various feedstocks may comprise biomass, but in many cases also contain
     significant amounts of other materials that present technical challenges to
     converting    such    feedstocks   to   higher value   liquid  products,    including
     hydrocarbon-containing products useful for transportation fuels. Municipal solid
                                             2

     waste (MSW), for example, can present an essentially no-cost source of biomass
     (e.g., waste wood, yard waste, and agricultural waste) and biomass-derived
     materials (e.g.,   paper, cardboard, medium density fiberboard (MDF), and
     particleboard).   MSW may, however, also contain significant amounts of non
     biological materials, e.g., plastic, glass, waste metal, etc., which are derived from
     petroleum or minerals. Ash, which refers to the non-combustible solid powder
     residue (generally containing metals and/or metal oxides) left behind following
     combustion, is present to some extent in biomass as a non-biological material.
     However, the presence of other non-biological materials in MSW can lead to a
     higher overall ash content, relative to that of the biomass portion of the MSW
     alone.    Non-biological materials in MSW complicate upgrading processes,
     including    those   that   involve    pyrolysis  in  the    presence   of   hydrogen
     (hydropyrolysis), and optionally other processing steps leading to the production
     of higher value liquids such as transportation fuel fractions.
[08] The presence of non-biological materials in MSW can additionally alter the
     overall atomic ratios present in the feedstock, compared to the atomic ratios of the
     biomass portion of the MSW alone. For example, the ratio of oxygen to carbon in
     the feedstock may be reduced, thereby affecting the reactions occurring during
     pyrolysis, and/or subsequent processing. This, in turn, can adversely impact the
     quality of the products obtained and/or otherwise significantly increase the costs
     associated with obtaining products of given quality and yield.              The bulk
     mechanical properties of MSW feedstock, as it undergoes heating to carry out
     desired conversion steps (e.g., fluidized bed hydropyrolysis), may also differ
     significantly from the mechanical properties of purely biomass-containing
     feedstocks, such as lignocellulosic materials.     The differing process conditions
     and/or additional process steps, as needed to compensate for these characteristics
     of MSW, relative to conventional feeds, can vary greatly. This is particularly the
     case in processes for converting MSW to liquid products that include
     hydropyrolysis and optionally other upgrading steps.
[09] More recently, the potential for using algae and lemna (sea weeds) as a source of
     biomass for producing higher value liquids has gained attention. Algae grown in
                                             3

      salt water may, however, contain large amounts of sodium and chlorine relative to
      other sources of biomass (e.g., wood). Sodium is a potential catalyst poison that
      may be detrimental to the activity of catalysts used in biomass conversion
      processes, such as catalytic hydropyrolysis and/or catalytic hydroconversion (e.g.,
      hydrodeoxygenation). The existence of chlorine in a hydrogen environment, and
      particularly in the presence of a catalyst with hydrogenation activity, can lead to
      the formation of hydrogen chloride gas (HCl).         If water is also present, the
      condensation of aqueous HCl (i.e., hydrochloric acid) on metallic surfaces can
      lead to the rapid corrosion of metallic process vessels and even catastrophic
      failure.  Higher grades of metallurgy (e.g., Hastelloy*) over stainless steel can
      offer some protection, but only at significantly increased capital expense. With
      respect to MSW feedstocks, the presence of relatively high amounts of other
      heteroatoms, such as sulfur and nitrogen, under hydrogenation conditions leads to
      the formation of H2 S and NH 3 that likewise pose concerns in terms of their
      corrosivity and potential detrimental health effects.
[010] Therefore, while MSW and algae provide attractive, low-cost (or no-cost)
      feedstocks for producing green energy with little or no associated greenhouse gas
      (GHG) emissions, they also present the technical challenges identified above.
      There is consequently a need in the art for processes that address some or all of
      these challenges, and particularly processes involving the hydropyrolysis of
      feedstocks containing non-biological materials. The ability to transform readily
      available raw materials, including materials that are otherwise regarded as waste
      products, to provide higher value liquids (e.g., hydrocarbon-containing liquids),
      would represent a major breakthrough in realizing cost-competitiveness with
      conventional petroleum refining processes.
                                         SUMMARY
[011] The present invention is associated with the discovery of various techniques for
      pretreating MSW, algae, lemna (sea weeds), and other biomass-containing
      feedstocks that may be of a poorer quality relative to conventional, purely
      lignocellulosic materials and consequently more difficult to convert to higher
                                            4

      value liquid products (e.g., transportation fuels), using conventional processes.
      Such conventional processes might otherwise be satisfactory for the conversion of
      the biomass alone (e.g., the biomass portion of MSW).              The pretreatment of
      biomass-containing feedstocks described herein may generally include steps
      carried out prior to a hydropyrolysis step and optionally further steps, in order to
      change one or more characteristics of the feedstock, rendering it more easily
      upgradable. By this it is meant that processes according to the invention broadly
      include those in which a biomass-containing feedstock is subjected to at least a
      pretreatment step and a subsequent hydropyrolysis step, in which a higher value
      liquid product is obtained, wherein, in the absence of the pretreatment step the
      same liquid product (i.e., in terms of both quality and yield) could not be obtained
      without added capital input (equipment) and/or energy input, following the
      hydropyrolysis step and any further steps of the process.           According to some
      embodiments,       the added capital      and/or energy input, associated        with a
      comparable downstream processing solution, would exceed the respective capital
      and energy input(s) associated with the pretreatment step.
[012] According to some embodiments, the pretreatment step may be integrated into the
      overall process, meaning that one or more products of the pretreatment step (e.g.,
      pre-reactor process vapors or solid, pretreated feedstock) may be fed continuously
      to further steps (e.g., hydropyrolysis) of the process. It is also possible that one or
      more intermediate or final products of the overall process (e.g., reformed
      hydrogen or partially spent deoxygenating catalyst from the hydropyrolysis
      reactor) may be used in the pretreatment step, providing further integration. In
      other embodiments, the pretreatment step may be performed separately (i.e., as a
      step that is not integrated), for example by first collecting products of the
      pretreatment step and then feeding the pretreated products to a hydropyrolysis
      step at a later time (e.g., after a period of at least one hour or at least one day). As
      another example of a pretreatment step that is not integrated, this step may be
      performed at a location that is remote from (e.g., at least one mile from or at least
      100 miles from) the location of the hydropyrolysis step.
                                               5

[013] According to some embodiments, the pretreatment step may involve chemically
      converting the biomass-containing feedstock and may be performed in a reactor
      (e.g., in a separate pre-reactor, or otherwise in situ in the hydropyrolysis reactor).
      In other embodiments, the pretreatment step may involve only a physical
      separation or sorting of certain components (e.g., the removal of glass and/or
      plastic) of the biomass-containing feedstock.        In yet other embodiments, the
      pretreatment step may involve both chemical conversion and physical separation.
      In particular embodiments, a reactor used for pretreatment of the biomass
      containing feedstock, namely a pre-reactor, may affect chemical conversion
      and/or physical separation to yield a pretreated feedstock (e.g., a pre-reactor vapor
      stream).    For example, chemical conversion can include, at least to a limited
      extent, pyrolysis and hydropyrolysis reactions preceding those that occur in the
      hydropyrolysis reactor and optionally further steps.         Physical separation can
      include devolatilization of the biomass-containing feedstock, meaning separation
      (by volatilization) of relatively volatile components of the biomass-containing
      feedstock by subjecting it to heat and/or flowing gas.
[014] Aspects of the invention therefore relate to processes, and especially processes
      having an integrated pretreatment step (e.g., a devolatilizing step that occurs in a
      pre-reactor), for converting a biomass-containing feedstock (e.g., MSW, algae, or
      lemna (sea weeds)) into a         higher value liquid product such as a product
      comprising     a desired compound (e.g.,       levoglucosan),    a desired class of
      compounds (e.g., aromatic hydrocarbons), or a desired mixture of compounds
      (e.g., gasoline or diesel fuel boiling-range hydrocarbons).
[015] One representative embodiment, described more fully below, is a process
      comprising devolatilizing a biomass-containing feedstock in a pre-reactor vessel
      containing hydrogen and a solid bed material selected from the group consisting
      of a pretreating catalyst, a sorbent, a heat transfer medium, and mixtures thereof,
      to produce a pre-reactor vapor stream comprising entrained solid particles (e.g.,
      particles of solid bed material and/or char particles). The pre-reactor vessel may
      be separate from a hydropyrolysis vessel, used for hydropyrolyzing at least a
      portion of the pre-reactor vapor stream exiting the pre-reactor. By maintaining
                                              6

      separate vessels, different pretreating and hydropyrolysis conditions can be
      maintained and manipulated independently, as needed to effectively process a
      given biomass-containing feedstock.      In addition, the pre-reactor vapor stream
      may be subjected to a number of processing steps (e.g.,             solids removal,
      condensation, heating, mixing, etc.), prior to introducing at least a portion thereof
      to the hydropyrolysis reactor vessel. According to other embodiments, the pre
      reactor and hydropyrolysis reactor may be part of a single,                combined
      pretreating/hydropyrolysis vessel, in which, for example, the pre-reactor portion
      of this vessel may reside in a lower portion and the hydropyrolysis reactor portion
      may reside in an upper portion.        This configuration may be desirable, for
      example, if conditions in the pre-reactor and hydropyrolysis reactor do not differ
      markedly, and energy savings can be realized by conducting both steps within a
      single vessel.
[016] Another representative embodiment, described more fully below, is a process
      comprising pretreating an initial feedstock to produce a pretreated feedstock,
      wherein the pretreated feedstock has at a least one improved characteristic over
      the initial feedstock. The improved characteristic may be selected from the group
      consisting of a reduced non-biological material content (e.g., a reduced ash
      content), a higher temperature, a reduced average particle size, a reduced average
      particle aerodynamic diameter, an increased average particle surface area to mass
      ratio, a reduced average particle terminal velocity, a more uniform particle size, a
      reduced corrosive species content, a reduced hydropyrolysis catalyst poison
      content, and a reduced hydroconversion catalyst poison content.
[017] Following a devolatilizing step or other pretreating step as described above,
      representative processes may further comprise hydropyrolyzing at least a portion
      of the pre-reactor vapor stream or at least a portion of another pretreated
      feedstock as described above in a hydropyrolysis reactor vessel containing
      hydrogen and a deoxygenating catalyst.         A hydropyrolysis reactor output is
      produced, comprising (i) at least one non-condensable gas (e.g., H2 , C0 2 , CO
      and/or one or more low molecular weight hydrocarbon gases such as CH 4, C 2H6 ,
      and/or C 2H 4), (ii) a partially deoxygenated hydropyrolysis product (e.g., in the
                                            7

      form of a condensable vapor), and (iii) solid char particles. Some or all of the
      hydropyrolysis reactor output may then be hydroconverted in a hydroconversion
      reactor    vessel    (or  a   hydroconversion    zone    comprising   two   or  more
      hydroconversion reactor vessels in series or parallel) to further reduce oxygen
      content and provide a substantially fully deoxygenated hydrocarbon liquid that,
      when condensed from a hydroconversion reactor vessel (or hydroconversion
      zone) outlet and then phase separated (from a condensed aqueous phase), is a high
      value liquid product (e.g., a liquid product containing gasoline and/or diesel fuel
      boiling-range hydrocarbon fractions that, following separation by distillation, are
      suitable as fuels or fuel additives).
[018] According to further embodiments, the pre-treating step and consequently the
      improved characteristic(s) of the feedstock, as described above, may be obtained
      in situ, i.e., within the pre-reactor vessel and/or the hydropyrolysis reactor vessel.
      In such cases, the pretreated feedstock having the improved characteristic may be
      introduced directly into a downstream hydropyrolysis reactor or hydroconversion
      reactor, without any intermediate recovery.
[019] In yet further embodiments, representative processes comprise hydropyrolyzing,
      in a hydropyrolysis reactor vessel containing hydrogen and a deoxygenating
      catalyst, a pretreated feedstock as described herein. Particular embodiments may
      further comprise hydroconverting, in a hydroconversion reactor vessel (or
      hydroconversion zone), at least a portion of the hydropyrolysis reactor output as
      described herein.
[020] These and other embodiments, aspects, features, and advantages of the present
      disclosure will be apparent from the following detailed description of the
      illustrated embodiments thereof, which are to be read in connection with the
      accompanying drawings.
                      BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[021] A more complete understanding of the exemplary embodiments of the present
      invention and the advantages thereof may be acquired by referring to the
                                              8

      following description in consideration of the accompanying figures, in which the
      last two digits of reference numbers in the figures indicate like features and
      wherein:
[022] FIG. 1 is a schematic flow diagram of a system, including a pre-reactor and a
      hydropyrolysis reactor, according to one embodiment of this disclosure;
[023] FIG. 2 is a schematic flow diagram of an alternative system of a pre-reactor and a
      hydropyrolysis reactor, according to another embodiment of this disclosure; and
[024] FIG. 3 is a schematic flow diagram of a system of a pre-reactor and a
      hydropyrolysis reactor, such as the representative systems depicted in FIG. 1 and
      FIG. 2, which is integrated into a process including a hydroconversion reactor.
[025] FIGS. 1-3 should be understood to present an illustration of the invention and/or
      principles involved.     Simplified process flow schemes are used, in order to
      facilitate explanation and understanding.    Details including pumps, heaters and
      some heat exchangers, valves, instrumentation, and other items not essential to
      the understanding of the invention are not shown. As is readily apparent to one of
      skill in the art having knowledge of the present disclosure, methods for providing
      hydroprocessed biofuels according to various other embodiments of the invention,
      will have configurations and components determined, in part, by their specific
      use.
                               DETAILED DESCRIPTION
[026] Aspects of the invention relate to integrated processes for converting a raw or
      initial feedstock (e.g., MSW or algae) into higher value liquids. The term "higher
      value liquids" refers to liquid products of the processes described herein,
      involving hydropyrolysis, having a greater value (e.g., on a weight basis) than the
      initial feedstock and generally also greater than the pretreated feedstock (e.g., a
      pre-reactor vapor stream or another pretreated feedstock as described herein).
      Representative     higher value    liquids include individual    compounds    (e.g.,
      levoglucosan), classes of compounds (e.g., aromatic hydrocarbons), and mixtures
      of compounds suitable for a particular purpose (e.g., gasoline or diesel fuel
                                             9

      boiling-range hydrocarbons suitable for use as transportation fuels or otherwise
      blending into such fuels). Representative raw or initial feedstocks include those
      comprising biomass (e.g., derived from organisms living above the earth's surface
      or within the earth's oceans, rivers, and/or lakes) in addition to non-biological
      materials (e.g., materials derived from petroleum, such as plastics, or materials
      derived from minerals extracted from the earth, such as metals and metal oxides,
      including glass).
[027] The initial feedstocks may be used in a dry form, for example, after being
      subjected to drying at elevated temperature (e.g., greater than about 50'C for a
      time sufficient to reduce the moisture content of the initial feedstock to less than
      about 1% by weight, or even less than about 0.1% by weight). According to other
      embodiments, the initial feedstocks may include moisture (e.g., have a moisture
      content of greater than about 1%, such as from about 1% to about 10% by
      weight). In still other embodiments, the initial feedstock may be used in the form
      of an aqueous slurry.     In general, processes described herein do not require a
      severely dried initial feedstock, as the inclusion of water can be beneficial in
      terms of its ability to form hydrogen via the water-gas shift reaction under
      conditions in one or more of a pre-reactor vessel, a hydropyrolysis reactor vessel,
      and/or a hydroconversion reactor vessel, as described herein.
[028] Representative biomass in a biomass-containing, initial feedstock can include any
      plant material, or mixture of plant materials, such as a hardwood (e.g.,
      whitewood), a softwood, a hardwood or softwood bark, lignin, algae, and/or
      lemna (sea weeds). Energy crops, or otherwise agricultural residues (e.g., logging
      residues) or other types of plant wastes or plant-derived wastes, may also be used
      as plant materials.   Specific exemplary plant materials include corn fiber, corn
      stover, and sugar cane bagasse, in addition to "on-purpose" energy crops such as
      switchgrass, miscanthus, and algae.      Short rotation forestry products, such as
      energy crops, include alder, ash, southern beech, birch, eucalyptus, poplar,
      willow, paper mulberry, Australian Blackwood, sycamore, and varieties of
      paulownia elongate. Other examples of suitable biomass include organic waste
      materials, such as waste paper, construction, demolition wastes, and biosludge.
                                            10

      Devolatilization and/or Partial Hydropyrolysis in a Pre-Reactor
[029] Particular aspects of the invention relate to processes for producing liquid
      products from biomass-containing feedstocks. Representative processes comprise
      contacting the feedstock with hydrogen in a pre-reactor vessel containing a solid
      bed material, to devolatilize and/or at least partially hydropyrolyze the feedstock
      (i.e., at least partly pyrolyze or thermally decompose the feedstock in the presence
      of the hydrogen).       Accordingly, the processes may comprise devolatilizing the
      feedstock in a pre-reactor vessel containing hydrogen and a solid bed material, in
      which      the   devolatilization   may,    but  does   not necessarily,  accompany
      hydropyrolysis. Those skilled in the art, consulting the present disclosure, will
      appreciate the operating parameters needed to achieve devolatilization or a
      combination of devolatilization and hydropyrolysis in the pre-reactor.         Unless
      noted     otherwise, the term      "devolatilizing"   is meant to encompass       both
      devolatilization only, in addition to a combination of devolatilization and
      hydropyrolysis.       In particular embodiments, the devolatilization is performed
      without accompanying hydropyrolysis.
[030] The devolatilizing step of representative processes may include introducing a pre
      reactor gas and the feedstock to the pre-reactor vessel containing the solid bed
      material.      The pre-reactor gas and feedstock may be introduced as separate
      streams to the pre-reactor or otherwise mixed prior to their introduction. The pre
      reactor gas and/or feedstock, whether or not mixed prior to being introduced to
      the pre-reactor, may be divided and directed to multiple (i.e., at least two, for
      example from two to ten) inlet locations, which may, for example, correspond to
      different axial heights of the pre-reactor vessel.      Some portion, or all, of these
      heights may be below the height of a bed (e.g., a fluidized particle bed) of solid
      bed material within the reactor. Likewise, another portion, or all, of these heights
      may be above the height of such a bed. The pre-reactor gas will generally be a
      hydrogen-containing gas, such that the pre-reactor vessel will contain hydrogen
      and hydropyrolysis may accompany the devolatilization, as described above. It is
      also possible, according to other embodiments, to use a non-hydrogen containing
      pre-reactor gas containing, for example, nitrogen, oxygen, helium, C0 2 , etc. and
                                               11

      mixtures of these.     In the case of a non-hydrogen containing pre-reactor gas,
      pyrolysis (rather than hydropyrolysis) may accompany devolatilization of the
      feedstock in the pre-reactor.
[031] Whether or not the pre-reactor gas contains hydrogen, in some embodiments this
      gas may be used to fluidize the solid bed material, such that it may be more
      descriptively termed a "pre-reactor fluidizing gas." Accordingly, the solid bed
      material, optionally together with char, in the pre-reactor may be present as a
      fluidized bed, and in particular as a particulate fluidization, bubbling, slugging,
      turbulent, or fast fluidized bed, depending on the superficial gas velocity of the
      pre-reactor fluidizing gas. In such fluidized bed systems, the pre-reactor may
      advantageously include an expanded solids disengagement section (i.e., a section
      of expanded reactor diameter or cross-sectional area, relative to the diameter or
      cross-sectional area of the fluidized bed) at a suitable height above the fluidized
      bed (e.g., above the transport disengaging height, TDH), in order to promote the
      separation of solid particles.    Other gas-solids separation devices (e.g., filters,
      cyclones, etc.) may be employed in place of, but preferably in combination with,
      the use of an expanded solids disengagement section. A circulating fluidized bed
      system for the pre-reactor may also be employed.
[032] Overall, according to some embodiments, the step of devolatilizing the feedstock
      in the pre-reactor vessel may be performed using a fluidized bed of the feedstock
      and the     solid bed material,     together with char particles       generated    via
      devolatilization of the feedstock, in the pre-reactor vessel. Fluidization in the pre
      reactor vessel may be performed with a pre-reactor fluidization gas having a
      superficial velocity effective for carrying out the type of fluidization desired (e.g.,
      bubbling bed fluidization), considering the properties of the biomass-containing
      feedstock, conditions within the pre-reactor vessel, and the particular fluidization
      gas being used.     In general, a pre-reactor fluidization gas, and particularly a
      fluidization gas comprising hydrogen, will have a superficial velocity of generally
      greater than about3 meters per second (m/s) (e.g., from about 3 m/s to about 25
      m/s), typically greater than about5 m/s (e.g., from about 5 m/s to about 15 m/s),
      and often greater than about 7 m/s (e.g., from about 7 m/s to about 12 m/s).
                                             12

[033] In other embodiments, the pre-reactor may contain a solid bed material, as
      described herein that is not fluidized. For example, a heated ball mill may be
      used to devolatilize the feedstock (e.g., in the presence of pure hydrogen, a
      hydrogen-containing gas, or other gas used to achieve devolatilization) at ambient
      or elevated pressure.    Devolatilization may be conducted, for example, in the
      presence of hydrogen at elevated pressure.
[034] The solid bed material may be selected from a pretreating catalyst, a sorbent, a
      heat transfer medium, and mixtures thereof. Suitable solid bed materials include
      those having dual or multiple functions. For example, a "pretreating catalyst"
      may also act to transfer heat to or from the pre-reactor and specifically to the
      particles of initial feedstock that contain biomass.    Likewise, a "heat transfer
      medium" may be inert in the environment of the pre-reactor, but it may also have
      catalytic and/or adsorptive capacity with respect to any reactants or other
      components in the environment of the pre-reactor. Unless noted otherwise, the
      designations "pretreating catalyst," "sorbent," or "heat transfer medium," include
      solid bed materials having functions other than purely catalytic, adsorptive, or
      heat transfer functions, respectively, in the environment of the pre-reactor. It is
      possible, however, in alternative embodiments, for a solid bed material to be a
      pretreating catalyst but not have adsorptive capacity for components in the
      environment of the pre-reactor and/or not act to transfer heat to or from the pre
      reactor. Likewise, it is possible for a solid bed material to be a sorbent but not
      have catalytic activity with respect to reactants or other components in the
      environment of the pre-reactor and/or not act to transfer heat to or from the pre
      reactor.  Similarly, it is possible for a solid bed material to be a heat transfer
      medium but not have catalytic activity with respect to reactants or other
      components in the environment of the pre-reactor and/or not have adsorption
      capacity for components in the environment of the pre-reactor.          Mixtures of
      different solid bed materials that are pretreating catalysts, sorbents, and/or heat
      transfer media as defined above (e.g., a mixture of a catalyst and a heat transfer
      medium) may also be used.
                                            13

[035] According to a particular embodiment, the solid bed material may be a heat
      transfer medium, with or without adsorption capacity, such that the bed material
      promotes devolatilization of the feedstock and either adsorbs catalyst poisons
      and/or corrosive species (e.g., chloride) or allows such poisons and/or corrosive
      species to be removed with char exiting the pre-reactor.      In the latter case, in
      which the solid bed material promotes devolatilization but lacks adsorption
      capacity, the poisons and/or corrosive species may nevertheless be separated from
      the pre-reactor vapor stream exiting the pre-reactor. Using such a separation step,
      the poisons and/or corrosive species may be absent or substantially absent from
      the portion of the pre-reactor vapor stream that is passed to the hydropyrolysis
      reactor vessel, despite the lack of adsorptive capacity.    Overall, the particular
      function(s) chosen for the solid bed material will depend on the nature of the
      biomass-containing feedstock and the nature of the impurities contained therein.
[036] According to exemplary embodiments, described in greater detail below, the solid
      bed material used in the pre-reactor vessel may be a pretreating catalyst having
      activity for cracking or deoxygenation of the feedstock.      Particular pretreating
      catalysts (e.g., zeolite-containing catalysts such as ZSM-5 catalysts) may have
      activity for both cracking and deoxygenation.       According to other exemplary
      embodiments, the solid bed material may include a sorbent having the capacity to
      adsorb corrosive species (e.g., chloride-containing species).       The solid bed
      material may alternatively, or in combination, include a sorbent having the
      capacity to adsorb poisons (e.g., metal contaminants such as sodium) of the
      deoxygenating catalyst and/or hydroconversion catalyst.       This can result in a
      pretreated feedstock, used subsequently in hydropyrolysis, having at least the
      improved characteristic(s) of a reduced corrosive species content, a reduced
      hydropyrolysis catalyst poison content, and/or a reduced hydroconversion catalyst
      poison content.
[037] In representative embodiments, pretreatment in a pre-reactor, as described above,
      produces a pre-reactor vapor stream comprising entrained solid particles (e.g.,
      particles of char and/or solid bed material).     Alternatively, depending on the
      operating conditions and gas-solid separations occurring within the pre-reactor,
                                            14

      the pre-reactor vapor stream may be substantially or completely devoid of solid
      bed material. The pre-reactor vapor stream may include condensable gases (e.g.,
      water vapor and/or oxygenated hydrocarbons such as phenols) as well as non
      condensable gases (e.g., hydrogen, CO, and/or C0 2). The condensable gases will
      generally have a high oxygen content (e.g., in the range from about 35% to about
      55% by weight), characteristic of conventional bio-oils obtained from pyrolysis in
      the substantial absence of any deoxygenation reactions. Normally, the pre-reactor
      vapor stream, or at least a portion thereof, will be passed completely in the vapor
      phase to a subsequent hydropyrolyzing step, without intermediate condensing of
      any portion of this stream.     However, intermediate condensing with re-heating
      may also be possible, for example, to selectively condense unwanted components
      of relatively low volatility (relatively high boiling point), optionally providing a
      liquid condensate "wash" for removing at least some char and/or other solid
      particles. In other embodiments, the pre-reactor vapor stream may be partially
      condensed and passed as a mixed vapor and liquid phase to the subsequent
      hydropyrolyzing step. Partial condensation may occur, for example, when heat is
      recovered from the pre-reactor vapor stream (e.g., by heat exchange with a cooler
      stream), or when heat is otherwise lost to the environment.
[038] As is apparent from the above description, all or a portion of the pre-reactor vapor
      stream    exiting  the   pre-reactor    may   be    subjected  to   the   subsequent
      hydropyrolyzing step. Between the steps of devolatilizing and hydropyrolyzing,
      the pre-reactor vapor stream may, by separation or reaction (e.g., water-gas shift
      reaction), be enriched with respect to one or more desired components and/or
      depleted with respect to one or more undesired components (e.g., in the case of
      partial condensation, which may serve to remove some of the solid particles).
      The pre-reactor vapor may also be mixed prior to or during the hydropyrolyzing
      step with one or more additional streams. Accordingly, unless otherwise noted,
      the step of hydropyrolyzing at least a portion of the pre-reactor vapor stream is
      meant to encompass such intermediate steps as separation, reaction, and/or
      mixing of the pre-reactor vapor stream or portion thereof. In some embodiments,
      however, the pre-reactor process vapor stream or portion thereof may be
                                             15

      subjected to the hydropyrolyzing step, without an intermediate step of being
      enriched with respect to one or more desired components and/or depleted with
      respect to one or more undesired components, by separation or reaction.           For
      example a portion of the pre-reactor process vapor stream may be split from the
      entire effluent of the pre-reactor, with little or no change in its composition.
      Likewise, the pre-reactor vapor stream, or portion thereof, may be subjected to the
      hydropyrolyzing step, without being mixed prior to or during the hydropyrolyzing
      step with one or more additional streams.       However, in many cases it will be
      desirable to mix the pre-reactor vapor stream or portion thereof with hydrogen or
      a hydrogen-containing gas stream that provides additional hydrogen (beyond that
      contained in the pre-reactor vapor stream or portion thereof alone) for
      hydropyrolysis as described below.
[039] Thus, some or all of the pre-reactor vapor stream may be passed to a
      hydropyrolysis reactor vessel.     In the case of a pre-reactor vapor stream that
      contains entrained solid particles, it may be desirable to separate a relatively low
      quality portion of this vapor stream, such as a solids-enriched stream (i.e., having
      a higher concentration of solids relative to that of the pre-reactor vapor stream)
      and a purified pre-reactor vapor stream (having a lower concentration of solids
      relative to that of the pre-reactor vapor stream).      In this low quality, solids
      enriched stream, the solid particles may also have a higher average particle size
      and/or a higher average particle weight (e.g., in the case of cyclone separation,
      electrostatic precipitation, or other separation based on particle size or having a
      particle size cutoff), compared to solid particles in the purified pre-reactor vapor
      stream (and also compared to the total solid particles in the pre-reactor vapor
      stream prior to the separation). In such an embodiment where a separation of the
      pre-reactor vapor stream is performed, in order to provide a relatively low quality,
      solids-enriched stream, the relatively high quality, purified pre-reactor vapor
      stream may be the portion of the pre-reactor vapor stream that is hydropyrolyzed
      in the hydropyrolysis reactor vessel.
[040] In the case of removal of a portion, for example substantially all, of the entrained
      solid particles from the pre-reactor vapor stream, the resulting purified pre-reactor
                                             16

      vapor stream may represent a suitable portion of the pre-reactor output that is sent
      to a subsequent hydropyrolyzing         step in a hydropyrolysis reactor vessel.
      According to some embodiments, entrained solid particles in the pre-reactor vapor
      stream may comprise both a portion of the solid bed material, as described above,
      and char formed from the initial feedstock. In this case, representative processes
      may comprise recovering at least a portion of the entrained solid bed material for
      re-use in the pre-reactor, optionally with supplemental heating of the recovered
      solid bed material, in order to transfer heat into the pre-reactor vessel.
      Specifically, a step of (1) separating, from the entrained solid particles (e.g.,
      present in the pre-reactor vapor stream), a first fraction enriched in the char and a
      second fraction enriched in the solid bed material (i.e., meaning that the fractions,
      which may themselves be solid-containing gas streams, are enriched relative to
      the content of the char and solid bed material, respectively, in the pre-reactor
      vapor stream) may be employed. This may be accompanied by the subsequent
      steps of (2) heating at least a portion of the second fraction and (3) returning the
      second fraction, or portion thereof that has been heated, back to the pre-reactor
      vessel.
[041] The solid bed material may alternatively be withdrawn from the pre-reactor
      vessel, not as entrained particles in the pre-reactor vapor stream, but from a
      fluidized particle bed within this vessel. In either case of withdrawing the solid
      bed material from the pre-reactor vessel, i.e., in the pre-reactor vapor stream
      exiting the pre-reactor or from a solids drawoff outlet exiting the particle bed, the
      withdrawn solid material may be separated from solid char particles in a fraction
      enriched in the solid bed material (e.g., by using a density separation) and
      returned to the pre-reactor. Prior to the return of the fraction enriched in the solid
      bed material, this fraction may be heated to introduce needed heat into the pre
      reactor. The heating and return of any removed solid bed material may, according
      to alternative embodiments, be beneficial in the absence of a separation that
      provides a fraction enriched in the solid bed material. In many cases, solid bed
      material removed from the pre-reactor may have accumulated coke and carbon
      deposited thereon, as a result of its use in the operation of the pre-reactor.
                                            17

      Therefore, any removed solid bed material, either in the pre-reactor vapor stream
      or from the particle bed, and whether or not separated into a fraction enriched in
      the solid bed material, may be subjected to conditions under which accumulated
      coke and carbon are removed, prior to the return of the solid bed material to the
      pre-reactor (e.g., in a heated condition).       Representative conditions include
      oxidizing conditions sufficient to regenerate the solid bed material by removing
      the accumulated coke and carbon by combustion, as well as reducing conditions
      (e.g., in the presence of a flowing hydrogen-containing gas) sufficient to
      hydrogasify the accumulated coke and carbon, converting these contaminants to
      methane and other light hydrocarbons. Regeneration and hydrogasification, for
      example in a fluidized bed that simultaneously acts to classify solid particles
      removed from the pre-reactor, are described in greater detail below.             The
      simultaneous hydrogasification and sulfiding of removed solid bed material is
      also described in greater detail below.
[042] Representative devolatilizing steps may therefore comprise withdrawing a portion
      of the solid bed material from the pre-reactor vessel and contacting this portion
      with a fluidizing oxygen-containing gas (in the case of regeneration) or otherwise
      with a fluidizing hydrogen-containing gas (in the case of hydrogasification), to
      either combust coke and carbon that has accumulated on the solid bed material
      during the devolatilizing step (in the case of regeneration) or covert this coke and
      carbon to methane (in the case of hydrogasification).           In either case, the
      withdrawn solid bed material, having a reduced content of coke and carbon as a
      result of regeneration or hydrogasification, may be returned to the pre-reactor.
[043] Any steps described herein, pertaining to the removal of solid bed material from
      the pre-reactor vessel (either in the pre-reactor vapor or from the particle bed), as
      well as the optional separation of solid bed material from char, optional
      regeneration, or optional hydrogasification, together with the return of the solid
      bed material in a heated and/or regenerated condition, are equally applicable to
      the removal of deoxygenating catalyst from the hydropyrolysis reactor vessel
      (either in the hydropyrolysis reactor output or from the deoxygenating catalyst
      bed). In some cases, solid bed material removed from the pre-reactor, following
                                             18

      one or more of these optional steps, may be returned to the hydropyrolysis reactor
      vessel. In other cases, deoxygenating catalyst removed from the hydropyrolysis
      reactor, following one or more of these optional steps, may be returned to the pre
      reactor.
[044] It may be desirable to pass the entire pretreating output, namely the entire pre
      reactor vapor stream, which may have at least one improved characteristic as
      described herein, as a result of the pretreating, to the hydropyrolysis reactor. A
      representative, improved characteristics is a reduced solid-phase chloride content
      relative to that of the initial feedstock. In many cases, the yield of the pretreated
      feedstock, for example the yield of the total solid and/or vapor products of
      pretreating (e.g., in a pre-reactor) that is passed to hydropyrolysis, can represent a
      substantial amount, on a weight basis, of the total pretreating input (e.g., the total
      solid and/or vapor products that are input to the pretreating step, for example to
      the pre-reactor).   The yield of the pretreated feedstock can be generally at least
      about 25% by weight (e.g., from about 25% to about 100% by weight), typically
      at least about 50% by weight (e.g., from about 50% to about 100% by weight),
      and often at least about 70% by weight (e.g., from about 70% to about 99% by
      weight).
[045] Due to the diverse functions of the pre-reactor and wide-ranging characteristics of
      the biomass-containing feedstock, in addition to the number of possible types of
      solid bed material as described above, operating conditions in the pre-reactor may
      vary broadly and may include the ranges of temperatures and pressures described
      below with respect to the hydropyrolysis reactor. However, higher and lower
      temperatures are contemplated for some embodiments, for example representative
      temperatures may range generally from about 150'C to about 650'C, and
      typically from about 260'C to about 540'C, depending on the specific
      objective(s) of the pretreating step.
      Other Pretreating Steps
[046] As described above, aspects of the present invention are associated with processes
      for the effective conversion of MSW and other biomass-containing initial
                                              19

      feedstocks that are poorer in quality, relative to feedstocks comprising exclusively
      biomass, and also more difficult to convert in processes comprising at least one
      hydropyrolysis step. In representative processes comprising pretreating the initial
      feedstock to produce a pretreated feedstock, the pretreated feedstock has at least
      one improved characteristic over the initial feedstock. The at least one improved
      characteristic may result from a pretreating step comprising devolatilization
      and/or hydropyrolysis in a pre-reactor as described above. Alternatively, the at
      least one improved characteristic may result from other steps (e.g., separation or
      classification steps) prior to hydropyrolyzing the pretreated feedstock and/or in
      some cases may         result from steps performed        in situ, i.e., within  the
      hydropyrolysis reactor vessel.      Thus, a number of pretreating steps, as an
      alternative to, or in combination with, those described above are possible.
[047] The at least one improved characteristic may be selected from the group
      consisting of reduced non-biological material content (e.g., content of glass,
      metals, and metallic oxides, including all mineral forms), a higher temperature, a
      reduced average particle size, a reduced average particle aerodynamic diameter,
      an increased average particle surface area to mass ratio, a more uniform particle
      size, a reduced corrosive species content, a reduced hydropyrolysis catalyst
      poison content (e.g., reduced sodium), and a reduced hydroconversion catalyst
      poison content.
[048] According to particular embodiments, the pretreating of the initial feedstock may
      comprise removing at least a portion of the non-biological materials.            For
      example, the pretreated feedstock may have a reduced content, relative to the
      initial feedstock, of one or more of an impurity selected from the group consisting
      of (A) total chloride, (B) total plastics, (C), total glass, (D) total metals (with
      representative metals as defined above, in their elemental forms and/or present as
      compounds, e.g., in their oxide and mineral forms), and (E) combined total
      nitrogen and sulfur content.      According to representative embodiments, the
      pretreated feedstock can have a content of one or more of (A), (B), (C), (D),
      and/or (E) that is reduced generally by at least about 10% by weight (wt-%) (e.g.,
      from about 10% wt-% to about 99% wt-%), typically by at least about 25 wt-%
                                            20

      (e.g., from about 25 wt-% to about 98 wt-%), and often by at least about 50 wt-%
      (e.g., from about 50 wt-% to about 95 wt-%) relative to that of the initial
      feedstock. According to various embodiments, the performance of the pretreating
      step may be characterized by any of the above-recited ranges of yields in
      combination with any of the above-recited ranges of reduction in one or more
      impurities selected from the group consisting of (A), (B), (C), (D), and (E) (e.g., a
      pretreated feedstock yield of at least about 70 wt-%, in combination with a
      reduction in total plastics in an amount from about 50 wt-% to about 95 wt-%).
[049] Representative    initial feedstocks, for example, can comprise total chloride
      (measured as elemental Cl) in an amount generally of at least about 200 parts per
      million (ppm) (e.g., from about 200 ppm to about 10,000 ppm), typically at least
      about 500 ppm (e.g., from about 500 ppm to about 7,500 ppm), and often at least
      about 1000 ppm (e.g., from about 1000 ppm to about 5,000 ppm). Particular
      feedstocks, such as algae grown in salt water, may have high levels of both
      chloride and sodium. In the environment of an integrated hydropyrolysis process,
      chloride can potentially form aqueous hydrochloric acid, and sodium can act as a
      poison that deactivates catalysts having hydrotreating activity, as described above.
      Algae can therefore significantly benefit from a pretreatment step in which levels
      of both chloride and sodium are reduced (e.g., according to the above-recited
      ranges of reduction in these impurities).
[050] Representative plastics that may be present in initial feedstocks (e.g., MSW)
      include polyvinylchloride, polyolefins (e.g., polyethylene, including high density
      polyethylene (HDPE) and low density polyethylene (LDPE); polypropylene;
      polybutylene;    and polyolefin     co-polymers),  polyesters    (e.g., polyethylene
      terephthalate, polybutylene terephthalate, and polyester co-polymers), polyamides
      (e.g., polycaprolactam), poly(meth)acrylates, polyalkyl oxides (e.g., polyethylene
      oxide), polyvinyl alcohol homo- and copolymers (e.g., PVA foams, polyethylene
      vinyl alcohol),    polyethylene glycol homo- and copolymers, polyoxamers,
      polysiloxanes (e.g., polydimethylsiloxane), polyethyloxazoline, and polyvinyl
      pyrrolidone, as well as hydrogels such as those formed from crosslinked polyvinyl
      pyrrolidinone and polyesters (e.g., polyvinyl pyrrolidone/cellulose esters and
                                            21

      polyvinyl pyrrolidone/poly urethane), acrylic polymers (e.g., methacrylate) and
      copolymers, vinyl halide polymers and copolymers (e.g., polyvinyl chloride),
      polyvinyl ethers (e.g., polyvinyl methyl ether), polyvinylidene halides (e.g.,
      polyvinylidene fluoride and polyvinylidene chloride), polyacrylonitrile, polyvinyl
      ketones, polyvinyl aromatics (e.g., polystyrene), polyvinyl esters (e.g., polyvinyl
      acetate), copolymers of vinyl monomers with each other and olefins (e.g.,
      ethylene-methyl methacrylate copolymers, acrylonitrile- styrene copolymers, ABS
      resins and ethylene-vinyl acetate copolymers), alkyd resins, polycarbonates,
      polyoxymethylenes, polyimides, polyethers, epoxy resins, rayon, rayon-triacetate,
      and combinations thereof. Based on EPA information (see, for example,
      http//www.epa.gov/epawaste/nonhaz/municipal/index.htm)          representative MSW
      may have plastics of any of the following types and/or amounts, based on the total
      amount of plastics:     polyethylene terephthalate in the range from about 5% to
      about 25% by weight, high density polyethylene in the range from about 5% to
      about 30% by weight, polyvinyl chloride in the range from about 1% to about
      10% by weight, low density polyethylene in the range from about 10% to about
      35% by weight, polypropylene in the range from about 12% to about 40% by
      weight, and/or polystyrene in the range from about 3% to about 15% by weight.
[051] Representative pretreating steps may involve the classification of particles of the
      initial feedstock into relatively higher and lower quality fractions, with the higher
      quality fraction having the at least one improved characteristic, as described
      above.     According to a particular embodiment, for example, pretreating can
      comprise separating the initial feedstock into at least first and second fractions
      having contents of plastic that are lower and higher, respectively, compared to the
      content of plastic of the initial feedstock.    The first fraction may therefore be
      substantially devoid of plastic (or otherwise have a reduction in total plastic
      content as described above), whereas the second fraction may comprise a
      substantial amount of plastic.
[052] Representative particle separations or classifications that may be performed to
      provide fractions of solid particles of differing densities (e.g., by virtue of having
      differing   contents of plastics) include separations       utilizing, for example,
                                            22

      contacting of the solid particles with separating liquids or the use of a centrifuge.
      Sorting of solid particles using a flowing gas stream (e.g., in a pneumatic
      separator) to provide fractions of differing densities or differing fluid dynamic
      properties in general, and thereby having at least one improved characteristic as
      described above, is also possible.      Such sorting can be used, for example, to
      provide a pretreated feedstock having particles with a reduced average particle
      aerodynamic diameter, an increased average particle surface area to mass ratio, a
      more uniform particle size, and/or even a reduced non-biological material content.
      According to one representative embodiment, a pre-treating step may comprise
      contacting the biomass-containing feedstock with a flowing stream of gas (e.g.,
      air) to separate less dense materials (e.g., wood- and/or paper-based particles) in a
      fraction with a desired characteristic (e.g., a reduced non-biological material
      content) for further processing. In the case of any separation based on density or
      other fluid dynamic       property, the biomass-containing       feedstock  may be
      appropriately re-sized (e.g., chopped or ground) to form particles that are more
      amenable to a given separation.      Different fractions of the biomass-containing
      feedstock, obtained from sorting, may be fed to a pre-reactor or hydropyrolysis
      reactor at differing locations and/or using different solid particle transport
      equipment.
[053] According to some embodiments, the first fraction, having an improvement in at
      least one characteristic (e.g., a reduced total plastics content) may represent the
      pretreated feedstock that is subsequently subjected to the hydropyrolyzing step,
      whereas the second fraction may be subjected to further processing steps,
      recycled (at least partly) to the pretreating step, or used for a different purpose
      (e.g., plastics recovery and recycling).     Alternatively, the second fraction may
      also be passed to the hydroprocessing reactor vessel, albeit at a different location
      and/or in a different manner, relative to the first fraction.        For example, a
      representative process may comprise separately feeding the first and second
      fractions (e.g., having relatively lower and higher contents of total plastics, as
      described above) to the hydropyrolysis reactor vessel at separate locations (e.g.,
      differing axial heights).    The particular locations, to which the fractions are
                                            23

      separately introduced, may be associated with localized conditions (e.g.,
      temperature, gas velocity, solids concentration, average particle size) that are
      compatible with the compositions of the first and second fractions. According to
      other embodiments, the first and second fractions may be introduced to the
      hydropyrolysis reactor using introduction techniques that are compatible with the
      compositions of the first and second fractions.        For example, a first fraction
      having a relatively lower content of total plastics may be fed to the hydropyrolysis
      reactor vessel through a cooled screw assembly, whereas the second fraction
      having a relatively higher content of total plastics may be fed to this reactor vessel
      through a heated extruder.      In any of such embodiments, the first and second
      fractions may, in combination, represent all or a part of the initial feedstock, for
      example, these fractions in combination may represent a yield of the pretreated
      feedstock in the ranges given above (with some portion, e.g., a third fraction, that
      is not used in the hydropyrolysis reactor vessel).
[054] Representative glasses that may be present in initial feedstocks (e.g., MSW)
      include E-glasses, boron-free E-glasses, S-glasses, R-glasses, AR-glasses, rare
      earth-silicate glasses, Ba-Ti-silicate glasses, nitrided glasses such as Si-AI-O-N
      glasses, A-glasses, C-glasses and CC-glasses.        Each of these glass types are
      known in the art, particularly with respect to the compositions they embrace.
[055] Representative initial feedstocks can comprise metals such as Li, Be, Na, Mg, Al,
      Si, P, K, Ca, Ti, V, Cr, Mn, Fe, Co, Ni, Cu, Zn, Mo, Sn, W, Pb, and/or Hg that are
      present in elemental form or as metal compounds such as metal oxides, including
      all mineral forms.     These metals may be present in the initial feedstock in a
      combined amount of generally at least about 0.1% by weight (wt-%) (e.g., from
      about 0.1 wt-% to about 10 wt-%), typically at least about 0.5 wt-% (e.g., from
      about 0.5 wt-% to about 7.5 wt-%), and often at least about 1 wt-% (e.g., from
      about 1 wt-% to about 5 wt-%). The above ranges with respect to the content of
      metals in the initial feedstock are also applicable to the content of ash. The ash
      content refers to the percentage by weight of the initial feedstock that does not
      combust at a temperature of 750'C. The ash is generally in the form of metallic
      oxides (e.g., silica), and represents a specific type of non-biological material that
                                            24

      is present in biomass generally and consequently also present in biomass
      containing feedstocks such as MSW, but often at a higher concentration than in
      the biomass portion of the feedstock alone.
[056] Initial feedstocks can comprise a total combined amount of nitrogen and sulfur
      (measured as total elemental N and S) of at least about 100 ppm (e.g., from about
      100 ppm to about 30,000 ppm), typically at least about 500 ppm (e.g., from about
      500 ppm to about 25,000 ppm), and often at least about 1000 ppm (e.g., from
      about 1000 ppm to about 20,000 ppm).            According to various embodiments,
      representative initial feedstocks can have any of the above-recited ranges of non
      biological material, total chloride, total ash, and/or total N and S, in combination
      (e.g., at least about 5 wt-% of non-biological material and from about 1000 ppm
      to about 5000 ppm total chloride).
[057] Solid sorbents in the pre-reactor, or otherwise used in situ in the hydropyrolysis
      reactor vessel, may be used for scavenging corrosive species and/or species that
      negatively     impact   the   activity   of  the   deoxygenating    catalyst  and/or
      hydroconversion catalyst. According to particular embodiments, the pretreated
      feedstock has an improved characteristic of a reduced content of total chloride, a
      reduced content of total metals, or a reduced content of both total chloride and
      total metals, and the step of pretreating comprises contacting the initial feedstock
      with a solid sorbent under pretreating conditions whereby chloride and/or metals
      present in the initial feedstock are adsorbed onto the solid sorbent.        Suitable
      sorbents having both capacity for adsorbing chloride and the ability to withstand
      elevated temperatures associated with devolatilization and/or pyrolysis in the pre
      reactor and/or hydropyrolysis reactor, include, for example, calcium carbonate
      (CaCO 3 ) and other minerals containing basic anions such as carbonate and
      hydroxide. Such solid sorbents may be suitable in a pre-reactor or otherwise in the
      hydropyrolysis reactor to provide the improved characteristics of reduced total
      chloride and/or reduced total metals (e.g., reduced sodium) in situ.
[058] According to an alternative embodiment, the biomass-containing feedstock may
      be subjected to a simple leaching step (e.g., by contacting it with an aqueous
      solution under batch conditions or with continuous flow of the solution) to
                                             25

      remove water-soluble chlorides and/or other potentially corrosive or detrimental
      species. The resulting pretreated feedstock obtained in this manner may have an
      improved characteristic of reduced total chloride and/or reduced total metals (e.g.,
      present in the initial feedstock in the form of water-soluble metal salts). Such a
      pretreated feedstock may be dried prior to hydropyrolysis or otherwise introduced
      into the hydropyrolysis reactor without drying, or even introduced in a slurry
      form. The pretreated feedstock may otherwise be introduced in dry form, water
      saturated form, or slurry form, to a pre-reactor as described herein, upstream of a
      hydropyrolysis reactor. Any aqueous effluent obtained from such a leaching step
      may then be contacted under appropriate conditions (e.g., ambient conditions of
      temperature and pressure) with a suitable ion exchange resin or other solid
      sorbent, having the capacity to remove the leached, water-soluble species and
      purify the aqueous effluent.
[059] In a particular embodiment in which the content of ash or other non-biological
      material is reduced in the pretreated feedstock relative to that of the initial
      feedstock, the step of pretreating comprises devolatilizing the initial feedstock in
      a fluidized bed, with the removal of non-biological material at one or more
      drawoff locations corresponding to one or more axial heights in the fluidized bed.
      Therefore, to the extent that a fluidized bed of a pre-reactor or hydropyrolysis
      reactor can act to separate or classify different types of solid particles (e.g.,
      particles having different densities) into regions within the fluidized bed, the
      removal of solid particles at selected drawoff locations (e.g., where particles
      having a given desired or undesired characteristic are selectively enriched)
      advantageously allows for the selective removal of particles having such desired
      or undesired characteristic(s).   For example, the selective removal of particles
      having undesired characteristics such as a high ash or other non-biological
      material   content provides     a pretreated  feedstock   having     the improved
      characteristic of reduced ash content or reduced non-biological material content,
      remaining in the reactor. Alternatively, particles having a desired characteristic
      such as a more uniform particle size, may be selectively removed from the
      fluidized bed within the reactor to provide the pretreated feedstock. According to
                                            26

      one representative method of classifying or concentrating different types of solid
      particles (e.g., solid particles of differing densities and/or differing aerodynamic
      diameters), differing superficial gas velocities with the pre-reactor vessel may be
      used.    These differing gas velocities can be achieved by varying the cross
      sectional area at differing axial heights, while maintaining a fixed gas volumetric
      flow rate, and/or otherwise by adding (injecting) gas at differing axial locations
      while maintaining a fixed cross-sectional area. A combination of varying cross
      sectional area and gas injection at a given axial height may also be used.
[060] The removal of non-biological material from a particular location or locations can
      also prevent the accumulation of such material, which can lead to disruption in
      the action and function of the bed of solid material.            According to some
      embodiments, the removal of solid materials can also occur upstream of the pre
      reactor (e.g., by physical sorting or the use of a flowing gas separation systems,
      such as a pneumatic separator), within the pre-reactor, within the hydropyrolysis
      reactor vessel (in situ), or even downstream of the hydropyrolysis reactor vessel
      but upstream of a hydroconversion reactor vessel, resulting in the same or a
      similar effect of reducing the content of a non-biological material in the initial
      feedstock (in this case the content of non-biological material in the feedstock to
      any of the pre-reactor vessel, the hydropyrolysis reactor vessel, or possibly even
      the hydroconversion reactor vessel).
[061] A number of other types of separations and classifications may be performed to
      adjust the fluid dynamic properties of the initial feedstock, prior to or during its
      use in a fluidized bed hydropyrolysis reactor vessel.        Therefore, for example,
      improved characteristics of a pretreated feedstock, such as a reduced average
      particle size, a reduced average particle aerodynamic diameter, an increased
      average particle surface area to mass ratio, and/or a more uniform particle size,
      may be beneficial in maintaining good fluidization parameters (e.g., in terms of
      the superficial gas velocity needed for fluidization) of the pretreated feedstock.
      The improvement of the feedstock along any of these lines may also have the
      added benefit of upgrading MSW, algae, lemna, or other biomass-containing
      feedstock in terms of its composition.         For example, increasing the average
                                              27

      particle surface area to mass ratio can refer to an aerodynamic separation in which
      metallic objects and other particles of a low surface area to mass ratio are
      selectively removed in the pretreated feedstock relative to the initial feedstock,
      leaving an increased content of higher surface area to mass ratio particles, such as
      wood particles, in the pretreated feedstock. In this manner, a separation resulting
      in increasing the average particle surface area to mass ratio, or improving any of
      the other fluid dynamic properties as described above, may have the added benefit
      of reducing the content of non-biological materials in the pretreated feedstock.
[062] The adjustment of fluid dynamic properties of particles can, according to some
      embodiments, occur in situ (e.g., within the hydropyrolysis reactor vessel, or
      within a pre-reactor vessel used to devolatilize the feedstock), particularly with
      respect to disrupting the formation of agglomerated particles of the biomass
      containing feedstock. Particle agglomerates can form, for example, as a result of
      a high content of plastics that, when softened or melted, can coat particles of the
      feedstock    and/or   other    solid particles,   causing  them   to   stick  together
      (agglomerate).    The improved characteristics of reduced average particle size
      and/or more uniform particle size, as described above, as well as other improved
      fluid dynamic properties, can, according to some embodiments, refer to
      improvements relative to the initial feedstock in its agglomerated or partially
      agglomerated state under processing conditions in the pre-reactor vessel or
      hydropyrolysis reactor vessel. The improved characteristic, as a result of taking
      positive steps to either break agglomerated feedstock particles or otherwise
      prevent the formation of such agglomerates in the first place, may therefore be
      based on the improvement over the hypothetical situation that would occur in the
      absence of such steps. Accordingly, in some embodiments, the step of pretreating
      an initial feedstock to produce a pretreated feedstock having at least one improved
      characteristic over the initial feedstock may be satisfied by remediation (e.g.,
      agitation to break particle agglomerates or prevent their formation) that is
      performed in situ, i.e., in the pre-reactor vessel or hydropyrolysis reactor vessel.
[063] More generally, such remediation steps can be used to break agglomerates, or
      prevent the formation of agglomerates, of any interacting solid particles within
                                              28

      the pre-reactor or hydropyrolysis reactor, including agglomerates of (i) particles
      of feedstock, (ii) particles of feedstock with particles of solid bed material,
      particles of catalyst, and/or particles of char, (iii) particles of solid bed material,
      (iv) particles of catalyst, and/or (v) particles of char.      According to particular
      embodiments, the pretreating and/or hydropyrolyzing steps may be operated with
      continuous, intermittent, or localized high agitation conditions that reduce the
      formation of any of these types of agglomerates. Such high agitation conditions,
      for example, can reduce        the formation     of agglomerates       of particles of
      deoxygenating catalyst in the hydropyrolysis reactor vessel. The use of specific
      gas velocities may be tailored to the properties of the agglomerates (e.g., the
      average particle size and/or particle size distribution of agglomerates of particles
      of the deoxygenating catalyst in the hydropyrolysis reactor vessel) that are broken
      apart, or that otherwise form in the absence of the high agitation conditions.
      According to some embodiments, the use of high fluidization gas velocities alone
      may be sufficient to break particle agglomerates or prevent their formation and
      thereby achieve the desired degree of remediation. Otherwise, the selected size
      ranges of bed material and/or feedstock may be used, such that, under processing
      conditions, interactions of the selected size ranges of the particles promote the
      desired degree of remediation.
[064] According to particular embodiments, high agitation conditions, effective for
      breaking particle agglomerates or otherwise preventing their formation, can
      include localized use, either continuously or intermittently, of a gas velocity that
      significantly exceeds (e.g., by a factor of at least about 2, at least about 5, or at
      least about 10) the overall superficial velocity of fluidizing gas in the pre-reactor
      vessel or the hydropyrolysis reactor vessel, or otherwise the overall average
      superficial velocity of fluidizing gas in the fluidized particle beds of these
      respective reactor vessels (e.g., in the case of a reactor having a varying cross
      sectional area). For example, the overall superficial velocity of the fluidizing gas
      may be calculated as the total volumetric flow rate of the fluidizing gas, divided
      by the average cross-sectional area of the reactor or of the associated, solid
      particle bed, which may be a fluidized bed, within the reactor vessel. Localized,
                                             29

      high gas velocities can be created using gas injection nozzles in the desired areas
      where agglomerated particles are susceptible to formation and/or breakage. High
      agitation conditions can also be enhanced using internal structures (e.g., baffles or
      impact plates) in combination with gas injection nozzles, which structures and
      nozzles may be positioned in combination to subject agglomerated particles to
      impact forces sufficient for their breakage and/or the prevention of agglomeration
      from the outset, or at least the prevention of the further growth of formed
      agglomerates.
      Hydropyrolyzing the Pre-Reactor Vapor or Other Pretreated Feedstock
[065] Subsequent to contacting the biomass-containing feedstock with a hydrogen
      containing gas (or other pre-reactor gas as described above), in a pre-reactor
      vessel containing a solid bed material, representative processes can include
      hydropyrolyzing at least a portion (i.e., some or all) of the pre-reactor process
      vapor stream, as described above, or otherwise hydropyrolyzing at least a portion
      of a pretreated feedstock, as described above.
[066] In embodiments in which a pre-reactor is used for pretreatment, the pre-reactor
      may effect devolatilization and/or at least some pyrolysis (e.g., hydropyrolysis) of
      the biomass-containing feedstock.     In general, deoxygenation reactions will not
      occur to any significant extent, as these are reserved primarily for the
      hydropyrolysis reactor vessel and a subsequent hydroconversion reactor vessel (if
      used). Those skilled in the art, consulting the present disclosure, will appreciate
      the operating conditions in the pre-reactor required to achieve a given extent of
      devolatilization and/or hydropyrolysis, including temperature, hydrogen partial
      pressure, and feedstock residence time.        Due to the significant extent of
      deoxygenation in the hydropyrolysis reactor vessel and optional hydroconversion
      reactor vessel, the associated hydropyrolyzing and hydroconverting steps are
      normally both exothermic, i.e., the reactions associated with these steps involve a
      net generation    of heat, despite the pyrolysis reactions in isolation being
      endothermic. In contrast, due to the relatively low extent of hydroconversion (or
      in some cases no hydroconversion), occurring in the pre-reactor vessel, the
      devolatilization and optional pyrolysis in the step of devolatilizing is generally
                                            30

      endothermic,    i.e., the reactions    associated with this step     involve a net
      consumption of heat. In order to effectively manage the reaction thermodynamics
      of both the pre-reactor and hydropyrolysis reactor vessel, the temperature of the
      pre-reactor vapor stream (or portion thereof that is introduced into the
      hydropyrolysis reactor) may be adjusted upward or downward, to meet the
      temperature requirements of the hydropyrolysis reactor. For example, according
      to one embodiment, the temperature of the pre-reactor vapor stream or portion
      thereof is adjusted to the mean temperature, or to within about 100 C of the mean
      temperature, of the hydropyrolysis reactor over a short time period (e.g., in less
      than about 2 minutes or even in less than about 1 minute).
[067] In view of the above considerations, if a catalyst is used as the solid bed material
      in the pre-reactor, suitable catalysts for such purpose may include those having a
      relatively lower deoxygenation activity, compared to catalysts used in the
      hydropyrolysis reactor vessel and/or hydroconversion reactor vessel. According
      to some embodiments, spent or partially spent catalyst from the hydropyrolysis
      reactor and/or hydroconversion reactor (e.g., following some period of use in
      hydropyrolyzing and/or hydroconversion steps) may advantageously be used in
      the pre-reactor, to provide a catalyst having a desired level of deoxygenation
      activity. According to specific embodiments, therefore, the solid bed material in
      the pre-reactor vessel may comprise, consist essentially of, or consist of spent or
      partially spent deoxygenating catalyst previously used in the hydropyrolysis
      reactor vessel and/or spent or partially spent hydroconversion catalyst previously
      used in the hydroconversion reactor vessel.
[068] According to particular embodiments, therefore, the solid bed material in the pre
      reactor may comprise a spent or partially spent deoxygenating catalyst transferred
      from the hydropyrolysis reactor, a spent or partially spent hydroconversion
      catalyst transferred from the hydroconversion reactor, or a combination thereof.
      For example, the spent or partially spent catalyst(s) may be continuously removed
      from one or both of these reactor vessels and fed to the pre-reactor vessel to
      derive additional, beneficial use from the catalyst(s) in pretreating the feedstock.
      It should be appreciated that, in some embodiments, the catalyst particle sizes for
                                             31

      the pre-reactor, hydropyrolysis reactor, and hydroconversion reactor are not
      necessarily compatible, particularly in cases of the different reactors operating
      under different regimes of fluidized bed (e.g.,          for the pre-reactor and/or
      hydropyrolysis reactor) and fixed bed (e.g., for the hydroconversion reactor)
      processing.   Therefore, the use of spent or partially spent catalyst in the pre
      reactor vessel may require re-sizing, for example by grinding or crushing to
      achieve an average particle size that is suitable for use in the pre-reactor.
[069] The references to "spent or partially spent" deoxygenating catalysts refer to
      catalysts having activity for deoxygenation that is reduced, relative to the same
      catalyst in its unused (fresh) state.    A loss of deoxygenation activity can be
      verified by comparative testing in a controlled environment, in which the reaction
      temperature required to achieve a given extent of deoxygenation of a test
      feedstock provides a measure of catalyst activity. A higher reaction temperature
      is indicative of lower activity.    The condition of a deoxygenating catalyst that
      results in an at least partial loss of activity, rendering it spent or partially spent
      and therefore suitable in some embodiments for use in a pre-reactor, may result
      from coking, contamination with impurities (e.g., metals), or another condition
      leading to activity loss. The condition may be reversible (e.g., through catalyst
      regeneration and/or catalyst sulfiding) or irreversible.
[070] The hydropyrolyzing step can occur in a hydropyrolysis reactor vessel containing
      hydrogen and a deoxygenating catalyst, in order to produce a hydropyrolysis
      reactor output comprising        at least one non-condensable        gas,  a partially
      deoxygenated hydropyrolysis product and char particles.           In many cases, the
      hydropyrolysis reactor output will comprise, as non-condensable gases, one or
      more of H 2 , CO, C0 2 , CH 4 , C 2H6 , and C 2 H 4 .   However, depending on the
      methanation activity and water-gas shift conversion activity of the deoxygenating
      catalyst, more or less methane (CH 4) will be produced at the expense of CO, C0 2 ,
      and H 2.    In highly methanating environments, it may be possible for the
      hydropyrolysis reactor output to comprise little or no CO and/or CO 2 as non
      condensable gases (e.g., in an amount of less than 5 vol-%, or even less than 1
                                            32

      vol-%, of all non-condensable gases) but nevertheless still comprise one or more
      of H 2 , CH 4 , C 2 H6 , and C 2 H4 .
[071] In general, therefore, the hydropyrolysis reactor output will comprise (i) C0 2 , CO
      and other non-condensable or low molecular weight gases (e.g.,                 C 1-C 3
      hydrocarbon gases, including both paraffinic and olefinic hydrocarbons), together
      with any stoichiometric excess of H 2 that is not consumed in the hydropyrolysis
      reactor, (ii) a partially deoxygenated hydropyrolysis product (e.g., in the form of a
      condensable vapor), and (iii) solid char particles. As used herein, the "partially
      deoxygenated hydropyrolysis product" of the hydropyrolyzing step may comprise
      oxygenated hydrocarbons (e.g., derived from cellulose, hemicellulose, and/or
      lignin) that may be subjected to more complete deoxygenation (e.g., to produce
      hydrocarbons and remove the oxygen in the form of CO, C0 2, and/or water) in a
      subsequent       hydroconversion       process.   The term "partially   deoxygenated
      hydropyrolysis product," however, does not preclude the presence of some
      amount of hydrocarbons (e.g., aromatic hydrocarbons such as alkylbenzenes) that
      are fully deoxygenated and thus cannot be further deoxygenated.          The partially
      deoxygenated hydropyrolysis product, according to some embodiments, will
      generally contain a lower oxygen content compared to conventional bio-oils
      obtained from pyrolysis in the substantial absence of any deoxygenation
      reactions. This is due to the extent of catalytic deoxygenation reactions occurring
      within the hydropyrolysis reactor in the presence of hydrogen.         Representative
      oxygen contents of the partially deoxygenated hydropyrolysis product are
      generally in the range from about 2% to about 30% by weight, and typically in the
      range from about 5% to about 25% by weight.
[072] As in the case of the pre-reactor vessel, described above, the hydropyrolysis
      reactor vessel may contain a fluidized bed, but in this case including the
      deoxygenating catalyst.           Other solids in this fluidized bed may include the
      pretreated feedstock or solids present in the pre-reactor vapor stream, or otherwise
      present in the portion of the pre-reactor vapor stream that is passed from the pre
      reactor    vessel      to   the   hydropyrolysis reactor   vessel.  Accordingly,   the
      hydropyrolyzing          step may be      performed   using a fluidized bed   of the
                                                 33

      deoxygenating catalyst, and the hydropyrolysis fluidization gas may comprise at
      least the portion of the pre-reactor process vapor stream that is hydropyrolyzed,
      subsequent to being generated in the pre-reactor vessel.                    Representative
      superficial gas velocities for the hydropyrolysis fluidization gas range generally
      from about 0.03 meters/second (m/s) to about 6 m/s, typically from about 0.15
      m/s to about 3 m/s, and often from about 0.3 m/s to about 1.5 m/s.
[073] Following the hydropyrolyzing            step, representative     processes may further
      comprise removing all or substantially all of the char particles and/or other solid
      particles (e.g., catalyst fines) from the hydropyrolysis reactor output to provide a
      purified hydropyrolysis reactor vapor stream having a reduced char content. The
      removal of char particles, such as those which may be entrained in the pre-reactor
      vapor stream, may be particularly important in processes in which the products of
      hydropyrolysis, including the purified hydropyrolysis product vapor stream or a
      portion thereof, are subjected to a fixed bed catalytic conversion process. In such
      cases, the removal of fine char particles prevents problems associated with
      premature plugging of the fixed bed as the char particles become trapped within
      the voids of the fixed catalyst bed.                As defined herein, the removal of
      substantially all of the char particles means that at least 99% by weight of the char
      particles in the hydropyrolysis reactor output are excluded from the purified
      hydropyrolysis product vapor stream.              According to further embodiments, at
      99.9% by weight, or at least 99.99% by weight, of the char particles are excluded.
[074] Representative processes may further comprise hydroconverting at least a portion
      of the purified hydropyrolysis reactor vapor stream in a hydroconversion reactor
      vessel containing hydrogen and a hydroconversion                   catalyst, producing a
      hydroconversion reactor output.           The purified hydropyrolysis reactor vapor
      stream, like the hydropyrolysis reactor output, may include condensable gases
      (e.g., water vapor; C 3H8 , C 3H6 , and higher molecular weight hydrocarbons; and
      oxygenated hydrocarbons such as phenols) as well as non-condensable gases
      (e.g., H2 , CO, C0 2 , CH 4 , C2 H6 , and C 2 H4 ). Generally, the purified hydropyrolysis
      reactor vapor stream, or at least a portion thereof, will be passed completely in the
      vapor phase to a subsequent              hydroconverting     step, without intermediate
                                                34

      condensing of any portion of this stream. However, intermediate condensing with
      re-heating may also be possible, for example, to selectively condense unwanted
      components of relatively low volatility (relatively high boiling point), optionally
      providing a liquid condensate "wash" for removing char and/or other solid
      particles (e.g., catalyst fines). In other embodiments, the purified hydropyrolysis
      reactor vapor stream may be partially condensed and passed as a mixed vapor and
      liquid phase to the subsequent hydroconverting step. Partial condensation may
      occur, for example, when heat is recovered from the purified hydropyrolysis
      reactor vapor stream (e.g., by heat exchange with a cooler stream), or when heat
      is otherwise lost to the environment.
[075] As is apparent from the above description, all or a portion of the purified
      hydropyrolysis reactor vapor stream exiting the hydropyrolysis reactor (and
      obtained following the substantial removal of all char particles) may be subjected
      to the subsequent hydroconverting step. Between the steps of hydropyrolyzing
      and hydroconverting, therefore, the purified hydropyrolysis reactor vapor stream
      may, by separation or reaction, be enriched with respect to one or more desired
      components and/or depleted with respect to one or more undesired components.
      The purified hydropyrolysis reactor vapor stream may also be mixed prior to or
      during    the hydroconverting      step  with  one or more     additional  streams.
      Accordingly, unless otherwise noted, the step of hydroconverting at least a
      portion of the purified hydropyrolysis reactor vapor stream is meant to encompass
      such intermediate steps as separation, reaction, and/or mixing.           In some
      embodiments, however, the purified hydropyrolysis reactor vapor stream, or
      portion thereof, may be subjected to the hydroconverting step, without an
      intermediate    step of being enriched with respect to one or more desired
      components and/or depleted with respect to one or more undesired components,
      by separation or reaction (e.g., in the case of partial condensation, which may
      serve to remove some of the solid particles).      For example a portion of the
      purified hydropyrolysis reactor vapor stream may be split from the entire effluent
      of the hydropyrolysis reactor (and following the substantial removal of all char
      particles), with little or no change in its composition.     Likewise, the purified
                                              35

      hydropyrolysis reactor vapor stream, or portion thereof, may be subjected to the
      hydroconverting step, without being mixed prior to or during the hydroconverting
      step with one or more additional streams.        However, in many cases it will be
      desirable to mix the purified hydropyrolysis reactor vapor stream or portion
      thereof with hydrogen or a hydrogen-containing            gas stream that provides
      additional hydrogen (beyond that contained in the purified hydropyrolysis reactor
      vapor stream or portion thereof) for hydroconversion as described below.
[076] Suitable catalysts for use in the pre-reactor (in the case of the solid bed material
      having catalytic activity), hydropyrolysis reactor, and/or hydroconversion reactor
      will in general have activity for hydroprocessing of the biomass-containing
      feedstock, the pretreated feedstock, and/or their hydropyrolysis reaction products,
      in an environment of suitable hydrogen partial pressure, temperature, and other
      conditions as described herein. Hydroprocessing is meant to encompass broadly a
      number     of   possible    reactions,   including   hydrotreating,   hydrocracking,
      hydroisomerization, and combinations thereof, as well as possible oligomerization
      occurring under a hydrogen-rich environment. Representative hydroprocessing
      catalysts include those comprising at least one Group VIII metal, such as iron,
      cobalt, and nickel (e.g., cobalt and/or nickel) and at least one Group VI metal,
      such as molybdenum and tungsten, on a high surface area support material such
      as a refractory inorganic oxide (e.g., silica, alumina, titania, and/or zirconia). A
      carbon    support   may    also   be   used.     A  representative  catalyst  having
      hydroprocessing activity therefore comprises a metal selected from the group
      consisting of nickel, cobalt, tungsten, molybdenum, and mixtures thereof (e.g., a
      mixture of nickel and molybdenum), deposited on any of these support materials,
      or combinations of support materials.        The choice of support material may be
      influenced, in some cases, by the need for corrosion resistance in view of the
      possibility of forming condensed aqueous acids, for example acids known to be
      present in bio-oils obtained from conventional biomass pyrolysis and/or acids
      obtained from the hydrogenation of impurities in the biomass-containing
      feedstock (e.g., chlorides), as described herein.
                                             36

[077] The Group VIII metal is typically present in the hydroprocessing catalyst in an
      amount ranging from about 2 to about 20 weight percent, and normally from
      about 4 to about 12 weight percent, based on the volatile-free catalyst weight.
      The Group VI metal is typically present in an amount ranging from about 1 to
      about 25 weight percent, and normally from about 2 to about 25 weight percent,
      also based on the volatile-free catalyst weight.    A volatile-free catalyst sample
      may be obtained by subjecting the catalyst to drying at 200-350'C under an inert
      gas purge or vacuum for a period of time (e.g., 2 hours), so that water and other
      volatile components are driven from the catalyst.
[078] Other suitable hydroprocessing catalysts include zeolitic catalysts, as well as
      noble metal catalysts where the noble metal is selected from palladium and
      platinum. Two or more hydroprocessing catalysts of the same or different type
      may be utilized in the pre-reactor vessel, the hydropyrolysis reactor vessel, and/or
      the hydroconversion reactor vessel or combination of hydroconversion zone
      vessels   (described more fully below) that provide the substantially fully
      deoxygenated hydrocarbon liquid.          For example, different hydroprocessing
      catalysts may be useful for catalyzing deoxygenation (e.g., in a hydropyrolysis
      reactor vessel) or hydrocracking (e.g., in a hydroconversion reactor vessel).      In
      some cases, the catalyst and conditions in a hydroconversion reactor vessel may
      be chosen for their effectiveness in catalyzing hydrocracking, thereby enhancing
      the yield of hydrocarbons of a desired molecular weight (e.g., gasoline boiling
      range hydrocarbons). The catalyst and conditions in a hydroconversion reactor
      vessel    may    also   be    chosen    for  their   effectiveness    in  catalyzing
      hydroisomerization, thereby enhancing the yield of isoparaffins, which can
      improve the quality of the substantially fully deoxygenated hydrocarbon liquid, or
      at least a diesel fuel boiling-range fraction thereof, in terms of reducing its pour
      point and cloud point temperatures.
[079] Representative hydrocracking catalysts include those described in US 6,190,535
      and US 6,638,418, incorporated by reference herein with respect to their
      disclosures of these catalysts.    Other suitable hydrocracking catalysts include
      those comprising a metal selected from the group consisting of iron, nickel,
                                            37

      cobalt, tungsten, molybdenum, vanadium, ruthenium, and mixtures thereof,
      deposited on a zeolite.       Representative zeolites for hydrocracking catalyst
      supports may include beta zeolite, Y zeolite and MFI zeolite. The structures of Y
      zeolite and MFI zeolite are described, and further references are provided, in
      Meier, W. M, et al., Atlas of Zeolite Structure Types, 4h Ed., Elsevier: Boston
      (1996).   Representative hydroisomerization catalysts include those described in
      US     2009/0077866    as   "isomerization    catalysts."    The   contents   of   US
      2009/0077866     with   respect   to   such   isomerization   catalysts  are   hereby
      incorporated by reference.
[080] As is understood in the art, the term "hydrotreating catalyst" encompasses
      catalysts having activity for any of hydrodeoxygenation of organic oxygen
      containing molecules to form water; decarbonylation or decarboxylation of
      organic oxygen-containing molecules to form CO and C0 2 , respectively;
      hydrodenitrification    of    organic    nitrogen-containing     molecules;     and/or
      hydrodesulfurization of organic sulfur-containing molecules.           Representative
      catalysts useful in the pre-reactor vessel, hydropyrolysis reactor vessel, and/or at
      least one hydroconversion reactor vessel, therefore include hydrotreating catalysts
      as described in US 6,190,535 and US 6,638,418, incorporated by reference herein
      with respect to their disclosures of these catalysts.           In a representative
      embodiment, the catalytically active metals (e.g., nickel and molybdenum) may
      be the same in catalysts that are used in two or more of the pre-reactor vessel,
      hydropyrolysis reactor vessel, and at least one hydroconversion reactor vessel,
      with the support materials for the catalysts also being the same. Alternatively, the
      support materials may vary with respect to their acidity, in order to provide
      varying degrees of hydrocracking functionality.           For example, the support
      material used for a catalyst in the hydropyrolysis reactor vessel may be a
      relatively low acidity material (e.g., an alumina-phosphorous mixture) while the
      support material used for a catalyst in the hydroconversion reactor vessel may be
      a relatively high acidity material (e.g., an amorphous or zeolitic silica-alumina),
      thereby improving the tendency of the hydroconversion reaction zone to catalyze
      cracking reactions, if a reduction in the molecular weight of hydrocarbons in the
                                            38

      substantially fully deoxygenated liquid hydrocarbon product is desired. Acidity
      may be determined, for example in units of moles of acid sites per gram of
      catalyst, by temperature programmed desorption (TPD) of a quantity of ammonia,
      from an ammonia-saturated sample of the catalyst, over a temperature from
      275 0 C to 500C, which is beyond the temperature at which the ammonia is
      physisorbed. The quantity of acid sites therefore corresponds to the number of
      moles of ammonia that is desorbed in this temperature range.
[081] Representative processes may further comprise recovering a substantially fully
      deoxygenated      hydrocarbon   liquid   and   a   gaseous     mixture    from   the
      hydroconversion reactor output.      In this regard, the hydroconversion reactor
      output may comprise condensable gases from which the substantially fully
      deoxygenated hydrocarbon liquid (which may include one, or a mixture of,
      substantially fully deoxygenated higher value liquid products) may be condensed
      and then separated using one or more separation processes including phase
      separation from a condensed aqueous phase and/or distillation.        For example,
      phase separation may be used to recover the substantially fully deoxygenated
      hydrocarbon liquid from an aqueous phase comprising primarily condensed
      water. Distillation may then be used, for example, to obtain substantially fully
      deoxygenated higher value liquid products such as gasoline boiling-range and/or
      diesel fuel boiling-range hydrocarbon fractions. The designation of "substantially
      fully deoxygenated" in reference to hydrocarbon liquids, as well as higher value
      liquid products that may be obtained from these liquids (e.g., by fractionation) can
      refer to a total oxygen content of less than about 2% by weight, less than about
      1% by weight, less than about 5000 ppm by weight, less than about 2000 ppm by
      weight, or even less than about 1000 ppm by weight. The low oxygen content
      renders the substantially fully deoxygenated hydrocarbon liquid easily phase
      separable from condensed water.        Advantageously, any net condensed water
      produced in an integrated process will have a low content of dissolved total
      organic carbon (TOC), generally less than about 5000 wt-ppm, typically less than
      about 2000 wt-ppm, and often less than about 500 wt-ppm.
                                           39

[082] The gaseous mixture that is recovered from the hydroconversion reactor output
      will generally include non-condensable gases (e.g., H 2 , CO, C0 2 , CH 4 , C 2H6 , and
      C 2H4 ) and optionally a minor amount of condensable gases (e.g., C 3 and heavier
      hydrocarbons), depending on the conditions (i.e., temperature and pressure) under
      which the gaseous mixture is separated from the hydroconversion reactor output
      (e.g., using a gas-liquid separator or a stripper to achieve one or more theoretical
      equilibrium liquid-vapor separation stages).       To the extent that this gaseous
      mixture contains CO, C0 2 , and hydrocarbons, at least a portion thereof may be
      subjected to steam reforming, in order to produce reformed hydrogen and
      improve the overall hydrogen balance of the integrated process.             This can
      advantageously decrease or even eliminate the need for imported hydrogen
      obtained from the conventional reforming of hydrocarbons. According to some
      embodiments, therefore, a decreased reliance on petroleum-based carbon sources
      can reduce the overall carbon footprint of the transportation fuel fractions
      separated from the substantially fully deoxygenated hydrocarbon liquid, based on
      a lifecycle assessment of the greenhouse gas (GHG) emission value, according to
      U.S. government accounting practices.
[083] Conditions in the hydropyrolysis reactor include a temperature generally from
      about 300'C to about 600'C, typically from about 400'C to about 500'C, and
      often from about 410'C to about 475 C.           The weight hourly space velocity
      (WHSV) of the hydropyrolysis reactor, calculated as the mass flow rate of the
      biomass-containing feedstock or pretreated feedstock divided by the catalyst
      inventory of the hydropyrolysis reactor vessel, is generally from about 0.1 hr-I to
      about 10 hr-1 , typically from about 0.5 hr- to about 5 hr 1 , and often from about
      0.8 hr-1 to about 2 hr-1 . Conditions in the hydroconversion reactor (or any of
      possibly two or more hydroconversion reactors, if used) include a temperature
      generally from about 200'C to about 475'C, typically from about 260'C to about
      450'C, and often from about 315'C to about 430'C. The weight hourly space
      velocity (WHSV) of the hydroconversion reactor, calculated as the mass flow rate
      of the feed to the hydroconversion reactor (e.g., a purified vapor stream obtained
      from the hydropyrolysis reactor) divided by the catalyst inventory of the
                                            40

      hydroconversion reactor vessel, is generally from about 0.01 hr- to about 5 hr- ,
      typically from about 0.05 hr- to about 5 hr-1 , and often from about 0.1 hr- to
      about 4 hr-1 .
[084] Further     representative     operating     conditions     for    hydropyrolysis    and
      hydroconversion and their significance are described in greater detail below.
      Some representative conditions are also described in U.S. patent application
      publication nos. US 2010/0251600, US 20100256428, and US 2013/0338412, the
      contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entireties.
[085] As described in these publications, catalysts and operating conditions in both the
      hydropyrolysis and hydroconversion reactor vessels may be adjusted such that the
      deoxygenation reactions, which remove oxygen from biomass-derived molecules
      (e.g.,   cellulose,    hemicellulose,     and/or   lignin),    are   balanced    between
      hydrodeoxygenation, which yields H2 0, and the non-condensable gas-yielding
      reactions of decarbonylation and decarboxylation, which yield CO and C0 2 ,
      respectively.    Advantageously, the production of a significant amount of these
      gases from biomass oxygen in turn allows for their subsequent use, in reforming
      of gaseous mixtures (e.g., from the hydropyrolysis reactor output and/or the
      hydroconversion reactor output) in which they are contained (e.g., together with
      light hydrocarbons), to generate some or all of the hydrogen required in the
      integrated process. In the case of the use of a pre-reactor as described herein, the
      hydrogen required for the integrated process can include the amount of hydrogen
      consumed in the pre-reactor, for example if a hydrogen-containing gas is used as
      a    pre-reactor    fluidizing  gas,    for   carrying   out    devolatilization   and/or
      hydropyrolysis.
[086] According to representative embodiments, at least about 20% of the oxygen
      content of the biomass-containing feedstock, or at least about 20% of the oxygen
      content of the pretreated feedstock as described herein, is converted to CO and
      CO 2 following       hydropyrolysis    and hydroconversion,        and optionally    also
      following pretreating, including devolatilization.           Representative ranges of
      conversion of the oxygen content of the biomass-containing feedstock or
                                               41

      pretreated feedstock to CO and CO 2 following these steps are from about 20% to
      about 80%, from about 30% to about 70%, and from about 40% to about 60%, in
      order to     achieve   a proper   balancing    between   hydrodeoxygenation    and
      decarbonylation/decarboxylation, as described above.      Representative ranges of
      conversion of this oxygen content to H 2 0 following these steps are at most about
      80%, from about 20% to about 80%, from about 30% to about 70%, and from
      about 40% to about 60%. These ranges of feedstock or pretreated feedstock
      oxygen content being converted following hydropyrolysis and hydroconversion
      are not necessarily representative of the final disposition of biomass oxygen
      content following downstream conversion by steam reforming, in which the H 20
      formed in hydropyrolysis and/or hydroconversion may be consumed. According
      to some embodiments, the final disposition of feedstock or pretreated feedstock
      oxygen content to CO and CO 2, following steam reforming, may be significantly
      higher.   For example, according to some embodiments in which the process is
      integrated with steam reforming, at least about 90%, and in some cases at least
      about 95%, of the feedstock or pretreated feedstock oxygen content may be used
      to form CO and/or CO 2. It should also be noted, however, that, according to other
      embodiments, methanation of CO and/or CO 2 to form methane will serve to
      reduce these amounts.
[087] According to some embodiments, the desired balancing of biomass oxygen
      conversion to liquid and gaseous products may be achieved using moderate
      reaction conditions, such as moderate levels of pressure and/or hydrogen partial
      pressure in the hydropyrolysis and/or hydroconversion reactors, as moderate
      levels of pressure and/or hydrogen partial pressure have been found to result in
      relatively greater yields of CO and CO 2 , at the expense of H 20, compared to the
      use of higher levels of pressure and/or hydrogen partial pressure in conventional
      hydroprocessing      operations    (e.g.,   conventional    hydrotreating   and/or
      hydrocracking     of petroleum   fractions),.    Representative   pressures and/or
      hydrogen partial pressures in the hydropyrolysis and hydroconversion reactors
      (expressed as gauge pressures) may be independently less than about 55 barg
                                            42

      (e.g., from about 7 barg to about 55 barg, from about 14 barg to about 41 barg, or
      from about 21 barg to about 38 barg).
[088] According to some embodiments, it may be desirable for the hydropyrolysis
      reactor pressure to be substantially the same as that of the hydroconversion
      reactor, for example in the case in which the hydropyrolysis reactor vessel is
      operated at a pressure only slightly above that of the hydroconversion reactor
      vessel (e.g., at most about 3.5 bar above, or at most about 2 bar above), as needed
      to at least overcome the pressure differential between these vessels during normal
      operation. Likewise, the pre-reactor vessel, if used, may be operated at a pressure
      only slightly above that of the hydropyrolysis reactor vessel (e.g., at most about
      3.5 bar above, or at most about 2 bar above). In this manner, costs associated
      with the compression of gas streams, (e.g., recycled hydrogen-containing streams)
      may be reduced.      According to representative processes in which the pressure
      differential between reactors is minimized, the pre-reactor vessel may be disposed
      directly below the hydropyrolysis reactor vessel, or otherwise may form part of
      the hydropyrolysis reactor vessel (i.e., the solid bed material of the pre-reactor
      may be disposed in the same physical vessel as the hydropyrolysis reactor), in
      which case the operating pressures of the pre-reactor and hydropyrolysis reactor
      will be substantially the same.
[089] Additional hydrogen that is generated from an integrated reforming step may
      advantageously be used to at least partially satisfy the hydrogen requirements of
      pretreating (in a pre-reactor vessel) and/or hydropyrolysis (in a hydropyrolysis
      reactor vessel) as described above.        According to particular embodiments,
      portions, for example a first portion and/or a second portion, respectively, of the
      reformed hydrogen may be introduced to (i) the hydropyrolysis reactor vessel for
      hydropyrolyzing the pre-reactor vapor stream or a portion thereof and/or (ii) the
      pre-reactor vessel.    These portions, when introduced to the respective reactor
      vessels, may be heated to temperatures effective to promote the desired
      transformations     of   the   biomass-containing      feedstock    associated   with
      hydropyrolysis and/or pretreating (e.g., devolatilization), as described herein.
                                            43

[090] In the case of low quality initial feedstocks, such as MSW, containing relatively
      high amounts      (relative to the biomass contained in such feedstocks)           of
      heteroatoms such as halogens (e.g., in the form of chloride-containing compounds
      such as organic chlorides) as well as nitrogen (e.g., in the form of organic
      nitrogen-containing compounds) and sulfur (e.g., in the form of organic sulfur
      containing compounds), the hydroconversion reactor output and the gaseous
      mixture that is recovered from the hydroconversion reactor output, as described
      above, may contain contaminant gases including hydrogenation reaction products
      of these heteroatoms, including detrimental amounts of HCl, H 2 S, and NH 3, which
      may be problematic in terms of corrosion and safety concerns.         Representative
      processes may therefore comprise removing at least a portion (e.g., all or
      substantially all) of one or more of these contaminant              gases from the
      hydroconversion reactor output or the gaseous mixture. Such a removal may be
      accomplished,     for   example,  by    contacting    at  least  a  portion   of  the
      hydroconversion reactor output and/or the gaseous mixture with a solid sorbent
      such as CaCO 3 or other suitable mineral that has capacity for chloride removal
      (e.g., in the form of HCl), as described above. According to other embodiments,
      the contaminant gases may be effectively removed by contacting gas streams,
      including those described above, which contain acidic and/or basic contaminant
      gases, with an appropriate liquid scrubbing solution (e.g., a caustic solution, such
      as an NaOH solution, for the removal of acidic contaminant gases).
      Representative Embodiments
[091] According to one representative embodiment, a process for producing liquid
      products from a biomass-containing feedstock such as MSW or algae may
      comprise devolatilizing the feedstock in a pre-reactor vessel containing hydrogen
      and a solid bed material as described above, to produce a pre-reactor vapor stream
      comprising entrained solid particles.        The process may further comprise
      separating, from the pre-reactor vapor stream, a solids-enriched stream and a
      purified pre-reactor vapor stream (i.e., a solids-depleted vapor stream, having a
      lower concentration of solids relative to that of the pre-reactor vapor stream). The
      purified pre-reactor vapor stream may serve as the pretreated feedstock. In this
                                            44

case, such a pretreated feedstock is the portion of the pre-reactor process vapor
stream that is subjected to hydropyrolyzing in a hydropyrolysis reactor vessel.
The hydropyrolysis reactor vessel may contain hydrogen and a second catalyst or
solid bed material (e.g., a deoxygenating catalyst), such that the hydropyrolyzing
step produces a hydropyrolysis reactor output comprising (i) at least one non
condensable gas (e.g., H 2, C0 2 , CO and/or one or more low molecular weight
hydrocarbon    gas   such   as  CH 4 , C 2H6 , and/or   C 2H 4),  together with  any
stoichiometric excess of H 2 that is not consumed in the hydropyrolysis reactor and
remains after any water-gas shift reaction occurring in this reactor (ii) a partially
deoxygenated hydropyrolysis product (e.g., in the form of a condensable vapor),
and (iii) char particles having an average particle size and/or average particle
weight that is less than the average particle size and/or average particle weight,
respectively, of char particles entrained in the pre-reactor vapor stream.       The
process may comprise removing at least a portion, and preferably substantially all,
of the char particles from the hydropyrolysis reactor output to provide a purified
hydropyrolysis reactor output (i.e.,      a solids-depleted hydropyrolysis reactor
output, having     a lower concentration      of solids    relative to that of the
hydropyrolysis reactor output). The process may comprise hydroconverting the
partially deoxygenated hydropyrolysis product in a hydroconversion reactor
vessel, or otherwise in a hydroconversion zone comprising one or more
hydroconversion reactor vessels in series or parallel, using at least one
hydroconversion catalyst, as described above.       Hydroconversion occurs in the
presence of at least a portion of the hydropyrolysis output components (i), (ii),
and (iii) above that have not been separated (e.g., to remove entrained char
particles), producing a substantially fully deoxygenated hydrocarbon liquid
product.   Also produced are non-condensable or low molecular weight gases,
including C1-C   3 hydrocarbons (which may be paraffinic or olefinic), as well as
any CO and/or CO 2 that remains after any methanation reaction occurring in the
hydroconversion reactor vessel or zone, together with any stoichiometric excess
of H2 that is not consumed in the hydroconversion reactor vessel or zone and that
remains after any water-gas shift reaction occurring in this reactor or zone.
                                      45

[092] FIG. 1 depicts one possible, non-limiting, system 110 (the boundaries of which
      are demarcated by a box) for carrying out the steps of pretreatment of a biomass
      containing feedstock, followed by hydropyrolysis of a pre-reactor vapor stream
      that is generated from the pretreatment. According to this particular embodiment,
      biomass-containing feedstock (e.g., MSW) is introduced to a lower section (e.g.,
      the bottom) of pre-reactor 120 through feedstock inlet 112 after being combined
      with a pre-reactor gas, introduced to pre-reactor 120 through pre-reactor gas inlet
      114. The feedstock and the pre-reactor gas may be introduced to pre-reactor 120
      at the same or different locations, for example within particle bed 116. Both the
      feedstock and the pre-reactor gas may, independently, also be introduced at
      multiple locations.     For example, the pre-reactor gas may be introduced at
      multiple axial heights of pre-reactor 120 (corresponding to those within and/or
      outside of, particle bed 116) for the purpose of controlling temperature and/or
      localized gas velocities, or otherwise improving the uniformity of consumption of
      reactant gases (e.g., hydrogen). Both feedstock inlet 112 and pre-reactor gas inlet
      114 represent inputs to overall system 110.
[093] Pre-reactor gas may contain hydrogen and have a sufficient superficial velocity,
      within pre-reactor 120, for the fluidization of some or all of the solid particles of a
      particle bed 116 contained in this reactor. Particle bed 116 generally includes
      particles of biomass-containing feedstock introduced through feedstock inlet 112,
      as well as a solid bed material that may be charged to pre-reactor 120 initially and
      retained in this reactor due to the gas-solid separation occurring at particle bed
      interface 118, for example if the pre-reactor gas within pre-reactor 120 fluidizes
      particle bed 116 but has insufficient superficial velocity for the entrainment
      (elutriation) of the solid bed material. Particle bed interface 118 may therefore
      represent an upper boundary of an expanded or a quiescent, dense bed phase, or
      otherwise an upper boundary of a fixed bed.             To ensure a complete or
      substantially complete separation of solid bed material from pre-reactor vapor
      stream     136   exiting   pre-reactor    120,  an   expanded-diameter      gas-solids
      disengagement zone 124 may be included in an upper section (e.g., freeboard
      region)    of this   reactor,  above particle    bed  interface   118.     Gas-solids
                                             46

      disengagement zone 124 will generally extend to a height above the transport
      disengagement height (TDH) for particles of solid bed material under the
      operating conditions employed in pre-reactor 120.         Gas-solids disengagement
      zone 124 can provide a zone of reduced superficial gas velocity, promoting the
      effective disengagement of relatively small diameter solid particles that would
      otherwise be elutriated at the higher superficial gas velocity through particle bed
      116. Optionally, gas-solid separation may be further improved using mechanical
      separation devices such as cyclones (not shown) within gas-solids disengagement
      zone 124.
[094] Both the biomass-containing feedstock and the solid bed material may be
      introduced to pre-reactor 120 using suitable mechanical equipment for moving
      solid particles, such as an auger or a screw extruder. A fast moving stream of
      carrier gas (e.g., an inert gas having a superficial velocity of greater than about 5
      m/sec), may be used alone or in combination with the pre-reactor gas, in order to
      aid the introduction of the biomass-containing feedstock and/or solid bed material
      into pre-reactor 120.
[095] As described previously, the solid bed material in pre-reactor 120 may act as a
      catalyst, a sorbent, a heat transfer medium, or provide some combination of these
      functions.     In particular    embodiments,    this material   may be introduced
      continuously or intermittently to pre-reactor 120 through bed material inlet 132 to
      compensate for any losses, for example due to attrition.        Otherwise, solid bed
      material may be introduced to compensate for losses accompanying                  the
      purposeful removal of solids from particle bed 116. As described above, solids
      may be removed from one or more solids drawoff outlets 134 corresponding to
      one or more axial heights within solid particle bed 116, at which solid biomass
      containing feedstock (e.g., representing at least a portion of the solid particles in
      particle bed 116) having either an undesired characteristic, or otherwise an
      improved characteristic, relative to the initial feedstock (e.g., introduced through
      feedstock inlet 112), is enriched.
                                            47

[096] According to one representative embodiment, biomass-containing feedstock is
      selectively removed from particle bed 116 at an axial height at which particles of
      feedstock that are relatively inert in the environment of pre-reactor 120 are
      enriched. For example, particles of feedstock may accumulate in particle bed 116
      if their composition does not allow sufficient devolatilization and subsequent
      elutriation from pre-reactor 120. Such particles may include particles of glass,
      metal, or plastic that, without the use of a solids drawoff outlet 134, would remain
      in pre-reactor 120 indefinitely, account for an increasing proportion of particle
      bed 116, and eventually disrupt the intended operation of pre-reactor 120.
[097] In the case of removal of biomass-containing feedstock enriched in an undesired
      characteristic, such as a high ash content or a high non-biological material
      content, the feedstock remaining in pre-reactor 120 necessarily has an improved
      characteristic, i.e., a reduced ash content, over the initial feedstock. Therefore,
      this removal results in a pretreating step as defined herein, which is carried out in
      situ in pre-reactor 120, whereby the feedstock remaining in particle bed 116 is a
      pretreated feedstock, in addition to pre-reactor vapor stream 136 exiting pre
      reactor 120.     According to this embodiment, both a pre-treating step and a
      devolatilizing step, as defined herein, may be carried out simultaneously in pre
      reactor 120. The feedstock removed through a solids drawoff outlet 134, enriched
      in an undesired characteristic, may be sent for recovery/reclamation of non
      biological materials (e.g., plastics) or may otherwise be used in further processing
      steps (e.g., hydropyrolysis), albeit in a different manner from the manner in which
      the pretreated feedstock is used. For example, the removed feedstock may be fed
      to the hydropyrolysis reactor vessel at a different location (e.g., a different axial
      height), at a different temperature, and/or through different equipment (e.g., a
      screw extruder), relative to the pretreated feedstock. As another example of both
      a pre-treating step and a devolatilizing step being carried out simultaneously in
      pre-reactor 120, the solid bed material may have sorptive capacity for corrosive
      species such as chloride that might, in the absence of such solid bed material,
      otherwise exit pre-reactor 120 in pre-reactor vapor stream 136 (e.g., in the form of
      HCl).     In this case, pre-reactor vapor stream 136, including entrained solid
                                             48

       particles, is a pretreated feedstock having an improved characteristic, in terms of
       reduced corrosive species content, over the initial feedstock introduced through
       feedstock inlet 112.
[098] Any use of the feedstock removed from pre-reactor 120, either having an
       improved      characteristic   or  otherwise   being    enriched   in   an    undesired
       characteristic, and whether or not further processed in an integrated process as
       described herein, may be preceded by its separation (e.g., by size or density) from
       some or all of the solid bed material. Any solid bed material separated in this
       manner may be returned to pre-reactor 120, for example through bed material
       inlet 132. Therefore, depending on a particular operation, solids withdrawn from
       particle bed 116 through solids drawoff outlet(s) 134 may represent output(s)
       from overall system 110 or may otherwise be retained in this system.                  In
       particular embodiments, different portions of withdrawn solids (e.g., portions
       enriched in feedstock and solid bed material, respectively) may be output from, or
       otherwise retained in, overall system 110.
[099] In the case of removal of feedstock enriched in a desired characteristic (e.g.,
       having one or more of the improved characteristics as described above), such as
       having a more uniform particle size, this removal results in a pretreating step as
       defined herein, in which the removed feedstock has an improved characteristic,
       rendering    it more     easily   upgradable  in   further   processing    steps  (e.g.,
       hydropyrolysis), for example following its separation (e.g., by size or density)
       from some or all of the solid bed material. Any solid bed material separated in
       this manner may be returned to pre-reactor 120, for example through bed material
       inlet 132.
[0100] In view of the foregoing description, fluidization of particle bed 116 may
       advantageously serve to classify the initial feedstock, introduced through
       feedstock inlet 112, according to a number of possible characteristics described
       herein, and particularly those characteristics relating to fluid dynamic properties,
       namely reduced average particle size, reduced average particle aerodynamic
       diameter, increased average particle surface area to mass ratio, and a more
                                              49

       uniform particle size. According to another representative embodiment, a fraction
       of the feedstock within pre-reactor 120 may not be fluidized at all, under a given
       set of conditions.    Such a fraction may therefore be removed through a solids
       drawoff outlet 134 positioned at or near the bottom of particle bed 116, with the
       removed feedstock having a reduced average particle surface area to mass ratio
       (e.g., being enriched in glass or dense metallic particles contained in the
       feedstock), thereby resulting in an in situ pretreating step as defined herein, in
       which the pretreated feedstock remaining in particle bed 116 has the improved
       characteristic of an increased average particle surface area to mass ratio.
       According to further embodiments, the superficial gas velocity in pre-reactor 120
       may be varied (e.g., by varying the cross-sectional area within particle bed 116) in
       order to segregate/concentrate solid particles having certain fluid dynamic
       properties at differing axial heights within pre-reactor 120.
[0101] Depending on the gas introduced through pre-reactor gas inlet 114, the conditions
       used in pre-reactor 120, and the positioning of solids drawoff outlet(s) 134 a
       suitable pretreating step may be performed in pre-reactor 120, optionally in
       combination with a devolatilizing step.        As is apparent from the foregoing
       description, if both pretreating and devolatilizing steps are carried out, they may
       be performed on all of the feedstock introduced to pre-reactor 120, or otherwise
       on different fractions of this feedstock that are either removed from particle bed
       116 or retained in this particle bed until sufficiently devolatilized/pyrolyzed and
       elutriated from pre-reactor 120.
[0102] Devolatilization and optional pyrolysis (e.g., hydropyrolysis) of the feedstock,
       when carried out in pre-reactor 120, require elevated temperatures.         In many
       cases, therefore, it may be desirable for any solid bed material, introduced either
       continuously (e.g., following regeneration as described in greater detail below) or
       intermittently through bed material inlet 132, to act as a convenient heat transfer
       medium that transfers sufficient heat to pre-reactor 120 for devolatilization and
       optional pyrolysis of the feedstock.     This function of transferring heat may be
       combined with other functions of the solid bed material, described above,
       including catalytic and/or sorptive functions. Heat may be transferred into pre
                                             50

       reactor using the pre-reactor gas and the biomass-containing feedstock, as an
       alternative to, or in combination with, the solid bed material. Any of the biomass
       containing feedstock, solid bed material, pre-reactor gas, or any combination
       thereof, may be heated prior to entry to pre-reactor 120.
[0103] In addition to functioning as a heat transfer medium, the solid bed material may
       exhibit catalytic activity, such as hydroconversion (e.g., hydrotreating) catalytic
       activity as described above, to facilitate at least some conversion of the products
       of devolatilization and/or pyrolysis to intermediates (which can be further reacted
       in downstream operations), or even to desired end products. The catalytic activity
       may facilitate the conversion of gaseous products of devolatilization and/or
       pyrolysis to a desired composition, for example in terms of amounts of non
       condensable gases including H 2, C0 2 , CO, and CH 4, as well as the amounts and
       types of condensable gases such as aromatic, oxygenated hydrocarbons (e.g.,
       phenols and cresols). Representative solid bed materials may have one or more
       specific catalytic activities that include deoxygenation activity, cracking activity,
       water-gas shift activity, methanation activity, and combinations thereof. Those
       skilled in art, consulting the present disclosure, are apprised of suitable, active
       catalyst metals (e.g., Co, Mo, Ni, V, W, Pd, Pt, Rh) and suitable catalyst support
       materials (e.g., amorphous or crystalline metal oxides such as silica and alumina,
       zeolites such as MFI-type zeolites including ZSM-5, and non-zeolitic molecular
       sieves such as SAPO-type materials) for imparting one or more, desired catalytic
       activities to the solid bed material, for use in the environment of pre-reactor 120.
[0104] According to some embodiments, the catalytic activity of at least some of the
       solid bed material may desirably be the same type and degree as used in a
       downstream hydropyrolysis reactor.         In other embodiments, the same type of
       catalytic activity may be desired, but at a different degree (level) of activity. In
       such embodiments, solid bed materials, in this case catalysts, for the pre-reactor
       and hydropyrolysis reactor may include the same types of materials, but with
       different amounts of active, deposited catalyst metals on a support material.
       Alternatively, a catalyst in fresh condition may be used in the hydropyrolysis
       reactor, if greater catalytic activity is desired in its operation, whereas the same
                                              51

       catalyst in a partially spent (e.g., partially coked) condition may be used in the
       pre-reactor if reduced catalytic activity is desired in its operation. Conveniently,
       therefore, catalyst may be continuously or intermittently removed from the
       hydropyrolysis reactor (e.g., after attaining a specified coke level or reduction in
       activity) and continuously or intermittently introduced to the pre-reactor.
       Depending on whether bed material inlet 132 is used for introducing partially
       spent catalyst from the hydropyrolysis reactor, or whether it is used for
       introducing solid bed material from an outside source, bed material inlet 132 may
       or may not represent an input to overall system 110.                In an alternative
       embodiment, if higher catalytic activity is desired in the pre-reactor relative to the
       hydropyrolysis reactor, fresh catalyst may be used in the former and continuously
       or intermittently transferred to the latter.
[0105] Following disengagement of bed material and un-elutriated char particles in gas
       solids disengagement zone 124 of pre-reactor 120, pre-reactor vapor stream 136
       may be withdrawn from pre-reactor 120.           Pre-reactor vapor stream 136 will
       generally comprise entrained or elutriated solid particles of char, optionally in
       combination with particles (e.g., attrited fine particles) of the solid bed material.
       Fluidization conditions can be controlled within pre-reactor 120 to establish a
       given char and/or solid bed material cutoff diameter, above which the char and/or
       solid bed material is returned to, or retained in, particle bed 116 and below which
       the char and/or solid bed material is removed from pre-reactor 120 in vapor
       stream 136. In this manner, the residence time of the solid feedstock particles can
       be controlled, insofar as the feedstock is prohibited from exiting pre-reactor 120
       until it is devolatilized/pyrolyzed to a desired extent, corresponding to a cutoff
       diameter. Due to potentially different densities and surface geometries of the char
       and solid bed material, the cutoff diameters for the char and solid bed material
       may be different and selected to accomplish different objectives. As noted above,
       mechanical equipment such as cyclones may, in combination with the fluidization
       conditions (e.g., superficial gas velocity) influence the cutoff diameters. Control
       of char residence time, together with the control of other conditions in pre-reactor
       120, including, for example, temperature, total pressure, and/or hydrogen partial
                                              52

       pressure, may promote the devolatilization, pyrolysis, and/or hydropyrolysis of
       biomass-containing feedstock under particle fluidizing conditions in a manner
       tailored to the initial characteristics of the feedstock and desired characteristics of
       the pre-reactor vapor and/or any feedstock withdrawn from particle bed 116.
[0106] In addition to entrained char particles, pre-reactor vapor stream 136 exiting pre
       reactor 120 generally contains the gaseous products formed from devolatilization,
       and possibly also formed from a desired extent of pyrolysis.            Such gaseous
       products    can    include   CO,     C0 2 ,  H2 0,  hydrocarbons,    and    oxygenated
       hydrocarbons. Under certain operating conditions of pre-reactor 120, combined
       with the use of a solid bed material having catalytic methanation activity (and
       potentially water-gas shift activity), CO and/or CO 2 may be substantially or
       completely converted to CH 4 , in which case CO and/or CO 2 may be substantially
       or completely absent from pre-reactor vapor stream 136. In a highly methanating
       environment, it may be possible for pre-reactor vapor stream 136 to comprise less
       than 5 vol-% or even less than 1 vol-% of combined CO and CO 2 , based on the
       amount of all non-condensable gases in this stream.
[0107] According to the embodiment of FIG. 1, pre-reactor vapor stream 136 is fed to
       optional pre-reactor gas-solids separator 138, for the removal of entrained solids
       such as char and/or fine particles of solid bed material. Entrained solids may be
       removed     using    mechanical     devices   including   filters, external   cyclones,
       electrostatic separators, liquid contactors (e.g., bubblers), etc. If pre-reactor gas
       solids separator 138 is used, a purified pre-reactor vapor stream 140 is obtained,
       having a reduced content of solids relative to pre-reactor vapor stream 136.
       Depending on the particular method for separating the solids, a solids-enriched
       stream 142 may also be obtained, having an increased content of solids relative to
       pre-reactor vapor stream 136.          For example, external cyclones, electrostatic
       separators, and other mechanical devices can provide a continuous solids
       enriched stream 142 of relatively concentrated solid particles.        In general, the
       solid particles in solids-enriched stream 142 will have a higher average particle
       size and/or higher average particle weight, compared to any solid particles
       remaining in purified pre-reactor vapor stream 140. If gas-solids separator 138 is
                                               53

       used, a portion of pre-reactor vapor stream 136, namely purified pre-reactor vapor
       stream 140 may be introduced to hydropyrolysis reactor 150, and solids-enriched
       stream 142 may represent an output from system 110. If a gas-solids separator is
       not used, then the entire pre-reactor vapor stream 136, including solids entrained
       from pre-reactor 120, may be introduced to hydropyrolysis reactor 150.
[0108] In addition to all or a portion of pre-reactor vapor stream 136, hydrogen
       containing stream 144 may also be introduced to hydropyrolysis reactor 150 and,
       if used (for example, according to the particular embodiment depicted in FIG. 1),
       represents an input to overall system 110. Hydrogen-containing stream 144 may
       be introduced at the bottom of hydropyrolysis reactor 150, as shown in FIG. 1,
       and may serve to entrain any solid particles present in pre-reactor vapor stream
       136 or purified pre-reactor vapor stream 140. Hydrogen-containing stream 144
       may be introduced at multiple axial heights of hydropyrolysis reactor 150
       (corresponding to those within and/or outside of, deoxygenating catalyst bed 146)
       for the purpose of controlling temperature and/or localized gas velocities, or
       otherwise improving the uniformity of consumption hydrogen.
[0109] Hydropyrolysis reactor 150 may therefore contain deoxygenating catalyst bed
       146, above which is expanded diameter gas-catalyst disengagement zone 148,
       functioning similarly to gas-solids disengagement zone 124 of pre-reactor 120. In
       addition, one or more deoxygenating catalyst inlets 152 and one or more
       deoxygenating catalyst drawoff outlets 154 may provide for continuous or
       intermittent introduction and/or removal of deoxygenating catalyst to and/or from
       hydropyrolysis reactor 150. For example, fresh deoxygenating catalyst may be
       continuously or intermittently introduced through deoxygenating catalyst inlet(s)
       152 and spent or partially spent deoxygenating catalyst may be continuously or
       intermittently removed through deoxygenating catalyst drawoff outlet(s) 154.
       According to a particular type of operation described above, the removed catalyst
       may be transferred to bed material inlet 132 of pre-reactor 120 to provide solid
       bed material in the form of partially spent catalyst.     Depending on whether
       deoxygenating catalyst inlet(s) 152 and deoxygenating catalyst drawoff outlet(s)
       154 are used, and whether catalyst removed from hydropyrolysis reactor 150 is
                                            54

       used in pre-reactor 120 (or otherwise regenerated or sent for metals reclamation),
       deoxygenating catalyst inlet(s) 152 may represent input(s) to overall system 110
       and deoxygenating catalyst drawoff outlet(s) may represent output(s) from overall
       system 110.
[0110] At least a portion of pre-reactor vapor stream 136 (e.g., purified pre-reactor vapor
       stream 140) may be subjected to a hydropyrolyzing step in hydropyrolysis reactor
       150 in the presence        of hydrogen and the       deoxygenating    catalyst.    A
       hydropyrolysis reactor output 156, containing one or more non-condensable
       gases, a partially deoxygenated hydropyrolysis product, and char particles
       produced in hydropyrolysis reactor vessel 150 is removed. As described above
       with respect to pre-reactor vapor stream 136,           non-condensable     gases in
       hydropyrolysis reactor output 156 can include H 2 , C0 2 , CO, CH 4 , and mixtures
       thereof, with the relative proportions depending on, for example, the methanating
       activity and water-gas shift activity of the deoxygenating catalyst. In the case of a
       deoxygenating catalyst with substantial methanation activity, CO 2 and/or CO may
       be substantially absent from hydropyrolysis reactor output 156. For example, it
       may be possible for hydropyrolysis reactor output 156 to comprise less than 5 vol
       % or even less than 1 vol-% of combined CO and CO 2, based on the amount of all
       non-condensable gases present.
[0111] According to the embodiment shown in FIG. 1, substantially all char particles in
       hydropyrolysis reactor output 156 are removed in hydropyrolysis reactor gas
       solids separator 158. Entrained char particles may be removed using mechanical
       devices including filters, external cyclones, electrostatic separators, liquid
       contactors (e.g., bubblers), etc. to provide purified hydropyrolysis vapor stream
       160 having a reduced char content and optionally a char-enriched stream 162, for
       example in the case of external cyclones, electrostatic separators, and other
       mechanical devices that provide an effluent stream of relatively concentrated char
       particles.  Both purified hydropyrolysis vapor stream 160 and optional char
       enriched stream 162 represent outputs from system 110.
                                             55

[0112] FIG. 2 depicts a non-limiting alternative system 210 (the boundaries of which are
       demarcated by a box) in which pre-reactor 220 and hydropyrolysis reactor 250 are
       in a stacked relationship.    This configuration may be advantageous in certain
       cases, for example if operating conditions (e.g., temperatures and/or pressures) in
       these reactors 220, 250 are the same or similar. Otherwise, this configuration
       may be employed in embodiments in which there is no external separation of
       solid particles (for example using pre-reactor gas-solids separator shown in FIG.
       1) entrained in pre-reactor vapor 236, entering hydropyrolysis reactor 250. Using
       this configuration, part or all of the gas requirements, including the hydrogen
       requirements, for both hydropyrolysis reactor 250 and optionally pre-reactor 220,
       may be provided through pre-reactor gas inlet 214. However, part or all of these
       gas requirements may alternatively be provided through a combination of pre
       reactor gas inlet 214 and hydrogen containing          stream 244, optionally in
       combination with other gas inlets (not shown).
[0113] The separation of deoxygenating catalyst bed 246 in hydropyrolysis reactor 250
       from particle bed 216 in pre-reactor 220 may be aided to some extent by
       upwardly flowing pre-reactor vapor 236, and in this regard the superficial velocity
       of this vapor may be increased as it enters hydropyrolysis reactor 250, for
       example by passing this vapor through constricted opening 275 at the base of
       hydropyrolysis reactor 250. Constricted opening 275 will generally have a cross
       sectional area that is less than the cross-sectional area of pre-reactor 220, or at
       least less than the cross-sectional area of gas-solids disengagement zone 224 of
       pre-reactor 220.     Constricted opening 275 may be covered by one or more
       mechanical separation elements, such as a screen, mesh, inert material, etc. to
       maintain deoxygenating catalyst bed 246 within hydropyrolysis reactor 250. For
       example, constricted opening 275 may be covered by a screen having openings of
       a suitable size or diameter, which allow elutriated solid particles in pre-reactor
       vapor 236     to pass into hydropyrolysis       reactor 250,   but do not     allow
       deoxygenating catalyst to pass into pre-reactor 220.
[0114] As is apparent from the foregoing description of the embodiment depicted in FIG.
       2, pre-reactor 220 and hydropyrolysis reactor 250 may together comprise a single
                                            56

       vessel.    As in the embodiment depicted in FIG. 1, pre-reactor 220 and
       hydropyrolysis reactor 250 can include, respectively, gas-solids disengagement
       zone 224 and gas-catalyst disengagement zone 248, extending to sufficient
       heights above particle bed 216 and deoxygenating catalyst bed 248, respectively,
       for effective disengagement of solid bed material from the pre-reactor vapor 236
       and deoxygenating catalyst from hydropyrolysis reactor output 256.              The
       efficiency or degree of this disengagement may be improved using mechanical
       separation devices such as cyclones (not shown) within gas-solids disengagement
       zone    224   and/or gas-catalyst   disengagement    zone   248.     The   effective
       disengagement occurring within disengagement zones 224, 248, whether or not
       mechanical separation devices are used, does not preclude the existence of minor
       amounts of solid bed material in pre-reactor vapor 236 and/or minor amounts of
       deoxygenating catalyst in hydropyrolysis reactor output 256, with these minor
       amounts comprising fine solid particles resulting from, for example, mechanical
       breakage due to attrition.   Such fine solid particles, as well as entrained char
       particles, may be removed in further separation steps, for example using
       hydropyrolysis reactor gas-solids separator 258 to yield purified hydropyrolysis
       vapor stream 260 and optionally char-enriched stream 262, both of which
       represent outputs from system 210.      Gas-solids separator 258 can include any
       device as described with respect to the embodiment depicted in FIG. 1 for the
       removal of entrained char particles exiting the hydropyrolysis reactor.
[0115] Other features described with respect to the embodiment depicted in FIG. 1
       function in the same or in an analogous manner in the embodiment depicted in
       FIG. 2. These features include those representing inputs to system 210, such as
       feedstock inlet 212, pre-reactor gas inlet 214, hydrogen-containing stream 244,
       bed material inlet 232 and deoxygenating catalyst inlet 252. These features also
       include those representing possible outputs from system 210, such as solids
       drawoff outlet(s) 234, char-enriched stream 262, and deoxygenating catalyst
       drawoff outlet 254. The introduction of solids (e.g., feedstock, solid bed material,
       and/or catalyst) to the pre-reactor 120, 220 or hydropyrolysis reactor 150, 250
       may be accomplished using suitable mechanical equipment for moving solid
                                            57

       particles, such as an auger or a screw extruder. A fast moving stream of carrier
       gas (e.g., an inert gas having a superficial velocity of greater than about 5 m/sec),
       may be used alone or in combination with process gas streams described herein,
       in order to aid the introduction of the solids.
[0116] Likewise, the withdrawal of solids (e.g., feedstock enriched in ash content or
       having some other undesirable characteristic) from the pre-reactor 120, 220 or
       hydropyrolysis reactor 150, 250 may be accomplished using similar equipment,
       such as a solids-removal screw, or otherwise using an overflow pipe, sequentially
       cycled lock hoppers, or other known equipment.          According to one particular
       embodiment, solids withdrawn from solids drawoff outlet(s) 134, 234 of pre
       reactor 120, 220 may include solid bed material having catalytic hydrotreating
       activity, as described above. This activity decreases over time as impurities such
       as carbon (coke), melted plastic, and other reaction products or feedstock
       impurities deposit on the solid bed material.         Solid bed material that is a
       hydrotreating catalyst, following removal from solids drawoff outlet(s) 134, 234,
       may therefore be subjected to a suitable regeneration, by combusting the
       accumulated coke and other impurities with oxygen to yield a regenerated solid
       bed material that may be returned to pre-reactor 120, 220 (e.g., through bed
       material inlet 132) or even introduced to hydropyrolysis reactor 150, 250 (e.g.,
       through deoxygenating catalyst inlet 152, 252. Prior to any such regeneration and
       re-use of the regenerated catalyst, it may be desirable to separate the removed
       solid bed material (e.g., spent hydrotreating catalyst) from other solids (e.g., char
       particles generated from the feedstock and/or inert materials contained in the
       feedstock) contained in particle bed 116, 216 at the location (e.g., axial height of
       pre-reactor 120, 220) at which the solid bed material is removed.        In a similar
       manner, deoxygenating catalyst withdrawn from deoxygenating catalyst bed 146,
       246 of hydropyrolysis reactor 150, 250, may also be regenerated, optionally
       following a separation from other solids (e.g., char particles) contained in
       deoxygenating catalyst bed 146, 246 at the location (e.g.,           axial height of
       hydropyrolysis reactor 150, 250) at which the deoxygenating catalyst is removed.
                                              58

[0117] Advantageously, the fluidized bed regeneration of withdrawn solid bed material
       from    pre-reactor    120,  220    or   withdrawn     deoxygenating     catalyst  from
       hydropyrolysis reactor 150, 250, to at least partially restore hydrotreating activity,
       can simultaneously act to classify various solids, in a similar manner as described
       above with respect to the operation of pre-reactor 120, 220. That is, solids having
       distinct fluid dynamic properties can, under appropriate conditions of fluidization
       (e.g., superficial gas velocity), segregate/concentrate at differing axial heights
       within a fluidized bed regeneration vessel, where they may be withdrawn to
       achieve a desired separation.      For example, in the case of solid bed material
       withdrawn from pre-reactor 120, 220, particles having a relatively low surface
       area to mass ratio (e.g., metals, glass, and/or other inert materials), which are
       more difficult to fluidize (or may not be fluidized at all) may tend to concentrate
       near (or at) the bottom of a fluidized bed.           According to other exemplary
       separations based on fluid dynamic properties, ash (in the form of decarbonized
       char) may be withdrawn from an upper section or the top of a fluidized bed
       regeneration vessel (e.g., as particles elutriated in the exiting gas stream, such as a
       combustion (flue) gas effluent).       Regenerated catalyst, having a reduced coke
       content, may be withdrawn from a central section of a fluidized bed regenerator
       vessel (e.g., from within the fluidized particle bed) and returned to pre-reactor
       120, 220 and/or utilized in hydropyrolysis reactor 150, 250. According to other
       embodiments, the superficial gas velocity in a fluidized bed regenerator vessel
       may be varied (e.g., by varying the cross-sectional area within the fluidized bed)
       in order to segregate/concentrate solid particles having certain fluid dynamic
       properties at differing axial heights within the regenerator vessel.
[0118] Some hydrotreating catalysts, and particularly those having Co, Ni, and/or Mo as
       catalytic metals (e.g., CoMo and NiMo catalysts) require these metals to exist in
       their sulfided (or oxidized) state in order to remain catalytically active.
       Specifically, if sulfided catalysts are not exposed to sufficient sulfur (e.g., as H 2S)
       during their normal use, they may become deactivated over time due to a loss of
       sulfided metal sites.     Consequently, solid bed material withdrawn from pre
       reactor 120, 220 or deoxygenating catalyst withdrawn from hydropyrolysis
                                               59

       reactor 150, 250 may be subjected to fluidized bed sulfiding, with the same
       advantages, in terms of classifying solid particles with differing fluid dynamic
       properties, as described above with respect to fluidized bed regeneration.
       Therefore, the exemplary separations described above, based on differing fluid
       dynamic properties of particles, are applicable to both fluidized bed sulfiding and
       fluidized bed regeneration. Accordingly, in the case of separating elutriated, fine
       solids in gaseous effluent streams, these solids may be removed in either a
       combustion (flue) gas effluent of a regeneration vessel or a hydrogen-containing
       sulfiding effluent of a sulfiding vessel.
[0119] Unlike catalyst regeneration that involves the combustion of deposited coke in an
       oxidizing environment, suitable catalyst sulfiding is performed under reducing
       conditions.    A preferred fluidizing gas for sulfiding solid bed material or
       deoxygenating catalyst is a predominantly hydrogen-containing gas having a
       minor amount of hydrogen sulfide (H 2S) or precursor compound that forms H 2S
       under sulfiding conditions. For example, the fluidizing gas may comprise at least
       50 mole-% H 2 (e.g., from about 50 mole-% to about 99 mole-%) and less than
       about 3 mole-% H2 S (e.g., from about 250 mole-ppm to about 3 mole-%, and
       more typically from about 1000 mole-ppm to about 1 mole-%). The use of such a
       hydrogen-containing fluidizing gas at elevated temperature can, in addition to
       sulfiding withdrawn catalyst, also promote hydrogasification of coke deposited on
       the catalyst, as well as hydrogasification of any char that may be carried into a
       fluidized bed sulfiding vessel.      Hydrogasification can advantageously remove
       coke deposits from solid bed material or deoxygenating catalyst, which can help
       restore catalytic activity or other functions (e.g., adsorptive capacity). In addition,
       hydrogasification of coke and char can be used to form methane and other light
       hydrocarbons in the gaseous effluent from a fluidized bed sulfiding vessel. In a
       particular embodiment, a suitable methanation catalyst (e.g., a supported nickel
       catalyst)   may be     used    to  facilitate the    production   of methane     under
       hydrogasification conditions, or otherwise in a separate reaction step performed
       (e.g., in a methanation reactor) on the gaseous effluent from the fluidized bed
       sulfiding vessel.
                                              60

[0120] FIG. 3 depicts     an embodiment       of an integrated    hydropyrolysis process
       incorporating system 310, as described above with respect to system 110 in the
       embodiment of FIG. 1 or system 210 in the embodiment of FIG. 2. Accordingly,
       inputs to system 310 include feedstock inlet 312 for the introduction of biomass
       containing feedstock (e.g., MSW), as well as pre-reactor gas inlet 314 and
       hydrogen containing stream 344 (if used) for the introduction of gaseous feeds to
       the pre-reactor and the hydropyrolysis reactor, respectively.      Optional inputs
       include bed material inlet 332 and deoxygenating catalyst inlet 352.      Optional
       outputs from system 310 include solids-enriched stream 342 (e.g., in the case of
       system 110 of FIG. 1), as well as solids drawoff outlet(s) 334, char-enriched
       stream 362, and deoxygenating catalyst drawoff outlet 354.
[0121] As shown in FIG. 3, purified hydropyrolysis vapor stream 360, following the
       removal of substantially all char particles from the hydropyrolysis reactor output,
       is an output from system 310 that is sent for further processing.     As described
       above, purified hydropyrolysis vapor stream 360 generally comprises at least one
       non-condensable gas (e.g., H 2, CO, CO 2 , and/or CH 4 ), water vapor, and other
       condensable vapors comprising a partially deoxygenated hydropyrolysis product.
       The temperature of purified hydropyrolysis vapor stream 360 may be adjusted
       (heated or cooled) as needed, for example using hydroconversion zone inlet heat
       exchanger 365, to obtain desired conditions in hydroconversion zone 375.
       Hydroconversion zone inlet heat exchanger 365 may utilize an external heat
       exchange medium (e.g., cooling water or high pressure steam), an exchange
       medium internal to the integrated process (e.g., a feed stream), or a combination
       thereof. Hydroconversion zone 375 may comprise one or more hydroconversion
       reactor vessels. According to one embodiment, a single hydroconversion reactor
       vessel is used in hydroconversion zone 375.      The reactor vessel may contain a
       single type of hydroconversion catalyst for converting, by further deoxygenation,
       the partially deoxygenated hydropyrolysis product to a substantially fully
       deoxygenated hydrocarbon product, which may ultimately be condensed to
       provide a substantially fully deoxygenated hydrocarbon liquid having properties
       as described above.
                                            61

[0122] Catalysts suitable for use in hydroconversion zone 375 include those having
       hydrotreating    activity,  as   described     above,      to   promote    the  desired
       hydrodeoxygenation,      decarbonylation,    and     decarboxylation    reactions,    the
       proportions of which may be controlled according to the particular operating
       conditions (e.g., pressure or hydrogen partial pressure) used in hydroconversion
       zone 375, including the one or more hydroconversion reactor vessels.               Such
       catalysts may also be used to promote hydrodentrification, hydrodesulfurization,
       and/or hydrodechlorination,     as necessary to remove heteroatoms from the
       partially deoxygentated hydropyrolysis product, in the form of the gases NH 3 ,
       H 2S,   and/or HCl, which may be removed from the fully deoxygenated
       hydrocarbon liquid by downstream phase separation of a gaseous mixture
       therefrom. The need for the removal of heteroatoms is largely dependent on the
       properties of the particular biomass-containing           feedstock being processed,
       including the contents of these heteroatoms.
[0123] According to some embodiments, a single hydroconversion reactor vessel is used
       in hydroconversion zone 375, having catalysts with hydrotreating activity and
       optionally    other   hydroprocessing     activities    as    described   above    (e.g.,
       hydrocracking and/or hydroisomerization activities). The differing activities can
       be provided with a single catalyst (e.g., a catalyst having hydrotreating activity in
       addition to hydrocracking activity by virtue of the introduction of acid sites on the
       support material).     Otherwise, the differing activities can be provided with
       multiple catalysts, having differing hydroprocessing activities as described above,
       positioned in discreet catalyst beds within the hydroconversion reactor vessel
       (e.g., an upstream bed of catalyst having primarily hydrotreating activity, for
       carrying out a desired degree of deoxygenation and a downstream bed of catalyst
       having primarily hydrocracking activity, for reducing the molecular weight of the
       substantially fully deoxygenated hydrocarbon liquid).          Otherwise, the differing
       activities can be provided with multiple catalysts being dispersed uniformly
       throughout a single catalyst bed, using a desired mixing ratio of the multiple
       catalysts.
                                             62

[0124] According to yet further embodiments, hydroconversion zone 375 may comprise
       two or more hydroconversion reactor vessels, for example positioned in parallel
       or in series, and containing catalysts having differing hydroprocessing activities
       and operating under different conditions         (e.g., differing pressures   and/or
       temperatures). In a particular embodiment, a first hydroconversion reactor vessel
       containing a catalyst having hydrotreating activity may be positioned in series
       with, and upstream of, a second hydroconversion reactor containing a catalyst
       having hydrocracking activity. Otherwise, these first and second hydroconversion
       reactors may be positioned in parallel. As will be appreciated by those having
       skill in the art, and benefitting from the knowledge gained from the present
       disclosure, the use of differing hydroprocessing catalysts in one or more
       hydroconversion reactor vessels, arranged in various configurations, can be
       tailored to achieve desired characteristics of the substantially fully deoxygenated
       hydrocarbon liquid, based on the properties of the particular biomass-containing
       feedstock being processed.
[0125] A hydroconversion zone output 380 (e.g.,           the effluent or output from a
       hydroconversion reactor), containing a gaseous mixture including hydrogen and
       other non-condensable gases (e.g., CO, C0 2 , and/or CH 4) may be cooled using
       hydroconversion zone outlet heat exchanger 385, which may utilize an external
       heat exchange medium (e.g., cooling water), an exchange medium internal to the
       integrated process (e.g., a feed stream), or a combination thereof. Cooling of
       hydroconversion zone output 380 (e.g., the output from a single hydroconversion
       reactor, or otherwise two or more of such reactors, as described above) allows for
       phase separation of the components of this stream in separation zone 390.
       Separation zone 390 may comprise one or more stages of phase separation, which
       may be achieved, for example, using one or more flash separators operating in
       series, or otherwise using a packed column, and optionally a stripping medium
       (e.g., a flowing stripping gas), to achieve multiple theoretical equilibrium liquid
       vapor separation stages. Due to the significant differences in relative volatility
       between components of the gaseous mixture and components of the substantially
                                             63

       fully deoxygenated hydrocarbon liquid, separation using a single flash separator
       or two flash separators may be sufficient.
[0126] From separation zone 390, substantially fully deoxygenated hydrocarbon liquid
       395 is recovered as a condensed fraction or liquid phase, and gaseous mixture 397
       is removed as a non-condensed fraction or vapor phase. At least a portion of
       separated gaseous mixture 397 is introduced to steam reformer 370, which
       provides a net production of hydrogen that may be recycled to system 310, via
       hydrogen recycle stream 398, to satisfy some or all of the hydrogen requirements
       of this system. Steam reformer 370 also generates a net amount of CO 2 . The
       output from steam reformer 370, or a portion thereof, may be enriched in
       hydrogen (e.g., by selective removal of CO 2 and/or other gases) using additional
       separation equipment (not shown), for example a membrane separation unit or a
       pressure swing adsorption (PSA) unit, to provide a high purity hydrogen
       containing gas stream for recycle to system 310. In addition, substantially fully
       deoxygenated hydrocarbon liquid 395 may be fractionated, as described above,
       using further separation equipment (not shown), for example a distillation column
       or series of distillation columns, to obtain substantially fully deoxygenated higher
       value liquid products such as gasoline boiling-range and/or diesel fuel boiling
       range hydrocarbon fractions.
                                            EXAMPLES
[0127] The following examples are set forth as representative of the present invention.
       These examples are not to be construed as limiting the scope of the invention as
       these and other equivalent embodiments will be apparent in view of the present
       disclosure and appended claims.
       Example 1-Preparation and Composition of MSW Feedstock
[0128] About 500 grams of3.2 mm average diameter MSW pellets, obtained from a
       commercial supplier of materials derived from recycled MSW, were reduced in
       size to particles having diameters ranging from approximately 0.85 mm to 3.35
       mm, based on screening.       The plastic content of the MSW was about 5 wt-%,
                                              64

       which is less than most typical MSW types that are sent to landfills. The MSW
       also contained other types of non-biological materials (e.g., glass and metals) that
       are normally contained in these solid wastes. The moisture and ash content of the
       MSW, as well as some elemental analyses, are provided below in Table 1, as
       measuring using standard (ASTM) test methods.
       Table 1-MSW Feedstock, Selected Component Analysis
                                    As Received     Moisture Free Basis
         Moisture, %                    2.91                 --
         Ash (750'C),%                 10.59               10.91
         Carbon,%                                          44.94
         Hydrogen,%                                         6.27
         Nitrogen,%                                         0.72
         Sulfur,%                                           0.20
         Oxygen,%                                          36.96
[0129] The ash content of 10.91 wt-% (moisture free basis), shown in Table 1, was
       considerably higher than the corresponding value of 0.21 wt-% for wood alone
       (see Table 2 below). Moreover, the MSW was found to contain about 0.5 wt-%
       (about 5,000 wt-ppm) of elemental chloride, which is also well above the amount
       present in wood, typically in the range of about 100-200 wt-ppm. The substantial
       addition of chloride originating from the MSW poses significant processing
       obstacles, in terms of the increasing the potential for corrosion and/or the
       emission of hazardous gases. For comparison, the moisture and ash content of a
       wood feedstock used in biomass pyrolysis, as well as the same elemental analyses
       as provided in Table 1 with respect to MSW, are provided below in Table 2.
       Table 2-Wood Feedstock, Selected Component Analysis
                                    As Received     Moisture Free Basis
         Moisture, %                    4.11                 --
                                             65

         Ash (750'C),%                  0.20                  0.21
         Carbon,%                                            50.13
         Hydrogen,%                                           5.83
         Nitrogen,%                                           0.05
         Sulfur,%                                             0.02
         Oxygen,%                                            43.76
[0130] At least some of the differences in the amounts of elemental carbon (C), hydrogen
       (H), and oxygen (0) in MSW compared to wood are attributable primary to the
       presence of plastic. This non-biological material also affects the molar ratios of
       these elements, as shown below in Table 3, which in turn impacts the
       hydropyrolysis reaction chemistry.       In addition, plastic normally melts under
       conditions suitable for the hydropyrolysis and hydroconversion of biomass, which
       can cause coating/agglomeration of solid particles (char, catalyst, solid bed
       material, and the MSW itself) present in the processing steps.       This adversely
       affects fluidized bed operation, as the free movement of the particles is hindered.
                                             66

       Table 3-Comparison of Elemental Ratios, Wood vs. MSW
                                        Wood            MSW
         C/H Molar Ratio                0.72             0.60
         C/O Molar Ratio                1.53             1.62
       Example     2-Conversion       of MSW      Feedstock via     Hydropyrolysis   and
       Hydroconversion
[0131] The MSW feedstock, having the particle size and composition as described in
       Example 1, was tested in a pilot-scale hydropyrolysis processing unit, in terms of
       its ability to be converted to hydrocarbons in the gasoline and/or diesel fuel
       boiling-range. The MSW particles were transported via a screw conveyor from a
       feed hopper to the bottom of a fluidized bed, hydropyrolysis reactor vessel having
       dimensions of approximately 3.3 cm i.d. x 76 cm height. Pre-heated hydrogen
       was also introduced to the bottom of this reactor and served as the fluidizing gas
       for both the transported MSW particles and about 200 grams of conventional
       cobalt/molybdenum (Co/Mo) hydrotreating catalyst, which was pre-loaded in the
       reactor vessel.   The reactor was maintained under temperature and pressure
       conditions of approximately 457'C and 19 barg.          The vapor residence was
       approximately 1-2 seconds.      The char resulting from the hydropyrolysis of the
       MSW remained largely within the reactor vessel, although this material could also
       have been elutriated under conditions of higher fluidization velocity.
[0132] Vapors generated in the hydropyrolysis reactor were filtered to capture any fine
       solid particles in this gas stream, prior to the cooling and introduction of these
       vapors to a second-stage reactor hydroconversion reactor containing about 780
       grams of a conventional nickel-molybdenum (NiMo) hydrotreating catalyst in a
       fixed bed. The pressure of the second stage reactor was maintained substantially
       the same as that of the hydropyrolysis reactor, but the operating temperature was
       reduced to about 371'C. The second stage reactor served to further deoxygenate
       the biomass-derived, condensable vapors produced from hydropyrolysis.          The
       vapors exiting the hydroconversion reactor therefore included hydrocarbons
                                             67

       suitable for use in transportation fuels.      These vapors were then cooled to
       condense a high value liquid product and separate gaseous products, including CO
       and CO 2. Using knockout pots in series, the hydrocarbons of the liquid product
       were separated into fractions containing lower molecular weight, gasoline boiling
       range material and higher molecular weight, diesel fuel boiling-range material.
       Product yields from this test, using MSW as a feedstock, were calculated based on
       the measured quantities of products, as well as the analysis of the gaseous product
       composition.    These yields were compared with those obtained from a test run
       under similar conditions but using a pure biomass feedstock (wood).             The
       comparative yield data, based on feedstock weight, are provided below in Table 4.
       Table 4-Comparative Yield Data (%), MSW vs. Wood (moisture, ash-free basis)
                                          Wood                     MSW
         Char                               9%                       9%
         C4'  vapors and liquid            30%                      29%
         hydrocarbons
         Water                             38%                      37%
         C1-C3 vapors                      18%                      15%
         CO and CO 2                       13%                      12%
[0133] On a moisture and ash-free (MAF) basis, yield profiles are nearly the same for
       wood and MSW feedstocks.         Surprisingly, therefore, the high plastics content,
       chlorine content, and ash content of the MSW did not appear to significantly
       impact the hydropyrolysis/hydroconversion process chemistry.          These results
       indicate that, under suitable processing conditions, it is possible to convert
       feedstocks   that are mixed (i.e.,     contain both biomass and non-biomass),
       contaminated, or otherwise problematic (e.g., containing significant amounts of
       glass,  catalyst poisons,   and/or metals),     such as    MSW, into     C 4' liquid
       hydrocarbons, including gasoline and diesel fuel fractions, at economically
       favorable yields. The marginal reduction in C1-C 3 vapor yields, for the MSW
       feedstock compared to wood, may indicate that heavier hydrocarbons are
                                             68

       produced preferentially by conversion of plastics, rather than light, non
       condensable gases.
[0134] Based on these results, the use of suitable pretreating steps described herein can
       be effective to upgrade other types of initial feedstocks, including MSW
       containing higher levels of plastics, inert materials, and catalyst poisons. This is
       despite the failure of conventional processes to achieve satisfactory results and
       also despite the failure of the biomass pyrolysis and hydropyrolysis arts to even
       generally recognize or contemplate the use of pretreating steps, including those
       described herein, to upgrade very low value materials (e.g., MSW or algae) and
       render them useful for processing in an integrated process comprising the further
       steps of hydropyrolysis and hydroconversion.
[0135] Overall, aspects of the invention are associated with methods for the pretreatment
       of biomass-containing feedstocks, which methods may generally include steps
       carried out prior to a hydropyrolysis step and optionally further steps, in order to
       change one or more characteristics of the feedstock, rendering it more easily
       upgradable.    Those having skill in the art, with the knowledge gained from the
       present disclosure, will recognize that various changes could be made in these
       methods, without departing from the scope of the present invention. Mechanisms
       used to explain theoretical or observed phenomena or results, shall be interpreted
       as illustrative only and not limiting in any way the scope of the appended claims.
       Although in the foregoing specification this disclosure has been described in
       relation to certain preferred embodiments thereof, and details have been set forth
       for purpose of illustration, it will be apparent to those skilled in the art that the
       disclosure is susceptible to additional embodiments and that certain of the details
       described herein can be varied considerably without departing from the basic
       principles of the disclosure.    It should be understood that the features of the
       disclosure are susceptible to modification, alteration, changes or substitution
       without departing significantly from the spirit of the disclosure. For example, the
       dimensions, number, size and shape of the various components may be altered to
       fit specific applications.  Accordingly, the specific embodiments illustrated and
                                             69

described herein are for illustrative purposes only, and not limiting of the
invention as set forth in the appended claims.
                                     70

                                                   71
CLAIMS
1. A process for producing liquid products from a biomass-containing feedstock, the process
      comprising:
      hydropyrolyzing the biomass-containing        feedstock in a hydropyrolysis reactor vessel
          containing hydrogen and a deoxygenating catalyst, producing a hydropyrolysis reactor
          output   comprising at     least one non-condensable       gas, a partially deoxygenated
          hydropyrolysis product and char particles
      wherein the hydropyrolysis reactor vessel further comprises a sorbent having the capacity to
          adsorb corrosive species, poisons of the deoxygenating catalyst, or a combination thereof.
2. The process of claim 1, further comprising:
      removing substantially all of the char particles from the hydropyrolysis reactor output to
          provide a purified hydropyrolysis reactor vapor stream having a reduced char content;
      hydroconverting at least a portion of the purified hydropyrolysis reactor vapor stream in a
          hydroconversion reactor vessel containing hydrogen and a hydroconversion catalyst,
          producing a hydroconversion reactor output; and
      recovering a substantially fully deoxygenated hydrocarbon liquid and a gaseous mixture from
          the hydroconversion reactor output.
3.    The process of claim 2, further comprising the step of:
      steam reforming at least a portion of the gaseous mixture, producing reformed hydrogen.
4. The process of claim 3, further comprising the step of:
      introducing at least a portion of the reformed hydrogen into the hydropyrolysis reactor vessel
          for hydropyrolyzing at least a portion of the pre-reactor vapor stream.
5. The process of any one of claims 2 to 4, wherein at least about 20% of oxygen (0) in the
      feedstock is converted to CO and C02, following the hydropyrolyzing and hydroconverting
      steps.
1574062 1

                                                  72
6. The process of any one of claims 2 to 6, wherein the hydropyrolyzing step and the
      hydroconverting step are both exothermic.
7. The process of any one of claims 1 to 6, further comprising
      withdrawing a portion of the solid bed material from the hydropyrolysis reactor vessel and
          contacting the portion with a fluidizing hydrogen-containing gas stream to convert coke
          and carbon, accumulated on the solid bed material during the hydropyrolyzing step, to
          methane; and
      returning the portion of the solid bed material, having a reduced content of coke and carbon,
          to the hydropyrolysis reactor vessel.
8. The process of any one of claims 1 to 7, wherein the hydropyrolyzing step is performed using
      a fluidized bed of the deoxygenating catalyst.
9. The process of any one of claims 1 to 8, wherein the sorbent comprises a mineral having a
      basic anion.
10. The process of claim 9, wherein the basic anion is carbonate or hydroxide.
11. The process of claim 10, wherein the sorbent comprises calcium carbonate.
12. The process of any one of claims 1 to 11, wherein the biomass-containing feedstock
      comprises total chloride in an amount from about 1000 ppm to about 5000 ppm.
13. A process for producing a higher value liquid product from an initial feedstock comprising
      the steps of:
      a) pretreating the initial feedstock to produce a pretreated feedstock, wherein the pretreated
          feedstock has at a least one improved characteristic over the initial feedstock, wherein the
          at least one improved characteristic is selected from the group consisting of a reduced
          non-biological material content, a reduced average particle size, a reduced average
          particle aerodynamic diameter, an increased average particle surface area to mass ratio, a
          more uniform particle size, a reduced corrosive species content, a reduced deoxygenating
          catalyst poison content, and a reduced hydroconversion catalyst poison content; and
1574062 1

                                                     73
      b) hydropyrolyzing the pretreated feedstock in a hydropyrolysis reactor vessel containing
          hydrogen and a deoxygenating catalyst, producing a hydropyrolysis reactor output
          comprising at least one non-condensable gas, a partially deoxygenated hydropyrolysis
          product, and char particles,
          wherein the hydropyrolysis reactor vessel further comprises a sorbent having the capacity
               to adsorb corrosive species, poisons of the deoxygenating catalyst, or a combination
               thereof;
      wherein pretreating in step a) comprises (i) devolatilization and/or hydropyrolysis of said
          initial feedstock in a pre-reactor (ii) centrifuging or contacting said initial feedstock with
          a separating gas or liquid, (iii) contacting said initial feedstock with a solid sorbent, (iv)
          leaching said initial feedstock by contact with an aqueous solution, (v) physically sorting
          said initial feedstock, or (vi) in situ remediation to break, or prevent the formation of,
          particle agglomerates of said initial feedstock.
14. The process of claim 13, further comprising:
      c) removing substantially all of the char particles from the hydropyrolysis reactor output to
          provide a purified hydropyrolysis reactor vapor stream having a reduced char content;
      d) hydroconverting the purified hydropyrolysis reactor vapor stream in a hydroconversion
          reactor vessel in the presence of a hydroconversion catalyst, producing a hydroconversion
          reactor output; and
      e) recovering a substantially fully deoxygenated hydrocarbon liquid and a gaseous mixture
          from the hydroconversion reactor output,
      wherein the hydroconversion reactor output of step d) and the gaseous mixture of step e)
      include one or more contaminant gases generated from the hydrogenation of heteroatom
      containing compounds in the initial feedstock, the one or more contaminant gases selected
      from the group consisting of HCl, H2 S, and NH 3 , the process further comprising:
      f) removing at least a portion of the one or more contaminant gases from the
          hydroconversion reactor output of step d) or the gaseous mixture of step e).
1574062 1

                                                   74
15. The process of claim 13 or claim 14, wherein the sorbent comprises a mineral having a basic
      anion.
16. The process of claim 15, wherein the basic anion is carbonate or hydroxide.
17. The process of claim 17, wherein the sorbent comprises calcium carbonate.
18. The process of any one of claims 13 to 17, wherein the biomass-containing feedstock
      comprises total chloride in an amount from about 1000 ppm to about 5000 ppm.
19. A process for producing a higher value liquid product from a pretreated feedstock,
      comprising hydropyrolyzing the pretreated feedstock in a hydropyrolysis reactor vessel
      containing hydrogen and a deoxygenating catalyst, producing a hydropyrolysis reactor output
      comprising at least one non-condensable gas, a partially deoxygenated hydropyrolysis
      product, and char particles,
      wherein the hydropyrolysis reactor vessel further comprises a sorbent having the capacity to
          adsorb corrosive species, poisons of the deoxygenating catalyst, or a combination thereof;
          and
      wherein the pretreated feedstock has at a least one improved characteristic over the initial
          feedstock, wherein the at least one improved characteristic is selected from the group
          consisting of a reduced non-biological material content, a higher temperature, a reduced
          average particle size, a reduced average particle aerodynamic diameter, an increased
          average particle surface area to mass ratio, a more uniform particle size, a reduced
          deoxygenating catalyst poison content, and a reduced hydroconversion catalyst poison
          content.
20. The process of claim 19, wherein the pretreated feedstock is obtained by pretreating an initial
      feedstock    to  produce   the  pretreated   feedstock,    wherein   pretreating comprises   (i)
      devolatilization and/or hydropyrolysis of said initial feedstock in a pre-reactor, wherein the
      pre-reactor is a separate vessel from the hydropyrolysis reactor vessel (ii) centrifuging or
      contacting said initial feedstock with a separating gas or liquid, (iii) contacting said initial
      feedstock with a solid sorbent, (iv) leaching said initial feedstock by contact with an aqueous
1574062 1

                                                    75
      solution, (v) physically sorting said initial feedstock, or (vi) in situ remediation to break, or
      prevent the formation of, particle agglomerates of said initial feedstock and thereby achieve a
      desired degree of remediation.
                                          Gas Technology Institute
                      Patent Attorneys for the Applicant/Nominated Person
                                      SPRUSON & FERGUSON
1574062 1

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
