                                        Abstract:
A frictionally-retained detachable dental anchor device is provided for adjustably
attaching a dental appliance with a tooth root or implant. The dental anchor device
includes a cap secured in the dental appliance, an abutment attached with a tooth root
or implant, and a compressible retention member with a first end in fixed attachment
with the cap and a second end in snap engagement with the abutment via a frictionally
retained ball secured within a cavity of the abutment. The retention member is formed
using a compressible material to allow the ball to compress and the retention member
to flex while inserting the ball into the cavity. Additional friction-retained and fixed
attachment configurations of the dental anchor device are provided, along with
methods of securing a dental appliance in a subject's mouth by means of the friction
retained and fixed attachment dental anchor devices.

WO 2016/014730                                   PCT/US2015/041634
                                       1/21
                                      100
                            104            106
       108
  118                          >
  124                                             126
122                              ......
                                   [.....116
                                 ..........      120
               112..........
                              ................ 114.
             102........
                       ......      FIGI....

     WO 2016/014730                                                  PCT/US2015/041634
  FIXED HYBRID DENTAL ATTACHMENT ASSEMBLY AND METHODS
                                          OF USE
                                      BACKGROUND
Field of the Invention
[01]   Devices and methods provided herein relate to a dental attachment assembly for
anchoring a dental appliance with a base structure such as a tooth root or dental
implant, and more specifically to a frictionally-retained compressible ball and socket
assembly which adjustably attaches the dental appliance with the base structure.
Related Art
[02]   Dental anchoring assemblies are utilized to anchor a dental appliance with a
dental implant or tooth root, typically by fitting two or more partially-movable
components together to provide an improved fit and comfort. In some assemblies, male
and female parts have mating, snap engageable formations for releasably securing the
male part to the female part. For example, the female part has a socket and the male
part has a head for snap engagement in the socket. However, as repeated impacts of
the socket and head may damage the retentive head of the male and cause wearing
due to friction of the components as they move, a compressible annular ring may be
provided to absorb the frictional forces and act as a cushion between the socket and the
head.   However, even the ring may wear out over a period of time and need to be
replaced, requiring regular maintenance of the dental anchoring assembly that is
uncomfortable and inconvenient for the patient. Furthermore, to allow the compressible
annular ring to be easily removed and replaced, the ring may be provided with a
securing mechanism on a mating surface with the socket (such as a threaded portion),
which further adds to the cost and complexity of the dental anchor assembly.
[03]   It is therefore desirable to avoid the need for continued maintenance and simplify
the design of the dental anchoring assembly.
                                              1

     WO 2016/014730                                                   PCT/US2015/041634
                                         SUMMARY
[04]    Embodiments described herein provide for a frictionally-retained detachable
dental anchor device for adjustably attaching a dental appliance with a tooth root or
implant. The dental anchor device includes a cap secured in the dental appliance, an
abutment attached with a tooth root or implant, and a compressible retention member
with a first end in fixed attachment with the cap and a second end in snap engagement
with the abutment via a frictionally-retained ball secured within a cavity of the abutment.
The retention member is formed using a compressible material to allow the ball to
compress and the retention member to flex while inserting the ball into the cavity.
Additional friction-retained and fixed attachment configurations of the dental anchor
device are provided, along with methods of securing a dental appliance in a subject's
mouth by means of the friction-retained and fixed attachment dental anchor devices.
[05]    In one aspect of the invention, a dental attachment assembly comprises a cap for
securing with a dental appliance, the cap having an open end defining an inner cavity;
an abutment configured with an upper opening with a socket; and a retention member
configured with a threaded portion to securely attach with the cap at a first end and
configured with a spherical head to frictionally detachably attach with the socket of the
abutment at a second end to form a frictional fit between the head and the socket and
securely retain the dental appliance and abutment.
[06]    Other features and advantages of the present invention will become more readily
apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art after reviewing the following detailed
description and accompanying drawings.
                        BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[07]    The structure and operation of the present invention will be understood from a
review of the following detailed description and the accompanying drawings in which
like reference numerals refer to like parts and in which:
[08]    FIG. 1 is a side cutout view illustration of an abutment, retention member, and
cap of a dental attachment assembly, according to an embodiment of the invention;
[09]    FIGS. 1B and 1C illustrate side views of flat surfaced retention heads, according
to one embodiment of the invention;
                                              2

      WO 2016/014730                                                     PCT/US2015/041634
[10]    FIG. 2 is a side cutout view illustration of the dental attachment assembly in an
angled, unattached configuration, according to one embodiment of the invention;
[11]    FIG. 3 is a side cutout view illustration of the dental attachment assembly in an
attached, angled configuration, according to one embodiment of the invention;
[12]    FIGS. 4A, 4B and 4C are side cutout view illustrations of a process of attaching
the retention member with the abutment illustrating a compression of a ball and shaft
portion of the retention member, according to an embodiment of the invention;
[13]    FIG. 5 is a side cutout view illustration of a screw-retained dental attachment
assembly, according to an embodiment of the invention;
[14]    FIGS. 6A and 6B are exploded view illustrations of a denture cap, retention cap
and abutment of an outer surface retention configuration of a dental attachment
assembly, according to an embodiment of the invention;
[15]    FIG. 7A is a bottom side perspective view illustration of the retention cap of the
outer surface retention configuration, according to one embodiment of the invention;
[16]    FIG. 7B is a top side perspective view illustration of the retention cap of the outer
surface retention configuration, according to one embodiment of the invention
[17]    FIG. 7C is a side view illustration of the retention cap of the outer surface
retention configuration, according to one embodiment of the invention
[18]    FIG. 7D is a side cutout view illustration of the retention cap of the outer surface
retention configuration along lines C-C of FIG. 7C, according to an embodiment of the
invention;
[19]    FIG. 8 is a side view illustration of the retention cap, according to an embodiment
of the invention;
[20]    FIG. 9 is a side cutout view illustration of the retention cap along lines A-A of FIG.
8 illustrating an inner spherical retention surface of the retention cap, according to an
embodiment of the invention;
[21]    FIGS. 1OA and 1OB are side view and side cutout view illustrations, respectively,
of an acrylic pick up cap embodiment of the denture cap, according to an embodiment
of the invention;
                                                3

     WO 2016/014730                                                  PCT/US2015/041634
[22]    FIGS. 11 A and 11 B are side view and side cutout view illustrations, respectively,
of a burn out cap embodiment of the denture cap, according to an embodiment of the
invention;
[23]    FIGS. 12A and12B are side view and side cutout view illustrations, respectively,
of the abutment of the outer surface retention configuration, according to an
embodiment of the invention;
[24]    FIGS. 13A and 13B are side view and side cutout view illustrations, respectively,
of a screw-retained embodiment of the outer surface retention configuration, according
to an embodiment of the invention;
[25]    FIGS. 14A and 14B are side view and side cutout view illustrations, respectively,
of an acrylic pick up assembly of the screw-retained embodiment of the outer surface
retention configuration, according to an embodiment of the invention;
[26]    FIGS. 15A and 15B are side view and side cutout view illustrations, respectively,
of the acrylic pick up assembly of the outer surface retention configuration in an angled
orientation, according to an embodiment of the invention;
[27]    FIGS. 16A and 16B are side view and side cutout view illustrations, respectively,
of the outer surface retention configuration in an angled orientation, according to an
embodiment of the invention;
[28]    FIG. 17 is a flow diagram of a method of attaching a dental appliance with at
least one dental attachment assembly, according to an embodiment of the invention;
and
[29]    FIG. 18A illustrates one embodiment of a removal tool for removing the dental
attachment assembly in a folded configuration, according to one embodiment of the
invention;
[30]    FIG. 18B illustrates one embodiment of the removal tool in an open configuration,
according to one embodiment of the invention;
[31]    FIG. 19A and FIG. 19B are front perspective views and top views, respectively,
of the removal tool partially inserted into a space between a patient's gums and an
implant-retained denture, according to one embodiment of the invention;
                                            4

      WO 2016/014730                                                 PCT/US2015/041634
[32]     FIG. 20A is a side perspective view of the removal tool fully inserted into the
space between the patient's gums and the implant-retained denture, according to one
embodiment;
[33]     FIG. 20B is a top perspective view of the removal tool fully inserted into the
space between the patient's gums and the implant-retained denture and being threaded
by a removal pen, according to one embodiment;
[34]     FIG. 21A is a side perspective view of a removal pen with an integrated
retractable removal tool positioned adjacent to an implant-retained denture prior to
initiating a process to remove the implant-retained denture, according to one
embodiment;
[35]     FIG. 21B is a top perspective view of the removal pen with the integrated
retractable removal tool extending therefrom and being inserted into the space between
the patient's gums and the implant-retained denture, according to one embodiment;
[36]     FIG. 22A is a side perspective view of the removal pen with the integrated
retractable removal tool extending therefrom and inserted into the space between the
patient's gums and the implant-retained denture embodiments of a removal tool and
pen for removing the dental attachment assembly, according to one embodiment; and
[37]     FIG. 22B is a top perspective view of a retractable extension rod which extends
outwardly from the removal pen to provide leverage during removal of the dental
attachment assembly, according to one embodiment of the invention.
                                DETAILED DESCRIPTION
[38]     Certain  embodiments     disclosed herein    provide for   a frictionally-retained
detachable dental anchor device for adjustably attaching a dental appliance with a tooth
root or implant. The dental anchor device includes a cap secured in the dental
appliance, an abutment attached with a tooth root or implant, and a compressible
retention member with a first end in fixed attachment with the cap and a second end in
snap engagement with the abutment via a frictionally-retained ball secured within a
cavity of the abutment. The retention member is formed using a compressible material
to allow the ball to compress and the retention member to flex while inserting the ball
into the cavity. Additional friction-retained and fixed attachment configurations of the
                                             5

     WO 2016/014730                                                   PCT/US2015/041634
dental anchor device are provided, along with methods of securing a dental appliance in
a subject's mouth by means of the friction-retained and fixed attachment dental anchor
devices.
[39]   After reading this description it will become apparent to one skilled in the art how
to implement the invention in various alternative embodiments and alternative
applications. However, although various embodiments of the present invention will be
described herein, it is understood that these embodiments are presented by way of
example only, and not limitation. As such, this detailed description of various alternative
embodiments should not be construed to limit the scope or breadth of the present
invention as set forth in the appended claims.
[40]   The dental attachment device described herein functions similar to a fixed dental
attachment system, yet can be more easily removed by a dental professional using a
special tool. The dental attachment device described herein is useful to attach a dental
appliance, such as a denture, with an implant and provide a retentive force of about 10
to 75 pounds, while also providing ease of engagement of the retentive member with
the abutment due to the compressible nature of the materials used and the friction
retained snap-fit of the ball and socket components.
[41]   As will be described in detail below, the retentive member is formed from a
compressible material - such as a polymer or soft metal - to allow the retentive member
to compress and flex while being attached or detached from an abutment secured to the
implant. The compressible and flexible retentive member can then be secured with the
abutment at a variety of angles, which is often necessary when securing a dental
appliance to a plurality of implants extending at different angles across a person's upper
or lower mandible.       Additionally, the compressible ball eliminates the need for a
separate compressible annular ring to be positioned in the socket of the abutment
between the retention member and interior abutment walls, as well as the need for a
securing mechanism for securing the annular ring to the abutment walls. The dental
anchoring device is therefore easier to manufacture and requires less maintenance
once inserted.
                                               6

       WO 2016/014730                                                  PCT/US2015/041634
      A. Dental Attachment Assembly
[42]     FIG. 1 illustrates one embodiment of the dental anchoring device 100 which may
be attached with an implant (not shown) that may be anchored to a bone or other base
structure (not shown) such as a tooth root. The assembly includes an abutment 102
which is secured to the implant and a cap 104 which is secured in a recess of a dental
appliance.        A retention member 106 serves to provide the frictionally-retained
connection between the cap and the abutment. To this end, the retention member
includes a shaft 108 which is threaded at a first end 110 in a threaded connection with
the cap. A second end of the shaft which interfaces with the abutment includes a head
112 which is substantially spherical in shape and which is configured to create a
frictional fit with a socket 114 found in an upper opening 116 of the abutment. The head
includes a curved surface 118 configured to frictionally fit with a corresponding recessed
surface 120 of the socket.        Specifically, in the area of the recessed surface is an
undercut that is engaged with the head 112, but the socket does not necessarily need to
be curved to match the curved surface 118 of the head 112. In the embodiment in FIG.
1, the side walls of the head 112 are convex, while the top of the head is flat in order to
provide for a closer fit of the head 112 with the abutment. The inner surface of the
opening 116 of the abutment narrows in diameter to a point where it is configured to
securely fit the corresponding diameter of the head 112 at the mouth of the socket 114.
[43]     One benefit of the compressible material for the retentive member 106 is that the
diameter of the head 112 may be altered to increase or decrease the retentive force
provided by the frictional-fit of the head 112 and socket 114. The greater the diameter,
the more retentive force will be provided, while a smaller diameter head 112 will provide
less retentive force. As mentioned above, the retentive force may vary from anywhere
between about 10 to about 75 pounds, although some embodiments may provide as
little as about 1 pound of retentive force for use in the initial positioning of the dental
appliance and dental anchoring device.
[44]     In another embodiment illustrated in FIG. 1B and FIG. 1C, one or more sides of
the curved surface 118 may have flattened portions 119 to reduce the amount of friction
between the curved surface 118 of the head and the corresponding curved surface 120
of the socket.
                                                7

      WO 2016/014730                                                   PCT/US2015/041634
[45]    The cap 104 is configured with an annular surface 122 which may be curved to
engage with a corresponding curved outer surface 124 of the abutment, providing an
additional frictional fit for the dental attachment assembly.
[46]    In one embodiment, a ball flange 126 may be provided as one or more
protrusions extending perpendicular to the axial direction of the shaft 108 and which are
configured to contact the cap 104. The ball flange 126 serves to help locate the ball
112 within the socket 114 and cap 104 and prevent vertical movement of the assembly.
[47]    In the embodiment described herein, the retention member may be formed from
a compressible or elastomeric material such as a polymer or a soft metal, non-limiting
examples of which include polyether ether ketone (PEEK), nickel titanium (nitinol), pink
TiCN coating or titanium. In one embodiment, the surfaces may be coated with a gold
nitride coating to reduce friction.
[48]    FIG. 2 is a side cutout view illustration of the dental anchoring device in an
angled, unattached configuration illustrating the varying angles at which the retentive
member 106 may be snap-fit into the abutment. In practical applications, the implant
may protrude from the bone or tooth root at varying angles from the ideal vertical angle
due to the structure of the bone or the placement of the implant during surgery. The
dental anchoring device therefore corrects any angular displacement due to the rotation
of the head 112 in the socket 114. In one embodiment, the angle of approach of the
retentive head with respect to the abutment may vary up to about 20 degrees in any
direction from the vertically-aligned orientation shown in FIG. 1. In combination with
another implant also offset at a similar angle, the dental anchoring device may therefore
provide as much as about 40 degrees of angle correction.
[49]    FIG. 3 is a side cutout view illustration of the dental attachment assembly in the
angled orientation shown in FIG. 2 but where the retentive member 106 is now snap-fit
into the socket 114 of the abutment 102. As illustrated in FIG. 3, the head 112 may be
secured within the socket 114 despite the differential angle. Furthermore, the annular
surface 122 of the cap 104 is also still fitted around the outer curved surface 124 of the
abutment.
[50]    FIGS. 4A-4C are side cutout view illustrations of the flexing and compression of
the head 112 and shaft 108 of the retention member 106 during a process of attaching
                                                8

     WO 2016/014730                                                  PCT/US2015/041634
the retention member with the abutment at the angle already illustrated in FIGS. 2 and
3, according to an embodiment of the invention. As illustrated specifically in FIG. 4B,
the shaft 108 and head 112 of the retention member 106 are flexing and compressed
due to the angle of the abutment with respect to the retention member 106. However,
as shown in FIG. 4C, once the retention member 106 is frictionally snap-fit into the
socket 114, the flexure and compression has been reduced such that the retention
member 106 and abutment 102 provide a secure fit without inducing an undue amount
of stress on the retentive member.
    B. Screw-Retained Configuration
[51]    FIG. 5 is a side cutout view illustration of a screw-retained dental attachment
assembly, according to an embodiment of the invention, where instead of the ball and
socket configuration, a cantilevered screw 128 protrudes through the cavity 116 in the
abutment 102 and forms a threaded connection 130 with the abutment 102 to create a
fixed connection. As illustrated above with regard to FIG. 1, the annular surface 122 of
the cap 104 provides a sliding retentive surface with the outer curved surface 124 of the
abutment to allow for minimal rotation of the screw 128 and cap 104 with respect to the
abutment.
[52]    This embodiment is useful for obtaining a highly secure fit between an implant
and the dental appliance which will provide a significant retentive force. As described
further below, this configuration may only be needed for one implant where several
implants are being used to secure a dental appliance across the surface of a person's
mouth.
    C. Outer Surface Retention Configuration
[53]    In another alternative embodiment, an abutment 132 may be utilized with a
retentive cap 134 and a denture cap 136 to provide retentive force on the outer surface
of the abutment without the use of the head and socket configuration. FIGS. 6A and 6B
are exploded view illustrations of the denture cap 136, retention cap 134 and abutment
132 of an outer surface retention configuration of a dental attachment assembly,
according to an embodiment of the invention. As illustrated herein and also above in
FIG. 1, the outer surface 124 of the abutment 130 forms a curved surface which mates
with a corresponding curved surface 122 of the retention cap 132 to form a frictional fit.
                                             9

     WO 2016/014730                                                    PCT/US2015/041634
The retentive cap 134 may then be threaded with the denture cap 136 using a threaded
surface 138 on the retentive cap 134 and a corresponding threaded surface 140 on the
denture cap 136.
[54]    FIGS. 7A-7D are illustrations of the retention cap 134 of the outer surface
retention configuration, according to an embodiment of the invention, showing the
threaded surface 138. FIG. 8 is a side view illustration of the retention cap 134 showing
an acrylic finishing line 142 where acrylic from the surrounding denture can create a
smooth finish with the denture cap, according to an embodiment of the invention; and
FIG. 9 is a side cutout view illustration along lines A-A of FIG. 8 illustrating an inner
spherical retention surface 122 of the retention cap 134, according to an embodiment of
the invention.   FIG. 9 also illustrates a retention cap 134 with a vertical surface 144
which serves as a wraparound retentive feature.
[55]    FIGS. 1OA and 1OB are side view and side cutout view illustrations, respectively,
of an acrylic pick up cap 146 embodiment of the denture cap 136, according to an
embodiment of the invention; and FIGS. 11A and 11B are side view and side cutout
view illustrations, respectively, of a burn out cap 148 embodiment of the denture cap,
according to an embodiment of the invention. The acrylic pick up cap 146 includes a
plurality of retaining channels 150 that acrylic will flow through to hold a dental
appliance such as a denture with the cap 146. The burn out cap 148 is used in cast bar
situations.
[56]    FIGS. 12A and12B are side view and side cutout view illustrations, respectively,
of the abutment of the outer surface retention configuration, according to an
embodiment of the invention. The abutment has an internal thread 152 for securing
threaded components such as a healing collar, impression coping screw and Cantilever
screw. Additionally, an internal driving feature 154 is visible, which serves to tighten the
abutment into the implant.
[57]    FIGS. 13A and 13B are side view and side cutout view illustrations, respectively,
of a screw-retained embodiment of the outer surface retention configuration, according
to an embodiment of the invention, where a cantilever screw 128 is secured through an
opening of the retention cap 134 and into a threaded connection with the abutment 132.
FIGS. 14A and 14B are side view and side cutout view illustrations, respectively, of an
                                             10

     WO 2016/014730                                                    PCT/US2015/041634
acrylic pick up assembly of the screw-retained embodiment of the outer surface
retention configuration, according to an embodiment of the invention. FIGS. 15A and
15B are side view and side cutout view illustrations, respectively, of the acrylic pick up
assembly of the outer surface retention configuration in an angled orientation, according
to an embodiment of the invention. FIGS. 16A and 16B are side view and side cutout
view illustrations, respectively, of the outer surface retention configuration in an angled
orientation, according to an embodiment of the invention.
    D. Method of Use
[58]    FIG. 17 illustrates one embodiment of a method of attaching a dental appliance
to a plurality of implants using the various dental attachment assemblies described
herein.    For example, where a patient is being fitted with a complete upper or lower
denture, a plurality of implants will be inserted into the bone structure across the area
where the denture is to be placed. In some embodiments, as few as 2 or as many as 6
implants may be used. In the embodiments described herein, the frictionally-retained
dental attachment assembly may be utilized for the majority of the implants while fewer
of the implants - even just one - will utilize the fixed, or screw-retained, dental
attachment assembly. This provides flexibility in attaching the majority of the implants
with the dental appliance while still providing a fixed connection at one implant which
will ensure the retention of the entire dental appliance against any amount of retentive
force.
[59]    In a first step 1302, an abutment is secured to an implant or other root structure
that will support the dental appliance. Next, the frictionally-retained retention members
are fitted onto at least one abutment (step 1304), and at least one fixed retention
member is attached to at least one abutment (step 1306).         In step 1308, the friction
retained retention members are attached to their respective caps, and in step 1310, the
fixed retention members are attached to their respective caps. In step 1312 the non
swiveling retention member is removed from the cap and a swiveling retention member
is inserted into the cap. In step 1312, the dental appliance may be engaged onto the
abutment by the snap engagement of the retention member onto the abutment and may
be swiveled or rotated into place through use of the swivel joint between the cap and
retention member, which is further enhanced by the concave recess within the cap.
                                              11

      WO 2016/014730                                                   PCT/US2015/041634
     E. Dental Removal Tool and Pen
[60]     In one embodiment, a removal tool may be used to enable easy removal of the
friction-retained dental appliance.     The removal tool may comprise two parts - a
removal loop and a removal pen. The removal loop may be a thin, circular loop partially
inserted into a gap between a patient's gums and the dental appliance to create half
loops on either side of the gap (i.e., an outer surface of the appliance and an inner
surface of the appliance), and the removal pen may be a long, cylindrical shaft which is
inserted into respective half loops present on either side of the gums when the circular
loop is partially inserted.   The removal pen is then used as a lever to pull or push
against a portion of the dental appliance to separate the dental appliance from the
gums.
[61]     FIG. 18A and FIG. 18B illustrate one embodiment of the removal loop 202, which
is the thin, circular loop that can be threaded between a gap between a patient's gum
and the dental appliance, as will be shown below. The loop 202 may include a friction
covering or larger diameter portion 204 on a first end 202A of the loop 202 where the
removal pen 206 (shown below in FIG. 19B) will contact the loop 202 to minimize
movement of the the loop along the length of the removal pen 206. FIG. 18A illustrates
the removal loop 202 in a folded configuration as it would appear once partially inserted
into the gap between the gums and the dental appliance, while FIG. 18B illustrates the
loop 202 in a flat, unfolded configuration prior to being inserted into the gap. As seen in
FIG. 18B, the removal loop may also have a narrower diameter second end 202B to
make it easier to insert into the gap.
[62]     FIG. 19A is a side perspective view illustration of the second end 202B of the
removal loop 202 being inserted into a gap 208 between a patient's gums 210 and a
dental appliance 212, according to one embodiment of the invention. FIG. 19B is a top
perspective view illustration showing the narrow diameter second end 202B as it is
initially threaded through the gap and exposed on an inner portion of the mouth and the
dental appliance. In FIG. 20A, the loop 202 is partially inserted into the gap such that
half of the loop where the first end 202A is located is visible on an outer portion of the
mouth, while the half of the loop 202 where the second end 202B is located is visible on
an inner portion of the mouth.          When the loop 202 is moved into the folded
                                             12

     WO 2016/014730                                                   PCT/US2015/041634
configuration, as shown in FIG. 20A, the removal pen 206, shown in FIG. 20B, can be
inserted through the half loop on the outer portion and the half loop on the inner portion
of the mouth.    In one embodiment, the removal pen 206 also includes a flexible end
piece 214 which is designed to contact a top surface of the dental appliance where the
user will apply pressure when removing the dental appliance 212 with the removal pen
206.   With both half loops engaged, a user can then pull upwards (or downwards,
depending on whether the appliance is on a bottom portion of the mouth or a top portion
of the mouth) and use the force applied by the flexible end piece 214 on the dental
appliance as a lever to lift the loop 202 away from the gap 208, thus using lever action
to easily remove the dental appliance 212 without having to pull aggressively on the
dental appliance or cause discomfort to the patient.
[63]    An alternative embodiment of the removal tool 200 is illustrated in FIG. 21A,
where the loop 202 is integrated into a proximal end 216 of the removal pen 206, and
where the removal pen 206 is a housing which covers an extendible arm 218 which can
extend from either the proximal end 216 or distal end 220 of the removal pen 206 to
effectuate the removal operation. In operation, as shown in FIG. 21B, the loop 202 is
extended from the proximal end 216 and into the gap between the gums and the dental
appliance, as has been previously shown. The loop 202 may be extended from the pen
206 using a slider bar 222 or other advancing mechanism on the housing of the pen
206. Once the second 202B of the loop 202 is partially inserted into the gap, as shown
in FIG. 22A, the user can then actuate the extendible arm 218 from an extended
position on the distal end 220 to extend through the interior half loop and across the top
surface of the dental appliance, as shown in FIG. 22B. Note that because the loop 202
is integrated into the pen 206, it does not need to extend through a half loop on the
outer portion of the mouth since it is already connected with the loop on the outer
portion. With the extendible arm 218 and the flexible end piece 214 now in position
over the dental appliance, the same lever arm motion can be applied at the distal end of
the pen 206 to effectuate the removal of the dental appliance from the dental
attachment assembly.
[64]    The above description of the disclosed embodiments is provided to enable any
person skilled in the art to make or use the invention. Various modifications to these
                                            13

     WO 2016/014730                                                   PCT/US2015/041634
embodiments will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art, and the generic
principles described herein can be applied to other embodiments without departing from
the spirit or scope of the invention. Thus, it is to be understood that the description and
drawings presented herein represent a presently preferred embodiment of the invention
and are therefore representative of the subject matter which is broadly contemplated by
the present invention. It is further understood that the scope of the present invention
fully encompasses other embodiments that may become obvious to those skilled in the
art and that the scope of the present invention is accordingly not limited.
                                             14

CLAIMS
1.      A dental attachment assembly, comprising:
        a denture attachment housing for securing with a dental appliance, the
denture attachment housing having an end wall and a peripheral wall extending
from the end wall and having an open end defining an inner cavity, the end wall
having a threaded bore;
        an abutment configured with an outer surface, an outer opening and a
socket extending inward from the outer opening; and
        a retention member having opposite first and second ends, a threaded
portion at the first end configured for threaded engagement in the threaded bore of
the abutment, a shaft extending from the threaded portion, and an enlarged head
at the second end which is frictionally detachably attachable with the socket of the
abutment to form a frictional fit between the head and the socket and to retain the
dental appliance and abutment with the inner cavity of the dental attachment
housing engaged over the outer surface of the abutment.
2.      The dental attachment assembly of claim 1, wherein the threaded bore has
a closed inner end.
3.      The dental attachment assembly of claim 1, wherein the retention member
and abutment are securely retained at an angle of approximately 20 degrees.
4.      The dental attachment assembly of claim 1, wherein the retention member is
formed from a compressible material.
5.      The dental attachment assembly of claim 4, wherein the compressible
material is selected from the group consisting of polyether ether ketone (PEEK),
acetal polymer material, nickel titanium (nitinol), titanium carbo nitride (TiCN), and
titanium.
                                            15

6.      The dental attachment assembly of claim 1, wherein the shaft has an
enlarged annular flange which engages the end wall of the cavity when the
threaded portion is fully engaged in the threaded bore.
7.      The dental attachment assembly of claim 1, wherein the peripheral wall of
the denture attachment housing has a tapered outer surface which tapers outwards
in a direction towards the open end.
8.      The dental attachment assembly of claim 7, wherein the outer surface of the
peripheral wall has at least one anti-rotation flat.
9.      The dental attachment assembly of claim 7, further comprising a healing cap
configured for releasable engagement with the abutment during healing, the
healing cap having a first end, a second open end, an outer wall extending from
the first end to the second end and configured for engagement over the outer
surface of the abutment, and a stem having an enlarged end portion configured for
releasable snap engagement in the socket of the abutment, and a processing cap
and a waxing cap configured for attachment over the denture attachment housing
during processing of a dental appliance.
10.     The dental attachment assembly of claim 9, wherein the processing and
waxing caps each having a cavity for engagement over the outer surface of the
denture attachment housing, the cavity of each cap having a tapered inner surface
matching the taper of the outer surface of the denture attachment, the cavity of
each cap having a tapered inner surface matching the taper of the outer surface of
the denture attachment housing.
11.     The dental attachment assembly of claim 1, wherein the denture attachment
housing is a one part housing having an outer surface configured for bonding
directly with a dental appliance.
12.     A method of attaching a dental appliance in a patient's mouth, comprising:
                                           16

        securing a plurality of abutments to spaced implants or tooth roots in a
patient's mouth, each abutment having an outer opening and a socket extending
inward from the outer opening, the socket having an annular inward projection
forming a barb;
        securing a plurality of denture attachment housings in a dental appliance at
predetermined spaced intervals corresponding to the respective spacings between
respective abutments secured in the patient's mouth, each denture attachment
housing having an open end and an inner cavity extending inward from the open
end and having an inner end wall; and
        engaging compressible heads of a plurality of retention members into the
socket or respective aligned abutments, each retention member having a first end
secured in the inner end wall of a respective denture attachment housing, and
frictionally engaging each compressible head with the annular inward projection of
the respective abutment socket to form a frictional fit, whereby the barbs of the
respective abutment sockets bite into the material of compressible heads to resist
removal of the retention members from the sockets.
                                           17

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
