           01 2018
Documntm4-23
                                          ABSTRACT
A bone plate system for fixation of bone, the system comprising: a bone plate comprising a
bone contacting surface, an upper surface, and a first opening extending between the bone
contacting surface and the upper surface, the first opening comprising a lower portion, a non
threaded upper portion, and a threaded portion converging towards the lower portion, the
threaded portion comprising threads of a first material, the lower portion comprising a smallest
diameter of the first opening; and a first fastener comprising a head at least partially
comprising a polymeric material that is softer than the first material, wherein, when the first
fastener is inserted into the first opening, the threads of the first opening form threads in the
polymeric material on the head of the first fastener to secure the first fastener in place at one of
a plurality of possible angles within the first opening.

           1/15
                   10
18     84
                         80
   12-
                      88
                 82
          FIG. 1

  5             SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR USING POLYAXIAL PLATES
            The disclosure of the complete specification of Australian Patent Application No.
    2006272646 as originally filed is incorporated herein by reference.
             This is a divisional of Australian Patent Application Nos 2013202741 and
1   <removed-apn>, the entire contents of both of which are incorporated herein by reference.
            This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application Serial No.
    60/702,231 filed July 25, 2005 titled "Locking Screw", the entire contents of which is
    hereby incorporated by reference.
15                                BACKGROUND OF THE I NVENTI ON
            The present invention relates generally to orthopedic fixation devices and bone
    plating systems for fracture fixation, and particularly to systems and methods for
    using bone plates that provide polyaxial fixation of fasteners.
            Bone fractures are often repaired by securing a bone plate across the fracture.
20  Depending upon which bone is to be treated, the bone plate may be straight or curved
    to match the contour of the bone for which it is designed. Bone plates may also be
    provided in many shapes and sizes. In cases where a bone is severely comminuted or
    if bone segments are missing, the use of bone plate and screw systems promotes
    healing of the fracture by providing a rigid fixation or support structure between the
25  bone and the plate.
            Bone plates may be secured to the bone in a number of ways. An existing
    solution is a plate and screw system where the screws are locked in the plate. A bone
    screw is threaded through an opening in the plate and into the bone. The screw is
    then secured to the bone plate via threads in the screw head that cooperate with
30  threaded openings in the bone plate. This secures the plate wA    ith respect to the bone
    and provides rigid fixation because the relationship between the plate and screw(s) is
    fixed. Because the head of the locking screw interdigitates with threads in the plate,
    the plate and screw(s) form one stable system, and the stability of the fracture can be
    dependent upon the stiffness of the construct. Locking a screw into the plate can
35  achieve angular and axial stability and eliminate the possibility for the screw to toggle,
    slide, or be dislodged, reducing the risk of postoperative loss of reduction.
            However, although may reduce the incidence of loosening, they provide only
    one fixed angle relationship between the plate and the screw(s). They have a limited
    insertion angle because the threads of the head mate with the threads of the hole
40  in one way only. The longitudinal axis of the screw lines up with the central axis of the
                                                 1

      hole, and no angular variation is allowed. In short, locking screws are unidirectional,
      limiting their use in some instances.
              For example, when treating a severe fracture, fragments may be shattered
     and in irregular positions. Although a surgeon may wish to obtain the benefits of a
  5   locking screw and bone plate used together, the angle at which the locking screw
     extends from the plate at a certain opening may not be the angle that would allow
     the surgeon to "grab" (or seize, or otherwise secure) the desired, random bone
     fragment. In this case, the surgeon may need to secure the plate to the bone
     somewhere else, or use a non-locking screw. Although non-locking screws do not
 10  lock into the plate, they can be inserted at various angles.
              Specifically, non-locking screws are secured into bone in the same way that
     locking screws are, but they are not secured to the plate. Their heads are typically
     rounded where they contact the bone plate. Thus, one advantage of non-locking
     screws is that they can be inserted at various angles because they are not limited by
15   the thread-to-thread contact of locking screws with the bone plate. However, If the
     surgeon desires the rigid stable construct of a locking screw and plate, the use of a
     non-locking screw to obtain the desired angular orientation is not necessarily
     optimal.
             There have been bone plating systems developed that provide the surgeon
20  with the option of choosing a non-locking or a locking screw. In some embodiments,
    these systems provide plates with some threaded holes (that may receive with either
     locking screws or non-locking screws) and some non-threaded holes (for non-locking
     screws). There are also systems that provide partially threaded slots to allow either
     non-locking or locking screws to be used together. Such combination slots provide
25  surgeons with the intraoperative choice about whether to use the plate with locking
    screws, non-locking screws, or with a combination of both. These combination slots
    typically have a partially threaded opening that can receive either a compression
    screw or a locking screw. However, because these combination slots are only
    partially threaded, the locking screw(s) may not be able to maintain the fixed angular
30  relationship between the screw(s) and plate under physiological loads. Specifically,
    the locking screws within the plate are only partially captured and thus only partially
    surrounded by threads. Under high stress and loading conditions, the slot may
    distort and allow the fixed angular relationship between the locking screw and plate
                                                 2

      to change. This can result in loss of fixation or loss of established intraoperative
      plate orientation. Moreover, the locking screw can still only be inserted at a single
      angle - the predetermined angle defined by the manufacturer.
             Additionally, current bone plate and screw systems still limit a surgeon's ability
  5  to both (a) lock a fastener with respect to the bone plate, but still (b) allow the
     fastener to extend from the bone plate at various angles. Locking screws lock Into
     the plate, but only in a single angular configuration, and non-locking screws allow
     various angle configurations, but they do not provide a stable construct with the
     plate. Accordingly, none of these options allow a surgeon to capture bone fragments
 10  that do not fall in line with the axis of the opening provided on the plate in a rigid
     fashion. As example of this problem Is shown In FIG. 21. Thus, currently available
     options can still lead to malalignment and poor clinical results.
             There have, however, been some attempts to provide polyaxial locking
     systems. For example, one effort includes providing holes that accept fixed angle
15   locking pegs and multidirectional locking pegs, with a threaded cap inserted over the
     multidirectional peg to hold it into place. Such a system can be cumbersome to use
     because although the multidirectional peg can be inserted at any angle, the surgeon
     then needs to thread a small cap onto the top of the peg head and into the plate,
     requiring an extra step, extra time, and extra instrumentation. Such systems also fail
20  to allow the use of non-locking members in conjunction with the locking and
    multidirectional pegs.
            Other systems that have attempted to offer polyaxial fixation include providing
    a bone plate with Inserts at the hole peripheries made out of a deformable material,
    with the remaining part of the plate made of titanium. The plate is manufactured and
25  the inserts are then pushed into the hole peripheries and engaged In place by
    deformation and pressure. When screws are inserted, the inserts deform and are
    compressed between the edges of the holes of the plate, which holds the screws
    and inserts in place. Challenges with such systems are that they cannot be used
    with non-locking screws, the inserts do not have the strength to receive and hold a
30  regular locking screws, (i.e., they do not provide the surgeon with options), and
    plates with deformable inserts are more expensive to manufacture than regular bone
    plates. Other attempts have failed to provide adequate locking mechanisms.
                                                 3

            Another attempt at polyaxial fixation includes a plate with holes that have an
    internal jacket with recesses that extend away from the axis of the hole or into the
    internal jacket surface. This attempt is described in International Application WO
    2005/018472, titled Bone Plate. The internal jacket surface of the plate described in
 5  that application is threaded or has ribs or protuberances. A bone screw is intended
    to be pulled into the hole of the plate by the internal jacket surface. If the bone screw
    head is threaded, when the screw In Inclined, the threaded head is intended to "jump
    over" the pitches of the threads in the hole of the plate interrupted by the recesses,
    without "cutting through" them. The goal of the invention Is provide a bone plate that
10  can have bone screws Introduced at an angle that is different from the specified axis
    of the hole and secured into position.
            However, some of the problems encountered by this attempted solution are
    that (1) threaded openings in bone plates typically require the plate to be of a certain
    thickness and thus, do not lend themselves to use with a thin plate, (2) threaded
15  openings can be difficult and more expensive to manufacture than non-threaded
    openings in a bone plate, and (3) threaded openings can take more effort in use
    because the surgeon needs to have the appropriate alignment for use. Moreover,
   the threads of this application are short because they are interrupted by the recesses
   so it is likely that a fastener will not actually "grab" the threads to get good
20 engagement.
           Accordingly, there exists a need for an Improved bone plating system that
   overcomes the deficiencies of the prior art.         There is a need for a system that
   provides a stable connection between a bone and a bone plate using a fastener that
   permits different angles to be obtained between the bone plate and the fastener,
25 while the fastener also locks into the bone plate. This would allow surgeons to
   capture random bone fragments that are in irregular positions, for example, In cases
   of severe fractures with highly fragmented bone fragments.            In these and other
   cases, it would be advantageous to provide a fastener and plate system that allows
   the surgeon to choose the angle at which the screw is inserted through, and rigidly
30 affixed In, an opening of the plate.
           Such an improvement would allow a surgeon to direct the fastener toward
   bone fragments that are not necessarily located directly beneath the opening in the
   plate. it would also provide flexibility In the placement of the plate in relation to the
                                                 4

     bone fracture. Allowing surgeons to choose the angle at which the fastener is
     inserted into the plate would lead to better talforing of the system to the specific
     nature of the bone fracture to be treated. It would also allow surgeons to adjust their
     strategy as necessary after the surgical site has been accessed, but prior to insertion
  5  of the fastener into bone material. Additionally, in situations where it is desirable to
     insert a fastener into a plate in a coaxial or polyaxial direction, the embodiments
    described herein would provide such a secure fit.
 10                          BRIEF SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
            Embodiments of the present invention relate to a bone fixation assembly that
    can provide polyaxial fixation. The polyaxial fixation may be provided by fins that
    protrude from an opening in a bone plate or fins that protrude from a fastener head.
    For example, according to one aspect of the invention, there may be provided a
 15 polyaxial bone fixation assembly comprising
            (a)     a bone plate comprising a lower surface, an upper surface and at least
                   one opening extending from the lower surface to the upper surface;
            (b)    a fastener that is insertable through the opening; and
            (c)    at least one member of co-operation between the opening and the
20                 fastener comprising a plurality of protruding fins located within the
                   opening or on the fastener.
            In a specific aspect or embodiment, the opening has a non-threaded inner
    surface and wherein the fins are located on the inner surface.
            Further embodiments have fins that are a series of concavely indented,
25  inwardly protruding fins that are adapted to secure a threaded head of a fastener in
    place at varying angles.
            According to a further embodiment, the opening isfurther defined by a round
    circumference at the upper surface and a jagged circumference formed by the
    protruding fins at the lower surface.
30          According to a further embodiment, the protruding fins form a concave portion
    of the inner surface.
            According to an even further embodiment, the protruding fins have bases that
    meet the inner surface in substantially the same plane.
                                                  5

      WO 2007/014192                                                         PCT/US2006/028778
            According to another embodiment, the fastener has a threaded head adapted
     to engage with the protruding fins.
            Another embodiment provides fins that have a tapered shape, a straight
     shape, a rectangular shape, or a triangular shape.
  5         A further embodiment provide a bone plate with the opening located on the
     head.
             In further specific aspect or embodiment, the fastener has a head with fins,
    wherein the fins are adapted to cooperate with threads in a bone plate.
            According to another embodiment, the fins are provided in more than one
 10  layer.
            Another embodiment provides the opening in the bone plate with one or more
    rectangular threads.
            In a further embodiment, the fins are trapezoidally-shaped, rounded, oval,
    rectangular, curved, rhomboid, diamond-shaped, or triangular. The fins may also
15  have the edges of fins taper inwardly, outwardly, or are about parallel with one
    another.
            According to a further embodiment, the bone plate is adapted to contact a
    femur, a distal tibia, a proximal tibia, a proximal humerus, a distal humerus, a
    clavicle, a fibula, an ulna, a radius, bones of the foot, or bones of the hand.
20          Further embodiments have a bone plate with one or more of the following
    features:
            (a)      contoured, straight, or flat;
            (b)       a head portion that is contoured to match a particular bone surface;
            (c)      a head that flares out to form an L-shape, T-shape, or Y-shape; and
25          (d) any combination thereof.
            Other embodiments provide the bone plate with one or more of the follow
    openings:
            (a)     a threaded opening;
            (b)     a non-threaded opening;
30          (c)     an opening adapted to receive locking or non-locking fasteners;
            (d)     a combination slot; or;
            (e)     any combination thereof.
                                                   6

             Other aspects of the Invention also provide methods for securing a bone plate
     to a bone using polyaxial fixation. For example, one aspect provides a method for
     securing a bone plate to a bone using polyaxial fixation, comprising:
             (a)     providing a bone plate comprising a lower surface, an upper surface,
  5                  and at least one opening extending from the lower surface to the upper
                     surface, the opening having a non-threaded inner surface with one or
                     more protruding fins located on the inner surface;
             (b)     providing a fastener having a shaft and a head, the head having at
                     least one set of threads adapted to cooperate with the protruding fins;
10           (c)     inserting the fastener into the opening of the bone plate and allowing
                     the at least one set of threads to engage the fins of the plate; and
             (d)     securing the bone plate to bone.
            Another aspect provides a method for securing a bone plate to a bone using
     polyaxial fixation, comprising:
15           (a)     providing a bone plate comprising a lower surface, an upper surface,
                    and at least one opening extending from the lower surface to the upper
                    surface; the opening having one or more threads;
            (b)     providing a fastener having a shaft and a head, the head having at
                    least one set of fins adapted to cooperate with threads of the plate;
20          (c)     inserting the fastener into the opening of the bone plate and allowing
                    the one or threads to engage the fins of the fastener head; and
            (d)     securing the bone plate to bone.
            Embodiments of the above aspects Include using polyaxial fixation to draw a
    bone fragment into alignment.
25          Another embodiment includes inserting a locking screw or a non-locking
    screw Into the bone plate.
            "Embodiment" as used herein can be considered to mean an aspect or object
    of the invention, and vice versa.
30
           BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE SEVERAL VIEWS OF THE DRAWINGS
            FIG. 1 shows a perspective view of a bone plate having fins according to one
    embodiment of the invention with a fastener inserted therein.
                                                   7

            FIG. 2 shows a top perspective view of an opening in a bone plate according
    to one embodiment of the invention.
            FIG. 3 shows a top view of a bone plate having multiple openings, with a
    fastener inserted therein.
  5         FIG. 4 shows an underneath view of the bone plate of FIG. 3.
            FIG. 5 shows a side perspective view of a bone plate with fasteners inserted
    therein to illustrate a few of the multiple angles at which the plate can receive a
    fastener.
            FIG. 6 shows an example of a fastener for use with various bone plates
10  described herein.
           FIG. 7 shows a top plan view of an alternate embodiment of an opening in a
    bone plate.
           FIG. 8 shows a perspective view of the bone plate of FIG. 7.
           FIG. 9 shows a top plan view of a further embodiment of an opening In a bone
15  plate.
           FIG. 10 shows a perspective view of the bone plate of FIG. 9.
           FIGS. 11- 15 show alternate shapes and types of bone plates that may be
    used with various embodiments of this invention.
           FIG. 16 shows a cross-section view of an alternate embodiment having a
20  finned fastener Inplace in a bone plate.
           FIG. 17 shows a side perspective view of a fastener having a finned head
    according to one embodiment of the invention.
           FIG. 18 shows a top perspective view of the fastener of FIG. 17.
           FIG. 19 shows a top perspective view of a bone plate that may be used to
25  receive the fastener of FIGS. 17 and 18.
           FIG. 20 shows a cross-section of the threads of the plate of FIG. 19.
           FIG. 21 shows an example of a fracture that may be treated with various
    embodiments of the invention.
30                      DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
           Embodiments of the present invention provide a bone fixation assembly that
    can accept and fix fasteners at a plurality of angles, A specific embodiment of a
    bone fixation assembly 10 is shown as a bone plate 12 and fastener 80 in FIG. 1. As
                                                 8

    shown in more detail In FIGS. 2-4, bone plate 12 has a lower surface 14 and an
    upper surface 16 and one or more openings 18 that extend from the lower surface
    14 to the upper surface 16.
            The embodiments described herein may be used In connection with any type
 5  of bone plate, non-limiting examples of which are shown In FIGS. 11-16. Plate 12
    may be adapted to contact one or more of a femur, a distal tibia, a proximal tibia, a
    proximal humerus, a distal humerus, a clavicle, a fibula, an ulna, a radius, bones of
   the foot, or bones of the hand. The bone plate may be curved, contoured, straight,
   or flat. It may be a periarticular plate or a straight plate. An example of a straight
10 plate In shown in FIG. 11. Plate may have a head portion that is contoured to match
   a particular bone surface, such as a metaphysis or diaphysis, flares out from the
   shaft portion, that forms an L-shape, T-shape, Y-shape, with the shaft portion, or that
   forms any other appropriate shape to fit the bone to be treated. An example of a T
   shaped plate is shown in FIGS. 12-15, the openings on the plates In those figures
15 are described In more detail below.
           Bone plate 12 may be comprised of titanium, stainless steel, cobalt chrome,
   plastic - such as polyetheretherketone (PEEK), polyethylene, ultra high molecular
   weight polyethylene (UHMWPE), or a carbon composite - resorbable polylactic acid
   (PLA), polyglycolic acid (PGA), combinations or alloys of such materials or any other
20 appropriate material that has sufficient strength to be secured to and hold bone,
   while also having sufficient biocompatibility to be implanted into a body. Although
   the above list of materials includes many typical materials out of which bone plates
   are made, it should be understood that bone plates comprised of any appropriate
   material are within the scope of this invention.
25         Opening 18 of plate 12 is shown having a central axis 20, and it is adapted to
   receive a fastener. The fastener may be any typical, standard locking fastener or a
   non-locking fastener, although the embodiments described herein are intended for
   particular use with locking fasteners that have a series of threads on their heads.
   FIGS. 5-6 show examples of fastener 80 that may be used in accordance with
30 embodiments of this invention. As shown specifically in FIG. 6, fastener 80 has a
   shaft 82 and a head 84.       Shaft 82 may be threaded or otherwise configured to
   engage bone. It may be fully threaded, partially threaded, comprise a helical blade,
   and/or may comprise one or more tacks, deployable talons, expanding elements, or
                                               9

      so forth. Any feature that allows shaft 82 to engage bone is considered within the
      scope of this invention and may be referred to generally as a "threaded shaft" for the
      sake of convenience. It is also possible, however, that shaft 82 is not threaded, so
      that fastener 80 takes the form of a peg or a pin. This alternative embodiment may
  5   be preferred in certain procedures where, for instance, the main goal is to prevent
      tilting of a bone segment, or in procedures where there is no concern of fastener 80
      pulling out from the bone and hence no need for shaft 82 to be threaded or otherwise
      configured to engage bone. For the sake of reference, shaft 82 is also shown having
      a longitudinal axis 86. The end of shaft 82 may be a self-tapping or self-drilling tip,
 10   as shown in more detail In FIG. 5.
               The head 84 of fastener 80 preferably has at least one set of threads 88.
     Threads 88 are typically any standard-type thread. For example, the threads 88 may
      be a continuous ridge or a non-continuous ridge. It may comprise a portion of a
      revolution, one complete revolution, multiple revolutions, a single lead, or multiple
 15   leads, or any other threads known in the art. Additionally or alternatively, head 84 of
     fastener 80 may Include any other surface that will engage with and seat within
     specific features of plate (described further below). For example, head S4 may have
     a series of dimples, ridges, bumps, textured areas, or any other surface that can
     secure fastener 80 as described herein. As will be described in more detail below,
20   threads 88 of head are adapted to engage, associate with, or otherwise cooperate
     with fins 24 of opening 18. In short, any type of threaded fastener head is intended
     for use with various embodiments of this invention.
              Referring to FIG. 2, it can be seen that the embodiment shown has an
     opening 18 with an inner surface 22 that is defined by a series of concavely
25   indented, inwardly protruding fins 24. Fins 24 extend Into opening 18 toward central
     axis 20. The bases 26 of fins 24 form a concave portion 28 at or near a round
     circumference 30 of upper surface 16. (The term "round" circumference is intended
    to refer to any round shape, such an a circle, an oval, an egg-shaped circumference,
    or any other opening shaped to receive the head of a fastener 80.) The bases 26 of
30  the fins 24 may all meet In substantially the same plane and then angle downwardly
    and inwardly at a similar angle or slope.
              It bears noting that the concave portion 28 is smooth and non-threaded. In
    fact, there are not any threads on concave portion 28 or anywhere on Inner surface
                                                10

   22 of opening 18. The lack of threads helps ease the manufacturing of plate 12, and
   allows plate be manufactured as thinly as desired.
           For example, the thickness of plate 12 and the dimensions of fins 24 are
   typically dependent upon the pitch and threads of fastener 80. For example, a larger
 5 plate 12 for use with a larger fastener (e.g., for use on a femur bone) will likely be
   thicker and will have larger and thicker fins than a smaller plate (e.g., for use on a
   smaller bone). In specific embodiments, the fins 24 are particularly thin so that they
   can be moved up or down and deformed upon pressure. In some embodiments, the
   fins may be pressed toward the edges of the plate opening.               A non-limiting
10 exemplary range of thicknesses for fins may be from about 0.5 mm to about 5 mm,
   although larger and smaller sizes are possible. In theory, the fins 24 are intended to
   fit between crimps on the threadform of fastener 80, as shown in FIG. 1.
           Providing a non-threaded inner surface 22 also allows the fastener 80 to be
   inserted into opening 18 at any desired angle, because there are not any threads to
15 interfere with the desired angle, as Illustrated by FIG. 5. The fins 24 are Intended to
   slightly bend or deform in order to secure the fastener 80 in place in opening 18.
   Fins 24 actually engage threads 88 or other surface of fastener 10.
           Referring back to FIG. 2, in the embodiment shown, as fins 24 extend toward
   central axis 20, they taper to form tapered sides 32. The fins end at rounded tip 34,
20 although tips 34 can be pointed, square, rectangular, or any other appropriate
   configuration. For example, as shown In FIGS. 7 and 8, fins 24 may have straight
   edges or sides 42 and straight ends 44. This embodiment shows fins 24 that are
   partially rectangular-shaped. The openings 46 between fins 24 are slit-shaped.
           An alternate embodiment is shown in FIGS. 9 and 10, which illustrate fins 24
25 wIth a more triangular shape. In this embodiment, fins 24 are shown having sides 52
   that taper inwardly and edges 54 that are flat and small, forming the apex area 56
   where sides 52 come to an end. Openings 58 between fins 24 are more elongated
   than openings 46. Both sets of openings 46, 58 in these alternate embodiments are
   shown having rounded backs 60, where they meet Inner surface 22 of opening 18. It
30 should be understood however, that these are merely examples of fin 24 shapes and
   openings 46, 58 and that any appropriate shapes are possible and considered within
   the scope of this invention.      Non-limiting examples include trapezoidal, square,

     round, circular, triangular (with a pointed tip instead of apex area 56), and any other
     possible option.
            As shown in FIG. 4, a second circumference 36 at the lower or underneath
     surface 14 of plate 12 may appear to be more jagged than the round circumference
  5  30 at the upper surface 16 due to the fins 24 forming a portion of lower surface 14.
     The circumference can appear almost *flower-like" - each fin 24 appears to form a
     petal of the circumference. Alternatively, for the embodiments of FIGS. 7-10, the
    second circumference will appear similar to the shape created by fins 24.
            Although the figures show an opening 18 with about five to eight fins 24, It
 10 should be understood that any number of fins 24 is considered within the scope of
    this invention. For example, there may be two or three fins, or ten or twenty or more
    fins 24, depending upon the plate for which the opening 18 is intended for use.
            The primary purpose of fins 24 Is to grasp one or more threads 88 of a
    threaded head fastener in order to secure the fastener in place in the bone plate 12,
15  but at any angle. For example, as opposed to threaded openings (which engage the
    threads of the head of the fastener in one way only, limiting the surgeon's ability to
    angle the fastener as desired), the fins 24 of this embodiment are still intended to
    secure the threads of the head of fastener in place, but at any angle. As the fastener
    is inserted, its threads start to engage the fins 24, as shown in FIG. 1. As discussed
20  above, the fins 24 may be very thin so that as the head threads 88 start to grab fins
    24, the fins 24 may move up or down as appropriate to engage the threads 88 and
    secure the fastener 80. In short, the threads 88 engage fins 24 (or fit in between fins
    24). In most cases, this movement of fins 24 is a permanent deformation, so that the
    fins cannot flex back and allow the fastener to work its way out.
25         As discussed above, finned openings 18 may be provided on all types of bone
    plates, examples of which are shown in FIGS. 11-15. FIG. 11 shows a specific
    example of an opening 18 with fins 24 (referred to as a finned opening 18), a smooth
    opening 60, a threaded opening 62, and a provisional pin opening 64. Other options
    are holes that can be used with either a threaded or non-threaded fastener, as well
30  as combination slots. It should be understood that these various types of openings
    may be used on any types of bone plates, in any combination and in any size,
    examples of which are shown in FIGS. 12-15. FIG. 12 shows a plurality of finned
    openings 18 In the head 70 of bone plate 12. This may help achieve better fixation
                                                12

   of a fractured bone, because the fastener can be inserted at various angles to
   capture "renegade" or random bone fragments that have split from the bone during
   fracture, but still secure the bone fragments to the plate. For example, If a wrist bone
   is broken, there will be numerous fragments that may shatter in various directions.
 5 The plates 12 with finned openings 18 described herein can be used to place a
   fastener 8- at various angles in order to capture the renegade fragments that would
   otherwise not be secured to a bone plate using only a locking or a non-locking
   fastener.    It should additionally be understood that other types of openings (in
   addition to or Instead of finned openings 18) may be present In the head 70, as well
10 as elsewhere on plate 12.
           As previously mentioned, fastener 80 may be any typical fastener, made out
   of any appropriate material. It will typically have a bore for receiving a driver in order
   to secure fastener into bone and into plate 12. The receiving bore may be any size
   and shape, for example, it may have a hexagonal configuration to receive a
15 corresponding hexagonal driver, a Phillips screw head, a flat-head, a star
   configuration, Torx, or any other appropriate configuration that can cooperate with a
   driver to place fastener.
           Turning now to the methods of implantation, the surgeon accesses the
   surgical site of interest, which can be an internal site at which a bone fracture is
20 located that requires stabilization to ensure proper healing. The fracture may be
   reduced with conventional forceps and guides (which are known to those in the art),
   and a bone plate of appropriate size and shape is placed over the fracture site. In
   some Instances, the bone plate may be temporarily secured to the bone using
   provisional fixation pins. In the bone plates shown in FIGS. 11 and 12, provisional
25 fixation pins may be used through either the provisional pin openings, or any other
   opening (threaded or non-threaded or finned) in the plate.           Provisional fixation
   provides for temporarily securing the bone plate to the bone before placing fixation
   screws through the bone plate, so that one can be certain the bone plate is properly
   positioned before placing bone screws for permanent fixation of the bone plate to the
30 bone. Moreover, with provisional fixation, x-rays can be taken of the bone
   plate/construct without excess Instruments In the field of view.
                                                13

               Once the plate 12 is secured at a desired location in relation to the fracture
     (typically using one or more provisional fixation pins, although any other appropriate
     method may be used), the surgeon then identifies an Insertion angle, or the direction
     along which fastener 80 Is to be inserted through a selected opening 18 and driven
  5  into bone material. If bone plate 12 includes more than one opening, as shown in
     the figures, the surgeon also selects the specific opening to be used. After selecting
     the desired Insertion angle and opening, the surgeon inserts shaft fastener 80
     through opening 18 until the tip contacts bone material. In some cases, a hole may
     need to be drilled or tapped into the bone along the insertion angle to facilitate the
 10  initial tapping or insertion of fastener 80. The surgeon then uses an appropriate
     driving tool in the receiving bore of head 84 to manipulate the fastener 80 into place.
               Because fastener 10 may be inserted at angles other than the aligned with the
     central axis 20 of the opening 18, as shown in FIG. 5, fastener 80 may be used to
     grab or secure bone fragments that are out of line with the traditional angle at which
 15  a locking screw would normally be inserted. The surgeon may need to toggle or
     maneuver the fastener 80 in order to secure and draw in displaced bone fragments.
              Once the bone fragment is secured, the fastener 80 is ready to be secured to
    the plate 12. As fastener 80 is driven further into bone, it is also drawn further into
    plate 12. As threads 88 of fastener head 84 begin to contact fins 24, the fins are
20  allowed to engage within the threads to hold the fastener 80 in place in the desired
    angle, even angles that are other than in line with the central axis 20. The action of
    engagement between fins 24 and threads 88 rigidly affixes fastener 80 to the bone
    plate 12 at the desired insertion angle. In some embodiments, the surgeon may then
    use traditional locking and/or non-locking screws in other openings on plate. This
25  can help further secure the bone plate to the bone fracture if needed. One
    advantage of opening 18 is that it is adapted to receive any one of the potential
    fasteners that may be used with plate 12.
              In some Instances, once all fasteners and/or screws are placed, the surgeon
    may place covers over the unused openings, particularly if there are any unused
30  openings that cross the fracture in order to strengthen the plate 12. Additionally or
    alternatively, the surgeon may use bone graft material, bone cement, bone void filler,
    and any other material to help heal the bone.
                                                14

             An alternate embodiment of a fixation assembly is shown in FIGS. 16-18.
     These figures show a fastener 102 with a finned head 104, Specifically, the finned
     head 104 comprises a receiving bore 106 at its upper portion 108 and at least one
     set of extending fins 110 around the main portion 112 of the head 104. Fins 110 are
  5  shown as being square or trapezoidally-shaped with tapered edges, although they
     may be any other shape, such as rounded, oval, rectangular, curved, rhomboid,
     diamond-shaped, triangular or any other appropriate shape. The edges 111 of fins
     110 may taper inwardly, outwardly, or be about parallel with one another. Fins 110
     may be provided in a single row around head 104 or layered in multiple rows as
 10  shown. If layered in multiple rows, each individual fin 110 may be directly above
     another fin (so the top of the fastener 100 looks like that shown in FIG. 18).
     Alternatively, each individual fin 110 In a lower layer may be offset from a fin in a
     higher layer. The number of fins 24 in a set may also vary from about two or three
     up to any desired number that can fit on main portion 112 of head 104. As with the
 15  fins 24 of opening 18 described above, the fins 110 are preferably quite thin, the
     thickness varying depending upon the use of fastener and plate. For example, a
     larger fastener 102 for use with a larger plate (e.g., for use on a femur bone) will
     likely have larger and thicker fins 110 than a smaller fastener (e.g., for use on a
    smaller bone). In specific embodiments, the fins 110 are particularly thin so that they
20  can be moved up or down or compressed upon pressure. A non-limiting exemplary
    range of thicknesses for fins may be from about 0.5 mm to about 5 mm, although
    larger and smaller sizes are possible. In theory, the fins 110 are intended to fit
    between the threadform of plate. Fastener may also have a shaft 114 that is
    threaded or unthreaded, as described above with respect to fastener 80.
25           Fastener 102 may be used with any bone plate that has a threaded opening.
    Any of the examples shown in the figures are described above may be used with
    fastener 102. One option of a specific bone plate that can be used with fastener 110
    is shown in FIG. 19. This bone plate 120 has Acme threads 124 that have a more
    rectangular shape than the pointed, sharp threads that are typically used in bone
30  plates. As shown in FIG. 20, opening 122 has threads 124 that end at their edges
    126 In a rectangular shape. Providing a rectangular shape with a flatter edge 126
    allows a larger channel for the fins 110 to engage.         In an even more specific
    embodiment, the threads 124 may be angled at about 15-20* off of the central axis
                                               15

     130 of opening 122, and even more specifically, at about 180 off of the central axis
     130.
             An example of the method of use is similar to that describe above. As
     fastener 102 is being inserted into bone plate 120 (although it should be understood
  5  that any traditional bone plate may used; Acme threads are not a requirement), the
     fins 110 are intended to engage threads of the plate and, much like the fins of the
     bone plate described above, fins 110 are very thin so that as the threads of plate
     start to grab the fins 110, the fins 110 may move up or down as appropriate to
     engage the threads of plate and secure the fastener 102 in place, as shown in FIG.
10   16. In most cases, this movement of fins 110 is a permanent deformation, so that
    the fins cannot flex back and allow the fastener to work its way out.
             The foregoing description of exemplary embodiments of the invention has
    been presented only for the purposes of Illustration and description and is not
    Intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise forms disclosed.
15  Many modifications and variations to the structures and methods recited above and
    shown in the drawings are possible without departing from the scope or spirit of the
    above disclosure and the following claims. The embodiments were chosen and
    described in order to explain the principles of the invention and their practical
    application so as to enable others skilled in the art to make and utilize the invention
20  and various embodiments and with various modifications as are suited to the
    particular use contemplated.      Alternative embodiments will become apparent to
    those skilled in the art to which the present invention pertains without departing from
    its spirit and scope.
25
                                                16

   THE CLAIMS DEFINING THE INVENTION ARE AS FOLLOWS:
    1.     A bone plate system for fixation of bone, the system comprising:
           a) a bone plate comprising a bone contacting surface, an upper surface, and a
 5 first opening extending between the bone contacting surface and the upper surface,
   the first opening comprising a lower portion, a non-threaded upper portion, and a
   threaded portion converging towards the lower portion, the threaded portion
   comprising threads of a first material, the lower portion comprising a smallest
   diameter of the first opening; and
10         b) a first fastener comprising a head at least partially comprising a polymeric
   material that is softer than the first material,
           wherein, when the first fastener is inserted into the first opening, the threads of
   the first opening form threads in the polymeric material on the head of the first
   fastener to secure the first fastener in place at one of a plurality of possible angles
15 within the first opening.
   2.      The system of claim 1, wherein the polymeric material comprises polyethylene.
   3.      The system of claim 1, further comprising a second fastener comprising a shaft
20 for engaging bone and a head having fins, wherein, when the second fastener is
   inserted in the first opening, the fins on the head of the second fastener engage the
   threads of the first opening to secure the second fastener in place at one of a plurality
   of possible angles within the first opening.
25 4.      The system of claim 1, wherein the first opening comprises an axis and
   wherein the first opening is asymmetrical about the axis.
   5.      The system of claim 1, wherein the upper portion is adjacent the upper surface
   of the plate and comprises a substantially frustoconical-shaped and the lower portion
30 is adjacent the bone contacting surface of the plate and comprises at least some of
   the threads.
   6.      The system of claim 5, wherein the upper portion of the first opening comprises
   a ramp and a generally spherical-shaped recessed portion.
                                                17

   7.      The system of claim 5, wherein the lower portion of the first opening is tapered.
   8.      The system of claim 1, wherein the bone plate comprises a plurality of first
   openings.
 5
   9.      The system of claim 1, wherein the bone plate further comprises a second
   opening extending between the bone contacting surface and the upper surface,
   wherein the second opening comprises a plurality of protruding fins.
10  10.   A method of reducing a fracture of a bone, the method comprising:
           a) reducing the fracture to bring bone fragments in close apposition;
           b) providing a bone plate comprising a bone contacting surface, an upper
   surface, and openings extending between the bone contacting and upper surfaces,
   wherein at least some of the openings comprise threads, the at least some of the
15 openings comprising a lower portion, a non-threaded upper portion, and a threaded
   portion converging towards the lower portion, the lower portion comprising a smallest
   diameter of the at least some of the openings;
           c) compressing the bone plate against the bone with a first fastener to hold the
   fracture reduction; and
20         d) inserting a second fastener into one of the openings in the bone plate
   comprising threads,
          wherein the second fastener comprises a head at least partially comprising a
   polymeric material, and wherein, when the second fastener is inserted into the at
   least some of the openings comprising threads, the threads of the opening form
25 threads in the polymeric material of the head of the second fastener to secure the
   second fastener in place at one of a plurality of possible angles relative to the bone
   plate.
    11.    The method of claim 10, wherein the first fastener is inserted before the
30 second fastener.
    12.    The method of claim 10, wherein the first fastener is inserted after the second
   fastener.
                                              18

    13.    A method of reducing a fracture of a bone, the method comprising:
           a) providing a bone plate comprising a bone-contacting surface, an upper
   surface, and a first and second opening extending between the bone-contacting and
   upper surfaces, wherein the first opening comprises a lower portion, a non -threaded
 5 upper portion, and a threaded portion converging towards the lower portion, the lower
   portion comprising a smallest diameter of the first opening;
           b) providing a first fastener comprising a head, wherein the head comprises a
   polymeric material;
           c) inserting the first fastener through the first opening and on a first side of the
10 fracture, wherein the threads of the first opening form threads in the polymeric
   material on the head of the first fastener to secure the first fastener in place at one of
   a plurality of possible angles within the first opening; and
           d) inserting a second fastener through the second opening and into
   engagement with the bone on a second side of the fracture opposite the first side to
15 adjust positioning of the bone and surrounding tissue.
    14.    A bone plate system for fixation of a bone, the system comprising:
           a) a bone plate comprising an upper surface, a bone contacting surface, and a
   first opening extending between the bone contacting surface and the upper surface,
20 wherein the first opening comprises a substantially frustoconical-shaped top portion
   adjacent the upper surface of the plate, a bottom portion adjacent the bone contacting
   surface of the plate, and a threaded portion converging towards the bottom portion
   and comprising threads made of a first material, wherein the top portion comprises a
   non-threaded portion and wherein the bottom portion comprises a smallest diameter
25 of the first opening; and
           b) a first fastener comprising a head and shaft for engaging bone, wherein a
   portion of the head comprises a polymeric material that is softer than the first
   material,
           wherein, when the first fastener is inserted into the first opening, the threads of
30 the first opening form threads in the polymeric material of the head of the fastener.
    15.    The system of claim 14, wherein the polymeric material comprises
   polyethylene.
                                                 19

    16.    The system of claim 14, wherein the first material comprises titanium, stainless
   steel, cobalt chrome, plastic, polyetheretherketone, polyethylene, ultra high molecular
   weight polyethylene, resorbable polylactic acid, polyglycolic acid, or combinations
   thereof.
 5
    17.    The system of claim 14, further comprising a second fastener comprising a
   shaft for engaging bone and a head comprising threads, wherein, when the second
   fastener is inserted into the first opening, the threads on the head of the second
   fastener engage with the threads of the first opening.
10
    18.    The system of claim 14, further comprising a second fastener comprising a
   shaft for engaging bone and a head comprising a spherical portion, wherein, when
   the second fastener is inserted into the first opening, the spherical portion of the head
   abuts the top portion of the first opening.
15
    19.    The system of claim 14, wherein the first opening comprises an axis and
   wherein the first opening is asymmetrical about the axis.
   20.     The system of claim 14, wherein the first opening comprises an axis and
20 wherein the top portion comprises a ramp extending from the upper surface at an
   angle to the axis.
   21.     The system of claim 14, wherein the top portion of the first opening further
   comprises a generally spherical-shaped recessed portion.
25
   22.     The system of claim 14, wherein the top portion of the first opening further
   comprises a threaded portion.
   23.     The system of claim 14, wherein the bottom portion of the first opening is
30 tapered.
   24.     The system of claim 14, wherein the bone plate comprises a plurality of first
   openings.
                                               20

  25.   The system of claim 14, wherein the bone plate further comprises a second
  opening comprising a non-threaded opening.
  26.   The system of claim 25, wherein the bone plate comprises a plurality of second
5 openings.
                                          21

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           /15

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                      /15

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                       /15

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           /15

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           /15

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           /15

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           /15

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                       /15

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                       /15

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                       /15

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                       /15

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           /15

                      14/15
<removed-date>
                                                  203
              216             212
                                    208
<removed-apn>
                                                 205
                                           218
                                          210
                    FIG. 22

                       15/15
<removed-date>           220
                                           216
              214
<removed-apn>
                               212          203
                                                  204
                               208
                                                         201
                                                   205
                                           202
                                     218
                      210
                    206
                    FIG. 23

