ABSTRACT
Described herein is a roller exercising apparatus and method thereof. More specifically, a foam roller
exercising apparatus and method thereof having an increased surface area for applying less pressure on
sensitive trigger point areas of muscles and for providing myofascial release.
                                                      9

            1
3
     4a,b    FIGURE 3
                         4a
                              2b
                                2c
  2a
                            1
             FIGURE 4
          3           4b
               2/3

                          A ROLLER EXERCISING APPARATUS AND METHOD THEREOF
   TECHNICAL FIELD
   Described herein is a roller exercising apparatus and method thereof. More specifically, a foam roller
   exercising apparatus and method thereof having an increased surface area for applying less pressure on
 5 sensitive trigger point areas of muscles and for providing myofascial release.
   BACKGROUND ART
   Myofascial release (MFR), is an alternative therapy that aims to treat skeletal muscle immobility and pain
   by relaxing contracted muscles, improving blood and lymphatic circulation, and stimulating the stretch
10 reflex in muscles. In particular, myofascial release is a hands-on technique that therapists use by applying
   a low load, long duration dragging force across layers of sore-tissue in the body. After a period of time,
   through some different mechanisms in the body, the body will "release" the tissue and mobility between
   those sliding surfaces and restore the body to good health.
   Fascia is a thin, tough, elastic type of connective tissue that wraps most structures within the human
15 body, including muscle. Fascia supports and protects these structures. Osteopathic theory proposes that
   this soft tissue can become restricted due to psychogenic disease, overuse, trauma, infectious agents, or
   inactivity, often resulting in pain, muscle tension, and corresponding diminished blood flow. For
   example, workers in the wool-harvesting industry can suffer musculoskeletal pain from overuse and
   muscle tension when shearing sheep for extended periods.
20 Myofascial trigger points are an extremely common cause of pain. Trigger points are painful when
   pressed on, cause a shortening of the muscle fibres, and have a special property called referred pain.
   Referred pain means that a trigger point in one muscle can create pain in another area.
   For example, shooting pain in the buttocks and legs (Sciatica) may be caused by pain in the piriformis or
   other gluteal muscles and not necessarily by irritation of the sciatic nerve. Many other trigger points can
25 be mistaken for "some kind of nerve problem".
   Muscles make up between 36-42% of body weight, on average. They are a large percentage of our total
   weight and have a corresponding impact on our health. When all is in working order, muscles allow
   people to perform normal activities with ease. When muscles harbour trigger points, people experience
   pain, stiffness and tension, physical limitation and loss of normal function.
30 Factors commonly cited as predisposing to trigger point formation include but are not limited to: de
   conditioning, poor posture, repetitive mechanical stress, mechanical imbalance (e.g. leg length
   inequality), joint disorders, and non-restorative sleep and vitamin deficiencies.
   Unfortunately, common though the condition may be, the diagnosis and treatment of Myofascial Pain
   has yet to be included in most medical training. The majority of patients seeking relief from pain are still
                                                           1

   treated with the traditional approach of anti-inflammatory medications, muscle relaxants, anti
   depressant medications and/or strengthening programs. These prove ineffective, if not detrimental, as
   trigger points do not respond to them and may be aggravated by further straining (strengthening
   exercises).
 5 Self-myofascial release (SMR) is a way to massage oneself, with the benefit of being able to control
   exactly where and how much pressure to apply to each trigger point. SMR is gaining popularity among
   workers, elite athletes and people of all walks of life because of the drastic and usually immediate impact
   it has on their performance and overall health and well being. For that reason, in recent years, doing
   exercises with foam rollers, massage balls and the like has gained immense popularity.
10 In particular, apparatus used for myofascial trigger point treatment include the single foam roller, the
   Acucurve Cane T M , the Body Spanner TM, the roller massager   TM and the Spikey Massage BallTM
   All these apparatus work on the principle of applying pressure directly onto trigger points by either
   applying pressure manually, sitting, lying or leaning onto the apparatus.
   However, a disadvantage of using a single foam roller is that it places direct pressure on sore and/or
15 sensitive myofascial trigger points. The same also
                                                    TMM
                                                         can be said about the Acucurve CaneTM, the Body
   Spanner T M , the roller massager TM and the Spikey Massage BallTM apparatus.
   Furthermore, a good level of fitness and or strength is required to use a single foam roller because a user
   must maintain an upright balance as you roll back and forth. As a result, older, obese or people with
   acute back pain find this type of apparatus difficult to use and are more likely be drawn to traditional
20 medicine such as anti-inflammatory medication, muscle relaxants or anti-depressant medications,
   whereas SMR can offer drug free pain relief/treatment.
   From the above, it can be seen that there is a need for an improved myofascial release system (MRS)
   comprising an apparatus and method thereof that overcomes some of the above problems with the prior
   art or at least provides the public with a useful choice.
25 Further aspects and advantages of the back roller exercising apparatus and method thereof will become
   apparent from the ensuing description that is given by way of example only.
   SUMMARY
   Described herein is a roller exercising apparatus. More specifically, a foam roller exercising apparatus
30 and method of using thereof having an increased surface area for applying less pressure on sensitive
   trigger point areas of muscles and for providing myofascial release.
   In a first aspect there is provided a roller exercising apparatus comprising:
   at least three rollers spaced apart having an elongate rod member inserted lengthwise through a centre
   of each roller therein; and
                                                           2

   a housing to interconnect the at least three rollers,
   wherein the at least three rollers spaced apart in combination have an increased surface area for
   applying less pressure on sensitive trigger point areas of muscles and for providing myofascial release.
   In a second aspect there is provided a method of utilising the roller exercising apparatus comprising:
 5 at least three rollers spaced apart having an elongate rod member inserted lengthwise through a centre
   of each roller therein; and
   a housing to interconnect the at least three rollers,
   wherein the at least three rollers spaced apart in combination have an increased surface area for
   applying less pressure on sensitive trigger point areas of muscles and for providing myofascial release.
10 Advantages of the above include a holistic approach to promote health, wellness and longevity where
   the myofascial release system (MRS) comprising apparatus and method allows a drug free pain relief
   and/or treatment of muscles. The MRS has a large surface area making it more user friendly especially
   for older, obese individuals and individuals who suffer from myofascial trigger point pain and acute back
   pain. Furthermore, the large surface area allows the user to quickly locate sensitive myofascial trigger
15 points by easily manoeuvring themselves over the MRS apparatus. This allows users to spend more time
   rolling back and forth on sensitive areas until the muscle tenderness eases. The apparatus includes a set
   of exercises that has been originated to massage target body parts and their myofascial trigger points.
   The MRS is lightweight, easily transportable and hence can be used at any location.
20 BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
   Further aspects of the apparatus, method and uses thereof will become apparent from the following
   description that is given by way of example only and with reference to the accompanying drawings in
   which:
   Figure 1 illustrates a side view of the three foam rollers spaced apart having an elongate rod member
25           inserted lengthwise through a centre of each roller therein and prior to assembly;
   Figure 2 illustrates a top view of a partially assembled apparatus with three foam rollers and aluminium
             housings;
   Figure 3 illustrates a side view of an assembled apparatus with three foam rollers interconnected by the
             aluminium housings;
30 Figure 4 illustrates a top view of an assembled apparatus with three foam rollers interconnected by the
             aluminium housings;
   Figure 5 illustrates a top view of the assembled apparatus in use; and
   Figure 6 illustrates a side view of the assembled apparatus in use.
                                                          3

   DETAILED DESCRIPTION
   As noted above, described herein is a roller exercising apparatus. More specifically, a foam roller
   exercising apparatus and method of using thereof having an increased surface area for applying less
   pressure on sensitive trigger point areas of muscles and for providing myofascial release.
 5  For the purposes of this specification, the term 'about' or 'approximately' and grammatical variations
   thereof mean a quantity, level, degree, value, number, frequency, percentage, dimension, size, amount,
   weight or length that varies by as much as 30, 25, 20, 15, 10, 9, 8, 7, 6, 5, 4, 3, 2, or 1% to a reference
   quantity, level, degree, value, number, frequency, percentage, dimension, size, amount, weight or
   length.
10 The term 'substantially' or grammatical variations thereof refers to at least about 50%, for example 75%,
   85%, 95% or 98%.
   The term 'comprise' and grammatical variations thereof shall have an inclusive meaning - i.e. that it will
   be taken to mean an inclusion of not only the listed components it directly references, but also other
   non-specified components or elements.
15 The term 'myofascial' or grammatical variations thereof refers to an alternative therapy that aims to
   treat skeletal muscle immobility and pain by relaxing contracted muscles, improving blood and lymphatic
   circulation, and stimulating the stretch reflex in muscles.
   In a first aspect there is provided a roller exercising apparatus comprising:
   at least three rollers spaced apart having an elongate rod member inserted lengthwise through a centre
20 of each roller therein; and
   a housing to interconnect the at least three rollers,
   wherein the at least three rollers spaced apart in combination have an increased surface area for
   applying less pressure on sensitive trigger point areas of muscles and for providing myofascial release.
   The rollers may be manufactured out of high density foam material. In this way, the rollers can compress
25 for comfort, but are resilient to retain their shape post compression.
   In one embodiment, the rollers may be dimensioned with a length of 90cm and a diameter of 15 cm.
   The rollers may be spaced equidistantly apart by two lengths of aluminium housing that connect the
   rollers.
   The aluminium housing may include bearings to engage with the elongate rod member inserted
30 lengthwise through the centre of each roller. In this way, the rollers are able to rotate in use with
   minimal friction.
   The bearings may be spaced approximately 22cm apart. The inventor has found that this distance
   provides an optimum surface area and distance apart for each roller. Furthermore, the combined surface
                                                           4

   area of the three rollers may place less pressure on sensitive myofascial trigger point areas. This may
   allow users to spend more time rolling back and forth on sensitive areas until the muscle tenderness
   eases.
   The elongate rod member may be a stainless-steel rod inserted lengthwise through the centre of each
 5 foam roller having a length of 100cm and 10mm diameter.
   The MRS may target body areas that include, but should not be seen as limited to the Thoracolumbar
   Fascia, the Nuchal Fascia, the Latissimus Dorsi, the Trapezius muscle, the Erector Spinae muscle group,
   Gluteus Maximus muscle, and/or hips.
   The MRS may comprise a kit of parts including an assembled foam roller apparatus, a yoga mat with MRS
10 exercises that may be illustrated on the mats.
   It also is envisaged that there may be an App, website and/or a closed Facebook group page associated
   with the MRS.
   The MRS may be manufactured out of lightweight materials that can be easily disassembled and
   reassembled for storage and convenience when transporting. It is envisaged that a purpose built storage
15 case may be manufactured to house the MRS and associated kit.
   The MRS is a development from Shear JitsuTM workshops which the inventor has conducted in Australia
   in collaboration with the Australian Wool Harvesting Industry (AWI). Initially, a body management plan
   for shearers had been developed using a single foam roller as part of Shear Jitsu'sTM holistic approach to
   promote health, wellness and longevity. However, the inventor found that approximately 50% of the
20 shearers at these workshops could not use the single foam roller effectively because their backs were
   too sore and sensitive to the direct pressure of the foam roller. Subsequently, the inventor has found
   that an apparatus with at least three rollers spaced apart in combination has an increased surface area
   for applying less pressure on sensitive trigger point areas of muscles and for providing myofascial
   release. Furthermore, it has been found that regular rolling pre- and post-shearing, for example once a
25 day may assist users for preparing their muscles for work and may also assist with post work muscle
   recovery. Other industries that may benefit from the MRS may include amongst others, sportspersons,
   tradespersons, truck drivers, miners, office workers and the like.
   It also has been found that regular use of the MRS may offer many of the same benefits as a sports
   massage, including reduced inflammation, improved circulation and improved flexibility.
30 In a second aspect there is provided a method of utilising the roller exercising apparatus comprising:
   at least three rollers spaced apart having an elongate rod member inserted lengthwise through a centre
   of each roller therein; and
   a housing to interconnect the at least three rollers,
   wherein the at least three rollers spaced apart in combination have an increased surface area for
                                                          5

   applying less pressure on sensitive trigger point areas of muscles and for providing myofascial release.
   The method of use may comprise a set of exercises to massage target body parts and their associated
   myofascial trigger points.
   Advantages of the above include:
 5      0    A holistic approach to promote health, wellness and longevity where the myofascial release
             system (MRS) comprising apparatus and method allows a drug free pain relief/treatment of
             muscles;
        *    The MRS has a large surface area making it more user friendly especially for older, obese
             individuals and individuals who suffer from myofascial trigger point pain and acute back pain.
10           Furthermore, the large surface area allows the user to quickly locate sensitive myofascial trigger
             points by easily manoeuvring themselves over the MRS apparatus. This allows users to spend
             more time rolling back and forth on sensitive areas until the muscle tenderness eases;
        *    The apparatus includes a set of exercises that has been originated to massage target body parts
             and their myofascial trigger points; and
15      0    The MRS is lightweight, easily transportable and hence can be used at any location.
   The embodiments described above may also be said broadly to consist in the parts, elements and
   features referred to or indicated in the specification of the application, individually or collectively, and
   any or all combinations of any two or more said parts, elements or features.
   Further, where specific integers are mentioned herein which have known equivalents in the art to which
20 the embodiments relate, such known equivalents are deemed to be incorporated herein as of
   individually set forth.
   WORKING EXAMPLES
   The above described apparatus, method and uses thereof are now described by reference to specific
25 examples.
                                                    EXAMPLE 1
   With reference to Figures 1 to 4, a myofascial release apparatus 1 is illustrated comprising three high
   density foam rollers 2a, b and c dimensioned with a length of 90cm and a diameter of 15 cm. These
   rollers 2a,b and c are spaced equidistantly apart (best seen in Figure 1) having a stainless steel rod
30 member 3 that is inserted lengthwise through the centre of each foam roller having a length of 100cm
   and 10mm diameter.
   As above, the rollers 2a, b and c may be spaced equidistantly apart by two lengths of aluminium housing
   4a and b that connect the three rollers 2a, b and c (Figures 2 and 3).
   The aluminium housings 4a and b include bearings 5 to engage with the stainless steel rod member 3
                                                          6

   inserted lengthwise through the centre of each roller 2a, b and c. In this way, the rollers 2a, b and c are
   able to rotate in use with minimal friction.
   The bearings 5 are spaced approximately 22cm apart and the housings 4a and b are bolted to the rod
   member 3 utilising regular fixing elements in known fashion. An assembled apparatus is shown in Figures
 5 3 and 4.
                                                      EXAMPLE 2
   With reference to Figures 5 and 6, a myofascial release apparatus 1 is illustrated in use. A user is
   completing a set of exercises to massage target body parts and their associated myofascial trigger points.
   In particular, the user is resting their back on the apparatus 1 and rolling back and forth on sensitive
10 areas until the muscle tenderness eases via the myofascial release system.
   Aspects of the present invention have been described by way of example only and it should be
   appreciated that modifications and additions may be made thereto without departing from the scope of
   the claims herein.
                                                          7

WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
   1.   A roller exercising apparatus comprising:
       at least three rollers spaced apart having an elongate rod member inserted lengthwise through
       a centre of each roller therein; and
       a housing to interconnect the at least three rollers,
       wherein the at least three rollers spaced apart in combination have an increased surface area
       for applying less pressure on sensitive trigger point areas of muscles and for providing
       myofascial release.
   2.  The roller exercising apparatus as claimed in claim 1, wherein the rollers are manufactured out
       of high density foam material and are spaced equidistantly apart by a housing that connects the
       rollers.
   3.  The roller exercising apparatus as claimed in claim 2, wherein the housing includes bearings to
       engage with the elongate rod member inserted lengthwise through the centre of each roller.
   4.  The roller exercising apparatus as claimed in any one of the above claims, that targets body
       areas that include, Thoracolumbar Fascia, the Nuchal Fascia, the Latissimus Dorsi, the Trapezius
       muscle, the Erector Spinae muscle group, Gluteus Maximus muscle, and/or hips.
   5.  A method of utilising a roller exercising apparatus comprising:
       at least three rollers spaced apart having an elongate rod member inserted lengthwise through
       a centre of each roller therein; and
       a housing to interconnect the at least three rollers,
       wherein the at least three rollers spaced apart in combination have an increased surface area
       for applying less pressure on sensitive trigger point areas of muscles and for providing
       myofascial release.
                                                    8

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
