                                         Abstract
       We describe apparatuses, systems, method, reagents, and kits for conducting assays as
well as process for their preparation.   They are particularly well suited for conducting
automated sampling, sample preparation, and analysis in a multi-well plate assay format. For
example, they may be used for automated analysis of particulates in air and/or liquid samples
derived therefrom in environmental monitoring.

                                                      1
                      ASSAY APPARATUSES, METHODS AND REAGENTS
                      CROSS REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
            This application is a divisional of Australian Patent Application No. 2015246109, which
 5 is a divisional of Australian Patent Application No. 2012202574, which is a divisional of
   Australian Patent Application No. 2006350566. Australian Patent Application No. 2006350566
   claims priority from U.S. Provisional Application No. 60/752,475, filed December 21, 2005;
   U.S. Provisional Application No. 60/752,513, filed December 21, 2005; and U.S. Application
   No. 11/642,968, filed December 21, 2006, entitled "Assay Modules Having Assay Reagents
10 and Methods of Making and Using Same"; each of which, including Australian Patent
   Applications No. 2006350566, No. 2012202574 and No. 2015246109, are incorporated by
   reference in their entirety.
15           STATEMENT REGARDING FEDERALLY-SPONSORED RESEARCH
            This invention was made with federal support under HDTRAl-05-C-0005 awarded by
   the Department of Defense. The U.S. government has certain rights in the invention.
20                                   FIELD OF THE INVENTION
            The invention relates to apparatuses, systems, methods, reagents, and kits for
   conducting assays. Certain embodiments of the apparatuses, systems, methods, reagents, and
   kits of the invention may be used for conducting automated sampling, sample preparation,
   and/or sample analysis in a multi-well plate assay format. For example, they may be used for
25 automated analysis of particulates in air/or liquid samples derived therefrom.

                                                2
                          BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
           Numerous methods and systems have been developed for conducting chemical,
   biochemical, and/or biological assays. These methods and systems are essential in a
   variety of applications including medical diagnostics, food and beverage testing,
 5 environmental monitoring, manufacturing quality control, drug discovery, and basic
   scientific research.
           Multi-well assay plates (also known as microtiter plates or microplates) have
   become a standard format for processing and analysis of multiple samples. Multi-well
   assay plates can take a variety of forms, sizes, and shapes. For convenience, some
10 standards have appeared for instrumentation used to process samples for high
   throughput assays. Multi-well assay plates typically are made in standard sizes and
   shapes, and have standard arrangements of wells. Arrangements of wells include those
   found in 96-well plates (12 x 8 array of wells), 384-well plates (24 x16 array of wells),
   and 1536-well plates (48 x 32 array of wells). The Society for Biomolecular Screening
15 has published recommended microplate specifications for a variety of plate formats
   (see http://www.sbsonline.org).
           A variety of plate readers are available for conducting assay measurements in
   multi-well plates including readers that measure changes in optical absorbance,
   emission of luminescence (e.g., fluorescence, phosphorescence, chemiluminescence,
20 and electrochemiluminescence), emission of radiation, changes in light scattering, and
   changes in a magnetic field. U.S. Patent Application Publications 2004/0022677 and
   2005/0052646 of U.S. Patent Applications 10/185,274 and 10/185,363, respectively, of
   Wohlstadter et al. describe solutions that are useful for carrying out singleplex and
   multiplex ECL assays in a multi-well plate format. They include plates that comprise a

                                                   3
     plate top with through-holes that form the walls of the wells and a plate bottom that is
     sealed against the plate top to form the bottom of the wells. The plate bottom has
     patterned conductive layers that provide the wells with electrode surfaces that act as
     both solid phase supports for binding reactions as well as electrodes for inducing
  5  electrochemiluminescence (ECL). The conductive layers may also include electrical
     contacts for applying electrical energy to the electrode surfaces.
             Despite such known methods and systems for conducting assays, improved
     apparatuses, systems, methods, reagents, and kits for conducting automated sampling,
     sample preparation, and/or sample analysis in a multi-well plate assay format are
 10  needed.
                               SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
             We describe apparatuses for conducting assays in a multi-well plate format that
     have one or more of the following desirable attributes: i) high sensitivity, ii) large
15   dynamic range, iii) small size and weight, iv) array-based multiplexing capability, v)
     automated operation (including sample and/or reagent delivery); vi) ability to handle
     multiple plates, and vii) ability to handle sealed plates. We also describe components
    that are useful in such an apparatus, and methods for using such an apparatus and
    components. They are particularly well suited for, although not limited to, use for
20  autonomous analysis of environmental, clinical, or food samples. The apparatus and
    methods may be used with a variety of assay detection techniques including, but not
    limited to, techniques measuring one or more detectable signals. Some of them are
    suitable for electrochemiluminescence measurements and, in particular, embodiments
    that are suitable for use with multi-well plates with integrated electrodes (and assay

                                                   4
     methods using these plates) such as those described in U.S. Publications 2004/0022677
      and 2005/0052646 of U.S. Applications 10/185,274 and 10/185,363, respectively, of
      Wohlstadter et al., and the concurrently filed U.S. Application I1/642,968 of Glezer et
     al. entitled "Assay Modules Having Assay Reagents and Methods of Making and Using
  5  Same."
              An apparatus is provided for measuring a signal from wells of sealed multi-well
     assay plates comprising a) a seal removal tool for removing seals from wells of the
     multi-well plates, and b) a detection system for measuring the signal from wells of said
     multi-well plate. The seal removal tool may function by i) piercing sealing films with a
10   probe with a seal piercing tip, ii) grabbing and removing caps on wells, iii) peeling
     sealing films from the tops of wells, or iv) removing the seal with a coring tool.
              In one embodiment, the seal removal tool is a piercing probe that comprises i) a
     piercing section with external surfaces that taper to a vertex so as to form a piercing tip
     at one end of a piercing direction (the axis of translation during a piercing operation)
15   and ii) a seal displacement section, arranged adjacent to the piercing section along the
     piercing direction. In certain specific embodiments, the seal displacement section has a
     cross-sectional shape, perpendicular to the piercing direction, that is selected to
    substantially conform to the shape of the openings of the wells on which the probe will
    operate. The probe may be slightly undersized relative to the well opening so as to
20  allow the probe to slide into the well opening, and press or fold the pierced seal against
    the well walls. Such an approach may be used to remove the seal as a barrier to
    detecting assay signals in the well using detectors (for example, light detectors and/or
    light imaging systems) situated above the well. The appropriate clearance may be

                                                   5
     selected based on the thickness of a specific film and/or may be selected to be less than
     about 0.1 inches, less than about 0.2 inches, or less than about 0.3 inches.
             In one example of a piercing tool, the cross-sectional shape of the seal
    displacement section is a circle. In another example, it is a square or a square with
  5 rounded corners. The piercing section may be conical in shape. Alternatively, it may
     include exposed cutting edges that, e.g., extend in a radial direction from the tip and
    can act to cut the seal during piercing and aid in reproducibly folding the seal against
    the well walls. In one specific example, the tip is pyramidal in shape, the edges of the
    pyramid providing exposed cutting edges.
 10          In certain embodiments, the piercing probe is spring loaded such that the
    maximal downward force, along said piercing direction, of the probe on a plate seal is
    defined by the spring constant of a spring. The probe may also comprise a plate stop
    section adjacent to said seal displacement section that defines the maximum distance of
    travel of said piercing probe into said wells. In one specific example, the stop section is
15  a region of the probe with a width that is too large to enter a well and the maximum
    distance is defined by the distance at which the stop section hits the top of the well.
             The apparatus may further comprise a pipetting probe. In one embodiment, the
    piercing probe has a through-hole parallel to the piercing direction. The through-hole
    is, optionally, off-set from the piercing tip, and the pipetting probe is movably located
20  in the through-hole such that it can be withdrawn into the piercing probe when the
    piercing probe is being used to remove a well seal and it can be extended from the
    piercing probe during pipetting operations. The piercing probe and pipetting probe
    may be controlled independently, e.g., by separate motors. Alternatively, one motor
    may be used to drive both probes. In one example, the piercing probe comprises a plate

                                                6
   stop section as described above and the pipetting probe is coupled to the piercing probe
   by a spring. The spring is selected to have a spring constant such that i) when the
   probes are not exerting force on an object, the pipetting probe is withdrawn into the
   through-hole in the piercing probe, ii) translation of the pipetting probe toward a well
 5 results in the co-translation of the piercing.probe and allows for the delivery of
   sufficient force to displace a seal on the well, and iii) continued translation past the
   maximal distance of travel of the piercing probe results in compression of the spring
   and extension of the pipetting probe from the piercing probe into said well where it
   may be used to pipette liquids into and out of the well.
10          A method is provided of using the apparatuses comprising seal removal tools
   (described above), the method comprising removing a seal from a well of a multi-well
   plate and detecting said signal from said well. Removing a seal may include piercing
   the seal on a well of a multi-well plate and, optionally, cutting the seal into sections
   (e.g., with using cutting edges on a piercing tip) and folding the sections against the
15 internal walls of the well. The method may further include one or more of: pipetting a
   sample into the well, pipetting an assay reagent into the well, removing a liquid from
   the well, washing the well, illuminating the well, or applying an electrical potential to
   electrodes in the well. Additionally, the method may further comprise repeating some
   portion or all of the process described above on one or more additional wells of the
20 plate.
            A reagent cartridge is provided which may be used to deliver reagent used by
   and store waste generated by a multi-well plate analysis apparatuses. According to one
   embodiment, a reagent cartridge comprises a cartridge body that encloses an internal
   volume. The cartridge body has a reagent port and a waste port for delivering reagent

                                                7
   and receiving waste. The reagent cartridge also comprises reagent and waste
   compartments in the cartridge body that are connected, respectively, to the reagent and
   waste ports. The volume of the compartments are adjustable such that the relative
   proportion of the volume of the cartridge body occupied by reagent and waste can be
 5 adjusted, e.g., as reagent is consumed in assays and returned to the cartridge as waste.
   The total internal volume of the cartridge body may be less than about 2, less than
   about 1.75, less than about 1.5, or less than about 1.25 times the volume of liquid stored
   in the body, e.g., the volume of reagent originally provided in the cartridge, thus
   minimizing the space required for waste and reagent storage, and allowing for
10 convenient one-step reagent replenishment and waste removal. In certain
   embodiments, the apparatus has a reagent cartridge slot configured to receive the
   cartridge, and provide fluidic connection to the waste and reagent ports, optionally via
   "push-to-connect" or "quick connect" fittings.
           The reagent and waste compartments may be provided by collapsible bags
15 located in the cartridge body. Alternatively, one of the reagent and waste
   compartments may be provided by a collapsible bag and the other may be provided by
   the cartridge body itself (i.e., the volume in the cartridge body excluding the volume
   defined by any collapsible bags in the cartridge body). In addition to the first reagent
   and waste compartments, the reagent cartridge may further comprise one or more
20 additional collapsible reagent and/or waste compartments connected to one or more
   additional reagent and/or waste ports.
           Methods of using the reagent cartridges are provided. The method comprises
   removing reagent from the reagent compartment and introducing waste into the waste
   compartment. In certain embodiments, at least about 70%, at least about 80%, or at

                                                 8
   least about 90% of the reagent volume is reintroduced into the reagent cartridge as
   waste.
            Liquid dispensers are provided. The dispenser may be used to add or remove
   liquids from the wells of a multi-well plate. An assay apparatus is provided that
 5 includes the dispenser. One embodiment of the liquid dispenser comprises a pipetting
   probe comprising a vertical tube element. The dispenser also comprises a probe guide
   that supports the tube element in a vertical orientation, and configured to allow said
   tube element to move vertically in the guide between a fully extended position and a
   fully retracted position. The dispenser further comprises a spring element coupled to
10 the vertical tube element and probe guide that biases the tube element to the fully
    extended position (i.e., extended downward). A vertical translation stage is attached to
    the probe guide to raise and lower the probe.
            The tube element has a lower opening through which fluid is dispensed or
    aspirated. In one embodiment, the lower opening is a blunt tube end. Optionally, the
15  end may be slotted to allow movement of fluid through the opening when the opening
    is pressed against a flat surface. In certain embodiments, the dispenser comprises two
    or more tube elements. In one specific example different reagents are dispensed
    through different tube elements. In another specific example, one tube element is used
    to dispense reagent and another tube element is used to aspirate waste. Multiple tube
20  elements may be configured in a variety of arrangements, for example, as parallel tubes
    or concentric tubes.
            A method is provided for using the liquid dispenser for adding or withdrawing
    fluid from a container, e.g., a well of a multi-well plate. One method comprises a)
    lowering the pipetting probe into the container by lowering the translation stage until

                                                 9
    the probe touches a bottom surface of the container, b) continuing to lower the
    translation stage such that said tube element pushes against the spring and retracts into
    the probe guide to a position between said fully extended and fully retracted positions,
    c) adding fluid to and/or withdrawing fluid from the container through the pipetting
 5  probe, and d) raising the pipetting probe out of said container by raising said translation
    stage.
             In a specific embodiment employing a container with a piercable seal, the
    method may further comprise lowering the translation stage until the probe contacts and
    pierces the seal. In addition, piercing the seal may further comprise e) lowering the
10  translation stage until the pipetting probe contacts the plate seal, f) continuing to lower
    the translation stage such that the tube element pushes against the spring and retracts in
    the probe guide to the fully retracted position, and g) continuing to lower the translation
    stage such that the pipetting probe pierces the plate seal and the tube element returns to
   the fully extended position.
is          An apparatus is provided for conducting luminescence. assays in multi-well
   plates. One embodiment comprises a light-tight enclosure that provides a light-free
   environment in which luminescence measurements may be carried out. The enclosure
   includes a plate translation stage for translating a plate horizontally in the enclosure to
   zones where specific assay processing and/or detection steps are carried out. The
20 enclosure also includes an enclosure top having one or more plate introduction
   apertures through which plates may be lowered onto or removed from the plate
   translation stage (manually or mechanically). A sliding light-tight door is used to seal
   the plate introduction apertures from environmental light prior to carrying out
   luminescence measurements.

                                                  10
             The apparatus may also comprise a light detector which may be mounted within
     the light-tight enclosure or, alternatively, it may be mounted to a detection aperture on
     the enclosure top (e.g., via a light-tight connector or baffle). In certain embodiments,
     the light detector is an imaging light detector such as a CCD camera and may also
 5   include a lens. The apparatus may also comprise pipetting systems, seal piercing
     systems, reagent and waste storage containers, tube holders for sample or reagent tubes,
     fluidic stations for delivering/removing samples/ reagents/waste, etc. These
     components may be conventional components such as components known in the art.
     Alternatively, the apparatus may employ specific components as described herein.
10   Furthermore, the apparatus may comprise computers or other electronic systems for
     controlling operation the apparatus including, e.g., operating motorized mechanical
     systems, and triggering and/or analyzing luminescence signals.
             Another embodiment of an apparatus for conducting luminescence assays in
     multi-well plates comprises a light-tight enclosure comprising i) one or more plate
15   elevators having plate lifting platforms that can be raised and lowered, ii) a light-tight
     enclosure top having one or more plate introduction apertures positioned above the
     plate elevators and a detection aperture, the enclosure top comprising a sliding light
   - tight door for sealing the plate introduction apertures, and iii) a plate translation stage
     for translating a plate in one or more horizontal directions. The plate translation stage
20   comprises a plate holder for supporting the plate which has an opening under the plate
     to allow plate elevators positioned below the plate holder to access and lift the plate.
     Furthermore, the plate translation stage being configured to position plates below the
     detection aperture and to position the plates above the plate elevators.

                                               11
           The apparatus further comprises one or more plate stackers and a light detector.
   The plate stackers are mounted on the enclosure top above the plate introduction
   apertures and are configured to receive plates from or deliver plates to the plate
   elevators. The light detector is mounted on the enclosure top and coupled to the
 5 imaging aperture with a light-tight seal.
           Certain specific embodiments of the apparatus may further comprise a pipetting
   system for delivering liquids to or removing liquids from the wells of an assay plate in
   the apparatus. In one specific embodiment, the pipetting system comprises a pipetting
   probe mounted on a pipette translation stage for translating said pipetting probe in a
10 vertical direction and, optionally, in one or more horizontal directions. Furthermore,
   the enclosure top has one or more pipetting apertures and the sliding light-tight door
   has one or more pipetting apertures. The sliding light-tight door has a pipetting
   position where the pipetting apertures in the enclosure top align with the pipetting
   apertures in the sliding light-tight door. The pipette translation stage is mounted on the
15 enclosure top and configured such that, when the sliding light-tight door is in the
   pipetting position, the pipetting probe may be lowered to access wells positioned under
   the pipetting apertures in the enclosure top.
           Another optional component of the apparatus is a seal removal tool such as a
   plate seal piercing probe. In one example, the enclosure top and sliding light-tight door
20 have piercing probe apertures and the light-tight door has a piercing position where the
   piercing apertures in the door and top align. The piercing probe is mounted on the
   enclosure top and configured such that, when the sliding light-tight door is in the
   piercing position, the piercing probe may be lowered so as to pierce seals on wells
   positioned under the piercing apertures in the enclosure top. Advantageously, when

                                                12
   both the piercing probe and the pipette probe are present, both may be driven with a
   single translation stage, e.g., as described above for the integrated pipetting/piercing
    tool. In an alternate embodiment, a pipette translation stage supporting the pipette
   probe comprises a probe translation element and the pipette translation stage is
 5 configured to travel horizontally and grab the piercing probe with the probe translation
   element, and to travel vertically to lower and raise said piercing probe.
            Additional optional components of the apparatus are plate contacts for making
   electrical contact to the plates and providing electrical energy to electrodes in wells
   positioned under said light detector (e.g., for inducing ECL).
10          A method is also provided for using the apparatus for conducting luminescence
   assays in multi-well plates. The plates may be conventional multi-well plates. In
   certain embodiments, plates adapted for use in electrochemiluminescence assays are
   employed as described in U.S. Applications 10/185,274; 10/185,363; and 10/238,391.
   In assay methods that detect ECL from one well at a time, the electrode and electrode
15 contacts in these wells are adapted to allow application of electrical energy to
   electrodes in only one well at a time. The apparatus my be particularly well-suited for
   carrying out assays in plates containing dry reagents and/or sealed wells, e.g., as
   described in concurrently filed U.S. Applications 1/642,968 of Glezer et al. entitled
   "Assay Modules Having Assay Reagents and Methods of Making and Using Same."
20          In one embodiment, the method comprises: a) introducing a plate to a plate
   stacker, b) opening the light-tight door, c) lower the plate from the plate stacker to the
   plate holder on the plate translation stage, d) sealing the light-tight door, e) translating
   the plate to position one or more wells under the light detector, e) detecting
   luminescence from the one or more wells, f) opening the light-tight door, g) translating

                                                13
   the plate to a position under a plate stacker, and h) raising the plate to the plate stacker.
   The method may further comprising translating said plate carriage to position one or
   more additional wells under said light detector and detecting luminescence from said
   one or more additional wells. The method may also, optionally, comprise one or more
 5 of: i) pipetting sample/or reagent into or out of one of said wells, ii) removing seals
    from one or more of said wells, or iii) applying electrical energy to electrodes in one or
   more of said wells (e.g., to induce electrochemiluminescence).
             Where the apparatus comprises a pipetting probe, and the enclosure top and
    sliding door includes pipetting apertures, the method may further comprise: sliding the
10  sliding light-tight door to the pipetting position and using the pipetting probe to
    introduce and/or remove reagent and/or sample from one or more wells of the plate.
    Where the apparatus comprises a seal piercing probe, and the enclosure top and sliding
    door includes piercing apertures, the method may further comprise: sliding the sliding
    light-tight door to the piercing position, aligning a well of the plate under the piercing
15  probe, and piercing a seal on the well. They may be repeated to seal additional wells of
    the plate. In one embodiment, a seal on a well of a plate is pierced with the seal
    piercing tool prior to being accessed by a pipetting probe. In another embodiment, the
    well is first accessed by a pipetting probe (which pierces the seal to form one or more
    small holes or tears in the seal. The well is then subsequently pierced with the piercing
20  probe to fully displace the seal and allow for unencumbered detection of signal from
    the well.
             The light detector may be a conventional light detector such as a photodiode,
    avalanche photodiode, photomultiplier tube, or the like. Suitable light detectors also
     include arrays of such light detectors. Light detectors that may be used also include

                                                14
   imaging systems such as CCD and CMOS cameras. The light detectors may also
   include lens, light guides, etc. for directing, focusing and/or imaging light on the
   detectors. In certain specific embodiments, an imaging system is used to image
   luminescence from arrays of binding domains in one or more wells of an assay plate
 5 and the assay apparatus reports luminescence values for luminescence emitted from
   individual elements of said arrays.
            An environmental monitoring system is also provided that comprise an analyte
   detection module and an air sampling system. The air sampling system processes air to
   concentrate particulate matter in the air and suspend the particulates in a liquid
10 suspension. The detection module is an apparatus for conducting luminescence assays
    in multi-well plates as disclosed herein. In operation, the air sampling system
   processes air for a certain period of time and delivers sample to the analyte detection
    module, which then carries out assays for one or more target analytes in one or more
    wells of an assay plate and, on completion of the assay, reports results, The air
15  sampling system, detection module, and interface between the two components,
    preferably, is designed to operate in an autonomous fashion. At selected intervals of
    time, additional samples are delivered from the air sampling system to the detection
    module and analyzed in unused wells of the assay plate. The assays may be scheduled
    to be run in a serial fashion. Alternatively, the assays may be scheduled to be run in a
20  staggered fashion in which some steps overlap. Through the use of multi-well plates
    (and plate stackers that hold multiple multi-well plates) long periods of autonomous
    operation can be achieved without requiring replenishment of consumables.

                                                     14a
             Definitions of the specific embodiments of the invention as claimed herein follow.
             According to a first embodiment of the invention, there is provided a reagent cartridge
    comprising:
             (a)     a cartridge body that encloses an internal volume, wherein said cartridge body
  5 has a reagent port and a waste port for delivering reagent and receiving waste;
             (b)     a reagent compartment inside said cartridge body that is connected to said
    reagent port; and
             (c)     a waste compartment inside said cartridge body that is connected to said waste
    port,
 [0          wherein at least one of said reagent and waste compartments is collapsible such that the
    volume occupied by the compartment increases with addition of liquid to the compartment and
    decreases with removal of liquid from the compartment.
             According to a second embodiment of the invention, there is provided a method of using
    the reagent cartridge of the first embodiment, the method comprising:
 [5          (a)     removing reagent from said reagent compartment; and
             (b)     introducing waste into said waste compartment.
             Other embodiments of the invention as described herein are defined in the following
    numbered paragraphs:
             1.      An apparatus for measuring a signal from wells of sealed multi-well assay
20  plates, the apparatus comprising:
            (a)      a seal removal tool for removing seals from wells of said multi-well plates; and
            (b)      a detection system for measuring said signal from wells of said multi- well plate.
             2.      The apparatus of paragraph 1, wherein said seal removal tool comprises a
    piercing probe with a seal piercing tip.
25           3.      The apparatus of paragraph 2, wherein said piercing probe comprises:
             a piercing section with external surfaces that taper to a vertex so as to form said piercing
    tip at one end of a piercing direction; and
             a seal displacement section, arranged adjacent to said piercing section along said
    piercing direction, with a cross-sectional shape, perpendicular to said piercing direction, that

                                                    14b
    substantially conforms to, but is undersized relative to, the well openings of said individual
    wells.
    4.      The apparatus of paragraph 3, wherein said cross-sectional shape is a circle.
    5.      The apparatus of paragraph 3, wherein said cross-sectional shape is a square or a
  5 rounded square.
    6.      The apparatus of any one of paragraphs 3-5, wherein said piercing section is
    pyramidal.
    7.      The apparatus of any one of paragraphs 3-5, wherein said piercing section is conical.
    8.      The apparatus of any one of paragraphs 3-5, wherein said piercing section has exposed
 [0 edges that extend in a radial direction from said tip.
    9.      The apparatus of any one of paragraphs 3-8, wherein said piercing probe is spring
    loaded such that the maximal downward force, along said piercing direction, of the piston on a
    plate seal is defined by the spring constant of a spring.
    10.     The apparatus of any one of paragraphs 3-9, wherein said piercing probe further
 [5 comprises a plate stop section adjacent to said seal displacement section that defines the
    maximum distance of travel of said piercing probe into said wells.
    11.     The apparatus of any one of paragraphs 3-9 further comprising a pipetting probe.
    12.     The apparatus of paragraph 11, wherein:
            said piercing probe has a through-hole parallel to said piercing direction and off-set
20  from said piercing tip; and
            said pipetting probe is movably located in said through-hole such that it can be
    withdrawn into said piercing probe during seal removal operations and extended from said
    piercing probe during pipetting operations.
    13.     The apparatus of paragraph 12, wherein movement of said piercing probe and pipetting
25  probe are controlled independently.
    14.     The apparatus of paragraph 12, wherein:

                                                     14c
            said piercing probe further comprises a plate stop section adjacent to said seal
    displacement section that defines the maximum distance of travel of said piercing probe into
    said wells; and
            said pipetting probe is coupled to said piercing probe by a spring with a spring constant
  5 chosen such that:
                    (i)     when fully withdrawn from said well, said pipetting probe does not
                    extend from said piercing probe;
                    (ii)    translation of said pipetting probe toward a well results in the
                    cotranslation of said piercing probe and allows for the delivery of sufficient force
 L0                 to remove a seal on said well; and
                    (iii)   continued translation past the maximal distance of travel of said piercing
                    probe results in compression of the spring and extension of said pipetting probe
                    from said piercing probe into said well.
    15.     The apparatus of paragraph 1, wherein said seal removal tool is a coring tool.
 L5 16.     The apparatus of paragraph 1, wherein said seal removal tool is a peeling tool.
    17.     The apparatus of paragraph 1, wherein said seal removal tool is a cap removal tool.
    18.     The apparatus of any one of paragraphs 1-17, wherein said detection system is a light
    imaging system.
    19.     A method of detecting a signal from wells of a multi-well plate using the
20  apparatus of any one of paragraphs 1-18, the method comprising:
            (a)     removing a seal from a well of a multi-well plate; and
            (b)     detecting said signal from said well.
    20.     A method of detecting a signal from wells of a multi-well plate using the
    apparatus of any one of paragraphs 2-18, the method comprising:
25          (a)     piercing a seal on a well of a multi-well plate and
            (b)     detecting said signal from said well.
    21.     The method of paragraph 20, wherein said piercing comprises:
            cutting said seal into sections; and
            folding said sections against the internal walls of said well.

                                                     14d
    22.     The method of any one of paragraphs 19-21 further comprising one or more of:
            pipetting a sample into said well,
            pipetting an assay reagent into said well,
            washing said well,
  5         illuminating said well, or
            applying an electrical potential to said well.
    23.     The method of any one of paragraphs 19-22 further comprising repeating said method
    on one or more additional wells of said plate.
    24.     A reagent cartridge comprising:
 LO         (a)     a cartridge body that encloses an internal volume, wherein said cartridge body
    has a reagent port and a waste port for delivering reagent and receiving waste;
            (b)     a reagent compartment inside said cartridge body that is connected to said
    reagent port; and
            (c)     a waste compartment inside said cartridge body that is connected to said waste
 L5 port;
            wherein at least one of said reagent and waste compartments is collapsible such that the
    volume occupied by the compartment increases with addition of liquid to the compartment and
    decreases with removal of liquid from the compartment.
    25.     The reagent cartridge of paragraph 24, wherein said reagent and waste compartments
 M0 are both collapsible.
    26.     The reagent cartridge of paragraph 25 further comprising one or more additional
    collapsible reagent and/or waste compartments connected to one or more additional reagent
    and/or waste ports.
    27.     The reagent cartridge of any one of paragraphs 24-26, wherein the internal volume of
25  said reagent cartridge is less than 1.5 times the volume of the liquid stored within the cartridge.
    28.     A method of using the reagent cartridge of any one of paragraphs 24-27, the method
    comprising:
            (a)     removing reagent from said reagent compartment and
            (b)     introducing waste into said waste compartment.

                                                      14e
    29.      The method of paragraph 28, wherein at least 80% of liquid reagent removed from said
    reagent cartridge is reintroduced into said reagent cartridge as waste.
    30.      A liquid dispenser comprising:
             (a)     a pipetting probe comprising a vertical tube element;
  5          (b)     a probe guide that supports said tube element in a vertical orientation, wherein
    said probe guide is configured to allow said tube element to move vertically in said guide
    between a fully extended position and a fully retracted position;
             (c)     a spring element coupled to said vertical tube element and probe holder that
    biases said tube element to said fully extended position; and
 LO          (d)     a vertical translation stage attached to said probe guide that allows for raising
    and lowering said probe.
    31.      The liquid dispenser of paragraph 30, wherein the lower opening of said tube element is
    slotted.
    32.      The liquid dispenser of paragraph 30, wherein said probe comprises two parallel or
 L5 concentric vertical tube elements.
    33.      A method of adding fluid to and/or withdrawing fluid from a container using the liquid
    dispensor of any one of paragraphs 30-32, the method comprising:
             (a)     lowering said pipetting probe into said container by lowering said translation
    stage until said probe touches a bottom surface of said container,
20           (b)     continuing to lower said translation stage such that said tube element pushes
    against said spring and retracts within said probe guide to a position between said fully
    extended and fully retracted positions,
             (c)     adding fluid to and/or withdrawing fluid from said container through said
    pipetting probe, and
25           (d)    raising said pipetting probe out of said container by raising said translation stage.
    34.      The method of paragraph 33, wherein said container is sealed with a pierceable plate
    seal and said method further comprises lowering said translation stage until said probe contacts
    and pierces said seal.
    35.      The method of paragraph 34, wherein said piercing comprises:
30           lowering said translation stage until said pipetting probe contacts said plate seal,

                                                      14f
            continuing to lower said translation stage such that said tube element pushes against said
    spring and retracts within said probe guide to said fully retracted position, and
            continuing to lower said translation stage such that said pipetting probe pierces said
    plate seal and said tube element returns to said fully extended position.
  5 36.     An apparatus for conducting luminescence assays in multi-well plates, the apparatus
    comprising:
            (a)     a light-tight enclosure comprising:
                    (i)      one or more plate elevators with a plate lifting platform that can be raised
            and lowered;
 [0                 (ii)     a light-tight enclosure top having one or more plate introduction
            apertures positioned above said plate elevators and an imaging aperture, wherein said
            enclosure top comprises a sliding light- tight door for sealing said plate introduction
            apertures; and
                    (iii)    a plate translation stage for translating a plate in one or more horizontal
 [5         directions, wherein said stage comprises a plate carriage for supporting the plate, said
            plate carriage has an opening to allow said plate elevators positioned below the plate
            carriage to access and lift the plate, and said plate translation stage is configured to
            position plates below said imaging aperture and to position said plates above said plate
            elevators;
  0         (b)     one or more plate stackers mounted on said enclosure top, above said plate
    introduction apertures, wherein said plate stackers are configured to receive or deliver plates to
    said plate elevators; and
            (c)     a light detector mounted on said enclosure top and coupled to said imaging
    aperture with a light-tight seal.
25  37.     The apparatus of paragraph 36 further comprising a pipetting system for delivering
    liquids to or removing liquids from the wells of an assay plate in said apparatus.
    38.     The apparatus of paragraph 37, wherein:
            (i)     said pipetting system comprises a pipetting probe mounted on a pipette
    translation stage for translating said pipetting probe in a vertical direction and, optionally, in
30  one or more horizontal directions;
            (ii)    said enclosure top has one or more pipetting apertures;

                                                      14g
             (iii)   said sliding light-tight door has one or more pipetting apertures, wherein said
    sliding light-tight door has a pipetting position where said pipetting apertures in said enclosure
    top align with said pipetting apertures in said sliding light-tight door; and
             (iv)    said pipette translation stage is mounted on said enclosure top and configured to
  5 allow, when said sliding light-tight door is in said pipetting position, lowering said pipetting
    probe so as to access wells positioned under said pipetting apertures in said enclosure top.
    39.      The apparatus of paragraph 38 further comprising a component selected from the group
    consisting of reagent and/or sample delivery station, reagent and/or sample tube rack, probe
    wash station, waste station, and combinations thereof, wherein said pipette translation stage is
 [0 configured to move in one or more horizontal directions to access liquids in and/or deliver
    liquids to said component.
    40.      The apparatus of any one of paragraphs 36-39 further comprising a plate-seal piercing
    probe.
    41.      The apparatus of any one of paragraphs 38-39 further comprising a plate-seal piercing
 [5 probe, wherein:
             (i)     said enclosure top has a piercing probe aperture;
             (ii)    said sliding light-tight door has a piercing probe aperture, wherein said sliding
    light-tight door has a piercing position where said piercing probe aperture in said enclosure top
    aligns with said piercing probe aperture in said sliding light-tight door; and
  0          (iii)   said piercing probe is mounted on said enclosure top and configured to allow,
    when said sliding light-tight door is in said piercing position, lowering said piercing probe so as
    to pierce seals on wells positioned under said piercing apertures in said enclosure top.
    42.      The apparatus of paragraph 41, wherein said pipette translation stage comprises a probe
    translation element and said pipette translation stage is configured to travel horizontally to
25  contact said piercing probe with said probe translation element and to travel vertically to lower
    and raise said piercing probe with said probe translation element.
    43.      The apparatus of any one of paragraphs 36-42 further comprising plate contacts for
    providing electrical energy to electrodes in wells positioned under said light detector.
    44.      A method for conducting an assay using the apparatus of any one of paragraphs 36- 43,
30  the method comprising:

                                                      14h
            (a)     introducing a plate to one of said plate stackers,
            (b)     sliding said sliding light-tight door so as to expose a plate introduction aperture
    under said one of said plate stackers,
            (c)     using one of said plate elevators to lower said plate from said one of said plate
  5 stackers to said plate carriage,
            (d)     sliding said sliding light-tight door to seal said plate introduction apertures,
            (e)     translating said plate carriage to position one or more wells under said light
    detector,
            (f)     detecting luminescence from said one or more wells,
 10         (g)     sliding said sliding light-tight door to expose at least one of said plate
    introduction apertures,
            (h)     translating said plate carriage to position said plate below said one of said plate
    introduction apertures, and
            (i)     raising one of said plate elevators to raise said plate to one of said plate stackers.
 15 45.     The method of paragraph 44 further comprising one or more of:
            pipetting sample/or reagent into or out of one of said wells,
            removing seals from one or more of said wells, or
            applying electrical energy to electrodes in one or more of said wells.
    46.     A method for conducting an assay using the apparatus of any one of paragraphs 42- 43,
  0 the method comprising:
            (a)     introducing a plate to one of said plate stackers,
            (b)     sliding said sliding light-tight door so as to expose one of said plate introduction
    apertures,
            (c)     using one of said plate elevators to lower said plate from said one of said plate
25  stackers to said plate carriage,
            (d)     sliding said sliding light-tight door to said piercing position,
            (e)     aligning a well of said plate under said piercing probe and piercing a seal on said
    well,
            (f)     sliding said sliding light-tight door to said pipetting position,
30          (g)     using said pipetting probe to introduce and/or remove reagent and/or sample
    from one or more wells of said plate,
            (h)     sliding said sliding light-tight door to seal said plate introduction apertures,

                                                     14i
            (i)    translating said plate carriage to position one or more wells under said light
    detector,
            (j)    detecting luminescence from said one or more wells,
            (k)    sliding said sliding light-tight door to expose one of said plate introduction
  5 apertures,
            (1)    translating said plate carriage to position said plate above one of said plate
    elevators, and
            (m)    raising said plate elevator to raise said plate to one of said plate stackers.
    47.     The method of any one of paragraphs 44-46 further comprising translating said plate
 [0 carriage to position one or more additional wells under said light detector and detecting
    luminescence from said one or more additional wells.
    48.     The method of any one of paragraphs 44-47, wherein said detecting luminescence from
    said one or more wells comprises applying electrical potentials to electrodes in said one or more
    wells.
 [5 49.     The method in any one of paragraphs 44-48, wherein said light detector is an imaging
    system.
    50.     The method of paragraph 49, wherein said imaging system is used to image
    luminescence from arrays of binding domains in said one or more wells and said apparatus
    reports luminescence values for luminescence emitted from individual elements of said arrays.
20  51.     The method of any one of paragraphs 44-50, wherein one or more wells of said plate
    comprise dry assay reagents.
    52.     The method of paragraph 51, wherein said one or more wells comprising dry assay
    reagents are sealed to protect said dry reagents from the environment.
                                           [Text continues on page 15]

                                               15
                          BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF DRAWINGS
            Figure 1 shows an assembled view of multi-well plate reader 100.
            Figure 2 shows a view of plate reader 100 that exposes embodiments of the light
   detection and fluidic components.
 5          Figure 3 shows one embodiment of a light detection system 160 of plate reader
   100.
            Figure 4 shows embodiments of certain fluidic and seal piercing components.
            Figure 5 shows an embodiment of a sample/waste station 300.
            Figures 6a-6c show an embodiment of a spring-loaded pipette probe 400.
10          Figures 7a-7b show an embodiment of a plate seal piercing probe 225.
            Figure 8 shows an embodiment of an integrated plate seal piercer/pipettor 500.
            Figures 9a-9c show top views of an embodiment of light-tight enclosure 110 of
   plate reader 100 and illustrates the operation of sliding light-tight door 150 (shown in
   cross-hatch).
15          Figure 10 shows a view of the mechanical components present in one
   embodiment of light-tight enclosure 110 of plate reader 100.
        DESCRIPTION OF SPECIFIC EMBODIMENTS OF THE INVENTION
            The Detailed Description section provides descriptions of certain embodiments
20 of the invention that should not be considered limiting but are intended to illustrate
   certain inventive aspects. Figure 1 shows an isometric view of one embodiment of
   multi-well plate reader 100. Plate reader 100 has a light-tight enclosure 110 and a
   fluidic/imaging system enclosure 130. Input and output plate stackers 122 and 120,
   respectively, hold plates 105 for use in assays (plates are shown as having optional

                                               16
   plate seals). Plate stackers 120 and 122 have plate release latches 125 that are spring
   loaded to allow plates raised from the light-tight enclosure below (using a plate elevator
   that is not shown in this view) to be captured in the stack. The latches in the input stack
   122 can also be directed to be released to allow plates to be released from the stack to a
 5 plate elevator below (not shown). Window 140 provides an optical path for a bar code
   reader in fluidic/imaging system enclosure 130 to read bar codes on plates in input
   stacker 122. Optionally, a plate stack cover (not shown) may be mounted over the plate
   stack to protect plates in the stacks from the environment. The plate stack cover may
   include heaters and/or coolers (e.g., a thermoelectric heater/cooler) and/or a desiccant
10 chamber to maintain the plate stack under controlled temperature and/or humidity.
            Figure 2 is a view of plate reader 100 without the cover of fluidic/imaging
   system enclosure 130 and plates 105. The view shows sliding light-tight door 150
   which provides a light-tight seal to plate introduction apertures in the top of light-tight
   enclosure 100 located under plate stackers 120 and 122. Motor 155 is coupled via belt
15 to a linear screw drive (not shown) that opens door 150. The views provided of plate
   reader 100 illustrate the use of certain specific translation mechanisms to move a
   variety of components of the apparatus including door 150; while the specific
   mechanisms chosen may have certain inventive advantages, the description is not
   meant to be limiting and one skilled in the art will be able to select from a variety of
20 conventional single or multiple axis translation mechanisms. It should also be noted
   that to simplify the drawing, electronic circuit boards are not shown.
            Imaging system 160 is mounted on an imaging aperture in the top of light-tight
   enclosure 110 and can image luminescence from plates in enclosure 110. Pump 170 is
   a used to drive fluids through the integrated pipetting system. One skilled in the art

                                               17
   will be able to select appropriate pumps for use in the system including, but not limited
   to diaphragm pumps, peristaltic pumps, and syringe (or piston) pumps (as shown).
   Pump 170 also comprises a multi-port valve to allow the pump to push and pull fluids
   from different fluidic lines. Alternatively, multiple pumps can be used to
 5 independently control fluidics in different fluidic lines. A bar code reader 180 and
   rotating mirror 185 are used to scan bar codes from plates in input plate stacker 122.
   Fluidic station 200 is used to deliver sample to the apparatus, wash the integrated
   pipettor, and dispose of waste from the pipettor. Piercing tool 225 is used to pierce and
   displace seals on wells of sealed plates so as to allow for unblocked imaging of the
10 wells. Pipetting probe translation stage 250 provides horizontal and vertical translation
   of dual pipetting probe 260.
            Figure 3 is another view of plate reader 100 that focuses on the components of
   imaging system 160 and shows camera 162 mounted on the top of light-tight enclosure
   110 via camera bracket 164. Lens 166, coupled to camera 162, is used to provide a
15 focused image of luminescence generated from plates in enclosure 110. Diaphragm
   168 sealed to lens 166 and an aperture in the top of enclosure 110, and allows imaging
   system 160 to image light from enclosure 110 while maintaining enclosure 110 in a
   light-tight environment protected from environmental light. Suitable cameras for use in
   imaging system 160 include, but are not limited to, conventional cameras such as film
20 cameras, CCD cameras, CMOS cameras, and the like. CCD cameras may be cooled to
   lower electronic noise. Lens 166 is a high numerical aperture lens which may be made
   from glass or injection-molded plastic. The imaging system may be used to image one
   well or multiple wells of a plate at a time. The light collection efficiency for imaging
   light from a single well is higher than for imaging a group of wells due to the closer

                                               18
   match in the size of the CCD chip and the area being imaged. The reduced size of the
   imaged area and the increase in collection efficiency allows for the use of small
   inexpensive CCD cameras and lenses while maintaining high sensitivity in detection.
   Particularly advantageous, for their low cost and size, is the use of non-cooled cameras
 5 or cameras with minimal cooling (preferably to about -20'C, about -10 C, about 00 C,
   or higher temperatures).
            Figure 4 shows enlarged views of plate seal piercing tool 225, pipettor
   translation stage 250, and sample/waste station 300. Pipettor translation stage 250
   comprises dual probe pipettor 260 which is mounted on motorized vertical translation
10 stage 280 which is, in turn, mounted on horizontal translation stage 270. Horizontal
   translation stage 270 uses a motor and belt drive to move vertical translation stage 280
   along a linear guide rail, and moves pipettor 260 horizontally between piercing tool 225
   and sample/waste station 300. Vertical translation stage 280 uses motorized linear
   screw drive to raise and lower dual probe pipettor 260. The range of motion allows
15 probes 260 to access fluid in the sample/waste station and to access (through apertures
   in the top of light-tight enclosure 110, not shown) wells of plates located in enclosure
    110.
            Dual probe pipettor 260 includes fluidic connection for connecting both probes
   to fluidic lines. The use of two probes allows one probe to be used to deliver liquid to
20 the wells and one probe to be used to remove waste. Alternatively, the two probes may
   be used to deliver to different reagents from two different fluidic lines. Vertical
   translation stage 280 includes piercing probe translation element 265 which is shaped to
    slide into slot 227 on piercing tool 225. By using pipettor translation stage 270, probe
   translation element may be moved so as to contact and grab piercing probe 225 at slot

                                               19
   227 via yoke 265. Up and down movement of vertical stage 280 can then be used to
   control the vertical position of piercing probe 225.
           Figure 5 shows two views of sample/waste station 300. Station 300 has three
   open compartments defined on its upper surface: sample compartment 310, waste
 5 compartment 320, and washing compartment 330. Sample compartment 310 is in
   fluidic connection with fluidic connector 312. Sample delivered to fluidic connector
   312 (e.g., from an air sampling system) fills sample compartment 310 and is made
   available to pipettor 260. Waste compartment 320 drains to fluidic connector 322 and
   provides a receptacle for pipettor 260 to deliver waste. Washing compartment 330 can
10 be used to wash the surface of pipettor 260; pipettor 260 is inserted in compartment 330
   and the fluidic system is directed to dispense wash fluid which flows along the outside
   surface of pipettor 260 before overflowing into waste compartment 320.
   Compartments 310, 320, and 330 are countersunk into well 305 such that any overflow
   in compartments 310 and 330 is directed to waste and does not overflow station 300.
15 Fluidic sensors 314 and 324 are included to monitor fluid levels in compartments 310
   and 320, and ensure proper operation. Suitable fluid sensors include but are not limited
   to optical reflectance and capacitance sensors.
           Reagent block 340 is simply used to provide a connection between an extemal
   liquid reagent source (connected to fluidic connector 344) and pump 170 (connected to
20 fluidic connector 342). Reagent block 340 is monitored using fluid sensor 346 to
   ensure delivery of the liquid reagent. The liquid reagent may be omitted if not needed
   for a particular application. Non-exclusive examples of possible uses for the liquid
   reagent include use as a working fluid for the pump and fluid lines, as a wash buffer for
   washing assay wells, and/or as a read buffer for providing the optimal environment for

                                                 20
   luminescence measurements. In one embodiment, it is an electrochemiluminescence
   read buffer. Waste and liquid buffers may be stored in external or internal bottles.
   Alternatively, they may be stored in a reagent cartridge, e.g., as described herein.
            One skilled in the art will understand that one or more of the functional
 5 components in sample/waste station 300 (e.g., one of the compartments, the reagent
   block, the sensors, etc.) may be omitted or may be provided in a separate part. In
   addition, the sample compartment may be complemented or replaced by other methods
   of providing samples. For example, a tube rack and/or source plate station may be
   incorporated in the instrument. Such embodiments may be configured so that the travel
10 of probe 260 is sufficient to access such tubes or the wells of such source plates. The
   rack or plate holder may also have an axis of motion to help provide access to all tubes
   and wells. In one embodiment, the horizontal motion of the probe in the widthwise
   direction (i.e., from side to side relative to the base of the instrument) and movement of
   the tube or plate holder in the lengthwise direction (i.e., from front to back) provides
15 access to arrays of tubes in a tube rack and/or wells held in a source plate in a plate
   holder.
            Figure 6a shows a detailed view of a pipetting probe tip 400 which may be used
   on one or both of the probes on pipettor 260. Probe 400 is a hollow tube with a blunt
   end with slots 410 cut into the tip around the circumference of the probe, allowing for
20 fluid to be aspirating and dispensed from the probe when the probe is in contact with a
   surface. Rectangular slots are shown, but it is clear that alternative geometries,
   including triangular or semicircular openings, may also be used. There may be one or
   more slots around the circumference of the probe tip. The slots may be arranged in a
   symmetrical pattern, or the slots may be placed on a particular side of the probe

                                                21
   (asymmetrical) so that liquid is aspirated from a preferred direction, i.e., in order to pull
   liquid from a meniscus around the bottom edge of the well.
           Optionally, the pipetting probes used in the apparatuses are spring loaded so
   that they can contact a surface without damaging the surface or the probes. Figures 6b
 5 and 6c show liquid dispenser 420 which shows an alternative probe embodiment that
   may be used. Liquid dispenser 420 comprises pipetting probe 424 having vertical tube
   element 425 and probe guide 430 that is configured to allows tube element 425 to move
   vertically in guide 430 between a fully extended position (Figure 6b) and a fully
   retracted position (Figure 6c). As shown, a large diameter region of probe 424 is
10 confined between two position stops defined by inner surfaces of guide 430 although
   one skilled in the art will be able to design alternate configurations of position stops.
   Dispenser 420 also comprises spring element 440 which is compressed between a
   surface of guide 430 and ledge (or collar) 435 on vertical tube element 425 so that in
   the absence of external force on the bottom of the probe, said tube element stays in the
15 extended position. The dispenser also comprises a vertical translation stage attached to
   guide 430 (not shown) that allows raising and lowering guide 430.
            In one embodiment of a pipetting operation using dispensor 420, guide is
   lowered such that probe 424 is lowered into a container until it touches the bottom
   surface. Lowering continues such that tube element 425pushes against spring 440, and
20 retracts into probe guide 430 to a position between the fully extended and fully
   retracted positions. Fluid is added or removed from the well and probe 424 is raised
   out of the well. In a specific example employing a container with a piercable seal, the
   method may further comprise lowering the translation stage until probe 424 contacts
   and pierces the seal. In addition, piercing the seal may further comprise e) lowering the

                                                22
   translation stage until pipetting probe 424 contacts the plate seal, f) continuing to lower
   the translation stage such that the tube element 425 pushes against spring 440 and
   retracts into probe guide 430 to the fully retracted position, and g) continuing to lower
   the translation stage such that pipetting probe 424 pierces the plate seal and tube
 5 element 425 returns to the fully extended position.
           Figures 7a-7b show two views of piercing probe 225 from apparatus 100.
   Piercing probe 225 comprises a piercing section 450 with external surfaces that taper
   to a vertex to form piercing tip 451 at one end of a piercing direction (the direction in
   which the probe moves to pierce a well, in this case the long axis of the probe).
10 Piercing probe 225 also comprises a seal displacement section 452 arranged adjacent to
   piercing section 450 along the piercing dimension. Displacement section 452 conforms
   to, but is slightly undersized, relative to the shape of the openings of the wells it is
   intended to pierce (in this case, square wells with rounded corners). After piercing
   section 450 pierces a seal, displacement section 452 pushes the plate seal against the
15 well walls and prevents the seal from interfering with the detection of signals in the
   well. Piercing probe 225 also comprises plate stop section 454 adjacent to
   displacement section 452. Stop section 454 is sized so that it can not enter the target
   wells and thus defines the maximal travel of probe 225 into a target well.
            As noted above, displacement section 452 conforms to the shape of the wells it
20 is intended to pierce. The cross-sectional area (perpendicular to the piercing direction)
   may take on any well shape including, but not limited to, round, elliptical, polygonal
   (regular or not), and polygonal with rounded corners. In one specific example it is
   square or square with rounded edges. Piercing section 450 may take on shapes that
   include, but are not limited to, conical shapes and pyramidal shapes. As shown in

                                               23
   Figure 7a, it has a square pyramidal shape with edges 453 extending in a radial
   direction from tip 451. The edges of the pyrarnid, advantageously, form cutting edges
   that help to cut a seal into sections during a piercing operation. For example, the
   piercing probe as shown in Figures 7a-7b is designed to pierce a seal on a rounded
 5 square well, cut the seal diagonally to form four triangular seal sections and fold these
   sections against the walls of the well. Cutting edges may also be raised from the
   surface, e.g., piercing system may be basically conical in shape but have raised cutting
   edges that extend from the conical surface. An apparatus is also provided for analyzing
   a multi-well plate that includes a piercing probe and a sealed plate. Suitable plates
io include plates sealed with a sealing film (for example, an adhesive, heat sealed, or sonic
   welded film). The film may comprise materials including, but not limited to, plastics
   and metal films or a combination of both. In one specific embodiment, the seal is a
   metal foil (which may be coated with a sealing layer such as heat sealable or adhesive
   coating or film) such as a heat sealable or adhesive aluminum foil.
15          As shown in Figure 7b, piercing probe 225 is spring loaded to provide a
   restorative force and to limit the maximum force that can be applied to a plate.
   Piercing probe 225 comprises a probe shaft 460 that slides within an aperture in probe
   guide 470, probe guide 470 being fixedly mounted on the top of light tight enclosure
    110 (see Figure 2). Compression spring 461 provides a restorative force that biases
20 probe shaft 460 to be full raised into probe guide 470. The restorative force is provided
   between i) pin 464 which is fixedly held in shaft 460 and ii) pin 462 which is fixedly
   held between guide 470 and the top of enclosure 110 but can move freely in slot 463 of
   shaft 460 (slot 463 defining the range of motion of probe shaft 460 relative to guide
   470). Probe 225 is designed to be moved in the piercing direction by application of

                                                24
   force to plunger 465 (for example, by grabbing slot 227 with probe displacement
   element 265 (see Figure 4) and translating probe displacement element 265 in a vertical
   direction). A second compression spring (not shown) between plunger 465 and pin 464
   limits the force that may be applied with piercing probe 225; if excessive force is
 5 applied, the plunger will compress the second compression spring instead of moving
   shaft 460 relative to guide 470. Pin 466 in slot 467 defines the maximal travel of
   plunger 465 in shaft 460.
            Figure 8 shows alternate embodiments of piercing and pipetting probes that are
   integrated into one unit. Figure 8 shows a seal piercer/pipettor 500 that comprises a
10 seal piercing probe 510 having a seal piercing section 520 with a seal piercing tip 521,
   a seal displacement section 522, and a plate stop section 524. Piercer/pipettor 500 also
   comprises a piercing probe guide 540 having a cylindrical opening in which probe 510
   can slide along the piercing direction. Piercing probe 510 also has a through-hole 525
   parallel to the piercing direction and, in one example, off-set from piercing tip 521.
15 Pipette probe 530 is movably-located in through-hole 525 and fixedly attached to guide
   540 such that movement of piercing probe 510 away from guide 540 causes pipetting
   probe 530 to extend from piercing probe 510, and movement of piercing probe 510
   toward guide 540 causes pipetting probe 530 to withdraw into piercing probe 510.
   Compression spring 545 in guide 540 acts to push piercing probe 510 away from guide
20 540, and to retract pipetting probe 530 (the maximal displacement of piercing probe
   510 being limited by physical stops, specifically collar 526 on probe 510 and ledge 547
   on guide 540.
           In operation, plate guide 540 is lowered toward a sealed well such that piercing
   probe 510 pierces and displaces the seal on the well. The spring constant of

                                               25
   compression spring 545 is selected such that the seal can be pierced without substantial
   compression of spring 545 (and pipetting probe 530 remains retracted in through-hole
   525 and co-translates with piercing probe 510). Continued lowering of guide 540
   results in plate stop section 524 contacting the top surface of the well, preventing
 5 further translation of piercing probe 510, and resulting in compression of spring 545
   and extension of pipetting prove 530 into the well.
            Figures 9a-9c show top views of light-tight enclosure 110 of apparatus 100 (see
   Figures 1-2) after removing most of the components mounted on top of enclosure 110.
   Figure 9 shows three views (a-c) with sliding light-tight door 150 in three different
10 positions (for clarity, exposed surfaces of door 150 are shown in cross-hatch). In
   Figure 9a, door 150 is in the fully sealed position so as to fully seal plate introduction
   apertures 626, piercing probe aperture 630, and pipetting probe apertures 640 in the top
   of enclosure 110. Light detection aperture 610 is unblocked allowing detection and/or
   imaging of light emitted from wells positioned underneath aperture 610. This view also
15 shows plate contact mechanism 615 mounted on the bottom of enclosure 110 under
   aperture 610. Plate contact mechanism 615 is designed for use with plates having
   electrodes within the wells and electrode contacts to these electrodes patterned on the
   bottom of the plates; plate contact mechanism 615 providing electrical contact to the
   electrode contacts of the wells positioned under aperture 610.
20          In Figure 9b, sliding door 150 is partially opened to align piercing probe and
   pipetting probe apertures in sliding door 150 with corresponding apertures 630 and 640
   in the top of enclosure 110. With the door in this position, the piercing and pipetting
   probes can access wells positioned under the appropriate apertures. Multiple pipetting
   apertures are provided so that a pipetting probe can access multiple locations in a well

                                              26
   or multiple wells in plate without repositioning the plate. In Figure 9c, sliding door 150
   is fully opened, fully opening plate introduction apertures 626 and allowing the transfer
   of plates between plate stackers 120 and 122, and plate elevator 625.
            Figure 10 shows the mechanical components present in light-tight enclosure
 5 110. Plate translation stage 710 is mounted at an elevated position within enclosure
   110, and provides a plate holder 720 and holding plate 730. Translation stage 710
   comprises linear guides and motors that provide two horizontal axis of translation to
   plate holder 720, and allows plate holder 720 to cover most of the horizontal area with
   enclosure 110. Plate holder 720 supports plate 730 at the edges and is open in the
10 center so that plate elevator 740 and contact mechanism 750 may contact the bottom of
   plate 730 through plate holder 720. When plate holder 720 is positioned over one of
   platforms 745 on elevator 740, the motor driven scissor mechanism of elevator 740
   may operate to raise the platform, and lift plate 730 from plate holder 720 and up to a
   plate stacker mounted on the top of enclosure 110. Similarly, when plate holder 720 is
15 positioned over contact mechanism 750, the motor driven scissor mechanism of contact
   mechanism 750 may operate to raise electrical contacts 755 so that they contact
   electrode contacts on the bottom of plate 730, and allow application of electrical
   energy, through said contacts, to electrodes in the wells of plate 730, for example, to
   induce electrochemiluminescence at those electrodes. It should be noted that the
20 motion systems described for moving plates, electrical contacts, probes, etc. are not
    limited to the specific mechanisms depicted herein, although these mechanisms may
   have specific advantages. It is well within the purview of one in the art to select other
    conventional mechanism for accomplishing the desired movement of components.

                                               27
           In one embodiment, translation stage 710 may be used to achieve rapid one or
   two axis oscillation of plate holder 720 and, thereby, to shake and mix the contents of a
   plate on the plate holder. The shaking profiles can range from continuous single-axis
   shaking to duty-cycled orbital shaking. One example includes shaking with the axes at
 5 two different frequencies. The system may also provide for sonication to enhance
   mixing during sample incubation, for example, as described in the U.S. Patent
   6,413,783 of Wohlstadter et al.
           In one embodiment, the light tight enclosure includes a light source located
   underneath the imaging aperture and below the elevation of the plate holder. This
10 arrangement allows for the use of fiducial holes or windows in plates to be used to
   correct for errors in plate alignment. Light from the light source is passed through the
   fiducials and imaged on the imaging system so as to determine and correct for the
   alignment of the plate. Advantageously, plates formed from plate bottoms mated to a
   plate top (e.g., plates with screen printed plate bottoms mated to injection-molded plate
15 tops as described in copending U.S. Applications 10/185,274 and 10/185,363)
   advantageously include fiducials patterned (e.g., screen printed) or cut into the plate
   bottom to correct for misalignment of the plate bottom relative to the plate top. In one
   specific embodiment, the plate top on such a plate includes holes (e.g., in the outside
   frame of the plate top) aligned with fiducials on the plate bottom to allow imaging of
20 the fiducials. Accordingly, the imaging of light generated under a plate may be used to
   communicate the exact position of the plate to the image processing software and also
   to provide for a camera focus check. The plate may then be realigned using a two-axis
   positioning system. Thus, a plate positioning method is provided comprising: (1)
   providing a plate having light-path openings; (2) illuminating plate from the bottom; (3)

                                                28
    detecting light coming through light-path openings; and (4) optionally, realigning the
    plate.
             The apparatuses, systems, method, reagents, and kits may be used for
    conducting assays on environmental samples. They may be particularly well-suited for
 5  conducting automated sampling, sample preparation, and analysis in the multi-well
    plate assay format.
              One embodiment is an autonomous environmental monitoring system
     comprising (1) a sample collection module; (2) optionally, a sample processing module;
     and (3) a biological agent detection module, wherein the modules are fluidically
10   connected, or in one example connectable, to allow for sample transfer between
     modules. According to one embodiment, an autonomous environmental system allows
     for multi-week periods of sustained operation requiring reduced human interaction.
              The biological agents that may be detected include viral, bacterial, fungal, and
     parasitic pathogens as well as biological toxins. The agents themselves may be
 15  detected or they may be detected through measurement of materials derived from the
     agents including, but not limited to, cellular fragments, proteins, nucleic acids, lipids,
     polysaccharides, and toxins.
              In one embodiment, the autonomous environmental monitoring system samples
      air, suspends particulate matter from the air sample in a collection fluid thereby
 20   creating a liquid sample, and performs an assay for one or more biological agents
      including viruses, bacteria, and toxins. The assay can be conducted in a singular or
      multiplexed assay format.
               Some examples of biological agents include, but are not limited to, vaccinia
      virus, Brucella spp., botulinum toxin A, ricin, staph enterotoxin B (SEB), Venezuelan

                                                29
   equine encephalitis (VEE), Yersinia pestis (YP), Bacillus anthracis(BA), Coxiella
   burnetii (CB), and Francisellatularensis (FT).
            In one embodiment, the system also comprises a computer that receives and
   processes data from a biological agent detection module. The computer recognizes in
 5 the data the positive identifications and, optionally, increases the frequency of
   conducting tests, transmits the data to alert the appropriate authorities, and further,
   optionally, automatically alerts nearby additional autonomous environmental
   monitoring system which automatically increase frequency of analysis and/or lower
   detection limits to identify presence of biological agents.
10          Thus, a network is also provided of autonomous environmental monitoring
   systems. According to one embodiment, each autonomous environmental monitoring
   system in the network may automatically determine individualized detection threshold
    limits by accounting for the background data at individual sites through acquiring
   sampling of the background at that specific location over the period of operation. The
15  acquired background level information is used to track average background level and
    the standard deviations of the background level, and dynamically adjust the detection
    thresholds limit for a site location of an individual autonomous environmental
    monitoring system.
             According to one embodiment, a sample collection module is capable of
20  collecting and processing environmental samples such as suspensions of particles
    filtered, or otherwise concentrated, out of air samples. Air sampling systems that may
    be used include filter based collectors, impactors, virtual impactors, and wetted
    cyclones. Examples of standard sample collection modules that can be used include
    systems described in U.S. Patents 6,888,085; 6,887,710; 6,867,044; and 6,567,008.

                                               30
   Additionally, or alternatively, the sample collection module may be configured to
   collect, concentrate, and/or process other classes of samples such as water samples, soil
   samples, clinical samples, environmental swipes, etc., environmental sludges, food
   samples, beverages, samples that comprise suspensions of dirt, or biological samples.
 5 Clinical samples that may be analyzed include, but are not limited to, feces, mucosal
   swabs, physiological fluids and/or samples containing suspensions of cells. Specific
   examples of biological samples include blood, serum, plasma, tissue aspirates, tissue
   homogenates, cell cultures, cell culture supernatants (including cultures of eukaryotic
   and prokaryotic cells), urine, and cerebrospinal fluid.
10          A device for suspending particulate contained in the aerosolized particulate
   stream in a collection fluid may utilize a sonicator, a vortex mixer, a shaker, a simple
   mixer, or other means for optimizing contact between a fluid and an air sample.
            According to one embodiment, a surfactant can be added to the collection fluid
   to prevent loss of biological agents to particles (including, but not limited to, paper,
15 debris, and dust) in the collector solution. Useful surfactants include, but are not
   limited to ionic or non-ionic detergents or surfactants (e.g., classes of non-ionic
   detergents/surfactants are known by the trade names of BRIJ, TRITON, TWEEN,
   THESIT, LUBROL, GENAPOL, PLURONIC, TETRONIC, and SPAN). According to
   another embodiment, biological agents adsorbed on particulate, for example cellulose
20 based debris, are released back into solution by treatment with a carboxylic acid, for
   example, acetic acid, or citric acid.
            According to one embodiment, detection of biological agents is improved by
   physical or chemical processing of the sample. The processing can be used to (1)

                                               31
   concentrate biological agents in the sample, (2) lyse and/or fragment the biological
   agents, and (3) expose binding sites that would otherwise remain inaccessible.
           A device may include a concentrator system to concentrates biological agents
   suspended in the liquid sample by filtration, affinity separation and/or centrifugation.
 5 The filtration concentrator system may employ a filter selected to retain bacterial and
   viral particles while excising excess fluid. In one example, filtration concentrator
   system employs filters that retain biological molecules, such as proteins, toxins, nucleic
   acids, polysaccharides, and lipids. The system may also provide for biological agent
   removal from the filter and re-suspended in solution, for example by flowing buffer
10 solution in the reverse direction and/or sonication.
           The centrifugation concentrator system separates biological agents from the
   fluid by removing excess fluid following the centrifugation. The system also provides
   for re-suspension of the concentrated biological agents in a smaller volume of fluid
   following excess fluid removal.
15          According to one embodiment, the system employs affinity concentration unit
   comprising an affinity resin capable of binding to biological agents. Examples of the
   affinity resin include, but are not limited to, hydrophobic interaction resins (C4-C 18,
   poly-, polyethyl-, and polymethyl-aspartamide). The resin can be conveniently
   packaged in columns, cartridges, or used as loose beads. The system provides for
20 biological agents removal from the affinity media by elution with a release solvent.
            According to one embodiment, at least one analyte can be concentrated through
   immobilization on the surface of at least one microparticle, or a plurality of
   microparticles (for example, a plurality of magnetically responsive microparticles),
   either passively (e.g., by non-specific binding) or via binding interactions with a

                                               32
   binding partner of the analyte (e.g., an antibody that binds the analyte) or via chemical
   linkage such as via covalent bonds (e.g., reaction with an NHS-ester) and/or by reaction
   with an appropriate linker, or via one or more specific binding reagents, andlor by a
   combination thereof.
 5          In one embodiment, an ultrasonic lysis system is incorporated into the sample
   processing module, e.g., a system as described in U.S. Patent 6,413,873 of Wohlstadter
   et al. Alternatively, the sample processing module may comprise a chemical lysis
    system. Chemical lysis by detergents, acids, bases, or other lysing agents can be used
    to break open vegetative bacteria, spores, and viral particles. An acidic or basic
10  solution used for chemical lysis can then be neutralized prior to sample delivery to the
    analyte detection module. According to one embodiment, lysis system is incorporated
    upstream of a separator comprising a concentrator system. Alternatively, lysis follows
    removal of biological agents from a concentrator unit.
            The sample processing module may further include a partial purification
15  system, capable of removal of undesirable and in some examples interfering matter.
    For example, the partial purification system may include a filter permeable to
    biological molecules, but impervious to large particulate. The module may also include
    a chemical partial purification system (for example, a system for precipitating nucleic
    acids using alcohols).
20           According to one embodiment, a biological agent detection module comprises a
     reader for reading electrochemiluninescence (ECL) from multi-well plates. For
     example, ECL-based multiplexed testing is described in U.S. Publications
     2004/0022677 and 2004/0052646 of U.S. Applications 10/185,274 and 10/185,363,
     respectively; U.S. Publication 2003/0207290 of U.S. Application 10/238,960; U.S.

                                              33
   Publication 2003/0113713 of U.S. Application 10/238,391; U.S. Publication
   2004/0189311 of U.S. Application 10/744,726; and U.S. Publication 2005/0142033 of
   U.S. Application 10/980,198.
           In one embodiment, the biological agent detection module has an integrated
 5 pipettor and a fluidic manifold for receiving samples and buffers, and distributing them
   to the wells of a plate. According to one preferred embodiment, the module allows to
   induce and measure ECL from only one well at a time.
            One example of the analyte detection module, picture in Figure 1, demonstrates
   the arrangement in a compact instrument of a mechanical system for storing and
10 moving plates, a light detector for measuring luminescence (including ECL), a fluidic
   interface and pipetting system for transferring samples to the plates, and the electronic
   boards that drive the module.
            According to one embodiment, the analyte detection module has three
   subsystems: (1) light detection, (2) liquid handling, and (3) plate handling. Each
15 subsystem may, optionally, have a built-in error detection component to ensure reliable
   operation and to reduce the probability of false positives.
            A method is also provided for conducting assays for biological agents including,
   but not limited to, biological warfare agents. In one embodiment, the method is a
   binding assay. In another embodiment, the method is a solid-phase binding assay (in
20  one example, a solid phase immunoassay) and comprises contacting an assay
    composition with one or more binding surfaces that bind analytes of interest (or their
    binding competitors) present in the assay composition. The method may also include
    contacting the assay composition with one or more detection reagents capable of
    specifically binding with the analytes of interest. The multiplexed binding assay

                                                34
   methods according to preferred embodiments can involve a number of formats
   available in the art. Suitable assay methods include sandwich or competitive binding
   assays format. Examples of sandwich immunoassays are described in U.S. Patents
   4,168,146 and 4,366,241. Examples of competitive immunoassays include those
 5 disclosed in U.S. Patents 4,235,601; 4,442,204; and 5,208,535 to Buechler et al. In one
   example, small molecule toxins such as marine and fungal toxins can be
   advantageously measured in competitive immunoassay formats.
            Binding reagents that can be used as detection reagents, the binding components
   of binding surfaces and/or bridging reagents include, but are not limited to, antibodies,
10 receptors, ligands, haptens, antigens, epitopes, mimitopes, aptamers, hybridization
   partners, and intercalaters. Suitable binding reagent compositions include, but are not
    limited to, proteins, nucleic acids, drugs, steroids, hormones, lipids, polysaccharides,
    and combinations thereof. The term "antibody" includes intact antibody molecules
    (including hybrid antibodies assembled by in vitro re-association of antibody subunits),
15  antibody fragments, and recombinant protein constructs comprising an antigen binding
    domain of an antibody (as described, e.g., in Porter & Weir, J. Cell Physiol., 67 (Suppl
     1):51-64, 1966; Hochman et al., Biochemistry 12:1130-1135, 1973; hereby
    incorporated by reference). The term also includes intact antibody molecules, antibody
    fragments, and antibody constructs that have been chemically modified, e.g., by the
20  introduction of a label.
            Measured, as used herein, is understood to encompass quantitative and
    qualitative measurement, and encompasses measurements carried out for a variety of
    purposes including, but not limited to, detecting the presence of an analyte, quantitating
     the amount of an analyte, identifying a known analyte, and/or determining the identity

                                              35
   of an unknown analyte in a sample. According to one embodiment, the amounts the
   first binding reagent and the second binding reagent bound to one or more binding
   surfaces may be presented as a concentration value of the analytes in a sample, i.e., the
   amount of each analyte per volume of sample.
 5          Analytes may be detected using electrochemiluminescence-based assay formats.
   Electrochemiluminescence measurements are preferably carried out using binding
   reagents immobilized or otherwise collected on an electrode surface. Especially
   preferred electrodes include screen-printed carbon ink electrodes which may be
   patterned on the bottom of specially designed cartridges and/or multi-well plates (e.g.,
10 24-, 96-, 384- etc. well plates). Electrochemiluminescence from ECL labels on the
   surface of the carbon electrodes is induced and measured using an imaging plate reader
   as described in copending U.S. Applications 10/185,274 and 10/185,363 (both entitled
   "Assay Plates, Reader Systems and Methods for Luminescence Test Measurements",
   filed on June 28, 2002, hereby incorporated by reference). Analogous plates and plate
15 readers are now commercially available (MULTI-SPOT@ and MULTI-ARRAYTM
   plates and SECTOR@ instruments, Meso Scale Discovery, a division of Meso Scale
   Diagnostics, LLC, Gaithersburg, MD).
            In one embodiment, antibodies that are immobilized on the electrodes within the
   plates may be used to detect the selected biological agent in a sandwich immunoassay
20 format. In another embodiment, microarrays of antibodies, patterned on integrated
   electrodes within the plates, will be used to detect the plurality of the selected
   biological agents in a sandwich immunoassay format. Accordingly, each well contains
   one or more capture antibodies immobilized on the working electrode of the plate and,
   optionally, in dry form labeled detection antibodies and all additional reagents

                                                36
   necessary for analysis of samples, and for carrying out positive and negative controls.
   In one example, arrays having multiple binding surfaces within a single well allow to
   replicate tests to significantly reduce false positive identification.
           A positive control method is provided to identify conditions or samples that
 5 may cause false negative measurements by interfering with the generation of signal.
   According to this aspect, positive control method comprises contacting sample with a
   binding reagent (e.g., an antibody) to a positive control substance (for example, to a
   non-toxic positive control substance) that is not expected to be observed in
   environmental samples; then contacting the sample with a labeled detection reagent (for
10 example, an antibody) against the positive control substance and a controlled amount of
   the positive control substance, and measuring the signal. The positive control should,
   therefore, always provide a constant positive signal regardless of the sample. A
   significantly reduced signal may indicate that the sample interferes with the antibody
   binding reactions or the signal generating process, or may indicate a malfunction in the
15 plate or instrument.
            A negative control method is provided employing a capture reagent (e.g., an
    antibody) that is not matched with a detection reagent. The method comprises
   contacting a sample with a capture reagent in the presence of mismatched detection
    reagent and measuring signal. The negative control should, therefore, provide a
20  negative signal regardless of the sample. A significantly elevated signal from the
    negative control indicates the presence of a material in the sample, such as a cross
    linking agent, that is causing the non-specific binding of non-matched detection
    reagents to the negative control capture reagent.

                                                37
            A method is provided using a mixture of non-specific antibodies from the same
   species (e.g., polyclonal mouse, rabbit, goat, etc.) as specific capture antibodies to
   identify any non-specific binding effects that would otherwise provide false positive
   identification. This mixture may be selected to include the species of the antibodies
 5 used in the actual test measurements.
            A method is provided using at least two different pairs of capture and detection
   reagents (e.g., antibodies) in alternating independently addressable wells to reduce the
   frequency of false positive identifications. Accordingly, the first binding reagent pair is
   used as a primary identification, which, if positive, triggers the confirmation test using
10 the second binding reagent pair. The pairs may target the same marker or epitopes of a
   biological agent or, alternatively, they may further increase the orthogonality of the two
   measurements by targeting different markers or epitopes of a biological agent. An
   arrangement of at least two different antibody pairs in alternating well may be
   particularly advantageous. According to this aspect, the pairs are alternating as a
15 primary identification set, thereby eliminating the need to dedicate wells as
   confirmation tests. Instead, if a sample is suspected to be positive based on-the most
   recent test (based on either the first or the second pair), confirmation is simply
   performed by running the subsequent test well.
            The reliability of detection method may be further improved by providing two
20  or more different capture antibodies in a single well, wherein (a) the two or more
    different antibodies recognize the same marker and/or epitope of the same biological
    target; and/or b) the two or more different antibodies recognize different markers and/or
    epitopes of the same biological target.

                                                38
            One method for the detection of biological agents comprises (1) collecting an
   air sample using sample collection module (by the way of example, collecting aerosols
   in an air sample by using integrated an aerosol sampling system); (2) suspending the
   aerosols in a liquid; (3) optionally, transferring the aerosol suspension into a sample
 5 processing module; (4) optionally, concentrating and/or partially purifying the aerosol
   in the sample processing module (by the way of example, partially purifying by
   removing large particles); (5) transferring a liquid sample to a well of a multi-well
   plate, (6) adding at least one detection antibody against the same agents; (7) conducting
   an assay measurement and identifying samples that are positive for a biological agent;
10 (8) optionally, performing a confirmation test by repeating (5)-(7); and (9) issuing an
   alert warning. Optionally, detection reagents are present in the wells in dry form and
   (6) may be omitted. In this case, addition of the sample results in reconstitution of the
   dried reagents. In one embodiment, step (5) includes transferring the sample to the well
   through the use of an integrated pipetting system.
15          Step (5) may comprise pumping the liquid sample into a sample chamber (e.g.,
   sample compartment 310 of instrument 100) and using a pipetting system (e.g., probe
   260 of instrument 100) to transfer the sample to a well of a plate ), e.g., a plate in light
   tight enclosure 110 of instrument 100). In one embodiment, instrument 100 as
   described above is used to carry out this operation as well as one or more (or all) of the
20 subsequent analysis steps ((6)-(9)).
            In one embodiment, the plate has an immobilized array of binding reagents
   (e.g., antibodies or nucleic acids) and bioagents in the sample bind to the corresponding
   immobilized reagent and a corresponding labeled detection reagent to form a sandwich
   complex. In some, the array is formed on an electrode and detection is carried out

                                                  39
using an ECL measurement. In one embodiment, after addition of an ECL read buffer, labels on
the electrode are induced to emit ECL by applying a voltage to the working electrode, and the
emitted ECL is imaged with a CCD camera. Optionally, washing may be added prior to the
ECL measurement to provide advantages in assay sensitivity, particularly for optically turbid
samples generated by aerosol samplers in dirty environments. Image analysis is used to
determine the location of the emitted light on the array and, thus, the identity of the agents in
the sample. Image analysis also provides the intensity of the emitted light from each element of
the antibody array and allows for precise quantitation of each bioagent.
         Patents, patent applications, and publications cited in this disclosure are incorporated by
reference in their entirety.
         The present invention is not to be limited in scope by the specific embodiments
described herein. Indeed, various modifications of the invention in addition to those described
herein will become apparent to those skilled in the art from the foregoing description and
accompanying drawings. Such modifications are intended to fall within the scope of the claims.
         A claim which recites "comprising" allows the inclusion of other elements to be within
the scope of the claim; the invention is also described by such claims reciting the transitional
phrases "consisting essentially of' (i.e., allowing the inclusion of other elements to be within
the scope of the claim if they do not materially affect operation of the invention) or "consisting
of' (i.e., allowing only the elements listed in the claim other than impurities or inconsequential
activities which are ordinarily associated with the invention) instead of the "comprising" term.
Any of these three transitions can be used to claim the invention.
         Any reference to publications cited in this specification is not an admission that the
disclosures constitute common general knowledge in Australia or elsewhere.

                                                 40
CLAIMS
 1.     A reagent cartridge comprising:
        (a)     a cartridge body that encloses an internal volume, wherein said cartridge body
has a reagent port and a waste port for delivering reagent and receiving waste;
        (b)     a reagent compartment inside said cartridge body that is connected to said
reagent port; and
        (c)     a waste compartment inside said cartridge body that is connected to said waste
port,
        wherein at least one of said reagent and waste compartments is collapsible such that the
volume occupied by the compartment increases with addition of liquid to the compartment and
decreases with removal of liquid from the compartment.
2.      The reagent cartridge of claim 1, wherein said reagent and waste compartments are both
collapsible.
3.      The reagent cartridge of claim 2 further comprising one or more additional collapsible
reagent and/or waste compartments connected to one or more additional reagent and/or waste
ports.
4.      The reagent cartridge of any one of claims 1 to 3, wherein the internal volume of said
reagent cartridge is less than 1.5 times the volume of the liquid stored within the cartridge.
5.      A method of using the reagent cartridge of any one of claims I to 4, the method
comprising:
        (a)     removing reagent from said reagent compartment; and
        (b)     introducing waste into said waste compartment.
6.      The method of claim 5, wherein at least 80% of liquid reagent removed from said
        reagent cartridge is reintroduced into said reagent cartridge as waste.

<removed-date>
                                      1/10
                                             -
                                             -r-
                                                   .
<removed-apn>
              ..!)t::::::::~                 (!)
                                             u.
                               o
                               -.:t
                               ..-

<removed-date>
                                                                             2110
                                                                                      N
                                                                                      -
                                                                                      t)
                                                                                      LL
                                                                              o
<removed-apn>
                                                                              L()
                                                                              N
                    o
                    o
                    "'t"""
                                   o
                       ~           ........
              o
              c.o
                                 in
                                 0)
                                 ..-
                             -......."".,.,.................-.....-
                                                                 L()
                                                                 N
                                                                 N
                                                                       ..-
                                                                             o
                                                                             N
                                                                             "'t"""

<removed-date>
                              3/10
                                     M
                                     -
                                     (!)
                                     LL
<removed-apn>
                    \
              o
              o
              or-
                        o
                        co
                        or-

<removed-date>
                        4/10
                                    oo
                                     M
<removed-apn>
                   o
                    ~
                   LO
                   N
              o
              co
              N
                          -
                          ..q
                                .
                          C)
                          u.

        <removed-apn>       <removed-date>
            314
              /300
                                 c..n
                                 --
    330                          -'-
                                 o
                   346
312                    FIG.  5

<removed-date>
                     6/10
               o
               C'0
               --t
               \
                            L()
                            (I')
                            -a-
                                       in
<removed-apn>
                                       N
                                                                        (.)
                                                                       -
                                                                       (0
                                   ( -a-
                                                                              .
                                                                       C)
                                                                       u.
                                                                       .c
                                                                       -
                                                                       (0
                                                                            ..
                                                                       C)
                                                                       u.
                                                              co
                                                             -
                                                             (0
                                                                   .
              
                                            ~-------   0
                                                       .,-
                                                             C)
                                                       -a-   U.
              --t

                    <removed-apn> <removed-date>
      465
              466
              467
                          /225
225~                      470
                                        -..i
                                        """-
                                        ....i.
                                        o
          450
                  FIG.7b
    FIG.7a

<removed-date>
                                         8/10
<removed-apn>
              oo
              in\   in
                    ...-;t
                             o
                             "'   N
                                   (()
                                           o
                                           C0
                             LO    LO
                    in                     i.n
                                                 in
                                                 N
                                                 in
                                                      N
                                                      in
                                                           -
                                                           co
                                                                 .
                                                           C)
                                                           u..

                                                                         <removed-apn>                         <removed-date>
         o 0                                o 0                                0     0  0                           0
         -----, l'::,"::.~::::::::::l       ----, ('::::::.':::::::::::1                  1.:::::..::::::::::::1
                                                                           0                                           0
                                                                           0                                           0
110 '0
        610
       6~                                    ~
                                          630Q " 640                         620
                                                                                      @                         620
                                                                                                                         c.o
                                                                                                                         --
                                                                                                                         -""
                                                                                                                         o
                                      122                                                            625            626
                                                                           626      625
              FIG.9a                            FIG.9b                                 FIG.9c

<removed-date>
              10/10
<removed-apn>
                      L()
                      L()
                      f'-
                             0~
                             -
                             (!)
                             u.
                                      .
                            l.!)
                            -.;t
                            r--
                               o
                               -.;t
                               f'-

