   ABSTRACT
   The present invention relates to a method and apparatus
   for processing a product transaction.
 5
   An order system is provided which independently stores
   orders generated by a customer, in a customer order
   repository.  A customer order repository is associated
   with a customer order repository ID which identifies the
10 customer order repository.
   When shopping, the customer selects a product and provides
   the customer order repository ID to the vendor.  The
   vendor provides the COR ID to the order processing system
15 together with information identifying the product.   The
   order processing system then communicates with a customer
   device via a customer interface, such as a client App.
   The customer confirms the order and the order processing
   system processes payment.
20
   Details of order processing and other information relating
   to the order may be published on social network sites and
   communicated to the customer and to the vendor.
   8181145 I

                                           -  1
                      IMPROVED ORDERING AND PAYMENT SYSTEMS
   Related Application
                This   application      is    a    divisional     application    of
 5 Australian         application     no.    <removed-apn>,      the   disclosure   of
   which           is   incorporated         herein      by    reference.      This
   application           is    also      related      to     International      PCT
   application         no.   PCT/AU2011/001006,        the disclosure     of which
   is        incorporated    herein   by reference.         This application is
10 also         related   to  provisional        application     no.   2010903508,
   the         disclosure     of    which       is   incorporated       herein   by
   reference.
   Field of the Invention
15
                The present invention relates to improved ordering
   and payment systems for ordering and paying for products,
   and, particularly, but not exclusively, to improved
   ordering and payment systems for facilitating retailing
20 via computer networks,            such as the      Internet.
   Background of the Invention
                Customer network retail systems are well known.
25 Shopping on the Internet commonly involves a customer
   accessing a vendor website, via the customer's computing
   device connected to the Internet.
                The customer's computing device commonly operates a
   browser enabling the customer computing device to be
30 served with Web pages of a vendor site, providing
   information on products             (which can include goods and/or
   services) available for sale.
   8181145 I

                                  - 2
          Typically, the customer browses the vendor's website
   and selects  one or more products that they would like to
   purchase.
          Typically, when a customer wishes to select a
 5 product, the vendor's    system   (e.g. a server computing
   system serving Web pages) provides      an ordering and payment
   interface to enable the customer to deal with ordering and
   payment.
          Although there are variations on how ordering and
10 payment then proceeds, usually the      customer will have to
   provide details for shipping      (where shipping is required)
   and will need to provide a form of payment before      shipping
   occurs.   Shipping details must be entered at     least once
   for every vendor site the     customer wishes to shop from and
15 payment must be separately made for each vendor website
   the  customer wishes to shop from.
          Payment  can be made by a number of available systems,
   including credit    card, debit card, systems which deal with
   direct payment    (e.g. PaypalTM),  and others.
20        Present  systems  are therefore quite cumbersome, in
   that they require the    customer to separately provide
   details to each vendor site they wish to purchase products
   from.   As well as ordering details     (e.g. shipping address,
   etc),  customers must   separately provide payment details.
25 Further, providing payment details to many vendors is
   insecure as  it is quite possible that the payment details
   (e.g. credit   card numbers)   could be misappropriated.
   Summary of the Invention
30
          In accordance with a first aspect, the present
   invention provides a method of processing a product
   transaction,   comprising the steps of:

                               - 3
         an order computing system receiving from one vendor's
   computing system a product identifier for a product
   associated with an order notification provided by a
   customer to the vendor's computing system;
 5       the order computing system receiving from another
   vendor's computing system another product identifier for
   another product associated with an order notification
   provided by the customer to the another vendor's computing
   system;
10       the order system having a memory storing a plurality
   of customer order repositories associated with a
   respective plurality of customers, including a customer
   order repository associated with the customer;
         storing the product identifier and the another
15 product identifier in the customer order repository
   associated with the customer;
         establishing communication between the customer and
   the order computing system;
         receiving order processing instructions for the
20 product and the another product from the customer via the
   established communication; and
         transmitting a confirmation of the orders for the
   product and the another product to the respective vendor's
   systems from the order system;
25       wherein the order system is a third party system
   separate from the vendor's system.
         In an embodiment no payment information is received
   by the vendor's system from the customer.  The customer
   merely orders a product from the vendor's systems.   The
30 information for ordering of the product is then stored in
   the order repository.  The customer can then separately
   review the product information stored in the order
   repository and provide order processing instructions to

   the order system if they wish to proceed with the order.
   In an embodiment, the  order processing instructions may
   include payment instructions.    The order system then deals
   with the vendors to separately confirm the orders and, in
 5 an embodiment, may also confirm and deal with payment with
   the vendor systems.
          In an embodiment, this has the   advantage that the
   vendor does not receive any payment information.       Further,
   the customer need only deal with the order system as      far
10 as ordering and payment is   concerned.   The order system
   essentially acts as a third party dealing with order and
   payment processing once the customer has confirmed that
   they wish to proceed with an order.
          The same order system may be utilized for shopping
15 from a plurality of vendor   systems.   The customer may
   therefore  shop from many vendors,  and product identifiers
   for a plurality of products from different vendors may be
   transmitted to the order system.    The customer then
   separately communicates to the   order system, reviews the
20 products.   The order system then separately deals with all
   the vendor systems to process the order     (and payment,  in
   the embodiment where payment is dealt with by the order
   system).   This has the advantage that the customer only
   need deal with a single order system as    far as the
25 processing of payment and order details are     concerned.
   They do  not have to separately deal with each vendor
   system.
          In an embodiment, the  order processing instructions
   may include shipping details for the one or more products
30 that may be stored in the  order repository.     In an
   embodiment, the order repository may    store the shipping
   details for each particular customer.     In an embodiment,
   the confirmation of the order may include providing the

                                -  5
   shipping details to the vendor system.      This has the
   advantage that the customer need not     separately provide
   shipping details to each vendor that they shop with.         This
   is dealt with at  a single point, being the order system.
 5 This is also an advantage to the vendor, as they need not
   separately deal with each individual customer       (of what may
   be many customers of the vendor) in relation to shipping
   details and other order details.     The vendor also benefits
   from the single point of contact, being the      order system.
10        In an embodiment, the   order notification    includes a
   customer order repository identifier.      This identifies the
   customer order repository, being part     of the order
   repository of the order system.     This can be   considered to
   be a personal "shopping cart", where a customer may place
15 product orders, for later processing and review.         It is
   known in,  for example, vendor website systems,      to provide
   a "shopping  cart" where a customer places their order.
   The shopping cart is, however,    associated with the
   particular vendor website.     The customer order repository
20 of this embodiment of the present invention, can be
   considered to be an independent    "shopping cart" which is
   able to be utilized to receive orders from a plurality of
   separate independent vendor    systems.   This has   the
   advantage that a customer can shop at any vendor       system,
25 using the same shopping cart.     It provides   one point   of
   access  for the customer to deal with ordering of products
   from multiple vendors.   It has the   further advantage, that
   the order system deals with all the order processing steps
   without requiring further input    from the vendor, apart
30 from review and approval of the product      (and any
   amendments to the shipping address,     if any) that may be
   required.   It also has the advantage that the order system
   deals with all payments, without requiring further input

                               -  6
   from the customer.   The customer therefore only has to
   provide payment details to one point, therefore advancing
   security.   In an embodiment, the method comprises the
   further step of the order system receiving a customer
 5 order repository  identifier.    In embodiments, this and
   information identifying a product     (which may be a physical
   product, a service, software or any other product)      is all
   the information required by the order system to enable a
   transaction to proceed.   In the embodiment, the    customer
10 order repository  identifier is provided to the vendor
   system by the customer.   In an embodiment, the vendor
   system merely needs to provide the     customer order
   repository identifier, together with the product
   identifier, to the order system to identify the     repository
15 associated with the customer.     The customer order
   repository may then be accessed by way of a customer
   device and the customer can then authorise to continue the
   transaction.
         In an embodiment, the product identifier may be any
20 identifier which  enables identification of a product to be
   the subject  of the transaction.
         The function of the customer order repository
   identifier is to enable product to be placed into the
   customer order repository.    The customer order repository
25 identifier therefore need not be secure.      It is not
   required to provide any secure    details to any vendor.    Any
   misappropriation of the customer order repository
   identifier would serve no purpose. All the misappropriator
   would be able to do would be to place orders     in the
30 customer order repository. The    customer need not   continue
   the transaction any further.
         In an embodiment, the   order processing instructions
   from the customer comprise providing a payment identifier

                                - 7
   to the order system.    The payment identifier may be any
   token,  such as a password, biometric, or any other token
   which identifies the  customer and enables the order system
   to pay  for a product from a customer account, or using
 5 customer payment means such as    credit card details.    In an
   embodiment, the order system may maintain an electronic
   wallet  for each customer,  storing customer funds to be
   used in payment.   Payment  details may remain secure as the
   payment identifier only needs to be known by the     consumer
10 and the  order system, and does not have to be provided to
   any of the vendor  systems.
          In an embodiment, where the customer has an
   associated customer order repository identifier, multiple
   customer order repository identifiers may be provided,
15 associated with the same customer order repository.       This
   allows  for redundancy,  for example  if one of the  customer
   order repository  identifiers is misappropriated, another
   one can be used to replace   it.   It also allows for
   multiple consumers to use the    same customer order
20 repository.   For example, family members of a single
   family may place products   in the same shopping cart
   (customer order repository).     Payment authorization,
   however, may be controlled by only one or two family
   members who are aware of the payment identifier.      For
25 example, children in a family may be able to shop and
   place product orders  in the repository, but   only parents
   may be able to approve those orders for further processing
   and completion.
          In an embodiment, the method comprises the further
30 step of tracking the  status of delivery of the order
   e.g. where the order is being shipped to the    customer.    In
   an embodiment, the order system is    arranged to do this.
   The customer may be provided with information on status of

                               -8
   the order.
         In an embodiment, the method comprises the further
   step of publishing order information, comprising
   information relating to the order processing. The
 5 information may be any information relating to the order
   processing or the transaction.   In an embodiment,
   publication may be via communication to media such as
   social networks.  In an embodiment, publication may be on
   displays which may be local to a product provider location
10 e.g. retail location.
         In an embodiment,  rating information may be
   published. Rating information, in an embodiment,   is
   information relating to a rating that a customer or other
   party to in the order processing may have placed us   a
15 measure of the experience that they have had with the
   transaction.
         In an embodiment, payment to the vendor for the order
   may be held in escrow until the order is delivered.     In an
   embodiment, the order system may be associated with a
20 trusted entity such as a financial  institution, or other
   trusted entity.  The trusted entity may guarantee payment to
   the vendor but may not deliver payment until the order is
   completed.
         In accordance with a second aspect, the present
25 invention provides an apparatus for processing a product
   transaction, comprising:
         an order computing system, comprising network
   communications;
         a processor and a memory, and being arranged to
30 receive a product identifier via the network
   communications;
         the product identifier identifying a product that a
   customer wishes to purchase from a vendor who is making the

                                - 9
   product available and being arranged to receive another
   product identifier via the network communications;
         the  another product identifier identifying a product
   that a customer wishes to purchase from another vendor who
 5 is making the another product available;
         the memory storing a plurality of customer order
   repositories associated with a respective plurality of
   customers, including a customer order repository associated
   with the customer, the customer order repository associated
10 with the customer being arranged to store the product
   identifier and the another product identifier;
         the network communications being arranged to
   establish communication between a customer computing system
   and the  order computing system, and to receive order
15 processing instructions from the customer computing system
   via the  communication;
         the  order computing system being arranged to transmit
   a confirmation of the   order for the product and the another
   product,  in response to receiving the order processing
20 instructions, to respective vendor computing systems    of the
   vendor and the anther vendor;    and
         the  order computing system being a third party order
   computing system separate from the   respective vendor
   computing systems.
25       In an embodiment, the   order computing system is also
   arranged to receive a customer order repository
   identifier, which  identifies the customer order repository
   associated with the customer to enable the order computing
   system to load a product identifier into the   customer
30 order repository  associated with the received customer
   order repository  identifier.
         In accordance with a third aspect, the present
   invention provides a customer apparatus   for processing a

                               -   10
   product transaction, the customer apparatus     including a
   network communications facilities,     a processor, a memory
   and a customer interface for interfacing with a customer
   and for facilitating message communication with the
 5 apparatus of the second aspect     of the invention.
         In an embodiment, the    customer interface  is arranged
   to store in the customer apparatus memory a cache of
   customer order repository information of a customer order
   repository of the apparatus.
10       In accordance with a fourth aspect, the present
   invention provide a method of facilitating dissemination
   of information relating to a transaction relating to a
   transaction for a product,    comprising the step of
   publishing information associated with the transaction.
15       In accordance with a fifth aspect, the present
   invention provides a method of processing an on-line
   product transaction, comprising the steps of a plurality
   of separate vendor sites receiving order notifications
   from customers, the order notifications being transmitted
20 to a separate third party site     and stored in a customer
   repository associated with each customer,     subsequently
   processing the orders  stored in each customer repository,
   by the third party site communicating with the customers
   and then communicating with the separate vendor sites      in
25 order to process the  order, in    response to confirmation
   from the customer to do so.
         In accordance with a sixth aspect, the present
   invention provides a system for facilitating product
   processing, comprising an order system having a plurality
30 of customer order repositories associated with a customer
   order, the customer order repositories being arranged to
   store product information relating to products customers
   wish to purchase from separate vendor systems.

                               -  11
         In an embodiment,  each of the customer order
   repositories is identified by a customer order repository
   identifier, and the system is arranged to receive customer
   order repository  identifiers communicated by a vendor's
 5 devices and associate the  customer order repository
   identifiers with the  customer order repository.
   Brief Description of the Drawings
10       Features  and advantages of the present invention will
   become apparent from the following description of
   embodiments thereof, with reference to the accompanying
   drawing, in which:
         Figure 1 is a schematic diagram of a system in
15 accordance with an embodiment of the present invention;
         Figure 2 is a schematic diagram illustrating how a
   order processing system may be utilized to provide public
   information relating to order processing;
         Figure 3 is a schematic diagram illustrating a system
20 for publishing information relating to order processing,
   in accordance with embodiment of the present invention;
         Figure 4 is schematic   illustration of an order system
   in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention,
   illustrating arrangements for publishing information
25 relating to order processing;
         Figure 5 is a schematic illustration of an in-store
   display for publishing information relating to order
   processing;
         Figures  6A, 6B are a flow diagram illustrating a
30 generic order process in accordance with an embodiment of
   the present invention;
         Figure 7 is a schematic diagram of a client App which
   may be hosted on a customer device;   and

                               - 12
         Figure 8 is a schematic of a widget application that
   may be hosted on a customer device.
   Detailed Description of Embodiments
 5
         An embodiment of the present invention is illustrated
   in Figure 1.  It comprises an order computing system
   generally designated by reference numeral 1,   which, in
   this example, comprises a server computing system 2 which
10 includes a network communications apparatus   for
   communicating with other computing systems   connected via a
   network, such as the  Internet  3.  The order computing
   system 1 also comprises a memory in the   form of a database
   3, which comprises an order repository for storing product
15 identifiers of products which are available for sale    from
   vendors.
         In this embodiment, the order computing system 1 is
   arranged to receive product identifiers of products that
   customers wish to purchase from vendors, and store them in
20 the order repository  database 3.   The order repository 3
   comprises a plurality  of order repositories, each being
   associated with a customer.    The order computer system is
   also arranged to receive customer order repository
   identifiers, which identify customer order repositories
25 associated with each particular customer.    The order
   computing system 1 is  also arranged to communicate with
   customer computing systems and receive order processing
   instructions from customers, and then subsequently to
   communicate with vendor computing systems   and instruct the
30 vendors to process the orders   in accordance with the  order
   processing instructions.
         In more detail, the computing system 1 in this
   embodiment is implemented as a server computing system 2

                                  -  13
   which may include a plurality of server         computers,
   depending upon the capacity required.          The server 2 is
   arranged to serve Web pages over the Internet and may also
   be arranged to distribute applications to remote         computing
 5 devices connected to the Internet.         The  server 2 comprises
   a network communications interface which may be of known
   configuration.      The communications interface may include a
   network card and/or other known communications devices for
   communicating with networks via wireless or wired
10 communications.
          The server 2 comprises      suitable components necessary
   to receive, store and execute appropriate computing
   instructions.      The components may include one or more
   processing units,     read only memory    (ROM),  random access
15 memory   (RAM),   and input/output devices such as the
   communications interface discussed above, also disk
   drives, Ethernet port, USB port and other input/output
   devices.     The  server may also include a display and a user
   interface, including a keyboard and a mouse for local
20 input/output and administration purposes.
          The database 3 may comprise any       suitable storage
   device arranged to communicate with the         server computer 2
   and has memory which may include solid state drives, hard
   disk drives,     optical drives, magnetic tape drives, RAM,
25 ROM or any other type     of memory.
          The computing system 1 also comprises        a bus for
   communications within the      server 2 and between the server
   and database 3.
          In this embodiment, the order computing system 1 is
30 arranged to communicate via the network communications          (in
   this embodiment     the Internet),   with a plurality of vendor
   computing systems 4 and a plurality of customer computing
   systems   5,  6.   The vendor computing systems     are associated

                                - 14
   with retail systems,   for retailing product    (which may be
   goods and/or services) available from the vendors.
          The vendor computing systems may comprise any
   computing technology, but will    generally also comprise
 5 server computers  arranged to serve web pages and various
   applications over the   Internet,  so that  customers can
   browse product information to select products available
   from the vendors.
          In Figure 1,  only three vendor systems    4 are  shown.
10 It will be appreciated that this is an example
   illustration only, and that there may be many more vendor
   systems.   In an embodiment, the order computing system 1
   may be able to communicate with many vendor systems,        all
   providing product information over the     Internet.    The
15 vendor  systems 4, may be typical Internet shopping
   systems.
          Two types of customer systems   5,  6 are illustrated.
   Blocks 5 represent typical computing systems, which may be
   PCs,  laptops, tablet devices or any other type of
20 computing system including browser software or other
   appropriate means   for browsing web pages over the     Internet
   and/or receiving applications downloaded over the
   Internet.   Box 6 represents mobile   devices, e.g. PDAs,
   mobile telephones, tablet devices or any other devices
25 which  similarly have communications apparatus arranged to
   communicate with the   network, browse web pages, and
   receive applications.    A customer may use one or other
   type of the devices 5,   6 to communicate with the vendor
   systems  4 and/or the  order computing system 1.     In one
30 embodiment, the customer may use one device 5 or 6 to
   communicate with the vendor    system 4 and another device 5
   or 6 to communicate with the order computing system 1.
          In this embodiment, a customer, via a customer

                                -   15
   computing system 5, 6, browses information served by one
   or more vendor computing systems 4 in order to select and
   purchase products for sale.
         The invention is not limited to the architecture
 5 described above for the order computing system 1.       Any
   other alternative architecture may be used.       For example,
   main frame/terminal architecture may be utilized.       A cloud
   computing implementation may alternatively be utilized.
   Any other computer architecture implementation may be
10 utilized.
         In typical Internet shopping systems, the following
   steps will usually be implemented:
         1.    The customer system 5, 6 accesses a Web site
               served by vendor system 5.
15       2.    The customer selects one or more products,
               adding these items to a "shopping cart"
               available at the vendor 4 system.
         3.    The customer proceeds to the "checkout" section
               (or equivalent) of the vendor Webpages to
20             confirm their purchases.
         4.    The consumer confirms their order and, if
               required, provides the vendor system 4 with
               shipping details      (e.g. customer's address).
         5.    The customer provides some form of payment
25             e.g. credit card number, accessing a payment
               site which confirms payment with the vendor
               (e.g. Paypal TM,   or other type of payment).
         6.    When the vendor has confirmed payment the goods
               are shipped (the vendor may use a shipping
30             company).
         Note that steps 4 and 5 may be carried out together
   or may be reversed in order.
         The customer therefore deals with ordering and

                                  -   16
   payment at the same vendor       system   (the same Website in
   this embodiment).     Some of the payment processing may be
   transferred to another Website         (e.g. PaypalTM)  but the
   customer is returned to the vendor 4 system in order to
 5 complete the purchase and order.
          This has   a number of disadvantages:
          "       The customer must provide secure information
                  over the Internet to or via the vendor site 4,
                  in the form of payment information e.g. credit
10                card details, PaypalTM password, etc.        This
                  information is therefore available for
                 misappropriation.
          "       If a customer wants to buy products        from a
                 number of vendors, they must separately shop
15                and order at  each vendor system 4.        This means
                 they must  separately provide order information
                  (e.g. shipping address) and payment information
                  at each vendor   system.     This is   cumbersome both
                  for customers  (having to deal with many
20                separate vendor systems      4) and for vendors
                  (having to deal with many separate customers
                 via their  customer systems      5,  6).
          "       The customer must deal with a different vendor
                  system 4 each time they want to shop at a
25                different vendor, and they may have to deal
                 with multiple different       interfaces.
          Vendor systems are known which present Websites which
   aggregate products from a number of different merchants.
                                     TM
   An example of this is Amazon         .  A customer can therefore
30 obtain products which originated from different merchants
   at one   site.   Nevertheless, they still have to deal with
   payment and ordering at that one site.          There is no option
   for them to deal directly with the merchants.            Such sites

                                - 17
   are really nothing more than "computerized catalogues".
          This embodiment  of the  invention addresses many of
   the problems  of typical on-line shopping discussed above,
   by separating the ordering of product from the vendor
 5 system and dealing with it by a single system     (the order
   computer system 1).    This provides  one point of contact
   for ordering for the   customer and the vendor.    The
   customer may therefore   shop from a plurality of vendors 4,
   but  only deal with one order system.    In this embodiment,
10 this  is achieved by providing each customer with an
   associated customer order repository into which they may
   place product information for products they may wish to
   order.   The customer order repository is   stored in
   database 3 of the order computing system 1.     The  customer
15 order repository  associated with the customer is    in fact
   an independent  "shopping cart" that   is associated with the
   customer, and is not   associated with vendor sites.    The
   customer can therefore access    a single shopping cart for
   products from multiple vendors.     This has significant
20 advantages for the shopping process, as will be discussed
   below.
          In this embodiment, the database 3 is partitioned
   into a plurality of customer order repositories     (COR).   As
   discussed above, these effectively act as independent
25 shopping carts, each being associated with a customer.
   Customers are provided with customer order repository
   identification tokens, which may be any token e.g. number,
   biometric, any other identifier, or any    combination of
   tokens.   The COR ID,  or "load token" identifies the
30 customer's COR to order computing system 1.     In this
   embodiment, to initiate an order, the customer browses and
   selects  the product and provide the load token to the
   vendor  system. The vendor system can then deal with the

                                 - 18
   order computing system to continue the transaction. The
   customer does not need to be involved directly with the
   vendor  system again, in order to complete the transaction.
          The COR is able to be loaded with information, such
 5 as product information on products that a customer may
   wish to purchase.    A customer can then access their COR
   and confirm to the order computer system 1 whether they
   wish to complete the   order for the product.    In this
   embodiment, if the customer confirms that they do wish to
10 complete an order, the order computing system 1 then
   separately communicates with each vendor computing system
   and confirms the  order, and may provide shipping
   information and any other information required for
   completion of the order.
15        One example shopping process using the    system of this
   embodiment, is as   follows:
          1.    Using their customer device 5,   6,  a customer
                shops at  one or more vendor  systems  4.
          2.    They select products that they may wish to buy,
20              from the  one or more vendor  systems  4.
          3.    They provide each vendor site 4 with their COR
                ID.
          4.    Information on the product,   including the
                product identifier and COR 10 is then sent    to
25              the order computing system 1 and is    stored in
                the COR identified by the COR ID.     The product
                information may be transmitted directly from
                the vendor  system 4 to the  order computing
                system or may go via the customer computing
30              system 5,  6.   It may be transmitted in any
                other way.
          5.    In an embodiment, the vendor system 4 has
                information which enables it to transmit

                       - 19
      information to the order computing system 1.
      In an embodiment the "payment page"    of a vendor
      website 4 may include an option for entering
      the  COR ID to be transmitted to the   order
 5    computing system 1.
   6. Separately a communication is established
      between the order computing system 1 and the
      customer computer 5,    6.  The communication may
      be established by the    customer computer 5, 6,
10    or it may be initiated by the order computing
      system 1   (e.g. calling up the customer device
      5,  6).   The connection may be permanently
      available, in the    alternative, when the
      customer computer is on and "logged in" to the
15    order computing system 1 and alerts may appear
      when product information is    loaded into the COR
      ID.    In one embodiment, an interface  for the
      customer device 5 may be provided as a client
      "App". The client App may be hosted on a
20    customer device such as a customer mobile
      device, for example. An open socket    connection
      is provided between the order computing system
      1 and the   client App. Alerts and other
      processing messages may be provided between the
25    App and the order computing system 1.
   7. The customer reviews contents of the COR
      presented by the order computing system 1.
      They determine whether or not they wish to
      proceed with order of the product.
30 8. If they do wish to proceed with ordering of a
      product, they   confirm the order.
   9. The order computing system subsequently deals
      with the vendor, by communicating with the

                                - 20
               vendor system 4, to confirm the order.     This
               may include providing the vendor with shipping
               information, if the product is to be    shipped.
               The vendor  system 4 therefore does not   deal
 5             with the  order until it receives confirmation
               from the  order computing system.
         In this embodiment, the process also includes the
   step of the customer confirming with the order computing
   system that payment may be made.     The order computing
10 system 1, as well as  storing a COR for each customer, also
   stores payment details e.g. credit    card number, other
   payment details  (e.g. PaypalTM)  and/or it may store a
   wallet which the  customer can access and provide with
   funds from time to time.    Payment  is therefore dealt with
15 via the order computing system 1,    and secure payment
   information does not  need to be provided to the vendor 4.
   In embodiments, the order computer system 1 may confirm to
   the vendor 4 that payment has been made and will be
   delivered to the vendor   (e.g. by delivering it to a vendor
20 account).
         This system has  a number of advantages:
         "     A customer need only become    familiar with a
               single order interface i.e. the order interface
               provided by the order computing system.      They
25             do not have to become familiar with multiple
               different vendor interfaces.
         "     The customer only needs to deal with one point
               of call to process orders    for all shopping with
               all vendors.
30       "     Payment  details are retained securely and the
               user need only deal with one system for
               payment.
         "     A customer may reserve a product by placing it

                               -  21
               in their shopping cart    (COR).    Because they
               then separately access the     order computer
               system 1 to process the order, this      allows for
               a "cooling off" period.      If the  customer
 5             decides not  to complete the order, then nothing
               further will take place and the product will
               not be ordered or paid for.
               The only information associated with the
               customer that need be provided to the vendor
10             systems  4 is the COR ID    (load token).   If this
               is misappropriated, it does not matter.       All
               this allows someone to do     is to place products
               in a customer's COR and not process the orders
               or pay for the products.
15       These and other advantages will become clear from the
   following examples.
   Example 1
20 1.    Consumer visits web site of vendor online store
         served by a vendor  system 4.
   2.    Consumer selects  one or more items, adding these
         items to the  online shopping carte available at the
25       vendor site.
   3.    Consumer proceeds to    'check out'  at the vendor site
         to confirm online purchases.
30 4.    Consumer may:
         (a)   login to store web site to retrieve payment
               methods and delivery details and then use
               current details or modify current details as

                          - 22
          required. This is appropriate where a load
          token for the consumer is already saved in the
          login details for this site;
      (b) enter directly payment and delivery details
 5        using a load token as the payment method.
          Ideally the site/step 4 has been modified to
          allow 'payment' to proceed without shipping
          details if preferred.
10 5. (a) the vendor web site server submits the details
          of the transaction to the personal shopping
          carte order system 1 server including all
          details necessary for the identification of the
          proposed transaction in addition to the
15        customers  'load token' COR ID so that details
          may be loaded directly into the customers
          shopping cart  (COR). In this method the entire
          order appears in the personal carte as a single
          item;
20
          Or
      (b) vendor web site transfers details of purchase,
          including individual items purchase to
25        independent shopping carte/payment web site
          generated by order system 1. Details of
          purchase include sufficient details so that
          order can be re-presented to vendor site from
          shopping carte web site. Customer identifier
30        for 3rd party shopping system (possibly held in
          the  'credit card' field on vendor web site) may
          be sent in transferred information of this
          value can be picked up from web browser

                            -   23
            'cookie' system. If consumer identifier is
            known to vendor web site then web browser
            control need not be transferred to 3rd party
            shopping carte    (order system 1).
 5
   6. In one alternative the consumer may be transferred to
      the shopping cart website generated by the order
      system 1.  This will result in a webpage     (or other
      interface) for the personal shopping carte being
10    displayed either in the original window, or in a new
      window;
       (a)  'check out' and place order immediately, order
            is submitted by shopping carte web site server
15          system  (order system 1) to vendor server and
            result is displayed to customer. Customer may
            elect to be continue transacting on the vendor
            web site but this is not necessary
20    Or
       (b)  order is held in 3rd party shopping carte for
            later processing at a time of the customers
            choosing. Customer may elect to continue
25          transacting on the vendor web site but this is
            not necessary.     In either case  (a) or (b), the
            customer may pay at the shopping cart site
            (order system 1) using their secure payment
            information.
30
      Or

                                  - 24
           (c)    an independent program on the computing device
                  (5, 6)  used to place the order is either
                  manually activated or triggered and launched
                  automatically allowing optional        confirmation
 5                and placement of order from 3rd part        shopping
                  carte web servers   1
          Or
10         (d)    and independent program on a different
                  computing device   (5, 6)    is  either manually
                  activated or triggered and launched
                  automatically allowing optional        confirmation
                  and placement of from    3 rd  party shopping cart
15                servers  1.
          In either    (c) or (d) the original web shopping site
   page may be arranged to display the transaction status,
   updating as    the independent program completes the
20 transaction.
          The system and method of the present invention will
   allow the option of a customer using a secure device for
   the payment and order processing step.           That  is they may
   use  one device    (for example a PC 5)      to shop with vendor
25 systems   4 and place product information in their shopping
   cart  (COR).    They may then use    another device, e.g. a
   mobile device 6, to communicate with the order computer
   system 1 and confirm the order and make the payment.
   Using a separate device further increases          security.
30        The method and process of the present invention is
   not  limited to implementation and shopping over networks,
   such as   the internet.    Shopping may occur over any
   network,    intranet or extranet.     But other types of

                              -  25
   shopping may be implemented using aspects of this system
   and process, including ordering over a communication
   device such as a telephone device and also shopping at
   point of sale  (POS)
 5
   Example 2: Telephone Order Style Based Purchase
   1.    Consumer phones merchant representative. Provided
         merchant is registered with the improved 3rd party
10       shopping carte system 1, payment can be facilitated
         through this system.
   2.    Merchant representative enters purchase details to
         'order placement portal' section of the website
15       improved 3rd party website or through other provided
         application.
   3.    Consumer quotes  'load token' (COR ID) identification
         and merchant enters this detail together with other
20       transaction details to improved 3rd party
         website/application portal.
   4.    Consumer either load application or website for their
         account or application is opened automatically on
25       consumers phone/computer in response to a trigger
         sent from improved 3rd party shopping carte
         application.
   5.    Consumer approves or declines transaction.
30
   Example 3: Retail Point of Sale Purchase

                               - 26
   1.    Consumer visits physical store and chooses items to
         purchase. At payment phase, consumer offers a
         physical medium (card, smart card, proximity card,
         near field device) which communicates an
 5       identification of a 'load token'  (COR ID) to merchant
         representative.
   2.    Merchant representative enters purchase details via
         point of sale device and those details are sent to
10        'order placement portal' servers 1 for processing.
   3.    Consumer either load application or website for their
         account or application is opened automatically on
         consumers phone/computer in response to a trigger
15       sent from improved 3rd party shopping carte
         application 1.
   4.    Consumer approves or declines transaction.
20 5.    If approved by consumer, point of sale at store
         prints receipt or otherwise displays result to
         merchant and goods are given to consumer.
   Example 4: Order Confirmation Client
25
         For web transactions, normally a web browser will be
   used for selecting items to be purchased from the vendor
   store web site. At the point where the  'pay with improved
   3rd party shopping carte' or equivalent button is pressed
30 and the order is sent to the 3rd party shopping carte
   servers 1, the server will reply to the merchant server
   with status information for the web browser.

                                - 27
          These instructions to the web browser may to launch
   the order confirmation   client as a web 2.0 or other
   application within the web browser, simply to display a
   message instructing the consumer to confirm the
 5 transaction on their order confirmation client.
          The order confirmation client may be a web
   application as described above, or alternatively where
   possible, a dedicated program already running on a
   computing device owned by the    consumer/shopper. As a
10 dedicated program, as   opposed to a web client,
   communicates only with the 3rd party shopping carte
   eliminating   'spoofing' where one web  site pretends to be
   another is prevented and also a dedicated application
   allows custom security measures. As a dedicated program,
15 saved data can also be used to improve the user
   experience.
          This dedicated application may be automatically
   launched whenever the   chosen computing device is on and
   the consumer is logged in. The    'passive mode',   is the
20 normal  state the  application will  automatically start    in
   and also the mode the   order confirmation client will
   operate in when the consumer is not actively      interacting
   with the system. In this   'passive mode' the   client will
   communicate with the   3rd party shopping carte servers by,
25 for example, opening a socket and sending a login and
   possibly periodic heartbeat messages.    In passive mode, the
   application can run in the background or as     a  'desktop
   widget' with a semi-background display.
          This enables the  3rd party shopping carte system to
30 know the client is running and be able to contact the
   client and launch the   client to  'active mode'
   automatically when the 3rd party shopping carte system
   adds new items to the   consumers  shopping carte.

                               -   28
         As the 3rd party shopping carte system 1 can be aware
   of the running or not-running status of the order
   confirmation client the response to merchant store systems
   can allow appropriate display on a web browser to instruct
 5 the consumer. In the preferred scenario as the client
   would be already running in    'passive' mode when the items
   are loaded into the carte the web browser display can
   simply suggest refreshing the browser after confirming the
   order, as the client will automatically display the order
10 for confirmation allowing any order which the consumer
   desires to proceed without delay simply requires easy and
   seamless confirmation.
         As discussed above, the client may be provided as an
   App on a customer device.     In this embodiment, the App has
15 an open socket connection to the order computing system 1.
   Alerts may be provided via the App when orders are placed
   in the customer order repository. Via the App, the
   customer can then communicate with the order computing
   system 1 to continue processing the transaction.     Updates
20 of status of the order may be provided via the App.      The
   App can "run in the background" so it is always available
   to receive/send messages with the order system.     Push
   notifications can therefore be provided from the order
   system.
25       The App (or a similar interface on the customer
   device) can also provide facility to cache information on
   the customer device.   In one embodiment, the shopping
   carte ordering information is cached on the device so that
   if the connection to the order system 1 is not available,
30 the customer can still review orders that have previous
   been placed in their shopping carte and take action,
   awaiting communication to be re-established.

                               - 29
         Figure 7 is a representation of a mobile customer
   device screen 200, illustrating how an App may display 201
   information on an order.
         The App remains "waiting" on the device until a
 5 request for payment is received from the order system 1.
   The customer is presented with a screen detailing who the
   payment is to and what it is for.    The customer has the
   opportunity to accept, decline or leave for later.    The
   customer may be asked to enter a password depending on the
10 rules they have set up  (e.g. only ask for password if the
   transaction is over a particular amount of money).
         The customer interface may be in another form than an
   App.  Figure 8 illustrates a customer interface in the
   form of a "widget" 250 that may be provided to a computer
15 display such as a laptop, PC or tablet device.
   Example 5: Presentation of Order to Vendor Web Site
         In several scenarios where the invention is used for
20 a consumer to make purchases, an order is displayed for
   approval on a device to be used by the consumer for
   approval of the transaction   (e.g. via a client App on the
   customer's device).
         In these cases the order may need to be 'refreshed'.
25 That is, the order resent to the vendor web/site or
   servers for verification that any change to circumstances
   have occurred. Possible changes include:
         1.    the time is now outside a window for which the
               order was held for this consumer;
30       2.    the delivery details of the consumer are now
               known or altered
         Should a  'refresh' of the order be necessary under
   either of these guidelines, the order is resent to

                                 -   30
   merchant web/site or servers       as a verification order and
   to obtain a new valid     'time period',   and any changed
   pricing which may now apply.
          If the order is within the valid time period and the
 5 delivery details    for the consumer are unchanged then the
   consumer may confirm and order in which case payment is
   processed and the order using the details of all       items
   together with confirmation of payment are then sent to the
   merchant web site/or servers       for processing. The merchant
10 web site/servers will    respond indicating the    success of
   the transaction, projected timing for fulfillment and
   delivery process and tracking number in use.
          A  "validation period" is allowed in embodiments,
   which is a period for which the product information in the
15 shopping cart remains valid.        If the customer purchases
   (ie, completes the order) in this period, then the price
   and other information on the product will not change.         If
   the customer does not    complete the    order during the
   validation period, however, then before       completion the
20 order may need to be revalidated by the vendor system 4
   and/or varied    (e.g. as to price).
          Embodiments of the present invention may have the
   following features.
25 Security
          Embodiments of current      invention provides for even
   remote transactions to be secured to a level beyond that
   possible even with current      retail point of sale
30 transactions. Existing     'prior art'   systems actually
   provide a far lower level     of security for online an other
   remote   (e.g. phone) transactions than is possible at the
   retail point of sale.

                               -  31
   Purse/Wallet
          The account holder of the   3rd party shopping carte
 5 may have  funds loaded from credit cards, bank accounts or
   transferred from other accounts.    These funds  can be used
   to make micro payments or simply for general purchases.
   Funds held in the shopping carte can be     'topped' up from
   linked any linked account   either on a   'just in time' ready
10 for the  next purchase or at any time the account holder
   desires.
   Carte Loading Tokens
15        Each account on the 3rd party shopping system will
   normally have a single   login/authentication system for
   placing orders, but may have multiple     'load tokens' (long
   numeric/alphanumeric codes which identify an account     for
   the purpose of loading items into the shopping carte).
20 This means that if a   'load token' is compromised and
   things are being added to the    carte that the account  owner
   wishes,  a new token can be generated and an old one
   deleted. Alternatively, new tokens can be created for
   specific purposes, and any number of active tokens can
25 exist at one time.
          Special tokens can even be created to allow recurrent
   orders to be processed and to allow them to be controlled
   by the account owner, instead of blindly re-occurring even
   when the account  owner no longer wishes.
30        A web or other online interface   can display a list  of
   all  'active' tokens and, for recurrent payment tokens, the
   rules that apply to those tokens.
          Several tokens  (CORIDs) may be associated with a

                                - 32
   single shopping basket.    That is, for example, several
   customers may shop and place information in the same
   shopping basket.    Members of a family, for example.
   Payment authorization may be only be enabled for some of
 5 the customers, however.    For example, in a family, only
   the parents may be able to pay and therefore further
   process the orders.    This would allow them to see what
   their children are placing in the shopping basket and
   decide whether or not these items should be purchased.
10       The present system is different from prior art
   systems, which usually deal with ordering of product,
   provision of delivery details and payment processing in a
   series of consecutive steps, usually dealt with by one
   system.  In the present embodiment, ordering is dealt with
15 totally separately. Indeed ordering may be carried out via
   a separate customer device and the other steps in the
   transaction  (provision of delivery details, confirmation
   of order and payment) may be carried out by a completely
   separate device   (or the same device) of the customer.
20 Particularly, once the customer has placed the order, the
   customer then deals with the order system, and does not
   need to deal further with the vendor, except perhaps via
   the order system.    The order system therefore sits in
   between the vendor and the customer, and is able to be
25 controlled by the customer so that the customer can
   interact to complete the transaction or vary the
   transaction and confirm payment and delivery. The customer
   may communicate live, "real time" with the order system in
   order to complete a transaction. For example, if a user is
30 at point of sale   (POS) they may place the order via the
   POS system  (providing the load token by RFID or giving the
   load token to a customer service operative).    Via the
   client App  (or other interface) on their mobile device,

                               - 33
   the customer may then completely control the rest of the
   transaction process, via the order system.
          The order system can be used for all types of
   transaction.   It is not limited to on-line transactions,
 5 but can be used for point of sale transaction, transaction
   by the telephone, transactions face to face, or any other
   method of implementing a transaction.    The load token is
   provided to the vendor, and then the customer can control
   the rest of the process via the order system.
10        The ability for the customer to interact with the
   order system, allows a capability of the order system to
   provide information to the customer to be exploited.    In
   embodiments of the present invention, the order system is
   arranged to monitor the progress of an order by
15 communication with the vendor system.    It can determine,
   for example, where an order is placed in a "queue" and can
   provide updates to the customer of the status of their
   order.   The status of order fulfillment may also be
   monitored.   For example, where a product must be prepared,
20 such as a complex product like a bicycle that needs to be
   built, status information can be provided by way of the
   customer interface.
          In an embodiment, information associated with the
   transaction may be published.    It may be published via the
25 order system communicating the information to be published
   over network sites such as social media, for example, or
   to "store displays" or onto any webpage.    For example, a
   web page associated with the vendor may publish
   information relating to transactions.    This could be any
30 information.   It may include information on ratings
   provided by customers, rating their experience with the
   vendor and/or the order system.    The rating of an
   experience by customers is often used by other potential

                                    - 34
   customers to decide whether or not to use a particular
   vendor and therefore is a valid form of advertising.
   Figure 3 is a schematic diagram of an embodiment of the
   present invention where information associated with a
 5 transaction or a vendor or a customer who deal with the
   order processing system 1, is published.
              In this embodiment, the order computing system 1
   includes a publication engine 10.          This may be in the form
   of the order system server 2 or may be provided by any
10 convenient architecture.        Utilizing the memory of the
   order system 2 publication engine may receive and store
   information for publication.         It may then generate feeds
   to web and social media sites based on the information
   received, so that the information may be published.
15 Publication engine 10 may feed to websites 11,            social
   pages 12, continuous information feeds sites such as
   "twitter""       13 and to other 14 publication    sites.
              Information may be provided from vendors associated
   with the order system 2 and the customers associated with
20 the customer order system 2.         Information for publication
   may also be generated from transactional data 16 relating
   to transactions that have been carried out via the order
   system 2.
              Customer or vendor can therefore enter information
25 onto a single system and the system can automatically
   generate multiple representations of information for
   publication.        In one embodiment, a vendor may enter
   information into the order system 2 and publication engine
   10 is arranged to automatically generate an account for
30 the vendor,       a website for the vendor,   a Facebookta page for
   the vendor and a Twittertm account        for the vendor,     and
   provide information to one or all of these.
              The information may include but is not limited to a

                              - 35
   representation of the consumer, a representation of the
   store, a representation of the goods or services, the
   title of the transaction, the location of the transaction,
   and events.
 5       The format and content of each publication to each
   site or device triggered by a unique event may be
   different according to the site or device that the
   information is being published to.
         "     The multiplicity of web sites or other services
10             may or may not be generated from a single site.
         "     The identification of the customer   (where
               published) may be a representation of the
               customer, for example a nickname.
         "     Customer can select representation by store
15             which may be different to users own
               representation.  (ie: different nickname for pub
               as different to cafe as different to consumers
               own site)
         "     The customer representation can be changed by
20             time or location.
         "     The customer representation may be anonymous by
               store or time or location.
         "     The extended information may automatically be
               generated when a transaction event is
25             generated.
         "     There may be multiple events   for publication
               incorporated in one transaction.   (eg: coffee is
               being made, consumer is enjoying coffee)
         "     Events may either append or update the
30             published data
         "     Extended information may include product and
               other information  (Eg; John is enjoying a
               cappuccino and a muffin at Cafe Roma) or    (Joe

                               - 36
               is preparing Macca's flat white right now)
                (Mary has just received her new iPad)
               A Queueing system may trigger events.
         Another site 14 where information may be published
 5 may be a local display associated with a vendor, such as
   an in store display.   The information may also be
   published to the customer's device e.g. a client App.
   Figure 5 shows an example of how a display local to a
   store such as a caf6 may operate.   The display is
10 connected to the vendor in store system e.g. vendor
   computing system which processes orders and is arranged to
   communicate with the order system 1.
         "     There may be multiple displays at any one store
         "     The local display may be a highly visible
15             display such as a television or monitor
         "     A representation 20 of a transaction may be
               automatically published to the local display 21
         "     The representation of the transaction may be
               displayed in such a way as to indicate the
20             customer's position in a queue.
         "     The representation of the transaction may be
               updated as events occur to the transaction for
               example "coffee is being made", "coffee is
               ready for pick-up"
25       "     The representation of the transaction may
               display an estimated time to the fulfilment of
               the transaction 22.
         "     The local display may display advertising or
               other information on part 24 of the display
30       "     There is an opportunity to charge advertisers
               for space on the informational display.
         "     There is a possibility for the advertising
               revenue to cover the cost of the local display

                              -    37
         Information may also be published to the customer
   device.
               The publication may contain more personal
               information which may be kept on the system,
 5             for example "your selection contains traces of
               nuts" if the consumer is allergic, or your
               selection contains XXX calories, if the
               consumer is watching their weight.
         "     The publication may contain financial
10             information that is not published to other
               systems or devices.
         Where the production of a product  ("product" includes
   "services") is wholly or partially  automated, events
   within the production process may be used as events to
15 trigger publication.
         For example a pizza store may be arranged such that
   as the pizza progresses in the manufacturing process
   events can be triggered at various points in the process
   and published such as "your order has been received",
20 "your pizza is being made", "your pizza is in the oven",
   "your pizza is being delivered".
         For example, where an order for a coffee is sent
   directly to a barista screen and the barista indicates
   that they have completed the order by touching the screen
25 or a button, that event can be published to the customer
   and other media.
         In some cases workflow events may be triggered by the
   elapse of a certain amount of time.
         Conversely, the system itself can be used to create a
30 workflow for a store that does not have a workflow system
   or automated manufacturing process in place.
         In one embodiment multiple store devices could be
   used to link trigger events and initiate a manual or

                               - 38
   automated process based on the trigger event. For example
   where a customer places a complex order comprising an
   entree, main course and dessert the system could trigger
   an event to start making the main course a pre-defined
 5 time after the entree is served.
         The order system of this embodiment may implement a
   queue management system, when a customer queues at a store
   to order and pay for goods it may be viewed that they
   enter two serial queues. The first queue, while they wait
10 to order and pay for their goods or services is known at
   the "cashier queue" the second queue whilst they wait for
   their goods or services to be prepared is known as the
   "preparation queue". The point of transition from the
   cashier queue to the preparation queue is that point when
15 the order is placed with the store.
         It is highly probable that at certain stores there
   will be a combination of physical   (people standing in a
   line) and virtual  (orders that have been submitted
   electronically) queues. Some stores may choose to give
20 priority to the physical or the virtual orders but other
   stores may wish to implement a "fair" system which
   combines the physical and virtual queues in such a way
   that a virtual order is placed in the queue as though the
   orderer was standing in line.
25       The customer may identify them self to the system by
   one of various methods such as, using a mobile phone to
   place an order in the order system, using a card to order
   and provide a load token to store vendor system) or
   telling a store employee  (giving employee load token and
30 then employee communicates with order system via vendor
   system).
         There are several ways to calculate when a virtual
   order should be inserted into the preparation queue.

                               - 39
   In one embodiment the store owner may merely estimate the
   time taken in the cashier queue, enter it into the system
   and all virtual orders will be delayed by that amount of
   time.
 5        In another embodiment the rate of orders being
   processed in the physical queue could be measured by the
   physical order taking device, such as a point of sale
   terminal, and used to calculate the speed of the queue and
   therefore the delay required to hold virtual orders.
10        In another embodiment visual or object recognition
   systems could be used to count the number of people in a
   queue and the speed of the queue could be calculated.
          In another embodiment both the rate of orders at the
   order taking device and the visual recognition systems
15 could be combined to calculate an accurate model of the
   queue.
          In one embodiment, once the order of the customer in
   the physical queue has been entered into the system and
   that order information is made available to the queueing
20 system, then all of the orders in the production queue can
   be published or displayed on an in store display whether
   they came from the physical or virtual cashier queue.
          In one embodiment, customers in the physical cashier
   queue may be required to join the virtual queue for
25 example, by taking a numbered ticket from an electronic
   device which at that point enters the physical customer in
   the virtual queue. This allows both the physical and
   virtual queues to be published or displayed on an in store
   display.
30        A customer in the virtual cashier queue may change
   their order up until the point that their order is
   transferred to the production queue.

                               - 40
          The transition from the cashier queue to the
   production queue may or may not require a confirmation
   from the customer in the virtual queue.
          Customers may generate  ratings, relating to an
 5 experience with the vendor, order system or any other
   associated experience.   These ratings may also be
   published.
          The ratings may be entered via the  customer
   interface, such as an App on a mobile device.    An App may
10 be arranged such that when the user wishes to exit the App
   they are  required to press one  of a number of keys
   according to their  satisfaction with the transaction.
          For example the number keys  1,2,3,4,5 on a keypad may
   allow the customer to rate their satisfaction with the
15 transaction with 5 representing most satisfied and 1
   representing least  satisfied.
          For example an application on a phone may be arranged
   such that when the user wishes to exit the application
   they are presented with a list   of terms to describe their
20 level of satisfaction with the transaction.   The list of
   terms may be displayed from a database of synonyms for
   each rating level. The  customer can  choose to regenerate
   the list of synonyms  from the  database or they can enter
   their own synonym which, after vetting for
25 appropriateness, may in turn be entered into the database
   of publicly available synonyms.
          In this way the system may develop a language and
   feel of it's  own, which may contribute to the viral nature
   of the  system.
30        The rating may be provided in any other way. When a
   customer rates a transaction,   that rating generates an
   event in the transaction flow and can be published
   similarly to any other event.

                               -  41
         The rating can be represented by a term associated
   with the rating for example if    a customer rates a
   transaction 5 then the event may be published as     "customer
   was delighted with their product from store" whereas if
 5 the customer rates the transaction with a 1 then the     event
   may be published as "customer was    disappointed with their
   product from store".
         The terms for the  ratings may be changed, by store,
   for example.
10       In order to avoid repetition and to make the
   publications varied and more interesting, there may be a
   number of synonyms for each rating that may be published.
   For example a rating of 5 may be described variously as
   "delighted", "ecstatic", "elated" or "overjoyed". With the
15 synonym being placed syntactically    correctly within the
   publication.
         This information is especially useful for a merchant
   as it provides feedback as to which products are being
   rated well by their customers    and more importantly which
20 products are not.
         When a customer rates   a transaction, that rating can
   be used to calculate a suggested gratuity based on a set
   of rules determined by the customer.
         For example, if a customer rates a transaction 5 then
25 the customer may have associated a 20%    tip whereas if the
   customer rates the transaction with a 1 then the     customer
   may have associated a 0%  tip. The tip may be added to the
   transaction and proceed via the order system.
         Other calculations can also be made,    for example
30 round up the tip to the nearest dollar or round up the
   entire payment including the tip to the nearest ten
   dollars.

                               -  42
         The calculation may be displayed as a suggestion to
   the customer.
         The customer can override the suggestion if they
   wish.
 5       The calculation can be different     for different
   classes of stores.  For example   a rating of 5 may represent
   a 10% tip at  a cafe but represent   a 20%  tip at a
   restaurant.
         When a customer rates   a transaction, the   rating may
10 also be linked to the products    in the transaction. For
   example when a customer orders    a hamburger and rates the
   transaction 5 then it may be extrapolated that the
   customer's rating of the hamburger from that     store is a 5.
         Further,  standard products   such as  a can of soft
15 drink can be assumed to not effect the     rating of the
   transaction. For example, if a transaction that      includes a
   hamburger and a soft  drink is given a rating of 5,     it  can
   be assumed that the rating of 5 is based on the hamburger
   alone, as the can of soft  drink is   essentially the same
20 across all stores.
         Products may be linked to a generic product. For
   example one store may name their hamburger "The Deluxe
   Burger" whilst another store may name their hamburger       "The
   Big Burger" however they can both be linked to the generic
25 product hamburger.
         Once products are  linked to a generic product,      then
   it is possible to develop statistical    data based on
   multiple customer's satisfaction with a particular generic
   product. For example the average rating of all customers
30 who had a hamburger at a particular store was     4. This data
   becomes valuable over time as    it can provide customers
   with comparative ratings by   store by product and allows

                              -   43
   for such marketing statements as "store has the best
   hamburger in Sydney".
         Figure 4 shows a schematic diagram of the system in
   accordance with the present invention, showing flow of
 5 information.  The order system 2 is arranged to process
   orders and communicates with the customer device 5.
   Communications my include status of order updates,
   information published by a merchant, information on queue
   tracking and other information and messages.    Figure 5
10 also illustrates the vendor device, which may be an in
   store device or a computer associated with a website,
   merchant or other system.    Communications occur between
   the ordering system 1 and the store device relating to the
   transaction also relating to published information, and
15 queue status and order status information.    In-store
   display 21 may be provided where the vendor is associated
   with a store.  Other types of display may be utilized
   depending upon the type of vendor.    For example, an
   on-line vendor may display information associated with the
20 transaction on its website.
         As discussed above, information may be distributed
   over networks to be published at other sites 11,   12, 13,
   14, such as social media.
         Messages may be anything to do with order processing,
25 or anything to do with any published information, that the
   order system, the customer or the vendor wishes to
   publish.
         The following is an example of order flow and
   information that may be published and status information
30 provided to the customer.
   1.    The customer shops by logging on to a website or
         obtaining a menu from an actual physical store.     In
         this embodiment, the customer shops directly with the

                         -   44
   store, the store providing the menu to the customer
   or the merchant website providing information to the
   customer via browser. The load token is provided to
   the vendor device, by the    customer, and the vendor
 5 device provides the load token and overall order
   information to the order system.
   (1)   Customer requests menu from store
   (2)   Store offers menu
   (3)   Customer accepts offer and places order
10 (4)   Payment  is processed
   (5)   Order is  sent to store
   (6)   Store acknowledges order
   (7)   Message "'customer'    has just ordered  'product'
         from  'store'" is published
15 (8)   Publishing site    (twitter, facebook, web site)
         publishes message
   (9)   Store creates event    "'product' is ready"
   (10)  Message "'customers'    'product' from  'store' is
         ready" is published
20 (11)  Publishing site    (twitter, facebook, web site)
         publishes message
   (12)  Customer rates their satisfaction by closing
         application using number key
   (13)  Message "'customers'    is 'very' satisfied with
25       'product' from    'store' is published
   (14)  Publishing site    (twitter, facebook, web site)
         publishes message
   (15)  Server re-calculates    satisfaction statistics
   (16)  Message "'x'%  of customers   are  'very' satisfied
30       with  'product' from   'store' is published
   (17)  Publishing site    (twitter, facebook, web site)
         publishes message

                                - 45
   "     Events may include   store activity, such as the
         progress  of the manufacture.
   "     The Queueing system may also be utilised once the
         customer has   identified them self to the  system.
 5 "     A customer device   (e.g. NFI card) may be used to
         provide load token to a store based device such as a
         terminal,  kiosk or web site.
   "     In an embodiment   the carte may also provide customer
         identity information to the system for publication
10       and the  carte may also facilitate rating of the
         transaction   (requiring customer input).
         The following are   further examples of the type of
   information that may be published and exchanged between
   the order system 1, vendor device,   customer devices 5 and
15 sites where information is published.
   Example:  Where a Store Enters Information
         A  store owner/vendor or representative can visit a
20 single web site,  associated with the order system, and
   enter relatively  static information such as the   store
   name, address, phone number, map details, store
   description, headline, and photos,   further the store   owner
   or representative can enter more dynamic data    such as a
25 menu of products  or services and associated information
   such as price and description.
         Once the  store owner or representative is satisfied
   with the information they can choose to publish the
   information. A representation of the information will then
30 be published to a plurality of selected sites with the
   representation of the   information being modified for each
   site according to a set of rules in order for the

                               - 46
   representation of the information to be appropriate for
   the given site.
         For example a store may enter their static and menu
   information into the order system site and this may then
 5 be available to customers via the order system. Static
   information and menu headings may be published to a
   "yellow pages" type site and only the name and headline
   published to twitter.
         Any changes to information can be re-published in a
10 similar fashion.
   Example: Where a Customer Buys a Coffee
         A customer  (Jane) uses the App on her phone to
15 request a menu from a store, the store menu is downloaded
   to the phone and the customer selects a cappuccino and a
   blueberry muffin. The customer shops directly with the
   store and provides the load token, and the store then
   sends the order to the ordering system.   Once the customer
20 approves the order, instructions for filling the order are
   then sent from the ordering system to the store device.
         This process can trigger a series of events according
   to how the system has been set up, for example:
         "     A message is sent from the server to the
25             customer's own twitter site according to the
               twitter API saying "Jane has just ordered a
               Cappuccino and Blueberry Muffin from Cafe
               Roma".
         In the above description of the publication of
30 information, publication of information is associated with
   an ordering process in accordance with an embodiment of
   the present invention, where the customer shops with a
   vendor and provides an order token to the vendor.   The

                                - 47
   vendor then provides   the order token and product
   information to the order system, and the order system then
   communicates with the   customer device, for the customer to
   approve the order and continue the transaction.
 5       In another embodiment, publication of information is
   not limited to an ordering system such as in the    first
   embodiment of the invention.     Publication of information
   may be associated with any ordering and payment system.
   It may be associated with a conventional on-line or POS     or
10 other ordering system, for example.
         In an embodiment, published information may be
   generated in  relation to a payment and ordering system in
   accordance with the applications earlier International
   (PCT) Patent Application No.    PCT/AU2005/000902.  The
15 content of this document are hereby incorporated herein.
   The system in accordance with the applicant's earlier
   invention is  illustrated in Figure 2.    In this earlier
   embodiment, the customer device shops directly with the
   order system.   The  store download menus to the order
20 system so that the customer device can go to the order
   system for one point shopping.
         Published information can be associated with this
   process, in a similar manner to the process of the earlier
   embodiment of the invention.
25       Figures  6A and 6B is a flow diagram illustrating a
   general shopping process in accordance with an embodiment
   of the present invention, where a load token is provided
   to a vendor.   In this  embodiment, the customer device 5 is
   a mobile device having a client App arranged to provide an
30 interface with the order system 1.
         Step 100,  the  customer shops by browsing and
   selecting products for purchase.     As discussed above,
   shopping on-line, over the telephone, or by attendance at

                                  - 48
   a retail store or in any other way.
          In step 101, the customer provids the selection
   information     (e.g. information on product) and the load
   token to the merchant.      How this is done will depend upon
 5 the type of shopping which is occurring.       On-line shopping
   will involve the information and the load token being
   downloaded/entered on-line.       For example, the load token
   could be entered in a field made a field made available on
   a vendor website.
10        Where the shopping is at a store location the
   information and load token may be provided to a store
   operative.     Alternatively, any information may be entered
   on the customer device to be transmitted to a vendor
   device   (e.g. vendor computing system) associated with the
15 store.    In an embodiment, the load token may be stored in
   a device, such as a NFI card and can be downloaded to a
   store computing system by wireless, RFID or the like to
   the store computing system via a reader.
          Step 102, the merchant/vendor system receives the
20 order and acknowledges the order by communication with the
   order system 1.      It will send the load token and the
   product information to the order system 1. Step 102A, the
   vendor may request any extra information that may be
   required to fill the order.       For example, the customer may
25 not have provided any information on shipping cost.       The
   vendor communicates via the order system 1 with the
   customer    (e.g. via the client App on the customer mobile
   device) to communicate the shipping cost and receive
   confirmation from the customer.       The customer may wish to
30 modify the order before confirming it, done by further
   communication between the order system 1, vendor and
   customer.
          Step 103, the consumer reviews the shopping basket

                                 - 49
   via their client App    (or other interface).    The consumer
   may be alerted via the App that there is information in
   their carte requiring processing.
         Step 104, the consumer authorizes to the order system
 5 1 that it wishes to proceed with the order.       At this stage
   the consumer has the opportunity to vary any component of
   the order   (step 105).   Once authorization is received by
   the order system 1, the order system 1 can process and
   confirm the order to the vendor.
10       Step 106, after the order system has received
   confirmation of the order from the customer, the order
   system 1 obtains funds from the customer      (e.g. where the
   customer has a wallet with the system, for example) and
   places the funds in escrow.      The customer may need to top
15 up their wallet with the order system or provide funds
   from an account.
         Step 107, the order system 1 confirms the order to
   the vendor system and also confirms that money is held in
   escrow.   Note that in an alternative embodiment money may
20 be provided to the vendor account. In this embodiment,
   however, the funds are held in escrow until the order is
   fulfilled.
         Step 108, the vendor system acknowledges to the order
   system that the order had been received and will be
25 processed.    At this stage there may be another opportunity
   for the vendor to vary the order     (108A).   For example, the
   product may no longer be available     (since the initial
   order by the customer and the final confirmation things
   may have changed) or the cost of the product may be
30 different or other changes may have occurred.       The vendor
   may further communicate with the order system 1 and via
   the order system 1 to the customer advising of changes in
   the order.    This will give the customer another

                                -   50
   opportunity to reconfirm or not, or make any other change
   to the order.
          Step 109,  the order sits    in a queue for processing by
   the vendor.   Step 109A updates     on the queue  (e.g. place in
 5 the queue) and updates on the processing may be sent by
   the order system to the consumer.
          Once the  order has reached the head of the queue, at
   step 110 the  order preparation phase commences.       For
   example, if the product is     coffee the vendor may start
10 making the coffee.    Step 110A    allows for update on all the
   preparation to be sent to the      customer via the order
   system.   If a complex product,     for example, it may take
   some time to prepare e.g. building a bicycle.
   Notification of progress can be      sent to the  customer via
15 the order system 1.
          Step 111 the vendor system signals via the order
   system 1 to the customer that the order is ready.         This
   may require another confirmation step 111A       from the
   customer confirming that they still want the product.
20 Obviously whether a customer can opt out at this       stage
   will depend on vendor conditions.       If the product has been
   prepared to the customers   satisfaction it is unlikely that
   the vendor would allow opt out without payment at this
   stage.
25        At step 111,  the product is presented for collection
   e.g. at  a vendor premises   (collection via customer,
   on-line, by mail).   Step 111A    collection could require a
   trigger such as a customer identifier via RFID, wireless
   or NFI.
30        At step 112,  the order system 1 provides payment to
   the vendor, where the payment has been held in escrow by
   the system.
          An advantage of the order system which allows this

                                - 51
   type processing to take place, is that the order system
   sits  in between the vendor and the   customer, and provides
   communications to the   customer regarding order status and
   other information associated with the order.     This allows
 5 the  customer time to decide whether they wish to proceed
   and also versatility, and allows the order to be changed.
   The order system which essentially operates as a
   "policemen" standing in between the vendor and the
   customer.   It also provides a single common uniform
10 interface which the customer easily becomes familiar with.
   The customer can perform all their shopping via the order
   system.
          As discussed above, any information associated with
   the  order including the status   of the order, content of
15 the  order, or any other information can be published.
          Also as  discussed above, any rating provided by the
   customer can also be published.
          In an embodiment,  ratings are weighted according to
   purchase profile.    The order system makes a profile
20 because it is able to monitor purchases by customers. The
   weighting can therefore depend upon what the purchase
   profile is like.
          The order system 1,  in an embodiment may also be able
   to calculate   a customer status.   For particular vendors,
25 for example, where the customer shops a lot they may get a
   status which allows them privileges e.g.    "gold, silver or
   bronze" status.    This will depend upon conditions such as
   how much they shop at the   store.   The status updates can
   be determined by the   order system 1,  because it provides a
30 single conduit via which orders between vendors and
   customers are processed.    It is therefore a good place to
   monitor for purchasing and determining status.
          As discussed above, the customer device includes an

                               -  52
   interface for interfacing with the order system 1.      This
   may be a widget  (e.g. on a PC or laptop) or by mobile.      It
   may be a client App or any other interface.     In an
   embodiment, the customer interface has the capacity to
 5 store data.  Where in connection with the order system is
   not available, therefore, for example, the customer may
   still browse a shopping carte shopping list or browse
   other stored information.
         "Load tokens" can also be used to identify not only
10 recurrent payment to be made, but also recurrent payment
   to be received. Account holders may transfer funds to
   other account holder using either single or redcurrant
   payments to other account holders. This allows for a
   "child" account to receive a weekly or monthly
15 allowance-or alternatively    one of allowances-from  a
   parent account.
         A parent account can also be enabled to approve
   individual purchases from a child account, allowing making
   payments for specific items and providing a level of
20 control where this is desired.
         Items in the carte, but not yet purchased can be held
   in "shopping lists". These shopping lists can contain
   items under consideration for purchase. A customer benefit
   of this supplier independent carte is that it is not
25 necessary that this information is revealed to any
   suppliers. However, these lists can actually be shared
   with potential gift buyers much like a wedding list. Items
   can be purchased by friends, and either shipped to friends
   address or to the owner of the shopping list, depending on
30 the desire to personally present the gift. Items purchased
   from the list can be marked to avoid duplicate purchases
   but may not reveal who the purchaser is.

                              - 53
         Orders placed with merchants should return details of
   the shipping company and the tracking number supplied by
   the shipping company. These details allow all orders
   placed by a customer to be traceable through the one
 5 central place in form of the web interface or application
   provided by the improved third party shopping.
         As orders are actually placed by the order system on
   behalf of the consumer, and delivery tracking details are
   also provided, the potential exists to effectively provide
10 and escrow system where although the consumer is charged
   when the order is placed, the funds are held in trust
   until either the order is actually shipped or even until
   the projected or actual delivery date. Many stores on the
   internet take orders for items that they do not actually
15 hold in stock. Assurance of payment is required before
   these stores can in turn place orders with their
   suppliers. However, the financial incentive exists to such
   merchants to process orders slowly as under prior art
   systems they already hold the customers money from the
20 time the customer placed the order. In practice, if a
   sufficiently large amount of orders are held there can be
   the temptation for the supplier to simply close and keep
   the funds here for orders not yet fulfilled. This risk
   only applies with merchants or stores with insufficient
25 established reputation such that the value of the
   reputation is greater than the funds held but it remains a
   risk for consumers. An escrow system for selected
   merchants can allow enabling merchants who would otherwise
   be considered too risky.
30       In several scenarios where an embodiment is used for
   a consumer to make purchases, an order is displayed for
   approval on a device to be used by the consumer for
   approval of the transaction.

                                - 54
          In these cases the order may need to be "refreshed".
   That is, the   order resent to the merchant web/site or
   servers   for verification that any change to circumstances
   have occurred. Possible changes include:
 5        1.     the time is now outside the window for which
                 the order was held for this  consumer;
          2.     the delivery details of the  consumer are now
                 known or altered.
          Should a "refresh" of the   order be necessary under
10 either of these guidelines, the order is resent to the
   merchant web/site or servers    as a verification order and
   to obtain a new valid "time period", and any     changed
   pricing which may now apply.
          If the order is within the valid time period and the
15 delivery details   for the consumer are unchanged then the
   consumer may confirm and order in which case payment is
   processed and the order using the details of all     items
   together with confirmation of payment are sent     to the
   merchant web site/ or servers    for processing.
20        The merchant web site/   servers will respond
   indicating the success of the    transaction, projected
   timing  for fulfillment and delivery process and tracking
   number in use.
          As discussed above, the load token may be stored on a
25 device such as an NFI   card or the customer's device    (so
   that it can be picked up by wireless, for example).       The
   load token may be also associated directly with customer,
   biometric   such as a fingerprint.
          In addition to the previous discussion of
30 transactions   initiated to the  shopping cart by either web
   surfing, mobile ordering, phone orders,    store data entry
   etc.

                                - 55
          Another embodiment relates to initiating items to be
   ordered being triggered to load into the shopping cart as
   a result of a physical action by the consumer, either
   touching, or bringing into close contact, or 'pointing'
 5 either the consumers own body, by way of for example a
   finger,   or using an apparatus to point, touch or initiate
   close contact. Such an apparatus could be a mobile phone
   or tablet or special purpose pointing or touching or near
   contact apparatus.
10        This occurs when a consumer device is arranged to be
   able to detect close proimity to an identifier. Such an
   identifier could be a bar code which can be detected and
   'read' by a phones camera or, or even a distinct object
   being able to be recognised from the image captured by the
15 camera, or, in a preferred embodiment, a 'tag' which can
   be  'read' by short range radio as used in near field
   communications, or any other method allowing the detection
   of pointing, touching or near touching.
          The act of pointing, touching or near touching,
20 brings together an identifier     (load token) of the
   consumer, either by finger print or capacitive
   communication or, in a preferred embodiment, by identity
   information held in a device arranged for the pointing
   touching or near touching, together with an identity of an
25 item to be examined and then possibly loaded into the
   third party shopping cart, together with the identity of
   the  'vendor' or store offering the item for sale.
          The identity of the item to be purchased or
   considered for purchase may be determined by a
30 characteristic of the item itself,     (e.g. image
   recognition, bar code reading, reading an id-tag) or by
   determining sufficiently accurately the location being
   indicated   (e.g. id-tag placed in location of fridge door).

                                - 56
         The identity of the store or vendor of the item for
   sale may be obtained as an integral part of the product or
   item descriptor or location, or obtained by determining by
   a separate location selection process by and using this
 5 information either directly, or via a look up system to
   determine the store or vendor.
   examples:
         (1)    rf-id tag identifies shelf and location on
                shelf of item together with providing the
10              identity of the store;
         (2)    a wifi equipped mobile phone sends list and
                identifiers of wifi networks detected to a look
                up server to use this information to identify
                store or item vendor;
15       (3)    accurate GPS or other location system data is
                sent by mobile device to a look up server
                (order system 1) to determine the identity of
                the store.
         The identity of the item for purchase may be
20 accompanied by descriptive and pricing information
   sufficient for a transaction, or may be used to message a
   system with the identify information and store information
   and retrieve product description and pricing information.
         For example, product selected in is fridge shelf two
25 column 3....  either --- display on fridge confirms purchase
   and customer opens door and picks up item --- as above with
   either automatic door unlocking and or item selected
   identification by either image or location with alert if
   incorrect item is selected.
30       Communications between the order system, vendor
   system and the customer device may be any conventional
   communications, e.g. SSL over HTTP.
         It will be appreciated by persons skilled in the art

                              - 57
  that numerous variations and/or modifications may be made
  to the invention as  shown in the specific embodiments
  without departing from the spirit or scope of the  invention
  as broadly described.   The present embodiments are,
5 therefore, to be considered in all respects as illustrative
  and not restrictive.

                              - 58
   THE CLAIMS DEFINING THE INVENTION ARE AS FOLLOWS:
   1.    A method of processing a product transaction,
   comprising the steps of:
 5       an order computing system receiving from one vendor's
   computing system a product identifier for a product
   associated with an order notification provided by a
   customer to the vendor's computing system;
         the order computing system receiving from another
10 vendor's computing system another product identifier for
   another product associated with an order notification
   provided by the customer to the another vendor's computing
   system;
         the order system having a memory storing a plurality
15 of customer order repositories associated with a
   respective plurality of customers, including a customer
   order repository associated with the customer;
         storing the product identifier and the another
   product identifier in the customer order repository
20 associated with the customer;
         establishing communication between the customer and
   the order computing system;
         receiving order processing instructions for the
   product and the another product from the customer via the
25 established communication; and
         transmitting a confirmation of the orders for the
   product and the another product to the respective vendor's
   systems from the order system;
         wherein the order system is a third party system
30 separate from the vendor's system.
   2.    A method in accordance with Claim 1, comprising the
   further step of the order system receiving a customer

                              - 59
   order repository identifier, which is arranged to identify
   the customer order identifier associated with the
   customer, from the vendor's system and the another
   vendor's system, having been provided with the customer
 5 order repository identifier by the customer, whereby
   enabling the product identifier for the product to be
   placed in the customer order repository associated with
   the customer order repository identifier.
10 3.    A method in accordance with Claim 1 or Claim 2,
   comprising the step of providing a plurality of customer
   order repository identifiers for the customer order
   repository.
15 4.    A method in accordance with Claim 3, comprising the
   step of displaying to the customer, the orders associated
   with each of the respective customer order repository
   identifiers.
20 5.    A method in accordance with any one of the preceding
   claims, comprising the further step of the order system
   obtaining funds for payment of the order.
   6.    A method in accordance with Claim 4, wherein the step
25 of the order system obtaining funds comprises the step of
   the order system placing the funds in escrow.
   7.    A method in accordance with any one of the preceding
   claims, comprising the further step of communicating
30 status updates on the status of the order.
   8.    A method in accordance with Claim 7, wherein the step
   of communicating the status updates, comprises the step of

                               - 60
   providing status update of a position of the order within
   an order queue.
   9.     A method in accordance with Claim 7 or Claim 8,
 5 wherein the step of transmitting status updates   comprises
   the step of providing a status update of status of the
   preparation of a product.
   10.    A method in accordance with any one of the preceding
10 claims,  comprising the further step of publishing
   information associated with the order.
   11.    A method in accordance with Claim 10,  wherein the
   step of publication comprises   the step of publishing
15 information on network sites, such as social network
   sites.
   12.    A method in accordance with Claim 10 or Claim 11,
   wherein the step of publishing comprises the   step of
20 publishing information on an in-store display associated
   with a retail environment.
   13.    An apparatus for processing a product transaction,
   comprising:
25        an order computing system, comprising network
   communications;
          a processor and a memory, and being arranged to
   receive a product identifier via the network
   communications;
30        the product identifier identifying a product that a
   customer wishes to purchase from a vendor who is making
   the product available and being arranged to receive
   another product identifier via the network communications;

                               - 61
         the another product identifier identifying a product
   that a customer wishes to purchase from another vendor who
   is making the another product available;
         the memory storing a plurality of customer order
 5 repositories associated with a respective plurality of
   customers, including a customer order repository
   associated with the customer, the customer order
   repository associated with the   customer being arranged to
   store the product identifier and the another product
10 identifier;
         the network communications being arranged to
   establish communication between a customer computing
   system and the order computing system, and to receive
   order processing instructions from the   customer computing
15 system via the communication;
         the order computing system being arranged to transmit
   a confirmation of the  order for the product and the
   another product,  in response to receiving the order
   processing instructions,  to respective vendor computing
20 systems of the vendor and the   anther vendor; and
         the order computing system being a third party order
   computing system separate from the   respective vendor
   computing systems.
25 14.   An apparatus in accordance with Claim 14,    wherein the
   order computing system is arranged to receive a customer
   order repository  identifier, identifying the  customer
   order repository  associated with the customer and match
   the customer order repository identifier with the customer
30 order repository.
   15.   An apparatus in accordance with Claim 14,    wherein the
   order computing system is arranged to receive the customer

                               - 62
   order repository identifier from the vendor's computing
   system.
   16.    An apparatus in accordance with Claims 13,  14 or 15,
 5 further comprising a wallet arrangement, arranged to store
   funds associated with customers.
   17.    An apparatus in accordance with any one of Claims 13
   to 16,  wherein the order computing system is arranged to
10 communicate status updates on the status of the order, to
   customer devices.
   18.    An apparatus in accordance with any one of Claims 13
   to 17,  the order computing system being arranged to
15 publish information associated with the order.
   19.    An apparatus in accordance with Claim 18,  wherein the
   order computing system is arranged to communicate the
   publications of information so that the information is
20 published on network site, such as social networks.
   20.    An apparatus in accordance with Claim 18 or Claim 19,
   wherein the order computing system is arranged to publish
   the published information on an in-store display
25 associated with a retail environment.
   21.    A customer apparatus for processing a product
   transaction, the customer apparatus including a network
   communications facility, a processor, a memory and a
30 customer interface for interfacing with a customer and for
   facilitating message communication with the apparatus of
   any one of Claims 13 to 20.

                              - 63
   22.   A customer apparatus in accordance with Claim 21, the
   customer interface being arranged to store in the customer
   apparatus memory a cache of customer order repository
   information of a customer order repository of the
 5 apparatus of any one of Claims 13 to 20.
   23.   A customer apparatus in accordance with Claims 21 or
   22, the customer interface being arranged to open when the
   customer apparatus is on and receive/transmit messages
10 from/to the apparatus in accordance with any one of
   Claims 13 to 20.
   24.   A method of facilitating dissemination of information
   relating to a transaction for a product, comprising the
15 steps of publishing information associated with the
   transaction.
   25.   A method in accordance with Claim 24, wherein the
   information o be published is obtained from an order
20 processing system associated with processing of the order.
   26.   A method in accordance with Claim 25, wherein the
   order processing system comprises an apparatus in
   accordance with any one of Claims 13 to 23.
25
   27.   A method in accordance with Claim 24, 25 or 26,
   wherein the step of publication comprises the step of
   publishing the information via network sites, such as
   social network sites.
30
   28.   A method in accordance with any one of Claims 24 to
   27, wherein the step of publication comprises the step of
   publishing the information on a in-store display

                              - 64
   associated with the retail environment.
   29.   A method of processing an on-line product
   transaction, comprising the steps of a plurality of
 5 separate vendor sites receiving order notifications from
   customers, the order notifications being transmitted to a
   separate third party site and stored in a customer
   repository associated with each customer, subsequently
   processing the orders stored in each customer repository,
10 by the third party site communicating with the customers
   and then communicating with the separate vendor sites in
   order to process the orders, in response to confirmation
   from the customer to do so.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-date>
              %'      % !
                                                                 ,
                            $   !              %
<removed-apn>
                                %& %
                                                        )+
                                               *
              )   %   % !
                                (!                           -
                                           *
                                     ! "       #
                                                   (!

                                            *
<removed-date>
                 ' 0 1
              2   ((   %
              2 1!       " '' %
                 ' 0       !
              2   ((   %
              2 1!         " '' %
<removed-apn>
                                                        3    %&
                 ' 0 )              %
              2   ((   %
              2 1!       " '' %
                 ' 0 3!             %
              2   ((   %
              2 1!       " '' %
                                                    /
                                            ! "         #   (!
                                        .       /           4

<removed-date>
                             !"
                            # $%
                       & "   ' !
                       %   !"
<removed-apn>
                                                    **,!.$ %. !
                                                 .%/ , % *     -.
                            !"
                                                  + % *4 5    (!+
                   ($'!    # ") * !%
                                                  3, %/     "
                      %     + % *
                                                     *0 ! !%
              , % *      (# % " -.   + % *        , % *     -.$
                  !"     , % *    -.$               **,!.$ %
                                                    .%/ + % *
               , % *       -.       / 00.!)
                  % -.     , % *       -.$
                , % *   (,%/ .1   %
               + % * %/ %   "   / ,#"
                          $ "
               + % * 2% .!         !"    # $
                   3,!" .!         $
              + % * ("-.           !"     %/ %
                  "    / ,#"         $    "
                                                            3

                                             /
<removed-date>
                                                       **,!.$ %. ! .%/
               !"  ("-.$       + % *                , % *    -.  + % *
              5 !+ / !)       % %/                     !5. * / !)     "
                      "                                  !5. * 7    %
                                                          !5. *8  "
                                                        , % *      -.$
<removed-apn>
                                                        **,!.$ %     .%/
                                                             + % *
                    "   .%    !                        **,!.$ %. ! .%/
                    6, , 5                           , % *   -.    + % *4
                      $   .!)                           % %,    0" %
                                                       , % *      -.$
                                                       **,!.$ %     .%/
                                                            + % *
                                                  **,!.$ %. ! .%/     , % *
                                                     5   "      0    %. !
                "         0   %. !               % %, 9    +  :,.     3, %/
                                                   !5. * %. ! 3 *    , % *
                                                         %     $ "
                                                      , % *      -.$
                                                      **,!.$ %     .%/
                                                           + % *
                                                  **,!.$ %. ! -.   + % *
                      "                           .%/ , % *      5  "
                 3,#5.##* !%                     3,#5.##* !% 7 #.- +4
                                                  , % *    .$' 04 %$8
                                                      , % *      -.$
                                                      **,!.$ %     .%/
                                     +* !%                 + % *
                      1

<removed-date>
                  $          %           7
                , / -    $ .- "     :, % 5
              0 +* !%
                  ;
                 (< =    0   %. !
                 ;
<removed-apn>
                  =   #,= >.") % ? @  9
                  = ,") % >.") % ? 9
                   =   #.- + ?@ 9
                             )     ! (         %    8    49 /
                 $#.!            & %               ($$ 0%
                                               6
                      $           %            7
                   , / -    $ .- "     :, % 5
                 0 +* !%
                     ;
                    (< =    0   %. !
                    ;
                     =   #,= >.") % ? @  9
                     = ,") % >.") % ? 9
                      =   #.- + ?@@ 9
                                  )      ! (        %    8   49 /
                      $#.!            & %               ($$ 0%
                                               5

