                                     Abstract
         Provided are compounds of Formula I:
                   R2X            N
                                             I(CRR9)m         R7
                                 RR
                                               II          R
                                     Formula I
or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, wherein R1, R2 , R , R4 , R , R ,
R7 , R8 , R9 , X and m are as defined herein.
         Also provided is a pharmaceutically acceptable composition comprising
a compound of Formula I, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
         Also provided are methods of using a compound of Formula I, or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.

            Certain Amino-Pyridazines, Compositions Thereof, and
                                Methods of Their Use
         This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application Nos.
61/327,538, filed April 23, 2010, and 61/412,302, filed November 10, 2010,
each of which is incorporated by reference in its entirety for all purposes. This
application is also divisional of Australian Patent Application No. <removed-apn>,
which is incorporated by reference in its entirety for all purposes.
         The cytoskeleton of skeletal and cardiac muscle cells is unique
compared to that of all other cells. It consists of a nearly crystalline array of
closely packed cytoskeletal proteins called the sarcomere. The sarcomere is
elegantly organized as an interdigitating array of thin and thick filaments. The
thick filaments are composed of myosin, the motor protein responsible for
transducing the chemical energy of ATP hydrolysis into force and directed
movement. The thin filaments are composed of actin monomers arranged in a
helical array. There are four regulatory proteins bound to the actin filaments,
which allows the contraction to be modulated by calcium ions. An influx of
intracellular calcium initiates muscle contraction; thick and thin filaments slide
past each other driven by repetitive interactions of the myosin motor domains
with the thin actin filaments.
         Of the thirteen distinct classes of myosin in human cells, the myosin-II
class is responsible for contraction of skeletal, cardiac, and smooth muscle.
This class of myosin is significantly different in amino acid composition and in
overall structure from myosin in the other twelve distinct classes. Myosin-II
forms homo-dimers resulting in two globular head domains linked together by
a long alpha-helical coiled-coiled tail to form the core of the sarcomere's thick
filament. The globular heads have a catalytic domain where the actin binding
and ATPase functions of myosin take place. Once bound to an actin filament,
the release of phosphate (cf. ADP-Pi to ADP) signals a change in structural
conformation of the catalytic domain that in turn alters the orientation of the
light-chain binding lever arm domain that extends from the globular head; this
movement is termed the powerstroke. This change in orientation of the
myosin head in relationship to actin causes the thick filament of which it is a
part to move with respect to the thin actin filament to which it is bound. Un
                                           1

binding of the globular head from the actin filament (Ca2+ regulated) coupled
with return of the catalytic domain and light chain to their starting
conformation/orientation completes the catalytic cycle, responsible for
intracellular movement and muscle contraction.
        Tropomyosin and troponin mediate the calcium effect on the interaction
on actin and myosin. The troponin complex is comprised of three polypeptide
chains: troponin C, which binds calcium ions; troponin I, which binds to actin;
and troponin T, which binds to tropomyosin. The skeletal troponin
tropomyosin complex regulates the myosin binding sites extending over
several actin units at once.
        Troponin, a complex of the three polypeptides described above, is an
accessory protein that is closely associated with actin filaments in vertebrate
muscle. The troponin complex acts in conjunction with the muscle form of
tropomyosin to mediate the Ca 2 + dependency of myosin ATPase activity and
thereby regulate muscle contraction. The troponin polypeptides T, I, and C,
are named for their tropomyosin binding, inhibitory, and calcium binding
activities, respectively. Troponin T binds to tropomyosin and is believed to be
responsible for positioning the troponin complex on the muscle thin filament.
Troponin I binds to actin, and the complex formed by troponins I and T, and
tropomyosin inhibits the interaction of actin and myosin. Skeletal troponin C is
capable of binding up to four calcium molecules. Studies suggest that when
the level of calcium in the muscle is raised, troponin C exposes a binding site
for troponin I, recruiting it away from actin. This causes the tropomyosin
molecule to shift its position as well, thereby exposing the myosin binding
sites on actin and stimulating myosin ATPase activity.
         Human skeletal muscle is composed of different types of contractile
fibers, classified by their myosin type and termed either slow or fast fibers.
Table 1 summarizes the different proteins that make up these types of
muscle.

                                          Table 1
                                               Muscle Fiber Type
                                     Fast skeletal             Slow Skeletal
          Myosin Heavy               Ila, (Ilb*), llx/d            Cardiac   p
              Chain
         Troponin I (TnI)              Tnl fast SK               Tnl slow SK
           Troponin T
                                       TnT fast SK               TnT slow SK
               (TnT)
           Troponin C
                                      TnC fast SK            TnC slow/cardiac
               (TnC)
          Tropomyosin            TM-p / TM-a/TPM 3              TM-p / TM-as
       *MHC Ilb is not expressed in human muscle but is present in rodents and other
                mammals.
        In healthy humans most skeletal muscles are composed of both fast
and slow fibers, although the proportions of each vary with muscle type. Slow
skeletal fibers, often called type I fibers, have more structural similarity with
cardiac muscle and tend to be used more for fine and postural control. They
usually have a greater oxidative capacity and are more resistant to fatigue
with continued use. Fast skeletal muscle fibers, often called type II fibers, are
classified into fast oxidative (Ila) and fast glycolytic (type llx/d) fibers. While
these muscle fibers have different myosin types, they share many
components including the troponin and tropomyosin regulatory proteins. Fast
skeletal muscle fibers tend to exert greater force but fatigue faster than slow
skeletal muscle fibers and are functionally useful for acute, large scale
movements such as rising from a chair or correcting falls.
        Muscle contraction and force generation is controlled through nervous
stimulation by innervating motor neurons. Each motor neuron may innervate
many (approximately 100-380) muscle fibers as a contractile whole, termed a
motor unit. When a muscle is required to contract, motor neurons send
                                               2

stimuli as nerve impulses (action potentials) from the brain stem or spinal cord
to each fiber within the motor unit. The contact region between nerve and
muscle fibers is a specialized synapse called the neuromuscular junction
(NMJ). Here, membrane depolarizing action potentials in the nerve are
translated into an impulse in the muscle fiber through release of the
neurotransmitter acetylcholine (ACh). ACh triggers a second action potential
in the muscle that spreads rapidly along the fiber and into invaginations in the
membrane, termed t-tubules. T-tubules are physically connected to Ca2+
stores within the sarcoplasmic reticulum (SR) of muscle via the
dihydropyridine receptor (DHPR). Stimulation of the DHPR activates a
second Ca2+ channel in the SR, the ryanodine receptor, to trigger the release
of Ca2+ from stores in the SR to the muscle cytoplasm where it can interact
with the troponin complex to initiate muscle contraction. If muscle stimulation
stops, calcium is rapidly taken back up into the SR through the ATP
dependent Ca2+ pump, SERCA.
        Muscle function can become compromised in disease by many
mechanisms. Examples include the frailty associated with old age (termed
sarcopenia) and cachexia syndromes associated with diseases such as
cancer, heart failure, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), and
chronic kidney disease/dialysis. Severe muscular dysfunction can arise from
neuromuscular diseases (such as Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis (ALS), spinal
muscular atrophy (SMA) and myasthenia gravis) or muscular myopathies
(such as muscular dystrophies). Additionally, muscle function may become
compromised due to rehabilitation-related deficits, such as those associated
with recovery from surgery (e.g. post-surgical muscle weakness), prolonged
bed rest, or stroke rehabilitation. Additional examples of diseases or
conditions where muscle function becomes compromised include peripheral
vascular disease (e.g., claudication), chronic fatigue syndrome, metabolic
syndrome, and obesity.
        Accordingly, there is a need for the development of new compounds
that modulate skeletal muscle contractility. There remains a need for agents
that exploit new mechanisms of action and which may have better outcomes
in terms of relief of symptoms, safety, and patient mortality, both short-term
and long-term and an improved therapeutic index.
                                         4

        Provided is a compound of Formula I:
                      X          N
                R2N
                                                     9
                                                (CR8 R )m        R7
                      R3                  N
                                RR
                                                          5   R6
                                    Formula I
        or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, wherein R1, R2 , R , R4 ,
R, R, R7 , R8 , R9, X and m are as defined herein.
        Also provided is a pharmaceutically acceptable composition comprising
a compound of Formula I, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
        Also provided are methods for treating a disease or condition
responsive to modulation of the contractility of the skeletal sarcomere, for
example, modulation of the troponin complex of the fast skeletal muscle
sarcomere through one or more of fast skeletal myosin, actin, tropomyosin,
troponin C, troponin I, and troponin T, and fragments and isoforms thereof.
        As used in the present specification, the following words and phrases
are generally intended to have the meanings as set forth below, except to the
extent that the context in which they are used indicates otherwise.
        Throughout this application, unless the context indicates otherwise,
references to a compound of Formula I includes all subgroups of Formula I
defined herein, including all substructures, subgenera, preferences,
embodiments, examples and particular compounds defined and/or described
herein.
        References to a compound of Formula I and subgroups thereof include
ionic forms, polymorphs, pseudopolymorphs, amorphous forms, solvates, co
crystals, chelates, isomers, tautomers, oxides (e.g., N-oxides, S-oxides),
esters, prodrugs, isotopes and/or protected forms thereof. "Crystalline form,"
"polymorph," and "novel form" may be used interchangeably herein, and are
meant to include all crystalline and amorphous forms of the compound,
including, for example, polymorphs, pseudopolymorphs, solvates (including
hydrates), co-crystals, unsolvated polymorphs (including anhydrates),
conformational polymorphs, and amorphous forms, as well as mixtures

thereof, unless a particular crystalline or amorphous form is referred to. In
some embodiments, references to a compound of Formula I and subgroups
thereof include polymorphs, solvates, co-crystals, isomers, tautomers and/or
oxides thereof. In some embodiments, references to a compound of Formula
I and subgroups thereof include polymorphs, salts, solvates, and/or co
crystals thereof. In some embodiments, references to a compound of
Formula I and subgroups thereof include isomers, tautomers and/or oxides
thereof. In some embodiments, references to a compound of Formula I and
subgroups thereof include solvates thereof. Similarly, the term "salts"
includes solvates of salts of compounds.
         By "optional" or "optionally" is meant that the subsequently described
event or circumstance may or may not occur, and that the description includes
instances where the event or circumstance occurs and instances in which it
does not. For example, "optionally substituted alkyl" encompasses both
"alkyl" and "substituted alkyl" as defined herein. It will be understood by those
skilled in the art, with respect to any group containing one or more
substituents, that such groups are not intended to introduce any substitution
or substitution patterns that are sterically impractical, synthetically non
feasible, and/or inherently unstable.
        When a range of values is given (e.g., C1-6 alkyl), each value within the
range as well as all intervening ranges are included. For example, "C1 _6 alkyl"
includes C1, C2, C3, C4, C5, C6, C1-6, C2-6, C3-6, C4-6, C5-6, C1-5, C2-5, C3-5, C4-5,
C1-4, C2-4, C3_4, C1-3, C2-3, and C1-2 alkyl.
        When a moiety is defined as being optionally substituted, it may be
substituted as itself or as part of another moiety. For example, if RX is defined
as  "C1-6 alkyl or OC1-6 alkyl, wherein C1-6 alkyl is optionally subsituted with
halogen", then both the C1-6 alkyl group alone and the C1-6 alkyl that makes up
part of the OC1-6 alkyl group may be substituted with halogen.
         "Alkyl" encompasses straight and branched carbon chains having the
indicated number of carbon atoms, for example, from 1 to 20 carbon atoms, or
1 to 8 carbon atoms, or 1 to 6 carbon atoms. For example, C1-6 alkyl
encompasses both straight and branched chain alkyl of from 1 to 6 carbon
atoms. When an alkyl residue having a specific number of carbons is named,
all branched and straight chain versions having that number of carbons are
                                            F;

intended to be encompassed; thus, for example, "propyl" includes n-propyl
and isopropyl; and "butyl" includes n-butyl, sec-butyl, isobutyl and t-butyl.
Examples of alkyl groups include, but are not limited to, methyl, ethyl, propyl,
isopropyl, n-butyl, sec-butyl, tert-butyl, pentyl, 2-pentyl, 3-pentyl, isopentyl,
neopentyl, hexyl, 2-hexyl, 3-hexyl, and 3-methylpentyl. "Lower alkyl" refers to
alkyl groups having 1 to 6 carbons.
        "Haloalkyl" includes straight and branched carbon chains having the
indicated number of carbon atoms (e.g., 1 to 6 carbon atoms) substituted with
at least one halogen atom. In instances wherein the haloalkyl group contains
more than one halogen atom, the halogens may be the same (e.g.,
dichloromethyl) or different (e.g., chlorofluoromethyl). Examples of haloalkyl
groups include, but are not limited to, chloromethyl, dichloromethyl,
trichloromethyl, fluoromethyl, difluoromethyl, trifluoromethyl,
chlorofluoromethyl, 2-fluoroethyl, 2,2-difluoroethyl, 2,2,2-trifluoroethyl,
1,2-difluoroethyl, 2-chloroethyl, 2,2-dichloroethyl, 2,2,2-trichloroethyl,
1,2-dichloroethyl, pentachloroethyl, and pentafluoroethyl.
        "Alkenyl" refers to an unsaturated branched or straight-chain alkyl
group having the indicated number of carbon atoms (e.g., 2 to 8, or 2 to 6
carbon atoms) and at least one carbon-carbon double bond derived by the
removal of one molecule of hydrogen from adjacent carbon atoms of the
corresponding alkyl. The group may be in either the cis or trans configuration
(Z or E configuration) about the double bond(s). Alkenyl groups include, but
are not limited to, ethenyl, propenyl (e.g., prop-1-en-1-yl, prop-1 -en-2-yl, prop
2-en-1 -yl (allyl), prop-2-en-2-yl), and butenyl (e.g., but-1 -en-1 -yl, but-1 -en-2-yl,
2-methyl-prop-1 -en-1 -yl, but-2-en-1 -yl, but-2-en-1 -yl, but-2-en-2-yl, buta-1,3
dien-1 -yl, buta-1,3-dien-2-yl). "Lower alkenyl" refers to alkenyl groups having
2 to 6 carbons.
        "Alkynyl" refers to an unsaturated branched or straight-chain alkyl
group having the indicated number of carbon atoms (e.g., 2 to 8 or 2 to 6
carbon atoms) and at least one carbon-carbon triple bond derived by the
removal of two molecules of hydrogen from adjacent carbon atoms of the
corresponding alkyl. Alkynyl groups include, but are not limited to, ethynyl,
propynyl (e.g., prop-1 -yn-1 -yl, prop-2-yn-1 -yl) and butynyl (e.g., but-1 -yn-1 -yl,
but-1 -yn-3-yl, but-3-yn-1 -yl). "Lower alkynyl" refers to alkynyl groups having 2
                                           7

to 6 carbons.
        "Cycloalkyl" indicates a non-aromatic, fully saturated carbocyclic ring
having the indicated number of carbon atoms, for example, 3 to 10, or 3 to 8,
or 3 to 6 ring carbon atoms. Cycloalkyl groups may be monocyclic or
polycyclic (e.g., bicyclic, tricyclic). Examples of cycloalkyl groups include
cyclopropyl, cyclobutyl, cyclopentyl, cyclopentenyl and cyclohexyl, as well as
bridged and caged ring groups (e.g., norbornane, bicyclo[2.2.2]octane). In
addition, one ring of a polycyclic cycloalkyl group may be aromatic, provided
the polycyclic cycloalkyl group is bound to the parent structure via a non
aromatic carbon. For example, a 1,2,3,4-tetrahydronaphthalen-1 -yl group
(wherein the moiety is bound to the parent structure via a non-aromatic
carbon atom) is a cycloalkyl group, while 1,2,3,4-tetrahydronaphthalen-5-y
(wherein the moiety is bound to the parent structure via an aromatic carbon
atom) is not considered a cycloalkyl group. Examples of polycyclic cycloalkyl
groups consisting of a cycloalkyl group fused to an aromatic ring are
described below.
        "Cycloalkenyl" indicates a non-aromatic carbocyclic ring, containing the
indicated number of carbon atoms (e.g., 3 to 10, or 3 to 8, or 3 to 6 ring
carbon atoms) and at least one carbon-carbon double bond derived by the
removal of one molecule of hydrogen from adjacent carbon atoms of the
corresponding cycloalkyl. Cycloalkenyl groups may be monocyclic or
polycyclic (e.g., bicyclic, tricyclic). Examples of cycloalkenyl groups include
cyclopropenyl, cyclobutenyl, cyclopentenyl, cyclopentadienyl, and
cyclohexenyl, as well as bridged and caged ring groups (e.g.,
bicyclo[2.2.2]octene). In addition, one ring of a polycyclic cycloalkenyl group
may be aromatic, provided the polycyclic alkenyl group is bound to the parent
structure via a non-aromatic carbon atom. For example, inden-1 -yl (wherein
the moiety is bound to the parent structure via a non-aromatic carbon atom) is
considered a cycloalkenyl group, while inden-4-yl (wherein the moiety is
bound to the parent structure via an aromatic carbon atom) is not considered
a cycloalkenyl group. Examples of polycyclic cycloalkenyl groups consisting
of a cycloalkenyl group fused to an aromatic ring are described below.
        "Aryl" indicates an aromatic carbon ring having the indicated number of
carbon atoms, for example, 6 to 12 or 6 to 10 carbon atoms. Aryl groups may
                                           R

be monocyclic or polycyclic (e.g., bicyclic, tricyclic). In some instances, both
rings of a polycyclic aryl group are aromatic (e.g., naphthyl). In other
instances, polycyclic aryl groups may include a non-aromatic ring (e.g.,
cycloalkyl, cycloalkenyl, heterocycloalkyl, heterocycloalkenyl) fused to an
aromatic ring, provided the polycyclic aryl group is bound to the parent
structure via an atom in the aromatic ring. Thus, a 1,2,3,4
tetrahydronaphthalen-5-y group (wherein the moiety is bound to the parent
structure via an aromatic carbon atom) is considered an aryl group, while
1,2,3,4-tetrahydronaphthalen-1 -yl (wherein the moiety is bound to the parent
structure via a non-aromatic carbon atom) is not considered an aryl group.
Similarly, a 1,2,3,4-tetrahydroquinolin-8-yl group (wherein the moiety is bound
to the parent structure via an aromatic carbon atom) is considered an aryl
group, while 1,2,3,4-tetrahydroquinolin-1 -yl group (wherein the moiety is
bound to the parent structure via a non-aromatic nitrogen atom) is not
considered an aryl group. However, the term "aryl" does not encompass or
overlap with "heteroaryl", as defined herein, regardless of the point of
attachment (e.g., both quinolin-5-yl and quinolin-2-yl are heteroaryl groups).
In some instances, aryl is phenyl or naphthyl. In certain instances, aryl is
phenyl. Additional examples of aryl groups comprising an aromatic carbon
ring fused to a non-aromatic ring are described below.
        "Aralkyl" refers to a residue having the indicated number of carbon
atoms (e.g., 7 to 12 or 7 to 10 carbon atoms) in which an aryl moiety is
attached to the parent structure via an alkyl residue. The alkyl residue may
be straight-chain or branched. Examples include, benzyl, phenethyl and
1-phenylethyl.
        "Heteroaryl" indicates an aromatic ring containing the indicated number
of atoms (e.g., 5 to 12, or 5 to 10 membered heteroaryl) made up of one or
more heteroatoms (e.g., 1, 2, 3 or 4 heteroatoms) selected from N, 0 and S
and with the remaining ring atoms being carbon. Heteroaryl groups do not
contain adjacent S and 0 atoms. In some embodiments, the total number of S
and 0 atoms in the heteroaryl group is not more than 2. In some
embodiments, the total number of S and 0 atoms in heteroaryl group is not
more than 1. Unless otherwise indicated, heteroaryl groups may be bound to
the parent structure by a carbon or nitrogen atom, as valency permits. For
                                          9q

example, "pyridyl" includes 2-pyridyl, 3-pyridyl and 4-pyridyl groups, and
"pyrrolyl" includes 1-pyrrolyl, 2-pyrrolyl and 3-pyrrolyl groups. When nitrogen
is present in a heteroaryl ring, it may, where the nature of the adjacent atoms
and groups permits, exist in an oxidized state (i.e., N*-O-).    Additionally, when
sulfur is present in a heteroaryl ring, it may, where the nature of the adjacent
atoms and groups permits, exist in an oxidized state (i.e., S*-O- or S02).
Heteroaryl groups may be monocyclic or polycyclic (e.g., bicyclic, tricyclic).
        In some instances, a heteroaryl group is monocyclic. Examples
include pyrrole, pyrazole, imidazole, triazole (e.g., 1,2,3-triazole, 1,2,4
triazole, 1,2,4-triazole), tetrazole, furan, isoxazole, oxazole, oxadiazole (e.g.,
1,2,3-oxadiazole, 1,2,4-oxadiazole, 1,3,4-oxadiazole), thiophene, isothiazole,
thiazole, thiadiazole (e.g., 1,2,3-thiadiazole, 1,2,4-thiadiazole, 1,3,4
thiadiazole), pyridine, pyridazine, pyrimidine, pyrazine, triazine (e.g., 1,2,4
triazine, 1,3,5-triazine) and tetrazine.
        In some instances, both rings of a polycyclic heteroaryl group are
aromatic. Examples include indole, isoindole, indazole, benzoimidazole,
benzotriazole, benzofuran, benzoxazole, benzoisoxazole, benzoxadiazole,
benzothiophene, benzothiazole, benzoisothiazole, benzothiadiazole, 1H
pyrrolo[2,3-b]pyridine, 1H-pyrazolo[3,4-b]pyridine, 3H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyridine,
3H-[1,2,3]triazolo[4,5-b]pyridine, 1H-pyrrolo[3,2-b]pyridine, 1H-pyrazolo[4,3
b]pyridine, 1H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyridine, 1H-[1,2,3]triazolo[4,5-b]pyridine, 1H
pyrrolo[2,3-c]pyridine, 1H-pyrazolo[3,4-c]pyridine, 3H-imidazo[4,5-c]pyridine,
3H-[1,2,3]triazolo[4,5-c]pyridine, 1H-pyrrolo[3,2-c]pyridine, 1H-pyrazolo[4,3
c]pyridine, 1H-imidazo[4,5-c]pyridine, 1H-[1,2,3]triazolo[4,5-c]pyridine,
furo[2,3-b]pyridine, oxazolo[5,4-b]pyridine, isoxazolo[5,4-b]pyridine,
[1,2,3]oxadiazolo[5,4-b]pyridine, furo[3,2-b]pyridine, oxazolo[4,5-b]pyridine,
isoxazolo[4,5-b]pyridine, [1,2,3]oxadiazolo[4,5-b]pyridine, furo[2,3-c]pyridine,
oxazolo[5,4-c]pyridine, isoxazolo[5,4-c]pyridine, [1,2,3]oxadiazolo[5,4
c]pyridine, furo[3,2-c]pyridine, oxazolo[4,5-c]pyridine, isoxazolo[4,5-c]pyridine,
[1,2,3]oxadiazolo[4,5-c]pyridine, thieno[2,3-b]pyridine, thiazolo[5,4-b]pyridine,
isothiazolo[5,4-b]pyridine, [1,2,3]thiadiazolo[5,4-b]pyridine, thieno[3,2
b]pyridine, thiazolo[4,5-b]pyridine, isothiazolo[4,5-b]pyridine,
[1,2,3]thiadiazolo[4,5-b]pyridine, thieno[2,3-c]pyridine, thiazolo[5,4-c]pyridine,
isothiazolo[5,4-c]pyridine, [1,2,3]thiadiazolo[5,4-c]pyridine, thieno[3,2
                                           in

c]pyridine, thiazolo[4,5-c]pyridine, isothiazolo[4,5-c]pyridine,
[1,2,3]thiadiazolo[4,5-c]pyridine, quinoline, isoquinoline, cinnoline,
quinazoline, quinoxaline, phthalazine, naphthyridine (e.g., 1,8-naphthyridine,
1,7-naphthyridine, 1,6-naphthyridine, 1,5-naphthyridine, 2,7-naphthyridine,
2,6-naphthyridine), imidazo[1,2-a]pyridine, 1H-pyrazolo[3,4-d]thiazole, 1H
pyrazolo[4,3-d]thiazole and imidazo[2,1 -b]thiazole.
        In other instances, polycyclic heteroaryl groups may include a non
aromatic ring (e.g., cycloalkyl, cycloalkenyl, heterocycloalkyl,
heterocycloalkenyl) fused to a heteroaryl ring, provided the polycyclic
heteroaryl group is bound to the parent structure via an atom in the aromatic
ring. For example, a 4,5,6,7-tetrahydrobenzo[d]thiazol-2-yl group (wherein
the moiety is bound to the parent structure via an aromatic carbon atom) is
considered a heteroaryl group, while 4,5,6,7-tetrahydrobenzo[d]thiazo-5-yl
(wherein the moiety is bound to the parent structure via a non-aromatic
carbon atom) is not considered a heteroaryl group. Examples of polycyclic
heteroaryl groups consisting of a heteroaryl ring fused to a non-aromatic ring
are described below.
        "Heterocycloalkyl" indicates a non-aromatic, fully saturated ring having
the indicated number of atoms (e.g., 3 to 10, or 3 to 7, membered
heterocycloalkyl) made up of one or more heteroatoms (e.g., 1, 2, 3 or 4
heteroatoms) selected from N, 0 and S and with the remaining ring atoms
being carbon. Heterocycloalkyl groups may be monocyclic or polycyclic (e.g.,
bicyclic, tricyclic). Examples of heterocycloalkyl groups include oxiranyl,
aziridinyl, azetidinyl, pyrrolidinyl, imidazolidinyl, pyrazolidinyl, piperidinyl,
piperazinyl, morpholinyl and thiomorpholinyl. When nitrogen is present in a
heterocycloalkyl ring, it may, where the nature of the adjacent atoms and
groups permits, exist in an oxidized state (i.e., N*-O-).     Examples include
piperidinyl N-oxide and morpholinyl-N-oxide. Additionally, when sulfur is
present in a heterocycloalkyl ring, it may, where the nature of the adjacent
atoms and groups permits, exist in an oxidized state (i.e., S*-O- or -S02-).
Examples include thiomorpholine S-oxide and thiomorpholine S,S-dioxide. In
addition, one ring of a polycyclic heterocycloalkyl group may be aromatic
(e.g., aryl or heteroaryl), provided the polycyclic heterocycloalkyl group is
bound to the parent structure via a non-aromatic carbon or nitrogen atom. For
                                           11

example, a 1,2,3,4-tetrahydroquinolin-1 -yl group (wherein the moiety is bound
to the parent structure via a non-aromatic nitrogen atom) is considered a
heterocycloalkyl group, while 1,2,3,4-tetrahydroquinolin-8-y group (wherein
the moiety is bound to the parent structure via an aromatic carbon atom) is
not considered a heterocycloalkyl group. Examples of polycyclic
heterocycloalkyl groups consisting of a heterocycloalkyl group fused to an
aromatic ring are described below.
        "Heterocycloalkenyl" indicates a non-aromatic ring having the indicated
number of atoms (e.g., 3 to 10, or 3 to 7, membered heterocycloalkyl) made
up of one or more heteroatoms (e.g., 1, 2, 3 or 4 heteroatoms) selected from
N, 0 and S and with the remaining ring atoms being carbon, and at least one
double bond derived by the removal of one molecule of hydrogen from
adjacent carbon atoms, adjacent nitrogen atoms, or adjacent carbon and
nitrogen atoms of the corresponding heterocycloalkyl. Heterocycloalkenyl
groups may be monocyclic or polycyclic (e.g., bicyclic, tricyclic). When
nitrogen is present in a heterocycloalkenyl ring, it may, where the nature of
the adjacent atoms and groups permits, exist in an oxidized state (i.e., N*-O-).
Additionally, when sulfur is present in a heterocycloalkenyl ring, it may, where
the nature of the adjacent atoms and groups permits, exist in an oxidized
state (i.e., S*-O- or -S02-). Examples of heterocycloalkenyl groups include
dihydrofuranyl (e.g., 2,3-dihydrofuranyl, 2,5-dihydrofuranyl), dihydrothiophenyl
(e.g., 2,3-dihydrothiophenyl, 2,5-dihydrothiophenyl), dihydropyrrolyl (e.g., 2,3
dihydro-1 H-pyrrolyl, 2,5-dihydro-1 H-pyrrolyl), dihydroimidazolyl (e.g., 2,3
dihydro-1 H-imidazolyl, 4,5-dihydro-1 H-imidazolyl), pyranyl, dihydropyranyl
(e.g., 3,4-dihydro-2H-pyranyl, 3,6-dihydro-2H-pyranyl), tetrahydropyridinyl
(e.g., 1,2,3,4-tetrahydropyridinyl, 1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridinyl) and
dihydropyridine (e.g., 1,2-dihydropyridine, 1,4-dihydropyridine). In addition,
one ring of a polycyclic heterocycloalkenyl group may be aromatic (e.g., aryl
or heteroaryl), provided the polycyclic heterocycloalkenyl group is bound to
the parent structure via a non-aromatic carbon or nitrogen atom. For
example, a 1,2-dihydroquinolin-1 -yl group (wherein the moiety is bound to the
parent structure via a non-aromatic nitrogen atom) is considered a
heterocycloalkenyl group, while 1,2-dihydroquinolin-8-yl group (wherein the
moiety is bound to the parent structure via an aromatic carbon atom) is not
                                         12

considered a heterocycloalkenyl group. Examples of polycyclic
heterocycloalkenyl groups consisting of a heterocycloalkenyl group fused to
an aromatic ring are described below.
        Examples of polycyclic rings consisting of an aromatic ring (e.g., aryl or
heteroaryl) fused to a non-aromatic ring (e.g., cycloalkyl, cycloalkenyl,
heterocycloalkyl, heterocycloalkenyl) include indenyl, 2,3-dihydro-1 H-indenyl,
1,2,3,4-tetrahydronaphthalenyl, benzo[1,3]dioxolyl, tetrahydroquinolinyl,
2,3-dihydrobenzo[1,4]dioxinyl, indolinyl, isoindolinyl, 2,3-dihydro-1 H-indazolyl,
2,3-dihydro-1 H-benzo[d]imidazolyl, 2,3-dihydrobenzofuranyl,
1,3-dihydroisobenzofuranyl, 1,3-dihydrobenzo[c]isoxazolyl,
2,3-dihydrobenzo[d]isoxazolyl, 2,3-dihydrobenzo[d]oxazolyl,
2,3-dihydrobenzo[b]thiophenyl, 1,3-dihydrobenzo[c]thiophenyl,
1,3-dihydrobenzo[c]isothiazolyl, 2,3-dihydrobenzo[d]isothiazolyl,
2,3-dihydrobenzo[d]thiazolyl, 5,6-dihydro-4H-cyclopenta[d]thiazolyl,
4,5,6,7-tetrahydrobenzo[d]thiazoly, 5,6-dihydro-4H-pyrrolo[3,4-d]thiazolyl ,
4,5,6,7-tetrahydrothiazolo[5,4-c]pyridinyl, indolin-2-one, indolin-3-one,
isoindolin-1 -one, 1,2-dihydroindazol-3-one, 1H-benzo[d]imidazol-2(3H)-one,
benzofuran-2(3H)-one, benzofuran-3(2H)-one, isobenzofuran-1 (3H)-one,
benzo[c]isoxazol-3(1 H)-one, benzo[d]isoxazol-3(2H)-one, benzo[d]oxazol
2(3H)-one, benzo[b]thiophen-2(3H)-one, benzo[b]thiophen-3(2H)-one,
benzo[c]thiophen-1 (3H)-one, benzo[c]isothiazol-3(1 H)-one,
benzo[d]isothiazol-3(2H)-one, benzo[d]thiazol-2(3H)-one, 4,5
dihydropyrrolo[3,4-d]thiazol-6-one, 1,2-dihydropyrazolo[3,4-d]thiazol-3-one,
quinolin-4(3H)-one, quinazolin-4(3H)-one, quinazoline-2,4(1 H,3H)-dione,
quinoxalin-2(1 H)-one, quinoxaline-2,3(1 H,4H)-dione, cinnolin-4(3H)-one,
pyridin-2(1 H)-one, pyrimidin-2(1 H)-one, pyrimidin-4(3H)-one, pyridazin-3(2H)
one, 1H-pyrrolo[3,2-b]pyridin-2(3H)-one, 1H-pyrrolo[3,2-c]pyridin-2(3H)-one,
1H-pyrrolo[2,3-c]pyridin-2(3H)-one, 1H-pyrrolo[2,3-b]pyridin-2(3H)-one, 1,2
dihydropyrazolo[3,4-d]thiazol-3-one and 4,5-dihydropyrrolo[3,4-d]thiazol-6
one. As discussed herein, whether each ring is considered an aryl,
heteroaryl, cycloalkyl, cycloalkenyl, heterocycloalkyl or heterocycloalkenyl
group is determined by the atom through which the moiety is bound to the
parent structure.
        "Halogen" or "halo" refers to fluorine, chlorine, bromine or iodine.
                                         13

        "Isomers" are different compounds that have the same molecular
formula. "Stereoisomers" are isomers that differ only in the way the atoms are
arranged in space. "Enantiomers" are stereoisomers that are non
superimposable mirror images of each other. A 1:1 mixture of a pair of
enantiomers is a "racemic" mixture. The symbol "(±)" may be used to
designate a racemic mixture where appropriate. "Diastereoisomers" are
stereoisomers that have at least two asymmetric atoms, but which are not
mirror-images of each other. A "meso compound" or "meso isomer" is a non
optically active member of a set of stereoisomers. Meso isomers contain two
or more stereocenters but are not chiral (i.e., a plane of symmetry exists
within the molecule). The absolute stereochemistry is specified according to
the Cahn-Ingold-Prelog R-S system. When a compound is a pure enantiomer
the stereochemistry at each chiral carbon can be specified by either R or S.
Resolved compounds whose absolute configuration is unknown can be
designated (+) or (-) depending on the direction (dextro- or levorotatory) which
they rotate plane polarized light at the wavelength of the sodium D line.
Certain of the compounds disclosed and/or described herein contain one or
more asymmetric centers and can thus give rise to enantiomers,
diastereomers, meso isomers and other stereoisomeric forms. Unless
otherwise indicated, compounds disclosed and/or described herein include all
such possible enantiomers, diastereomers, meso isomers and other
stereoisomeric forms, including racemic mixtures, optically pure forms and
intermediate mixtures. Enantiomers, diastereomers, meso isomers and other
stereoisomeric forms can be prepared using chiral synthons or chiral
reagents, or resolved using conventional techniques. Unless specified
otherwise, when the compounds disclosed and/or described herein contain
olefinic double bonds or other centers of geometric asymmetry, it is intended
that the compounds include both E and Z isomers.
        The stereochemistry depicted in the structures of cyclic meso
compounds is not absolute; rather the stereochemistry is intended to indicate
the positioning of the substituents relative to one another, e.g., cis or trans.
For example,
                                         14

                                              F       N
                                      NN
                         NC
is intended to designate a compound wherein the fluorine and pyridyl
substituents on the cyclobutyl ring are in a cis configuration to one another,
while
                                              F       N
                                               NF
                         NC
is intended to designate a compound wherein the fluorine and pyridyl
substituents on the cyclobutyl ring are in a trans configuration to one another.
        When a compound can exist as one or more meso isomers, all
possible meso isomers are intended to be included. For example, the
compound 3-[6-({[3-fluoro-1 -(3-fluoro(2
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)pyridazin-3-yl]benzenecarbonitrile is
intended to include both cis and trans meso isomers:
                          F       N                              F       N
                  N= N                                               7F
                              NH     F
                                                         N=N      N
                                                                  N
       NC                              and, NC
and mixtures thereof. Unless otherwise indicated, compounds disclosed
and/or described herein include all possible meso isomers and mixtures
thereof.
        "Tautomers" are structurally distinct isomers that interconvert by
tautomerization. Tautomerization is a form of isomerization and includes
prototropic or proton-shift tautomerization, which is considered a subset of
acid-base chemistry. Prototropic tautomerization or proton-shift
tautomerization involves the migration of a proton accompanied by changes in
                                        15

bond order, often the interchange of a single bond with an adjacent double
bond. Where tautomerization is possible (e.g. in solution), a chemical
equilibrium of tautomers can be reached. An example of tautomerization is
keto-enol tautomerization. A specific example of keto-enol tautomerization is
the interconverision of pentane-2,4-dione and 4-hydroxypent-3-en-2-one
tautomers. Another example of tautomerization is phenol-keto
tautomerization. A specific example of phenol-keto tautomerization is the
interconversion of pyridin-4-ol and pyridin-4(1 H)-one tautomers. When the
compounds described herein contain moieties capable of tautomerization, and
unless specified otherwise, it is intended that the compounds include all
possible tautomers.
         "Protecting group" has the meaning conventionally associated with it in
organic synthesis, i.e., a group that selectively blocks one or more reactive
sites in a multifunctional compound such that a chemical reaction can be
carried out selectively on another unprotected reactive site, and such that the
group can readily be removed after the selective reaction is complete. A
variety of protecting groups are disclosed, for example, in T.H. Greene and P.
G. M. Wuts, Protective Groups in Organic Synthesis, Third Edition, John
Wiley & Sons, New York (1999). For example, a "hydroxy protected form"
contains at least one hydroxy group protected with a hydroxy protecting
group. Likewise, amines and other reactive groups may similarly be
protected.
        The term "pharmaceutically acceptable salt" refers to salts that retain
the biological effectiveness and properties of the compounds described herein
and are not biologically or otherwise undesirable. Examples of
pharmaceutically acceptable salts can be found in Berge et al.,
Pharmaceutical Salts, J. Pharmaceutical Sciences, January 1977, 66(1), 1-19.
In many cases, the compounds described herein are capable of forming acid
and/or base salts by virtue of the presence of amino and/or carboxyl groups or
groups similar thereto. Pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salts can be
formed with inorganic acids and organic acids. Inorganic acids from which
salts can be derived include, for example, hydrochloric acid, hydrobromic
acid, sulfuric acid, nitric acid, and phosphoric acid. Organic acids from which
salts can be derived include, for example, acetic acid, propionic acid, glycolic
                                          1R

acid, pyruvic acid, lactic acid, oxalic acid, malic acid, maleic acid, malonic
acid, succinic acid, fumaric acid, tartaric acid, citric acid, benzoic acid,
cinnamic acid, mandelic acid, methanesulfonic acid, ethanesulfonic acid, 2
hydroxyethylsulfonic acid, p-toluenesulfonic acid, stearic acid and salicylic
acid. Pharmaceutically acceptable base addition salts can be formed with
inorganic and organic bases. Inorganic bases from which salts can be derived
include, for example, sodium, potassium, lithium, ammonium, calcium,
magnesium, iron, zinc, copper, manganese, and aluminum. Organic bases
from which salts can be derived include, for example, primary, secondary, and
tertiary amines; substituted amines including naturally occurring substituted
amines; cyclic amines; and basic ion exchange resins. Examples of organic
bases include isopropylamine, trimethylamine, diethylamine, triethylamine,
tripropylamine, and ethanolamine. In some embodiments, the
pharmaceutically acceptable base addition salt is chosen from ammonium,
potassium, sodium, calcium, and magnesium salts.
        If the compound described herein is obtained as an acid addition salt,
the free base can be obtained by basifying a solution of the acid salt.
Conversely, if the compound is a free base, an addition salt, particularly a
pharmaceutically acceptable addition salt, may be produced by dissolving the
free base in a suitable organic solvent and treating the solution with an acid,
in accordance with conventional procedures for preparing acid addition salts
from base compounds (see, e.g., Berge et al., Pharmaceutical Salts, J.
Pharmaceutical Sciences, January 1977, 66(1), 1-19). Those skilled in the art
will recognize various synthetic methodologies that may be used to prepare
pharmaceutically acceptable addition salts.
        A "solvate" is formed by the interaction of a solvent and a compound.
Suitable solvents include, for example, water and alcohols (e.g., ethanol).
Solvates include hydrates having any ratio of compound to water, such as
monohydrates, dihydrates and hemi-hydrates.
        A "chelate" is formed by the coordination of a compound to a metal ion
at two (or more) points. The term "compound" is intended to include chelates
of compounds. Similarly, "salts" includes chelates of salts and "solvates"
includes chelates of solvates.
        A "non-covalent complex" is formed by the interaction of a compound
                                          17

and another molecule wherein a covalent bond is not formed between the
compound and the molecule. For example, complexation can occur through
van der Waals interactions, hydrogen bonding, and electrostatic interactions
(also called ionic bonding). Such non-covalent complexes are included in the
term "compound".
        The term "prodrug" refers to a substance administered in an inactive or
less active form that is then transformed (e.g., by metabolic processing of the
prodrug in the body) into an active compound. The rationale behind
administering a prodrug is to optimize absorption, distribution, metabolism,
and/or excretion of the drug. Prodrugs may be obtained by making a
derivative of an active compound (e.g., a compound of Formula I or another
compound disclosed and/or described herein) that will undergo a
transformation under the conditions of use (e.g., within the body) to form the
active compound. The transformation of the prodrug to the active compound
may proceed spontaneously (e.g., by way of a hydrolysis reaction) or it can be
catalyzed or induced by another agent (e.g., an enzyme, light, acid or base,
and/or temperature). The agent may be endogenous to the conditions of use
(e.g., an enzyme present in the cells to which the prodrug is administered, or
the acidic conditions of the stomach) or the agent may be supplied
exogenously. Prodrugs can be obtained by converting one or more functional
groups in the active compound into another functional group, which is then
converted back to the original functional group when administered to the
body. For example, a hydroxyl functional group can be converted to a
sulfonate, phosphate, ester or carbonate group, which in turn can be
hydrolyzed in vivo back to the hydroxyl group. Similarly, an amino functional
group can be converted, for example, into an amide, carbamate, imine, urea,
phosphenyl, phosphoryl or sulfenyl functional group, which can be hydrolyzed
in vivo back to the amino group. A carboxyl functional group can be
converted, for example, into an ester (including silyl esters and thioesters),
amide or hydrazide functional group, which can be hydrolyzed in vivo back to
the carboxyl group. Examples of prodrugs include, but are not limited to,
phosphate, acetate, formate and benzoate derivatives of functional groups
(such as alcohol or amine groups) present in the compounds of Formula I and
other compounds disclosed and/or described herein.
                                        18

        The compounds disclosed and/or described herein can be enriched
isotopic forms, e.g., enriched in the content of 2 H, 3H, 1C, 1C and/or 4C. In
one embodiment, the compound contains at least one deuterium atom. Such
deuterated forms can be made, for example, by the procedure described in
U.S. Patent Nos. 5,846,514 and 6,334,997. Such deuterated compounds
may improve the efficacy and increase the duration of action of compounds
disclosed and/or described herein. Deuterium substituted compounds can be
synthesized using various methods, such as those described in: Dean, D.,
Recent Advances in the Synthesis and Applications of Radiolabeled
Compounds for Drug Discovery and Development, Curr. Pharm. Des., 2000;
6(10); Kabalka, G. et al., The Synthesis of Radiolabeled Compounds via
Organometallic Intermediates, Tetrahedron, 1989, 45(21), 6601-21; and
Evans, E., Synthesis of radiolabeled compounds, J. Radioanal. Chem., 1981,
64(1-2), 9-32.
        The term "pharmaceutically acceptable carrier" or "pharmaceutically
acceptable excipient" includes any and all solvents, dispersion media,
coatings, antibacterial and antifungal agents, isotonic and absorption delaying
agents and the like. The use of such media and agents for pharmaceutically
active substances is well known in the art. Except insofar as any conventional
media or agent is incompatible with the active ingredient, its use in
pharmaceutical compositions is contemplated. Supplementary active
ingredients can also be incorporated into the pharmaceutical compositions.
        The term "active agent" is used to indicate a compound that has
biological activity. In some embodiments, an "active agent" is a compound
having therapeutic utility. In some embodiments, the compound enhances at
least one aspect of skeletal muscle function or activity, such as power output,
skeletal muscle force, skeletal muscle endurance, oxygen consumption,
efficiency, and/or calcium sensitivity. In some embodiments, an active agent
is a compound of Formula I, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
        The terms "patient" and "subject" refer to an animal, such as a mammal
bird or fish. In some embodiments, the patient or subject is a mammal.
Mammals include, for example, mice, rats, dogs, cats, pigs, sheep, horses,
cows and humans. In some embodiments, the patient or subject is a human,
for example a human that has been or will be the object of treatment,
                                         19

observation or experiment. The compounds, compositions and methods
described herein can be useful in both human therapy and veterinary
applications.
        As used herein, "skeletal muscle" includes skeletal muscle tissue as
well as components thereof, such as skeletal muscle fibers, the myofibrils
comprising the skeletal muscle fibers, the skeletal sarcomere which
comprises the myofibrils, and the various components of the skeletal
sarcomere described herein, including skeletal myosin, actin, tropomyosin,
troponin C, troponin I, troponin T and fragments and isoforms thereof. In
some embodiments, "skeletal muscle" includes fast skeletal muscle tissue as
well as components thereof, such as fast skeletal muscle fibers, the myofibrils
comprising the fast skeletal muscle fibers, the fast skeletal sarcomere which
comprises the myofibrils, and the various components of the fast skeletal
sarcomere described herein, including fast keletal myosin, actin, tropomyosin,
troponin C, troponin I, troponin T and fragments and isoforms thereof.
Skeletal muscle does not include cardiac muscle or a combination of
sarcomeric components that occurs in such combination in its entirety in
cardiac muscle.
        As used herein, the term "therapeutic" refers to the ability to modulate
the contractility of fast skeletal muscle. As used herein, "modulation" (and
related terms, such as "modulate", "modulated", "modulating") refers to a
change in function or efficiency of one or more components of the fast skeletal
muscle sarcomere, including myosin, actin, tropomyosin, troponin C, troponin
I, and troponin T from fast skeletal muscle, including fragments and isoforms
thereof, as a direct or indirect response to the presence of a compound
described herein, relative to the activity of the fast skeletal sarcomere in the
absence of the compound. The change may be an increase in activity
(potentiation) or a decrease in activity (inhibition), and may be due to the
direct interaction of the compound with the sarcomere, or due to the
interaction of the compound with one or more other factors that in turn affect
the sarcomere or one or more of its components. In some embodiments,
modulation is a potentiation of function or efficiency of one or more
components of the fast skeletal muscle sarcomere, including myosin, actin,
tropomyosin, troponin C, troponin I, and troponin T from fast skeletal muscle,
                                          ?n

including fragments and isoforms thereof. Modulation may be mediated by
any mechanism and at any physiological level, for example, through
sensitization of the fast skeletal sarcomere to contraction at lower Ca2
concentrations. As used herein, "efficiency" or "muscle efficiency" means the
ratio of mechanical work output to the total metabolic cost.
        The term "therapeutically effective amount" or "effective amount" refers
to that amount of a compound disclosed and/or described herein that is
sufficient to affect treatment, as defined herein, when administered to a
patient in need of such treatment. A therapeutically effective amount of a
compound may be an amount sufficient to treat a disease responsive to
modulation of fast skeletal muscle. The therapeutically effective amount will
vary depending upon, for example, the subject and disease condition being
treated, the weight and age of the subject, the severity of the disease
condition, the particular compound, the dosing regimen to be followed, timing
of administration, the manner of administration, all of which can readily be
determined by one of ordinary skill in the art. The therapeutically effective
amount may be ascertained experimentally, for example by assaying blood
concentration of the chemical entity, or theoretically, by calculating
bioavailability.
        "Treatment" (and related terms, such as "treat", "treated", "treating")
includes one or more of: preventing a disease or disorder (i.e., causing the
clinical symptoms of the disease or disorder not to develop); inhibiting a
disease or disorder; slowing or arresting the development of clinical
symptoms of a disease or disorder; and/or relieving a disease or disorder (i.e.,
causing relief from or regression of clinical symptoms). The term
encompasses situations where the disease or disorder is already being
experienced by a patient, as well as situations where the disease or disorder
is not currently being experienced but is expected to arise. The term covers
both complete and partial reduction or prevention of the condition or disorder,
and complete or partial reduction of clinical symptoms of a disease or
disorder. Thus, compounds described and/or disclosed herein may prevent
an existing disease or disorder from worsening, assist in the management of
the disease or disorder, or reduce or eliminate the disease or disorder. When
used in a prophylactic manner, the compounds disclosed and/or described
                                         21

herein may prevent a disease or disorder from developing or lessen the extent
of a disease or disorder that may develop.
        As used herein, "power output" of a muscle means work/cycle time and
may be scaled up from PoLo/cycle time units based on the properties of the
muscle. Power output may be modulated by changing, for example,
activating parameters during cyclical length changes, including timing of
activation (phase of activation) and the period of activation (duty cycle.)
        "ATPase" refers to an enzyme that hydrolyzes ATP. ATPases include
proteins comprising molecular motors such as the myosins.
        As used herein, "selective binding" or "selectively binding" refers to
preferential binding to a target protein in one type of muscle or muscle fiber as
opposed to other types. For example, a compound selectively binds to fast
skeletal troponin C if the compound preferentially binds troponin C in the
troponin complex of a fast skeletal muscle fiber or sarcomere in comparison
with troponin C in the troponin complex of a slow muscle fiber or sarcomere or
with troponin C in the troponin complex of a cardiac sarcomere.
        Provided is a compound of Formula I:
                      X          N
                 R                     N
                                                 (CR8 R9 )m       R
                            R3               N
                                 RR
                                                            5  R6
                                      Formula I
or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, wherein:
        R1 is selected from hydrogen, halogen, CN, C1_ alkyl, C1_6 haloalkyl,
C(O)ORa, C(O)NRbRc, ORa, NRbRc, C6-10 aryl and 5-10 membered heteroaryl;
        R2 is selected from C3-8 cycloalkyl, C3-8 cycloalkenyl, 3-8 membered
heterocycloalkyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkenyl, C610 aryl, 5-10
membered heteroaryl and NRbRc, wherein each of the C3-8 cycloalkyl, C3-8
cycloalkenyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl, 3-8 membered
heterocycloalkenyl, C610 aryl and 5-10 membered heteroaryl groups is
optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 substituents selected from halogen,
                                          22

CN, oxo, (CH 2)nORa, (CH 2)nOC(O)Ra, (CH 2)nOC(O)ORa, (CH 2)nOC(O)NRbRc,
(CH 2)nNR bRc, (CH 2)nN RdC(O)Ra, (CH 2)nN RdC(O)ORa, (CH 2)nN RdC(O)NRbRc,
(CH 2)nN RdC(O)C(O)NRbRc, (CH 2)nN RdC(S)Ra, (CH 2)nN RdC(S)ORa
(CH 2 )nN RdC(S)NRbRc, (CH 2 )nN RdC(NRe)NRbRc, (CH 2 )nNRdS(O)Ra
(CH 2 )nN RdSO 2 Ra, (CH 2 )nNRdSO 2 N RbRc, (CH 2 )nC(O)Ra, (CH 2 )nC(O)ORa
(CH2)nC(O)NRbRc, (CH 2)nC(S)Ra, (CH 2)nC(S)ORa, (CH 2)nC(S)NRbRc,
(CH 2 )nC(NRe)N RRc, (CH 2 )nSRa, (CH 2 )nS(O)Ra, (CH 2 )nSO 2 Ra
(CH2 )nSO 2 NRbRc, C1-6 alkyl, C1-6 haloalkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, (CH 2 )nC3
8 cycloalkyl,  (CH 2)n3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl, (CH 2 )nC6 _10 aryl and
(CH 2)n5-1 0 membered heteroaryl, wherein each of the C1_6 alkyl, C2-6 alkenyl,
C2-6 alkynyl, (CH 2 )nC3 -8 cycloalkyl, (CH 2)n3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl,
(CH 2 )nC6 _10 aryl and (CH 2)n5-10 membered heteroaryl groups is optionally
substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 Rf substituents;
        R3 is selected from hydrogen, halogen, CN, C1_6 alkyl, C1_6 haloalkyl,
C(O)ORa, C(O)NRbRc, ORa, NRbRc, C6-10 aryl and 5-10 membered heteroaryl;
        R4 is selected from hydrogen, C1-6 alkyl, C1-6 haloalkyl, C(O)Ra
C(O)ORa, C(O)NRbRc and SO 2Ra;
        R5 and R6 are each independently selected from hydrogen, halogen,
C1-6 alkyl and C1-6 haloalkyl;
        or alternatively, R5 and R6 together with the carbon atom to which they
are bound form C3-8 cycloalkyl, C3-8 cycloalkenyl, 3-8 membered
heterocycloalkyl or 3-8 membered heterocycloalkenyl, each optionally
substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 substituents selected from halogen, CN, oxo,
ORa, OC(O)Ra, OC(O)ORa, NRbRc, C(O)Ra, C(O)ORa, C(O)NRRc, S(O)Ra
SO 2 Ra, SO 2 NRRc, C1-6 alkyl and C1-6 haloalkyl;
        R7 is selected from C3-8 cycloalkyl, C3-8 cycloalkenyl, 3-8 membered
heterocycloalkyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkenyl, C6-10 aryl and 5-10
membered heteroaryl, each optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5
substituents selected from halogen, CN, oxo, ORa, OC(O)Ra, OC(O)ORa,
OC(O)NRbRc, NRbRc, NRdC(O)Ra, NRdC(O)ORa, NRdC(O)NRbRc,
NRdC(O)C(O)NRbRc, NRdC(S)Ra, NRdC(S)ORa, NRdC(S)NRbRc,
NRdC(NRe)NRbRc, NRdS(O)Ra, NRdSO 2Ra, NRdSO 2NRbRc, C(O)Ra, C(O)ORa,
                                            ?2q

C(O)NRbRc, C(S)Ra, C(S)ORa, C(S)NRbRc, C(NRe)NRRc, SRa, S(O)Ra
SO 2 Ra, SO 2 NR Rc, C1-6 alkyl, C1-6 haloalkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, C3-8
cycloalkyl, C3-8 cycloalkenyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl, 3-8 membered
heterocycloalkenyl, C610 aryl, C7_11 aralkyl, and 5-10 membered heteroaryl,
wherein each of the C1_6 alkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, C3-8 cycloalkyl, C3-8
cycloalkenyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl, 3-8 membered
heterocycloalkenyl, C610 aryl, C7_11 aralkyl and 5-10 membered heteroaryl
groups is optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 Rf substituents;
         R8 and R9 , at each occurrence, are each independently selected from
hydrogen, halogen and C1-6 alkyl;
         X is selected from a bond, -(CH 2)p-, -(CH2)pC(O)(CH2)q-,
(CH2)pO(CH2)q-, -(CH2)pS(CH2)q-, -(CH 2 )pNRd(CH 2 )q-, -(CH2)pC(O)O(CH2)q-,
-(CH2)pOC(O)(CH2)q-, -(CH 2 )pN RdC(O)(CH 2)q-, -(CH 2)pC(O)NRd(CH 2)q-,
-(CH 2 )pN RdC(O)NRd(CH 2 )q-, -(CH 2 )pN RdSO 2 (CH 2 )q-, and
-(CH 2 )pSO 2 NRd(CH 2 )q-;
         or alternatively, X, R2 and R3 , together with the carbon atoms to which
they are bound, form a 5-6 membered ring optionally containing one or more
heteroatoms selected from oxygen nitrogen and sulfur, and optionally
containing one or more double bonds, and optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4
or 5 Rf substituents;
         Ra, at each occurrence, is independently selected from hydrogen, C1-6
alkyl, C1-6 haloalkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, C3-8 cycloalkyl, C3-8 cycloalkenyl,
3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkenyl, C6-10 aryl,
C7-11 aralkyl and 5-10 membered heteroaryl, wherein each of the C1-6 alkyl,
C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, C3-8 cycloalkyl, C3-8 cycloalkenyl, 3-8 membered
heterocycloalkyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkenyl, C6-10 aryl, C7-11 aralkyl
and 5-10 membered heteroaryl groups is optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4
or 5 Rf substituents;
         Rb and Rc, at each occurrence, are each independently selected from
hydrogen, C1-6 alkyl, C1-6 haloalkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, C3-8 cycloalkyl,
C3-8 cycloalkenyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl, 3-8 membered
heterocycloalkenyl, C6-10 aryl, C7-11 aralkyl, 5-10 membered heteroaryl,
                                            24

C(O)R9, C(O)OR9, C(O)NR'R and SO 2 R9, wherein each of the            C1_6 alkyl, C2-6
alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, C3-8 cycloalkyl, C3-8 cycloalkenyl, 3-8 membered
heterocycloalkyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkenyl, C61o aryl, C7_11 aralkyl
and 5-10 membered heteroaryl groups is optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4
or 5 Rf substituents;
         Rd, at each occurrence, is independently selected from hydrogen and
        C1-6 alkyl;
         Re, at each occurrence, is independently selected from hydrogen, CN,
OH, C1-6 alkoxy, C1-6 alkyl and C1-6 haloalkyl;
         Rf, at each occurrence, is independently selected from halogen, CN,
ORh, OC(O)Rh, OC(O)ORh, OC(O)NR'R, NR'R, NRdC(O)Rh, NRdC(O)ORh,
NRdC(O)NR'RI, NRdC(O)C(O)NR'RI, NRdC(S)Rh, NRdC(S)ORh, NRdC(S)NR'RI,
NRdC(NRe)NR'Ri, NRdS(O)Rh, NRdSO 2 Rh, NRdSO 2NR'RI, C(O)Rh, C(O)ORh,
C(O)NR'R, C(S)Rh, C(S)ORh, C(S)NR'Ri, C(NRe)NR'RI, SRh, S(O)Rh, SO 2 Rh
SO 2NR'Rj, C1-6 alkyl, C1-6 haloalkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, C3-8 cycloalkyl,
C3-8  cycloalkenyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl, 3-8 membered
heterocycloalkenyl, C6-10 aryl, C7-11 aralkyl and 5-10 membered heteroaryl,
wherein each of the C1-6 alkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, C3-8 cycloalkyl, C3-8
cycloalkenyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl, 3-8 membered
heterocycloalkenyl, C6-10 aryl, C7-11 aralkyl and 5-10 membered heteroaryl
groups is optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 Rk substituents;
        or two Rf substituents bound to a single carbon atom, together with the
carbon atom to which they are both bound, form a group selected from
carbonyl, C3-8 cycloalkyl and 3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl;
         R9, at each occurrence, is independently selected from C1-6 alkyl, C1-6
haloalkyl, phenyl, naphthyl, and C7-11 aralkyl, each optionally substituted with
1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 substituents selected from halogen, CN, OH, C1-6 alkoxy, C1-6
alkyl and C1-6 haloalkyl;
         Rh, at each occurrence, is independently selected from hydrogen, 01-6
alkyl, C1-6 haloalkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, C3-8 cycloalkyl, C3-8 cycloalkenyl,
3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkenyl, C6-10 aryl,
C7-11  aralkyl and 5-10 membered heteroaryl, wherein each of the C1-6 alkyl,
                                          25~

C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, C3-8 cycloalkyl, C3-8 cycloalkenyl, 3-8 membered
heterocycloalkyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkenyl, C610 aryl, C7_11 aralkyl
and 5-10 membered heteroaryl groups is optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4
or 5 Rk substituents;
        R' and R', at each occurrence, are each independently selected from
hydrogen, C1-6 alkyl, C1-6 haloalkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, C3-8 cycloalkyl,
C3-8 cycloalkenyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl, 3-8 membered
heterocycloalkenyl, C610 aryl, C7_11 aralkyl, 5-10 membered heteroaryl,
C(O)R9, and C(O)OR9, wherein each of the         C1-6 alkyl, C1-6 haloalkyl, C2-6
alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, C3-8 cycloalkyl, C3-8 cycloalkenyl, 3-8 membered
heterocycloalkyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkenyl, C6-10 aryl, C7-11 aralkyl
and 5-10 membered heteroaryl groups is optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4
or 5 substituents selected from halogen, CN, OH, C1-6 alkoxy, C1-6 alkyl and
C1-6 haloalkyl;
        Rk, at each occurrence, is independently selected from halogen, CN,
OH, C1-6 alkoxy, NH2 , NH(C 1 _6 alkyl), N(   _ alkyl)2, NHC(O)C 1 _6 alkyl,
                                             16
NHC(O)C7_11 aralkyl, NHC(O)OC 1 _6 alkyl, NHC(O)OC7_1 1 aralkyl, OC(O)C1-6
alkyl, OC(O)C711 aralkyl, OC(O)OC1-6 alkyl, OC(O)OC711 aralkyl, C(O)C1-6
alkyl, C(O)C711 aralkyl, C(O)OC1-6 alkyl, C(O)OC711 aralkyl, C1-6 alkyl, C1-6
haloalkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, and C2-6 alkynyl, wherein each C1-6 alkyl, C2-6 alkenyl,
C2-6 alkynyl, and C7-11 aralkyl substituent is optionally substituted with 1, 2 or 3
substituents selected from OH, C1-6 alkoxy, NH2, NH(C 1 _6 alkyl), N(C1 _6 alkyl) 2 ,
NHC(O)C 1 _6 alkyl, NHC(O)C7_1 1 aralkyl, NHC(O)OC 1 _6 alkyl, and NHC(O)OC 7
11 aralkyl;
        or two Rk substituents bound to a single carbon atom, together with the
carbon atom to which they are both bound, form a carbonyl group;
        m is 0, 1 or 2;
        n, at each occurrence, independently is 0, 1 or 2;
        p is 0, 1 or 2; and
        q is 0, 1 or 2.
        In some embodiments of compounds of Formula I, when m is 1 and R5
                                          PR

and R6 are each methyl, then R7 is not piperidinyl or morpholino. In some
embodiments of compounds of Formula I, when m is 1, X is a bond and R2 is
optionally substituted phenyl, then R7 is not piperidinyl or morpholino. In
some embodiments, the compound of Formula I is not 6-(4-chlorophenyl)-5
methyl-N-(2-methyl-2-(piperidin-1-yl)propyl)pyridazin-3-amine, N-(2-methyl-2
(piperidin-1 -yl)propyl)-6-phenyl-5-propylpyridazin-3-amine or N-(2-methyl-2
morpholinopropyl)-6-phenyl-5-propylpyridazin-3-amine.
        In some embodiments of compounds of Formula I, m is 0, i.e., a
compound of Formula II, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof:
                         R2 - X           N     N       R5     R6
                              R3                      Nx          R7
                                                      N
                                          R1          R4
                                        Formula II
wherein R1, R2 , R3 , R4 , R5 , R6 , R7 and X are as defined herein.
        In some embodiments of compounds of Formula I, m is 1, i.e., a
compound of Formula III, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof:
                     R2     X          N N           R8     R9
                           R3                      N
                                                  SR4      R5      R6
                                        Formula III
wherein R1, R2 , R3 , R4 , R5 , R , R7 , R8 , R9 and X are as defined herein.
        In some embodiments of compounds of Formula 1,11 or III, one of R5
and R6 is hydrogen and the other is C1_6 alkyl.
        In some embodiments of compounds of Formula 1,11 or III, R5 and R6
are each independently C1_6 alkyl.
        In some embodiments of compounds of Formula 1,11 or III, R5 and R6
                                             27

are each methyl.
       In some embodiments, the compounds are of Formula IV(a) or IV(b), or
a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof:
                       R2    X          N     N
                             R3               N    N       R7
                                                    1
                                        R1         R4
                                   Formula IV(a)
                    R2    X          NN           R8   R9
                       R   3
                                              N  NR7
                                     R1         R4
                                   Formula IV(b)
wherein R1, R2, R3 , R4 , R , R , R9 and X are as defined herein.
       In some embodiments of compounds of Formula IV(b), R7 is not
piperidinyl or morpholinyl.
       In some embodiments of compounds of Formula 1,11 or III, R5 and R6
together with the carbon atom to which they are bound form C3-8 cycloalkyl,
C3-8 cycloalkenyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl or 3-8 membered
heterocycloalkenyl, each optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 substituents
selected from halogen, CN, oxo, ORa, OC(O)Ra, OC(O)ORa, NRbRc, C(O)Ra,
C(O)ORa, C(O)NRRc, S(O)Ra, SO 2 Ra, SO 2 NRRc, C1-6 alkyl and C1-6
haloalkyl.
       In some embodiments of compounds of Formula 1,11 or III, R5 and R ,
together with the carbon to which they are bound, form C3-6 cycloalkyl
optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 substituents selected from halogen,
CN, oxo, ORa, OC(O)Ra, OC(O)ORa, NRbRc, C(O)Ra, C(O)ORa, C(O)NRRc,
S(O)Ra, SO 2 Ra, SO 2 NRRc, C1-6 alkyl and C1-6 haloalkyl.
                                           PR

        In some embodiments of compounds of Formula 1,11 or III, R5 and R6 ,
together with the carbon to which they are bound, form cyclopropyl,
cyclobutyl, cyclopentyl or cyclohexyl, each optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4
or 5 substituents selected from halogen, CN, oxo, ORa, OC(O)Ra, OC(O)ORa,
NRbRC, C(O)Ra, C(O)ORa, C(O)NRRc, S(O)Ra, SO 2 Ra, SO 2 NRRc, C1-6 alkyl
and C1-6 haloalkyl.
        In some embodiments of compounds of Formula 1,11 or III, R5 and R ,
together with the carbon to which they are bound, form cyclobutyl optionally
substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 substituents selected from halogen, CN, oxo,
ORa, OC(O)Ra, OC(O)ORa, NRbRc, C(O)Ra, C(O)ORa, C(O)NRRc, S(O)Ra
SO 2 Ra, SO 2 NRRc, C1-6 alkyl and C1-6 haloalkyl.
        In some embodiments of compounds of Formula 1,11 or III, R5 and R ,
together with the carbon to which they are bound, form cyclobutyl substituted
with one substituent selected from halogen, CN, oxo, ORa, OC(O)Ra,
OC(O)ORa, NRbRc, C(O)Ra, C(O)ORa, C(O)NRRc, S(O)Ra, SO 2 Ra
SO 2 NRbRc, C1-6 alkyl and C1-6 haloalkyl, wherein the substituent and R7 are in
a trans configuration with respect to one another on the cyclobutyl ring.
        In some embodiments of compounds of Formula 1,11 or III, R5 and R ,
together with the carbon to which they are bound, form cyclobutyl substituted
with one substituent selected from halogen, CN, oxo, ORa, OC(O)Ra,
OC(O)ORa, NRbRc, C(O)Ra, C(O)ORa, C(O)NRRc, S(O)Ra, SO 2 Ra
SO 2 NRbRc, C1-6 alkyl and C1-6 haloalkyl, wherein the substituent and R7 are in
a cis configuration with respect to one another on the cyclobutyl ring.
        In some embodiments, the compounds are of Formula V(a) or V(b), or
a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof:
                                                  Rm     Rn
                        2   X          N   N
                            R3                   N          R7
                                       R1        R4

                                     Formula V(a)
                   R2                       N       R8    R9
                        R3                        N
                                      R1          R4
                                                        Rm     Rn
                                     Formula V(b)
wherein Rm and R" are each independently selected from hydrogen, halogen
and C1-6 alkyl, and R1, R2 , R3 , R4 , R7 , R8 , R9 and X are as defined herein.
       In some embodiments of compounds of Formula V(a) or V(b), Rm and
R are each hydrogen.
       In some embodiments compounds of Formula V(a) or V(b), Rm and R"
are each halogen.
       In some embodiments compounds of Formula V(a) or V(b), Rm and R"
are each fluorine.
       In some embodiments compounds of Formula V(a) or V(b), one of Rm
and R" is hydrogen and the other is halogen. In some embodiments of such
compounds, the halogen and R7 are in a trans configuration with respect to
one another on the cyclobutyl ring. In some embodiments of such
compounds, the halogen and R7 are in a cis configuration with respect to one
another on the cyclobutyl ring.
       In some embodiments compounds of Formula V(a) or V(b), one of Rm
and R" is hydrogen and the other is fluorine. In some embodiments of such
compounds, the fluorine and R7 are in a trans configuration with respect to
one another on the cyclobutyl ring. In some embodiments of such
compounds, the fluorine and R7 are in a cis configuration with respect to one
another on the cyclobutyl ring.
       In some embodiments of compounds of Formula 1,11 or III, R5 and R ,
together with the carbon atom to which they are bound, form 3-6 membered
                                             n

heterocycloalkyl, each of which is optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5
substituents selected from halogen, CN, oxo, ORa, OC(O)Ra, OC(O)ORa,
NRbRC, C(O)Ra, C(O)ORa, C(O)NRRc, S(O)Ra, SO 2 Ra, SO 2 NRRc, C1-6 alkyl
and C1-6 haloalkyl.
        In some embodiments of compounds of Formula 1,11 or III, R5 and R ,
together with the carbon atom to which they are bound, form aziridine,
azetidine, pyrrolidine, oxirane, oxetane or tetrahydrofuran, each of which is
optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 substituents selected from halogen,
CN, oxo, ORa, OC(O)Ra, OC(O)ORa, NRbRc, C(O)Ra, C(O)ORa, C(O)NRRc,
S(O)Ra, SO 2 Ra, SO 2 NRRc, C1-6 alkyl and C1-6 haloalkyl.
        In some embodiments of compounds of Formula 1,11 or III, R5 and R6
are each independently C1-6 alkyl, or R5 and R6 together with the carbon atom
to which they are bound form C3-8 cycloalkyl, C3-8 cycloalkenyl, 3-8 membered
heterocycloalkyl or 3-8 membered heterocycloalkenyl, each optionally
substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 substituents selected from halogen, CN, oxo,
ORa, OC(O)Ra, OC(O)ORa, NRbRc, C(O)Ra, C(O)ORa, C(O)NRRc, S(O)Ra
SO 2 Ra, SO 2 NRRc, C1-6 alkyl and C1-6 haloalkyl.
        In some embodiments of compounds of Formula 1,11 or III, R5 and R6
are each methyl, or R5 and R6 together with the carbon atom to which they are
bound form C3-8 cycloalkyl, C3-8 cycloalkenyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl
or 3-8 membered heterocycloalkenyl, each optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3,
4 or 5 substituents selected from halogen, CN, oxo, ORa, OC(O)Ra,
OC(O)ORa, NRbRc, C(O)Ra, C(O)ORa, C(O)NRRc, S(O)Ra, SO 2 Ra
SO 2 NRbRc, C1-6 alkyl and C1-6 haloalkyl.
        In some embodiments of compounds of Formula 1,11 or III, R5 and R6
are each independently C1-6 alkyl, or R5 and R6 , together with the carbon to
which they are bound, form cyclopropyl, cyclobutyl, cyclopentyl or cyclohexyl,
each optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 substituents selected from
halogen, CN, oxo, ORa, OC(O)Ra, OC(O)ORa, NRbRc, C(O)Ra, C(O)ORa
C(O)NRRc, S(O)Ra, SO 2 Ra, SO 2 NRRc, C1-6 alkyl and C1-6 haloalkyl.
        In some embodiments of compounds of Formula 1,11 or III, R5 and R6
are each methyl, or R5 and R6 , together with the carbon to which they are
                                         31

bound, form cyclobutyl optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 substituents
selected from halogen, CN, oxo, ORa, OC(O)Ra, OC(O)ORa, NRbRc, C(O)Ra,
C(O)ORa, C(O)NRRc, S(O)Ra, SO 2 Ra, SO 2 NRRc, C1-6 alkyl and C1-6
haloalkyl.
        In some embodiments of compounds of Formula 1,11, 111, IV(a), IV(b),
V(a) or V(b), R7 is selected from C3-8 cycloalkyl, C3-8 cycloalkenyl, 3-8
membered heterocycloalkyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkenyl, C6-10 aryl and
5-10 membered heteroaryl, each optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5
substituents selected from halogen, CN, oxo, ORa, OC(O)Ra, OC(O)ORa,
OC(O)NRbRc, NRbRc, NRdC(O)Ra, NRdC(O)ORa, NRdC(O)NRbRc,
NRdC(O)C(O)NRbRc, NRdC(S)Ra, NRdC(S)ORa, NRdC(S)NRbRc,
NRdC(N Re)NRbRc, NRdS(O)Ra, NRdSO 2 Ra, NRdSO 2 NRbRc, C(O)Ra, C(O)ORa,
C(O)NRbRc, C(S)Ra, C(S)ORa, C(S)NRbRc, C(NRe)NRRc, SRa, S(O)Ra
SO 2 Ra, SO 2 NRRc, C1-6 alkyl, C1-6 haloalkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, C3-8
cycloalkyl, C3-8 cycloalkenyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl, 3-8 membered
heterocycloalkenyl, C6-10 aryl, C7-11 aralkyl, and 5-10 membered heteroaryl,
wherein each of the C1-6 alkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, C3-8 cycloalkyl, C3-8
cycloalkenyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl, 3-8 membered
heterocycloalkenyl, C6-10 aryl, C7-11 aralkyl and 5-10 membered heteroaryl
groups is optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 Rf substituents.
        In some embodiments of compounds of Formula 1,111 or IV(b), when R5
and R6 are each methyl, R7 is not piperidinyl or morpholinyl.
        In some embodiments of compounds of Formula 1,11, 111, IV(a), IV(b),
V(a) or V(b), R7 is phenyl optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 substituents
selected from halogen, CN, oxo, ORa, OC(O)Ra, OC(O)ORa, OC(O)NRRc,
NRbRc, NRdC(O)Ra, NRdC(O)ORa, NRdC(O)NRbRc, NRdC(O)C(O)NRbRc,
NRdC(S)Ra, NRdC(S)ORa, NRdC(S)NRbRc, NRdC(NRe)NRbRc, NRdS(0)Ra
NRdSO 2 Ra, NRdSO 2 NRbRc, C(O)Ra, C(O)ORa, C(O)NRbRc, C(S)Ra, C(S)ORa,
C(S)NRbRc, C(NRe)NRRc, SRa, S(O)Ra, S0 2 Ra, SO 2 NRRc, C1-6 alkyl, C1-6
haloalkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, C3-8 cycloalkyl, C3-8 cycloalkenyl, 3-8
membered heterocycloalkyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkenyl, C6-10 aryl, C
11 aralkyl, and 5-10 membered heteroaryl, wherein each of the C1-6 alkyl, C2-6
alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, C3-8 cycloalkyl, C3-8 cycloalkenyl, 3-8 membered
                                          .q2

heterocycloalkyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkenyl, C6_10 aryl, C7_11 aralkyl
and 5-10 membered heteroaryl groups is optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4
or 5 Rf substituents.
        In some embodiments, the compounds are of Formula VI, or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof:
              R X         N,
         R 2 1,xN
                                                                             (RI)r
                                                 9
                                       V(CR R )m
                       R3            N
                                                     R5    R66
                             R   R1  R4
                                      Formula VI
wherein r is 0, 1, 2, 3 or 4, and R1 , R2 , R3 , R4 , R , R , R , R9 , Rf, X and m are
as defined herein.
        In some embodiments, the compounds are of Formula VII(a) or VII(b),
or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof:
                  R2    X        N    N
                       R3                  N
                                            R                          (Rf)r
                                    Formula VII(a)
                     X
                              N
               R2                           8
                                                                             r
                              R1        R4
                                    Formula VII(b)
wherein r is 0, 1, 2, 3 or 4, and R1, R2 , R3 , R4 , R , R9, Rf and X are as defined
herein.
                                           33~

       In some embodiments, the compounds are of Formula VIII(a) or VIII(b),
or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof:
                                            Rm     Rn
               R2   X            N   N
                    R3                    N
                                           R                            (R)r
                                   Formula VIII(a)
                  X           N
            R2    XNN                    fR9
                                          R
                                                                           (Rf)r
                              R34
                              R1        R4
                                               Rm      Rn
                                   Formula VIII(b)
wherein Rm and R" are each independently selected from hydrogen, halogen
and C1_ alkyl; r is 0, 1, 2, 3 or 4; and R1, R2 , R3 , R4 , R8 , R9 , Rf and X are as
defined herein.
       In some embodiments of compounds of Formula VIII(a) or VIII(b), Rm
and R" are each hydrogen.
       In some embodiments compounds of Formula VIII(a) or VIII(b), Rm and
R are each halogen.
       In some embodiments compounds of Formula VIII(a) or VIII(b), Rm and
R are each fluorine.
       In some embodiments compounds of Formula VIII(a) or VIII(b), one of
Rm and R" is hydrogen and the other is halogen. In some embodiments of
such compounds, the halogen and the phenyl ring are in a trans configuration
with respect to one another on the cyclobutyl ring. In some embodiments of
                                          24

such compounds, the halogen and the phenyl ring are in a cis configuration
with respect to one another on the cyclobutyl ring.
         In some embodiments compounds of Formula VIII(a) or VIII(b), one of
Rm and R" is hydrogen and the other is fluorine. In some embodiments of
such compounds, the fluorine and the phenyl ring are in a trans configuration
with respect to one another on the cyclobutyl ring. In some embodiments of
such compounds, the fluorine and the phenyl ring are in a cis configuration
with respect to one another on the cyclobutyl ring.
         In some embodiments of compounds of Formula 1,11, 111, IV(a), IV(b),
V(a) or V(b), R7 is selected from phenyl, 2-fluorophenyl, 3-fluorophenyl, 2, 4
difluorophenyl, 3,4-difluorophenyl, 3,5-difluorophenyl, 4-fluorophenyl, 2
chlorophenyl, 3-chlorophenyl, 4-chlorophenyl, 2, 4-dichlorophenyl, 3,4
dichlorophenyl, 3,5-dichlorophenyl, 2-methylphenyl, 3-methylphenyl, 2, 4
dimethylphenyl, 3,4-dimethylphenyl, 3,5-dimethylphenyl, 2
(hydroxymethyl)phenyl, 3-(hydroxymethyl)phenyl, 4-(hydroxymethyl)phenyl, 2
(aminomethyl)phenyl, 3-(aminomethyl)phenyl, 4-(aminomethyl)phenyl, 2
phenol, 3-phenol, 4-phenol, 2-methoxyphenyl, 3-methoxyphenyl, 4
methoxyphenyl, 2-difluoromethoxyphenyl, 3-difluoromethoxyphenyl, 4
difluoromethoxyphenyl, 2-trifluoromethoxyphenyl, 3-trifluoromethoxyphenyl, 4
trifluoromethoxyphenyl, 2-cyanophenyl, 3-cyanophenyl, 4-cyanophenyl, 2
benzamine, 3-benzamide, 4-benzamide, N-mehtyl-2-benzamine, N-methyl-3
benzamide, N-methyl-4-benzamide, N,N-dimethyl-2-benzamine, N,N
dimethyl-3-benzamide, and N,N-dimethyl-4-benzamide.
         In some embodiments of compounds of Formula 1,11, 111, IV(a), IV(b),
V(a) or V(b), R7 is 5-10 membered heteroaryl optionally substituted with 1, 2,
3, 4 or 5 substituents selected from halogen, CN, oxo, ORa, OC(O)Ra,
OC(O)ORa, OC(O)NRbRc, NRbRc, NRdC(O)Ra, NRdC(O)ORa, NRdC(O)NRbRc,
NRdC(O)C(O)NRbRc, NRdC(S)Ra, NRdC(S)ORa, NRdC(S)NRbRc,
NRdC(NRe)NRbRc, NRdS(O)Ra, NRdSO 2Ra, NRdSO 2NRbRc, C(O)Ra, C(O)ORa,
C(O)NRbRc, C(S)Ra, C(S)ORa, C(S)NRbRc, C(NRe)NRRc, SRa, S(O)Ra
SO 2Ra, SO 2NRRc, C1-6 alkyl, C1-6 haloalkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, C3-8
cycloalkyl, C3-8 cycloalkenyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl, 3-8 membered
heterocycloalkenyl, C610 aryl, C7_11 aralkyl, and 5-10 membered heteroaryl,
                                        25~

wherein each of the C1_6 alkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, C3-8 cycloalkyl, C3-8
cycloalkenyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl, 3-8 membered
heterocycloalkenyl, C6-10 aryl, C7_11 aralkyl and 5-10 membered heteroaryl
groups is optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 Rf substituents.
        In some embodiments of compounds of Formula 1,11, 111, IV(a), IV(b),
V(a) or V(b), R7 is pyridyl optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 substituents
selected from halogen, CN, oxo, ORa, OC(O)Ra, OC(O)ORa, OC(O)NRbRc,
NRbRc, NRdC(O)Ra, NRdC(O)ORa, NRdC(O)NRbRc, NRdC(O)C(O)NRbRc,
NRdC(S)Ra, NRdC(S)ORa, NRdC(S)NRbRc, NRdC(NRe)NRbRc, NRdS(O)Ra,
NRdSO 2 Ra, NRdSO 2 NRbRc, C(O)Ra, C(O)ORa, C(O)NRbRc, C(S)Ra, C(S)ORa,
C(S)NRbRc, C(NRe)NRRc, SRa, S(O)Ra, SO 2 Ra, SO 2 NRRc, C1-6 alkyl, C1-6
haloalkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, C3-8 cycloalkyl, C3-8 cycloalkenyl, 3-8
membered heterocycloalkyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkenyl, C6-10 aryl, C
11 aralkyl, and 5-10 membered heteroaryl, wherein each of the C1-6 alkyl, C2-6
alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, C3-8 cycloalkyl, C3-8 cycloalkenyl, 3-8 membered
heterocycloalkyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkenyl, C6-10 aryl, C7-11 aralkyl
and 5-10 membered heteroaryl groups is optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4
or 5 Rf substituents.
        In some embodiments of compounds of Formula 1,11, 111, IV(a), IV(b),
V(a) or V(b), R7 is selected from 2-pyridyl, 3-pyridyl and 4-pyridyl, each
optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 substituents selected from halogen,
CN, oxo, ORa, OC(O)Ra, OC(O)ORa, OC(O)NRbRc, NRbRc, NRdC(O)Ra,
NRdC(O)ORa, NRdC(O)NRbRc, NRdC(O)C(O)NRbRc, NRdC(S)Ra,
NRdC(S)ORa, NRdC(S)NRbRc, NRdC(NRe)NRbRc, NRdS(O)Ra, NRdSO 2 Ra,
NRdSO 2 NRbRc, C(O)Ra, C(O)ORa, C(O)NRbRc, C(S)Ra, C(S)ORa, C(S)NRbRc,
C(NRe)NR Rc, SRa, S(O)Ra, S0 2 Ra, SO 2 NRRc, C1-6 alkyl, C1-6 haloalkyl, C2-6
alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, C3-6 cycloalkyl, C3-6 cycloalkenyl, 3-6 membered
heterocycloalkyl, 3-6 membered heterocycloalkenyl, phenyl, naphthyl, C7-11
aralkyl, and 5-10 membered heteroaryl, wherein each of the C1-6 alkyl, C2-6
alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, C3-8 cycloalkyl, C3-8 cycloalkenyl, 3-8 membered
heterocycloalkyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkenyl, C6-10 aryl, C7-11 aralkyl
and 5-10 membered heteroaryl groups is optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4
or 5 Rf substituents.
                                          .qF

        In some embodiments, the compounds are of Formula IX, or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof:
               X          N~~
         R211                N
                                                                              (R )r
                                           (CR8 R9 )mr
              R                    N                               N
                          R1       R4                 Z5
                                                     RsR   R6
                                    Formula IX
wherein r is 0, 1, 2, 3 or 4, and R1 , R2 , R3 , R4 , R , R , R , R9 , Rf, X and m are
as defined herein.
        In some embodiments, the compounds are of Formula X(a) or X(b), or
a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof:
                 R2X             N  N
               R2~
                      3N
                                                                       (R)r
                                 R         R4            N
                                   Formula X(a)
                  X           N
             R2                            R8     R9
                                                   R 9(8
                                                                           R )r
                 R3:                    N                       N
                              R1        R4
                                   Formula X(b)
wherein r is 0, 1, 2, 3 or 4, and R1, R2 , R3 , R4 , R , R9, Rf and X are as defined
herein.
        In some embodiments, the compounds are of Formula XI(a) or XI(b), or
a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof:
                                           .q7

                                            Rm       Rn
              R2      X          N    N
                      R3                   N
                                                                         (R),
                                 R'        R4           Nr
                                     Formula XI(a)
             21-1 X            N     NR            R
                                                                          L(R )r
                   R3                    N
                               RR
                                               Rm        Rn
                                     Formula XI(b)
wherein Rm and R" are each independently selected from hydrogen, halogen
and C1_6 alkyl; r is 0, 1, 2, 3 or 4; and R1, R2 , R3 , R4 , R8 , R9 , Rf and X are as
defined herein.
       In some embodiments of compounds of Formula XI(a) or XI(b), Rm and
R are each hydrogen.
       In some embodiments compounds of Formula XI(a) or XI(b), Rm and R"
are each halogen.
       In some embodiments compounds of Formula XI(a) or XI(b), Rm and R"
are each fluorine.
       In some embodiments compounds of Formula XI(a) or XI(b), one of Rm
and R" is hydrogen and the other is halogen. In some embodiments of such
compounds, the halogen and the pyridyl ring are in a trans configuration with
respect to one another on the cyclobutyl ring. In some embodiments of such
compounds, the halogen and the pyridyl ring are in a cis configuration with
respect to one another on the cyclobutyl ring.
                                           R

         In some embodiments compounds of Formula XI(a) or XI(b), one of Rm
and R" is hydrogen and the other is fluorine. In some embodiments of such
compounds, the fluorine and the pyridyl ring are in a trans configuration with
respect to one another on the cyclobutyl ring. In some embodiments of such
compounds, the fluorine and the pyridyl ring are in a cis configuration with
respect to one another on the cyclobutyl ring.
         In some embodiments of compounds of Formula 1,11, 111, IV(a), IV(b),
V(a) or V(b), R7 is selected from pyrid-2-yl, 3-fluoro-pyrid-2-yl, 4-fluoro-pyrid-2
yl, 5-fluoro-pyrid-2-yl, 6-fluoro-pyrid-2-yl, 3-chloro-pyrid-2-yl, 4-chloro-pyrid-2
yl, 5-chloro-pyrid-2-yl, 6-chloro-pyrid-2-yl, 3-cyano-pyrid-2-yl, 4-cyano-pyrid-2
yl, 5-cyano-pyrid-2-y, 6-cyano-pyrid-2-y, 3-methyl-pyrid-2-yl, 4-methyl-pyrid
2-yl, 5-methyl-pyrid-2-yl, 6-methyl-pyrid-2-y, 3-difluoromethyl-pyrid-2-yl,
4-difluoromethyl-pyrid-2-yl, 5-difluoromethyl-pyrid-2-yl, 6-difluoromethyl-pyrid
2-yl, 3-trifluoromethyl-pyrid-2-yl, 4-trifluoromethyl-pyrid-2-yl, 5-trifluoromethyl
pyrid-2-yl, 6-trifluoromethyl-pyrid-2-y, 3-hydroxymethyl-pyrid-2-yl,
4-hydroxymethyl-pyrid-2-y, 5-hydroxymethyl-pyrid-2-y, 6-hydroxymethyl
pyrid-2-yl, 3-aminomethyl-pyrid-2-yl, 4-aminomethyl-pyrid-2-yl,
5-aminomethyl-pyrid-2-yl, 6-aminomethyl-pyrid-2-y, 3-hydroxy-pyrid-2-yl,
4-hydroxy-pyrid-2-yl, 5-hydroxy-pyrid-2-yl, 6-hydroxy-pyrid-2-yl, 3-methoxy
pyrid-2-yl, 4-methoxy-pyrid-2-yl, 5-methoxy-pyrid-2-yl, 6-methoxy-pyrid-2-yl,
3-difluoromethoxy-pyrid-2-yl, 4-difluoromethoxy-pyrid-2-yl, 5-difluoromethoxy
pyrid-2-yl, 6-difluoromethoxy-pyrid-2-yl, 3-trifluoromethoxy-pyrid-2-yl,
4-trifluoromethoxy-pyrid-2-yl, 5-trifluoromethoxy-pyrid-2-yl, 6-trifluoromethoxy
pyrid-2-yl, 3-methylthio-pyrid-2-yl, 4-methylthio-pyrid-2-yl, 5-methylthio-pyrid
2-yl, 6-methylthio-pyrid-2-yl, 3-carboxamide-pyrid-2-yl, 4-carboxamide-pyrid-2
yl, 5- carboxamide-pyrid-2-yl, 6- carboxamide-pyrid-2-yl and 3-fluoro-6
methyl-pyrid-2-yl.
         In some embodiments of compounds of Formula 1,11, 111, IV(a), IV(b),
V(a) or V(b), R7 is selected from pyrid-3-yl, 2-fluoro-pyrid-3-yl, 4-fluoro-pyrid-3
yl, 5-fluoro-pyrid-3-yl, 6-fluoro-pyrid-3-yl, 2-chloro-pyrid-3-y, 4-chloro-pyrid-3
yl, 5-chloro-pyrid-3-yl, 6-chloro-pyrid-3-yl, 2-cyano-pyrid-3-y, 4-cyano-pyrid-3
yl, 5-cyano-pyrid-3-y, 6-cyano-pyrid-3-y, 2-methyl-pyrid-3-yl, 4-methyl-pyrid
3-yl, 5-methyl-pyrid-3-yl, 6-methyl-pyrid-3-y, 2-difluoromethyl-pyrid-3-yl,
                                            .q9

4-difluoromethyl-pyrid-3-yl, 5-difluoromethyl-pyrid-3-yl, 6-difluoromethyl-pyrid
3-yl, 2-trifluoromethyl-pyrid-3-yl, 4-trifluoromethyl-pyrid-3-yl, 5-trifluoromethyl
pyrid-3-yl, 6-trifluoromethyl-pyrid-3-yl, 2-hydroxymethyl-pyrid-3-yl,
4-hydroxymethyl-pyrid-3-yl, 5-hydroxymethyl-pyrid-3-yl, 6-hydroxymethyl
pyrid-3-yl, 2-aminomethyl-pyrid-3-yl, 4-aminomethyl-pyrid-3-yl,
5-aminomethyl-pyrid-3-yl, 6-aminomethyl-pyrid-3-y, 2-hydroxy-pyrid-3-yl,
4-hydroxy-pyrid-3-yl, 5-hydroxy-pyrid-3-yl, 6-hydroxy-pyrid-3-yl, 2-methoxy
pyrid-3-yl, 4-methoxy-pyrid-3-yl, 5-methoxy-pyrid-3-yl, 6-methoxy-pyrid-3-yl,
2-difluoromethoxy-pyrid-3-yl, 4-difluoromethoxy-pyrid-3-yl, 5-difluoromethoxy
pyrid-3-yl, 6-difluoromethoxy-pyrid-3-yl, 2-trifluoromethoxy-pyrid-3-yl,
4-trifluoromethoxy-pyrid-3-yl, 5-trifluoromethoxy-pyrid-3-yl, 6-trifluoromethoxy
pyrid-3-yl, 2-methylthio-pyrid-3-yl, 4-methylthio-pyrid-3-yl, 5-methylthio-pyrid
3-yl, 6-methylthio-pyrid-3-yl, 2-carboxamide-pyrid-3-yl, 4-carboxamide-pyrid-3
yl, 5- carboxamide-pyrid-3-yl and 6- carboxamide-pyrid-3-yl.
         In some embodiments of compounds of Formula 1,11, 111, IV(a), IV(b),
V(a), V(b), VI, VII(a), VII(b), VIII(a), VIII(b), IX, X(a), X(b), XI(a) or XI(b), X is
selected from a bond, -(CH 2 )p-, -(CH2)pC(O)(CH2)q-, -(CH2)pO(CH2)q,
(CH2)pS(CH2)q-,     -(CH 2)pNRd(CH 2 )q-,   -(CH2)pC(O)O(CH2)q-,
-(CH2)pOC(O)(CH2)q-, -(CH 2 )pNRdC(O)(CH 2)q-, -(CH 2)pC(O)NRd(CH 2)q-,
-(CH 2 )pNRdC(O)NRd(CH 2 )q-, -(CH 2 )pN RdSO 2 (CH 2 )q-, and
-(CH 2 )pSO 2 NRd(CH 2 )q-.
         In some embodiments of compounds of Formula 1,11, 111, IV(a), IV(b),
V(a), V(b), VI, VII(a), VII(b), VIII(a), VIII(b), IX, X(a), X(b), XI(a) or XI(b), X is a
bond.
         In some embodiments, the compound is of Formula XII(a), XII(b),
XII(c), XII(d), XII(e), XII(f), XII(g), XII(h), XII(i), XII(j), XII(k), XII(I), XII(m), XII(n)
or XII(o), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof:
                                              4n

      R1
             N
                        (R9R)m           R7
R       N          N
R2
                      R4      R5
           Formula XII(a)
   R2
              N
   R3                 N            R7
                       1
              R1      R4
           Formula XII(b)
R 2                 N  RS      R      R
   R3     R1                          R4
           Formula XII(c)
                       R'"      Rn
   R2
              N ZN
   R3                 N            R7
                       1
              R1      R4
           Formula XII(d)
                   41

    R2         N
            R3             N RR      9     R7
               R1          R4
                                  Rm    Rn
                Formula XII(e)
          N
                  ~(CR 8 R 9 )M
2
    N      N
               N               R5    R6
                 Formula XII(f)
                                            --     (R)r
       R1           R
                    N
 R2
        N                                      (Rf)r
          R        R4
                Formula XII(h)
                              424

                        Rm       Rn
     R2
             N   N
     R3                N
                                       --     (RI)r
                   Formula XII(i)
  R2      N
                                         4       (R')r
  R3                 N
                     I
R2        R1         R4
        N     NR
                              R
                           R'       Rn
                   Formula XII(j)
               NN
                  Formula XII(k)
 R3                 NN
     R2  N     N
         R1            R4w
                                          -(RI)r
                   F     4     I

               R2          N
                                          R8     R9
                                                                           I)r
                                                                      (R
                3
                  RR                   R4
                                     Formula XII(m)
                                           Rm       Rn
                  R2          N
                  R3                      N
                                                  1     1      -1  (R')r
                              R1          R4           Nr
                                     Formula XII(n)
               R2          N
                                     N RS        R9
                                                                    L(R')r
               R3                      NN
                                        I
                           R1          R4
                                               Rm       Rn
                                     Formula XII(o)
wherein R1, R2 , R , R4 , R , R , R , R , R9 , Rf, Rm, R", m and r are as defined
herein.
        In some embodiments of compounds of Formula XII(c), R7 is not
piperidinyl or morpholinyl. In some embodiments of compounds of Formula
XII(c), when R2 is optionally substituted phenyl, then R7 is not piperidinyl or
morpholinyl.
        In some embodiments of compounds of Formula 1,11, 111, IV(a), IV(b),
V(a), V(b), VI, VII(a), VII(b), VIII(a), VIII(b), IX, X(a), X(b), XI(a) or XI(b), X is
0-.
                                             44

        In some embodiments of compounds of Formula 1,11, 111, IV(a), IV(b),
V(a), V(b), VI, VII(a), VII(b), VIII(a), VIII(b), IX, X(a), X(b), XI(a) or XI(b), X is
selected from -CH 20- and -OCH 2-.
        In some embodiments of compounds of Formula 1,11, 111, IV(a), IV(b),
V(a), V(b), VI, VII(a), VII(b), VIII(a), VIII(b), IX, X(a), X(b), XI(a) or XI(b), X is
NRd-.
        In some embodiments of compounds of Formula 1,11, 111, IV(a), IV(b),
V(a), V(b), VI, VII(a), VII(b), VIII(a), VIII(b), IX, X(a), X(b), XI(a) or XI(b), X is
selected from -CH 2NRd- and -NRdCH 2 -.
        In some embodiments of compounds of Formula 1,11, 111, IV(a), IV(b),
V(a), V(b), VI, VII(a), VII(b), VIII(a), VIII(b), IX, X(a), X(b), XI(a) or XI(b), X is
slected from -NRdC(O)- and -C(O)NRd-.
        In some embodiments of compounds of Formula 1,11, 111, IV(a), IV(b),
V(a), V(b), VI, VII(a), VII(b), VIII(a), VIII(b), IX, X(a), X(b), XI(a) or XI(b), X is
slected from -CH 2NRdC(O)- and -C(O)NRdCH 2 -.
        In some embodiments of compounds of Formula 1,11, 111, IV(a), IV(b),
V(a), V(b), VI, VII(a), VII(b), VIII(a), VIII(b), IX, X(a), X(b), XI(a), XI(b), XII(a),
XII(b), XII(c), XII(d), XII(e), XII(f), XII(g), XII(h), XII(i), XII(j), XII(k), XII(I), XII(m),
XII(n) or XII(o), R2 is selected from C3-8 cycloalkyl, C3-8 cycloalkenyl, 3-8
membered heterocycloalkyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkenyl, C6-10 aryl and
5-10 membered heteroaryl, each optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5
substituents selected from halogen, CN, oxo, (CH 2)nORa, (CH 2 )nOC(O)Ra
(CH 2)nOC(O)ORa, (CH 2)nOC(O)NRbRc, (CH 2)nNRbRc, (CH 2 )nNRdC(O) Ra,
(CH 2 )nNRdC(O)ORa, (CH 2 )nNRdC(O)NRbRc, (CH 2)nNRdC(O)C(O)NRbRc,
(CH 2 )nNRdC(S)Ra, (CH 2 )nNRdC(S)ORa, (CH 2)nNRdC(S)NRbRc,
(CH 2 )nNRdC(NRe)NRbRc, (CH 2 )nNRdS(O)Ra, (CH 2 )nNRdSO 2 Ra,
(CH 2)nNRdSO 2 NRRC, (CH 2)nC(O)Ra, (CH 2)nC(O)ORa, (CH 2)nC(O)N RRC,
(CH 2 )nC(S)Ra, (CH 2 )nC(S)ORa, (CH 2 )nC(S)N RRC, (CH 2 )nC(NRe)N RRC,
(CH 2 )nSRa, (CH 2)nS(O)Ra, (CH 2 )nSO 2 Ra, (CH 2)nSO 2 NRbRc, C1-6 alkyl, C1-6
haloalkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, (CH 2 )nC3 -8 cycloalkyl, (CH 2 )n3-8
membered heterocycloalkyl, (CH 2)nphenyl, (CH 2)nnaphthyl and (CH 2)n5-1 0
membered heteroaryl, wherein each of the C1-6 alkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl,
                                              45~

(CH2 )nC3 -8  cycloalkyl, (CH 2)n3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl, (CH 2)nphenyl,
(CH 2)nnaphthyl and (CH 2)n5-1 0 membered heteroaryl groups is optionally
substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 Rf substituents.
        In some embodiments of compounds of Formula 1,11, 111, IV(a), IV(b),
V(a), V(b), VI, VII(a), VII(b), VIII(a), VIII(b), IX, X(a), X(b), XI(a), XI(b), XII(a),
XII(b), XII(c), XII(d), XII(e), XII(f), XII(g), XII(h), XII(i), XII(j), XII(k), XII(I), XII(m),
XII(n) or XII(o), R2 is phenyl optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5
substituents selected from halogen, CN, (CH 2)nORa, (CH 2 )nOC(O)Ra,
(CH 2)nOC(O)ORa, (CH 2)nOC(O)NRbRc, (CH 2)nNRbRc, (CH 2 )nN RdC(O) Ra,
(CH 2 )nN RdC(O)ORa, (CH 2 )nN RdC(O)NRbRc, (CH 2)nN RdC(O)C(O)NRbRc,
(CH 2 )nN RdC(S)Ra, (CH 2 )nN RdC(S)ORa, (CH 2)nN RdC(S)NRbRc,
(CH 2 )nNRdC(NRe)NRbRc, (CH 2 )nNRdS(O)Ra, (CH 2 )nNRdSO 2 Ra,
(CH 2)nNRdSO 2 NRRC, (CH 2)nC(O)Ra, (CH 2)nC(O)ORa, (CH 2)nC(O)N RRC,
(CH 2 )nC(S)Ra, (CH 2 )nC(S)ORa, (CH 2 )nC(S)N RRC, (CH 2 )nC(NRe)N RRC,
(CH2 )nSRa, (CH 2)nS(O)Ra, (CH 2 )nSO 2 Ra, (CH 2)nSO 2 NRRc, C1-6 alkyl, C1-6
haloalkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, (CH 2 )nC3 -8 cycloalkyl, (CH 2 )n3-8
membered heterocycloalkyl, (CH 2)nphenyl, (CH 2)nnaphthyl and (CH 2)n5-1 0
membered heteroaryl, wherein each of the C1_6 alkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl,
(CH 2 )nC3 -8 cycloalkyl, (CH 2)n3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl, (CH 2)nphenyl,
(CH 2)nnaphthyl and (CH 2)n5-1 0 membered heteroaryl groups is optionally
substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 Rf substituents.
        In some embodiments of compounds of Formula 1,11, 111, IV(a), IV(b),
V(a), V(b), VI, VII(a), VII(b), VIII(a), VIII(b), IX, X(a), X(b), XI(a), XI(b), XII(a),
XII(b), XII(c), XII(d), XII(e), XII(f), XII(g), XII(h), XII(i), XII(j), XII(k), XII(I), XII(m),
XII(n) or XII(o), R2 is phenyl substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 substituents
selected from halogen, CN, (CH 2)nORa, (CH 2)nOC(O)Ra, (CH 2)nOC(O)ORa
(CH 2 )nOC(O)NRbRc, (CH 2 )nNRbRc, (CH 2)nN RdC(O)Ra, (CH 2 )nN RdC(O)ORa,
(CH 2)nN RdC(O)NRbRc, (CH 2)nN RdC(O)C(O)NRbRc, (CH 2)nN RdC(S) Ra,
(CH 2 )nN RdC(S)ORa, (CH 2 )nN RdC(S)NRbRc, (CH 2 )nN RdC(N Re)NRbRc,
(CH2 )nNRdS(O)Ra, (CH 2)nN RdSO 2 Ra, (CH 2 )nN RdSO 2 NRbRc, (CH 2 )nC(O) Ra,
(CH2)nC(O)ORa, (CH 2)nC(O)N RRC, (CH 2)nC(S)Ra, (CH 2)nC(S)ORa
(CH2)nC(S)N RRC, (CH 2)nC(NRe)N RRc, (CH 2)nSRa, (CH 2)nS(O)Ra
(CH 2 )nSO 2 Ra, (CH 2 )nSO 2 NRbRc, C1-6 alkyl, C1-6 haloalkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6
                                              4R

alkynyl, (CH 2 )nC3 -8 cycloalkyl, (CH 2)n3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl,
(CH 2)nphenyl, (CH 2)nnaphthyl and (CH 2)n5-1 0 membered heteroaryl, wherein
each of the C1-6 alkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, (CH 2 )nC3 -8 cycloalkyl, (CH 2)n3
8 membered heterocycloalkyl, (CH 2)nphenyl, (CH 2)nnaphthyl and (CH 2)n5-1 0
membered heteroaryl groups is optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 Rf
substituents; wherein at least one substitutent is bonded at the meta position.
         In some embodiments of compounds of Formula 1,11, 111, IV(a), IV(b),
V(a), V(b), VI, VII(a), VII(b), VIII(a), VIII(b), IX, X(a), X(b), XI(a), XI(b), XII(a),
XII(b), XII(c), XII(d), XII(e), XII(f), XII(g), XII(h), XII(i), XII(j), XII(k), XII(I), XII(m),
XII(n) or XII(o), R2 is phenyl substituted with a substituent selected from
(CH 2)nC(O)ORa and (CH 2)nC(O)NRbRc; and optionally substituted with 1, 2 or
3 additional substituents selected from halogen, CN, (CH 2)nORa
(CH 2 )nOC(O)Ra,    (CH 2)nOC(O)ORa, (CH 2)nOC(O)N RRC, (CH 2)nNR Rc,
(CH 2 )nNRdC(O)Ra, (CH 2 )nNRdC(O)ORa, (CH 2 )nNRdC(O)NRbRc,
(CH 2)nN RdC(O)C(O)NRbRc, (CH 2)nN RdC(S)Ra, (CH 2 )nN RdC(S)ORa,
(CH 2 )nN RdC(S)NRbRc, (CH 2 )nN RdC(NRe)NRbRc, (CH 2 )nNRdS(O) Ra,
(CH2 )nN RdSO 2 Ra, (CH 2 )nNRdSO 2 N RbRc, (CH 2 )nC(O)Ra, (CH 2 )nC(O)ORa,
(CH2 )nC(O)NRbRc, (CH 2)nC(S)Ra, (CH 2 )nC(S)ORa, (CH 2 )nC(S)NRbRc,
(CH 2)nC(NRe)N RRc, (CH 2 )nSRa, (CH 2 )nS(O)Ra, (CH 2 )nSO 2 Ra
(CH 2 )nSO 2 NRbRc, C1-6 alkyl, C1-6 haloalkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, (CH 2 )nC3 _
8 cycloalkyl, (CH 2)n3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl, (CH 2)nphenyl,
(CH 2)nnaphthyl and (CH 2)n5-1 0 membered heteroaryl, wherein each of the C1
6 alkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, (CH 2 )nC3 -8 cycloalkyl, (CH 2)n3-8 membered
heterocycloalkyl, (CH 2)nphenyl, (CH 2)nnaphthyl and (CH 2)n5-1 0 membered
heteroaryl groups is optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 Rf substituents.
         In some embodiments of compounds of Formula 1,11, 111, IV(a), IV(b),
V(a), V(b), VI, VII(a), VII(b), VIII(a), VIII(b), IX, X(a), X(b), XI(a), XI(b), XII(a),
XII(b), XII(c), XII(d), XII(e), XII(f), XII(g), XII(h), XII(i), XII(j), XII(k), XII(I), XII(m),
XII(n) or XII(o), R2 is phenyl substituted with a substituent selected from
C(O)OH, C(O)NH 2, C(O)OC1-6 alkyl, C(O)NHC 1 _6 alkyl and C(O)N(C 1 _6 alkyl) 2 ;
and optionally substituted with 1, 2 or 3 additional substituents selected from
halogen, C1-6 alkyl and C1-6 haloalkyl.
         In some embodiments of compounds of Formula 1,11, 111, IV(a), IV(b),
                                              47

V(a), V(b), VI, VII(a), VII(b), VIII(a), VIII(b), IX, X(a), X(b), XI(a), XI(b), XII(a),
XII(b), XII(c), XII(d), XII(e), XII(f), XII(g), XII(h), XII(i), XII(j), XII(k), XII(I), XII(m),
XII(n) or XII(o), R2 is phenyl substituted at the meta position with a substituent
selected from (CH 2)nC(O)ORa and (CH 2)nC(O)NRbRc; and optionally
substituted with 1, 2 or 3 additional substituents selected from halogen, CN,
(CH 2 )nORa, (CH 2 )nOC(O)Ra, (CH 2 )nOC(O)ORa, (CH 2)nOC(O)N RRC,
(CH 2)nNRbRc, (CH 2)nN RdC(O)Ra, (CH 2)nN RdC(O)ORa, (CH 2)nN RdC(O)NRbRc,
(CH 2)nN RdC(O)C(O)NRbRc, (CH 2)nN RdC(S)Ra, (CH 2 )nN RdC(S)ORa,
(CH 2 )nN RdC(S)NRbRc, (CH 2 )nN RdC(NRe)NRbRc, (CH 2 )nNRdS(O) Ra,
(CH2 )nN RdSO 2 Ra, (CH 2 )nNRdSO 2 N RbRc, (CH 2 )nC(O)Ra, (CH 2 )nC(O)ORa,
(CH 2 )nC(O)N RRC, (CH 2)nC(S)Ra, (CH 2 )nC(S)ORa, (CH 2 )nC(S)N RRC,
(CH 2)nC(NRe)N RRc, (CH 2 )nSRa, (CH 2 )nS(O)Ra, (CH 2)nSO 2 Ra
(CH 2 )nSO 2 NRbRc, C1-6 alkyl, C1-6 haloalkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, (CH 2 )nC3 _
8 cycloalkyl,   (CH 2)n3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl, (CH 2)nphenyl,
(CH 2)nnaphthyl and (CH 2)n5-1 0 membered heteroaryl, wherein each of the C1_
6 alkyl,  C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, (CH 2 )nC3 -8 cycloalkyl, (CH 2)n3-8 membered
heterocycloalkyl, (CH 2)nphenyl, (CH 2)nnaphthyl and (CH 2)n5-1 0 membered
heteroaryl groups is optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 Rf substituents.
         In some embodiments of compounds of Formula 1,11, 111, IV(a), IV(b),
V(a), V(b), VI, VII(a), VII(b), VIII(a), VIII(b), IX, X(a), X(b), XI(a), XI(b), XII(a),
XII(b), XII(c), XII(d), XII(e), XII(f), XII(g), XII(h), XII(i), XII(j), XII(k), XII(I), XII(m),
XII(n) or XII(o), R2 is phenyl substituted at the meta position with a substituent
selected from (CH 2)nC(O)ORa and (CH 2)nC(O)NRbRc, and optionally
substituted with 1, 2 or 3 additional substituents selected from halogen,
hydroxyl, C1-6 alkoxy, CN, C1-6 alkyl and C1-6 haloalkyl.
         In some embodiments of compounds of Formula 1,11, 111, IV(a), IV(b),
V(a), V(b), VI, VII(a), VII(b), VIII(a), VIII(b), IX, X(a), X(b), XI(a), XI(b), XII(a),
XII(b), XII(c), XII(d), XII(e), XII(f), XII(g), XII(h), XII(i), XII(j), XII(k), XII(I), XII(m),
XII(n) or XII(o), R2 is phenyl substituted at the meta position with a substituent
selected from C(O)OH, C(O)NH 2, C(O)OC1-6 alkyl, C(O)NHC 1 _6 alkyl and
C(O)N(C 1 _6 alkyl)2 ; and optionally substituted with 1, 2 or 3 additional
substituents selected from halogen, hydroxyl, C1-6 alkoxy, CN, C1-6 alkyl and
C1-6 haloalkyl.
                                              4R

         In some embodiments of compounds of Formula 1,11, 111, IV(a), IV(b),
V(a), V(b), VI, VII(a), VII(b), VIII(a), VIII(b), IX, X(a), X(b), XI(a), XI(b), XII(a),
XII(b), XII(c), XII(d), XII(e), XII(f), XII(g), XII(h), XII(i), XII(j), XII(k), XII(I), XII(m),
XII(n) or XII(o), R2 is phenyl substituted with (CH 2)nNRdC(O)Ra, wherein Ra is
C1-6 alkyl or 3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl, each optionally substituted with
1, 2 or 3 substituents selected from halogen, CN, oxo, (CH 2)nORa,
(CH 2 )nOC(O)Ra,    (CH 2)nOC(O)ORa, (CH 2)nOC(O)N RRC, (CH 2 )nNR Rc,
(CH 2 )nNRdC(O)Ra, (CH 2 )nNRdC(O)ORa, (CH 2 )nNRdC(O)NRbRc,
(CH 2 )nN RdC(O)C(O)NRbRc, (CH 2)nN RdC(S)Ra, (CH 2 )nN RdC(S)ORa,
(CH 2 )nN RdC(S)NRbRc, (CH 2 )nN RdC(N Re)NRbRc, (CH 2 )nNRdS(O) Ra,
(CH2 )nN RdSO 2 Ra, (CH 2 )nNRdSO 2 N RbRc, (CH 2 )nC(O)Ra, (CH 2 )nC(O)ORa,
(CH2)nC(O)N RRC, (CH 2)nC(S)Ra, (CH 2)nC(S)ORa, (CH 2)nC(S)N RRC,
(CH 2)nC(NRe)N RRc, (CH 2 )nSRa, (CH 2 )nS(O)Ra, (CH 2 )nSO 2 Ra
(CH 2 )nSO 2 NRbRc, C1-6 alkyl, C1-6 haloalkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, (CH 2 )nC3 _
8 cycloalkyl, (CH 2)n3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl, (CH 2)nphenyl,
(CH 2)nnaphthyl and (CH 2)n5-1 0 membered heteroaryl; and optionally
substituted with 1, 2 or 3 additional substituents selected from halogen, CN,
(CH 2 )nORa, (CH 2 )nOC(O)Ra, (CH 2 )nOC(O)ORa, (CH 2)nOC(O)N RRC,
(CH 2 )nNRbRc, (CH 2 )nN RdC(O)Ra, (CH 2 )nN RdC(O)ORa, (CH 2)nN RdC(O)NRbRc,
(CH 2 )nN RdC(O)C(O)NRbRc, (CH 2)nN RdC(S)Ra, (CH 2 )nN RdC(S)ORa,
(CH 2 )nN RdC(S)NRbRc, (CH 2 )nN RdC(N Re)NRbRc, (CH 2 )nNRdS(O) Ra,
(CH2 )nN RdSO 2 Ra, (CH 2 )nNRdSO 2 N RbRc, (CH 2 )nC(O)Ra, (CH 2 )nC(O)ORa,
(CH2)nC(O)N RRC, (CH 2)nC(S)Ra, (CH 2)nC(S)ORa, (CH 2)nC(S)N RRC,
(CH 2 )nC(NRe)N RRc, (CH 2 )nSRa, (CH 2 )nS(O)Ra, (CH 2 )nSO 2 Ra
(CH 2 )nSO 2 NRbRc, C1-6 alkyl, C1-6 haloalkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, (CH 2 )nC3 _
8 cycloalkyl, (CH 2)n3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl, (CH 2)nphenyl,
(CH 2)nnaphthyl and (CH 2)n5-1 0 membered heteroaryl, wherein each of the C1
6 alkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, (CH 2 )nC3 -8 cycloalkyl, (CH 2)n3-8 membered
heterocycloalkyl, (CH 2)nphenyl, (CH 2)nnaphthyl and (CH 2)n5-1 0 membered
heteroaryl groups is optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 Rf substituents.
         In some embodiments of compounds of Formula 1,11, 111, IV(a), IV(b),
V(a), V(b), VI, VII(a), VII(b), VIII(a), VIII(b), IX, X(a), X(b), XI(a), XI(b), XII(a),
XII(b), XII(c), XII(d), XII(e), XII(f), XII(g), XII(h), XII(i), XII(j), XII(k), XII(I), XII(m),
                                              4P

XII(n) or XII(o), R2 is phenyl substituted with (CH 2)nNRdC(O)Ra, wherein Ra is
selected from C1_6 alkyl, C1_6 alkyl-OH and C1_6 alkyl-NH 2, each optionally
substituted with 1, 2 or 3 substituents selected from halogen, CN, oxo,
(CH2)nORa, (CH 2 )nOC(O)Ra, (CH 2 )nOC(O)ORa, (CH 2)nOC(O)N RRC,
(CH 2)nNRbRc, (CH 2)nN RdC(O)Ra, (CH 2)nN RdC(O)ORa, (CH 2)nN RdC(O)NRbRc,
(CH2 )nN RdSO 2 Ra, (CH 2 )nNRdSO 2 N RbRc, (CH 2 )nC(O)Ra, (CH 2 )nC(O)ORa,
(CH2)nC(O)N RRC, (CH 2)nSRa, (CH 2)nS(O)Ra, (CH 2 )nSO 2 Ra, (CH 2 )nSO 2 NRRC,
C1-6 alkyl, C1-6 haloalkyl, C2_6 alkenyl, C2_6 alkynyl, (CH 2 )nC3 -8 cycloalkyl,
(CH 2)n3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl, (CH 2)nphenyl, and (CH 2)n5-1 0
membered heteroaryl; and optionally substituted with 1, 2 or 3 additional
substituents selected from halogen, CN, (CH 2 )nORa, (CH 2)nOC(O)Ra
(CH 2)nOC(O)ORa, (CH 2)nOC(O)NRbRc, (CH 2)nNRbRc, (CH 2)nN RdC(O) Ra,
(CH 2)nN RdC(O)ORa, (CH 2)nN RdC(O)NRbRc, (CH 2)nN RdC(O)C(O)NRbRc,
(CH 2)nN RdC(S)Ra, (CH 2)nN RdC(S)ORa, (CH 2)nN RdC(S)NRbRc,
(CH 2 )nNRdC(NRe)NRbRc, (CH 2 )nNRdS(O)Ra, (CH 2 )nNRdSO 2 Ra,
(CH 2)nNRdSO 2 NRRC, (CH 2)nC(O)Ra, (CH 2)nC(O)ORa, (CH 2)nC(O)N RRC,
(CH 2 )nC(S)Ra, (CH 2 )nC(S)ORa, (CH 2 )nC(S)N RRC, (CH 2 )nC(NRe)N RRC,
(CH2 )nSRa, (CH 2)nS(O)Ra, (CH 2 )nSO 2 Ra, (CH 2)nSO 2 NRRc, C1-6 alkyl, C1-6
haloalkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, (CH 2 )nC3 -8 cycloalkyl, (CH 2)n3-8
membered heterocycloalkyl, (CH 2)nphenyl, (CH 2)nnaphthyl and (CH 2)n5-1 0
membered heteroaryl, wherein each of the C1-6 alkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl,
(CH 2 )nC3 -8 cycloalkyl, (CH 2)n3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl, (CH 2)nphenyl,
(CH 2)nnaphthyl and (CH 2)n5-1 0 membered heteroaryl groups is optionally
substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 Rf substituents.
        In some embodiments of compounds of Formula 1,11, 111, IV(a), IV(b),
V(a), V(b), VI, VII(a), VII(b), VIII(a), VIII(b), IX, X(a), X(b), XI(a), XI(b), XII(a),
XII(b), XII(c), XII(d), XII(e), XII(f), XII(g), XII(h), XII(i), XII(j), XII(k), XII(I), XII(m),
XII(n) or XII(o), R2 is selected from 3-benzamide, N-methyl-3-benzamide, N,N
dimethyl-3-benzamide, 4-fluoro-3-benzamide, N-methyl-4-fluoro-3-benzamide,
N,N-dimethyl-4-fluoro-3-benzamide, 3-benzoic acid, methyl-3-benzoate, 4
fluoro-3-benzoic acid, and methyl-4-fluoro-3-benzoate.
        In some embodiments of compounds of Formula 1,11, 111, IV(a), IV(b),
V(a), V(b), VI, VII(a), VII(b), VIII(a), VIII(b), IX, X(a), X(b), XI(a), XI(b), XII(a),
                                              sofl

XII(b), XII(c), XII(d), XII(e), XII(f), XII(g), XII(h), XII(i), XII(j), XII(k), XII(I), XII(m),
XII(n) or XII(o), R2 is 5-10 membered heteroaryl optionally substituted with 1,
2, 3, 4 or 5 substituents selected from halogen, CN, oxo, (CH 2)nORa
(CH 2 )nOC(O)Ra, (CH 2)nOC(O)ORa, (CH 2)nOC(O)N RRC, (CH 2 )nNR Rc,
(CH 2 )nNRdC(O)Ra, (CH 2 )nNRdC(O)ORa, (CH 2 )nNRdC(O)NRbRc,
(CH 2)nN RdC(O)C(O)NRbRc, (CH 2)nN RdC(S)Ra, (CH 2)nN RdC(S)ORa,
(CH 2)nN RdC(S)NRbRc, (CH 2)nN RdC(N Re)NRbRc, (CH 2)nNRdS(O) Ra,
(CH2 )nN RdSO 2 Ra, (CH 2 )nNRdSO 2 N RbRC, (CH 2 )nC(O)Ra, (CH 2 )nC(O)ORa,
(CH2)nC(O)NRbRC, (CH 2)nC(S)Ra, (CH 2 )nC(S)ORa, (CH 2)nC(S)NRbRC,
(CH 2 )nC(NRe)N RRc, (CH 2 )nSRa, (CH 2 )nS(O)Ra, (CH 2)nSO 2 Ra
(CH 2 )nSO 2 NRbRC, C1-6 alkyl, C1-6 haloalkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, (CH 2 )nC3 _
8 cycloalkyl,   (CH 2)n3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl, (CH 2)nphenyl,
(CH 2)nnaphthyl and (CH 2)n5-1 0 membered heteroaryl, wherein each of the C1_
6 alkyl,  C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, (CH 2 )nC3 -8 cycloalkyl, (CH 2)n3-8 membered
heterocycloalkyl, (CH 2)nphenyl, (CH 2)nnaphthyl and (CH 2)n5-1 0 membered
heteroaryl groups is optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 Rf substituents.
         In some embodiments of compounds of Formula 1,11, 111, IV(a), IV(b),
V(a), V(b), VI, VII(a), VII(b), VIII(a), VIII(b), IX, X(a), X(b), XI(a), XI(b), XII(a),
XII(b), XII(c), XII(d), XII(e), XII(f), XII(g), XII(h), XII(i), XII(j), XII(k), XII(I), XII(m),
XII(n) or XII(o), R2 is selected from pyridyl, pyrimidyl, pyrazyl, pyridazyl, triazyl,
furanyl, pyrrolyl, thiophenyl, thiazolyl, isothiazolyl, thiadiazolyl, oxazolyl,
isoxazolyl, oxadiazolyl, imidazolyl, triazolyl and tetrazolyl, each optionally
substituted with 1, 2, 3 or 4 substituents selected from halogen, CN, oxo,
(CH 2 )nORa, (CH 2)nOC(O)Ra, (CH 2)nOC(O)ORa, (CH 2)nOC(O)N RRC,
(CH 2)nNRbRc, (CH 2)nN RdC(O)Ra, (CH 2)nN RdC(O)ORa, (CH 2)nN RdC(O)NRbRc,
(CH 2)nN RdC(O)C(O)NRbRc, (CH 2)nN RdC(S)Ra, (CH 2)nN RdC(S)ORa,
(CH 2)nN RdC(S)NRbRc, (CH 2)nN RdC(N Re)NRbRc, (CH 2)nNRdS(O) Ra,
(CH 2 )nN RdSO 2 Ra, (CH 2 )nNRdSO 2 N RbRc, (CH 2 )nC(O)Ra, (CH 2 )nC(O)ORa,
(CH2)nC(O)NRbRc, (CH 2)nC(S)Ra, (CH 2 )nC(S)ORa, (CH 2)nC(S)NRbRc,
(CH 2)nC(NRe)N RRc, (CH 2)nSRa, (CH 2)nS(O)Ra, (CH 2)nSO 2 Ra
(CH 2 )nSO 2 NRbRc, C1-6 alkyl, C1-6 haloalkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, (CH 2 )nC3 _
8 cycloalkyl,   (CH 2)n3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl, (CH 2)nphenyl,
(CH 2)nnaphthyl and (CH 2)n5-1 0 membered heteroaryl, wherein each of the C1
                                              F51

6 alkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, (CH 2 )nC3 -8 cycloalkyl, (CH 2)n3-8 membered
heterocycloalkyl, (CH 2)nphenyl, (CH 2)nnaphthyl and (CH 2)n5-1 0 membered
heteroaryl groups is optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 Rf substituents.
         In some embodiments of compounds of Formula 1,11, 111, IV(a), IV(b),
V(a), V(b), VI, VII(a), VII(b), VIII(a), VIII(b), IX, X(a), X(b), XI(a), XI(b), XII(a),
XII(b), XII(c), XII(d), XII(e), XII(f), XII(g), XII(h), XII(i), XII(j), XII(k), XII(I), XII(m),
XII(n) or XII(o), R2 is selected from pyridyl, pyrimidyl, pyrazyl, pyridazyl, triazyl,
furanyl, pyrrolyl, thiophenyl, thiazolyl, isothiazolyl, thiadiazolyl, oxazolyl,
isoxazolyl, oxadiazolyl, imidazolyl, triazolyl and tetrazolyl, each optionally
substituted with a substituent selected from (CH 2)nC(O)ORa and
(CH 2)nC(O)NRbRc; and optionally substituted with 1, 2 or 3 additional
substituents selected from halogen, CN, oxo, (CH 2)nORa, (CH 2)nOC(O)Ra,
(CH 2)nOC(O)ORa, (CH 2)nOC(O)NRbRc, (CH 2)nNRbRc, (CH 2)nN RdC(O) Ra,
(CH 2)nN RdC(O)ORa, (CH 2)nN RdC(O)NRbRc, (CH 2)nN RdC(O)C(O)NRbRc,
(CH 2)nN RdC(S)Ra, (CH 2)nN RdC(S)ORa, (CH 2)nN RdC(S)NRbRc,
(CH 2 )nNRdC(NRe)NRbRc, (CH 2 )nNRdS(O)Ra, (CH 2 )nNRdSO 2 Ra,
(CH 2)nNRdSO 2 NRRC, (CH 2)nC(O)Ra, (CH 2)nC(O)ORa, (CH 2)nC(O)N RRC,
(CH 2 )nC(S)Ra, (CH 2 )nC(S)ORa, (CH 2)nC(S)N RRC, (CH 2)nC(NRe)N RRC,
(CH2 )nSRa, (CH 2)nS(O)Ra, (CH 2 )nSO 2 Ra, (CH 2)nSO 2 NRRc, C1-6 alkyl, C1-6
haloalkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, (CH 2 )nC3 -8 cycloalkyl, (CH 2)n3-8
membered heterocycloalkyl, (CH 2)nphenyl, (CH 2)nnaphthyl and (CH 2)n5-1 0
membered heteroaryl, wherein each of the C1_6 alkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl,
(CH 2 )nC3 -8 cycloalkyl, (CH 2)n3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl, (CH 2)nphenyl,
(CH 2)nnaphthyl and (CH 2)n5-1 0 membered heteroaryl groups is optionally
substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 Rf substituents.
         In some embodiments of compounds of Formula 1,11, 111, IV(a), IV(b),
V(a), V(b), VI, VII(a), VII(b), VIII(a), VIII(b), IX, X(a), X(b), XI(a), XI(b), XII(a),
XII(b), XII(c), XII(d), XII(e), XII(f), XII(g), XII(h), XII(i), XII(j), XII(k), XII(l), XII(m),
XII(n) or XII(o), R2 is selected from pyridyl, pyrimidyl, pyrazyl, pyridazyl and
triazyl, each optionally substituted with (CH 2)nC(O)NRbRc.
         In some embodiments of compounds of Formula 1,11, 111, IV(a), IV(b),
V(a), V(b), VI, VII(a), VII(b), VIII(a), VIII(b), IX, X(a), X(b), XI(a), XI(b), XII(a),
XII(b), XII(c), XII(d), XII(e), XII(f), XII(g), XII(h), XII(i), XII(j), XII(k), XII(I), XII(m),
                                              5?2

XII(n) or XII(o), R2 is selected from furanyl, pyrrolyl, thiophenyl, thiazolyl,
isothiazolyl, thiadiazolyl, oxazolyl, isoxazolyl, oxadiazolyl, imidazolyl, triazolyl
and tetrazolyl, each optionally substituted with (CH 2)nC(O)NRbRc.
         In some embodiments of compounds of Formula 1,11, 111, IV(a), IV(b),
V(a), V(b), VI, VII(a), VII(b), VIII(a), VIII(b), IX, X(a), X(b), XI(a), XI(b), XII(a),
XII(b), XII(c), XII(d), XII(e), XII(f), XII(g), XII(h), XII(i), XII(j), XII(k), XII(I), XII(m),
XII(n) or XII(o), R2 is selected from pyridyl, pyrimidyl, pyrazyl, pyridazyl and
triazyl, each optionally substituted with (CH 2)nC(O)NH 2.
         In some embodiments of compounds of Formula 1,11, 111, IV(a), IV(b),
V(a), V(b), VI, VII(a), VII(b), VIII(a), VIII(b), IX, X(a), X(b), XI(a), XI(b), XII(a),
XII(b), XII(c), XII(d), XII(e), XII(f), XII(g), XII(h), XII(i), XII(j), XII(k), XII(I), XII(m),
XII(n) or XII(o), R2 is selected from furanyl, pyrrolyl, thiophenyl, thiazolyl,
isothiazolyl, thiadiazolyl, oxazolyl, isoxazolyl, oxadiazolyl, imidazolyl, triazolyl
and tetrazolyl, each optionally substituted with (CH 2 )nC(O)NH 2.
         In some embodiments of compounds of Formula 1,11, 111, IV(a), IV(b),
V(a), V(b), VI, VII(a), VII(b), VIII(a), VIII(b), IX, X(a), X(b), XI(a), XI(b), XII(a),
XII(b), XII(c), XII(d), XII(e), XII(f), XII(g), XII(h), XII(i), XII(j), XII(k), XII(I), XII(m),
XII(n) or XII(o), R2 is selected from pyridyl, pyrimidyl, pyrazyl, pyridazyl, triazyl,
furanyl, pyrrolyl, thiophenyl, thiazolyl, isothiazolyl, thiadiazolyl, oxazolyl,
isoxazolyl, oxadiazolyl, imidazolyl, triazolyl and tetrazolyl, each optionally
substituted with (CH 2)nNRdC(O)Ra, wherein Ra is C1-6 alkyl or 3-8 membered
heterocycloalkyl, each optionally substituted with 1, 2 or 3 substituents
selected from halogen, CN, oxo, (CH 2)nORa, (CH 2)nOC(O)Ra
(CH 2)nOC(O)ORa, (CH 2)nOC(O)NRbRc, (CH 2)nNRbRc, (CH 2 )nNRdC(O) Ra,
(CH 2 )nNRdC(O)ORa, (CH 2 )nNRdC(O)NRbRc, (CH 2)nNRdC(O)C(O)NRbRc,
(CH 2 )nNRdC(S)Ra, (CH 2 )nNRdC(S)ORa, (CH 2)nNRdC(S)NRbRc,
(CH 2 )nNRdC(NRe)NRbRc, (CH 2 )nNRdS(O)Ra, (CH 2 )nNRdSO 2 Ra,
(CH 2)nNRdSO 2 NRRC, (CH 2)nC(O)Ra, (CH 2)nC(O)ORa, (CH 2)nC(O)N RRC,
(CH 2 )nC(S)Ra, (CH 2 )nC(S)ORa, (CH 2 )nC(S)N RRC, (CH 2 )nC(NRe)N RRC,
(CH 2 )nSRa, (CH 2)nS(O)Ra, (CH 2 )nSO 2 Ra, (CH 2)nSO 2 NRbRc, C1-6 alkyl, C1-6
haloalkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, (CH 2 )nC3 -8 cycloalkyl, (CH 2 )n3-8
membered heterocycloalkyl, (CH 2)nphenyl, (CH 2)nnaphthyl and (CH 2)n5-1 0
membered heteroaryl, wherein each of the C1-6 alkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl,

(CH2 )nC3 -8 cycloalkyl, (CH 2)n3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl, (CH 2)nphenyl,
(CH 2)nnaphthyl and (CH 2)n5-1 0 membered heteroaryl groups is optionally
substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 Rf substituents.
         In some embodiments of compounds of Formula 1,11, 111, IV(a), IV(b),
V(a), V(b), VI, VII(a), VII(b), VIII(a), VIII(b), IX, X(a), X(b), XI(a), XI(b), XII(a),
XII(b), XII(c), XII(d), XII(e), XII(f), XII(g), XII(h), XII(i), XII(j), XII(k), XII(I), XII(m),
XII(n) or XII(o), R2 is selected from pyridyl, pyrimidyl, pyrazyl, pyridazyl and
triazyl, each optionally substituted with (CH 2)nNRdC(O)Ra, wherein Ra is
selected from C1-6 alkyl, C1_6 alkyl-OH and C1_6 alkyl-NH 2, each optionally
substituted with 1, 2 or 3 substituents selected from halogen, CN, (CH 2)nORa,
(CH2)nOC(O)Ra, (CH 2)nOC(O)ORa, (CH 2)nOC(O)N RRC, (CH 2)nNRbRc,
(CH 2 )nNRdC(O)Ra, (CH 2 )nNRdC(O)ORa, (CH 2 )nNRdC(O)NRbRc,
(CH2 )nN RdSO 2 Ra, (CH 2 )nNRdSO 2 N RbRc, (CH 2 )nC(O)Ra, (CH 2 )nC(O)ORa,
(CH2 )nC(O)N RRC, (CH 2)nSRa, (CH 2)nS(O)Ra, (CH 2 )nSO 2 Ra, (CH 2 )nSO 2 N RRC,
C1-6 alkyl, C1-6 haloalkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, (CH 2 )nC3 -8 cycloalkyl,
(CH 2)n3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl, (CH 2)nphenyl, (CH 2)nnaphthyl and
(CH 2)n5-1 0 membered heteroaryl.
         In some embodiments of compounds of Formula 1,11, 111, IV(a), IV(b),
V(a), V(b), VI, VII(a), VII(b), VIII(a), VIII(b), IX, X(a), X(b), XI(a), XI(b), XII(a),
XII(b), XII(c), XII(d), XII(e), XII(f), XII(g), XII(h), XII(i), XII(j), XII(k), XII(I), XII(m),
XII(n) or XII(o), R2 is selected furanyl, pyrrolyl, thiophenyl, thiazolyl,
isothiazolyl, thiadiazolyl, oxazolyl, isoxazolyl, oxadiazolyl, imidazolyl, triazolyl
and tetrazolyl, each optionally substituted with (CH 2)nNRdC(O)Ra, wherein Ra
is selected from C1-6 alkyl, C1-6 alkyl-OH and C1-6 alkyl-NH 2, each optionally
substituted with 1, 2 or 3 substituents selected from halogen, CN, (CH 2)nORa
(CH 2 )nOC(O)Ra,    (CH 2)nOC(O)ORa, (CH 2)nOC(O)N RRC, (CH 2)nNRbRc,
(CH 2 )nNRdC(O)Ra, (CH 2 )nNRdC(O)ORa, (CH 2 )nNRdC(O)NRbRc,
(CH2 )nN RdSO 2 Ra, (CH 2 )nNRdSO 2 N RbRc, (CH 2 )nC(O)Ra, (CH 2 )nC(O)ORa,
(CH2)nC(O)N RRC, (CH 2)nSRa, (CH 2)nS(O)Ra, (CH 2 )nSO 2 Ra, (CH 2 )nSO 2 N RRC,
C1-6 alkyl, C1-6 haloalkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, (CH 2 )nC3 -8 cycloalkyl,
(CH 2)n3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl, (CH 2)nphenyl, (CH 2)nnaphthyl and
(CH 2)n5-1 0 membered heteroaryl.
         In some embodiments of compounds of Formula 1,11, 111, IV(a), IV(b),
                                              rn4

V(a), V(b), VI, VII(a), VII(b), VIII(a), VIII(b), IX, X(a), X(b), XI(a), XI(b), XII(a),
XII(b), XII(c), XII(d), XII(e), XII(f), XII(g), XII(h), XII(i), XII(j), XII(k), XII(I), XII(m),
XII(n) or XII(o), R2 is selected from indolyl, indazolyl, benzimidazolyl,
benzoxazolyl and benzoisoxazolyl, each optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3 or 4
substituents selected from halogen, CN, oxo, (CH 2)nORa, (CH 2)nOC(O)Ra,
(CH 2)nOC(O)ORa, (CH 2)nOC(O)NRbRc, (CH 2)nNRbRc, (CH 2 )nN RdC(O) Ra,
(CH 2)nN RdC(O)ORa, (CH 2)nN RdC(O)NRbRc, (CH 2)nN RdC(O)C(O)NRbRc,
(CH 2 )nN RdC(S)Ra, (CH 2 )nN RdC(S)ORa, (CH 2)nN RdC(S)NRbRc,
(CH 2 )nNRdC(NRe)NRbRc, (CH 2 )nNRdS(O)Ra, (CH 2 )nNRdSO 2 Ra,
(CH 2 )nNRdSO 2 N RRC, (CH 2 )nC(O)Ra, (CH 2 )nC(O)ORa, (CH 2)nC(O)N RRC,
(CH 2 )nC(S)Ra, (CH 2 )nC(S)ORa, (CH 2 )nC(S)N RRC, (CH 2 )nC(NRe)N RRC,
(CH2 )nSRa, (CH 2)nS(O)Ra, (CH 2 )nSO 2 Ra, (CH 2)nSO 2 NRRc, C1-6 alkyl, C1-6
haloalkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, (CH 2 )nC3 -8 cycloalkyl, (CH 2)n3-8
membered heterocycloalkyl, (CH 2)nphenyl, (CH 2)nnaphthyl and (CH 2)n5-1 0
membered heteroaryl, wherein each of the C1_6 alkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl,
(CH 2 )nC3 -8 cycloalkyl, (CH 2)n3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl, (CH 2)nphenyl,
(CH 2)nnaphthyl and (CH 2)n5-1 0 membered heteroaryl groups is optionally
substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 Rf substituents.
        In some embodiments of compounds of Formula 1,11, 111, IV(a), IV(b),
V(a), V(b), VI, VII(a), VII(b), VIII(a), VIII(b), IX, X(a), X(b), XI(a), XI(b), XII(a),
XII(b), XII(c), XII(d), XII(e), XII(f), XII(g), XII(h), XII(i), XII(j), XII(k), XII(I), XII(m),
XII(n) or XII(o), R2 is selected from 1H-indazol-6-yl, 1H-indazol-5-yl, 1H
indazol-4-yl, 3-amino(1 H-indazol-5-yl), 3-amino(1 H-indazol-6-yl), 3-amino(1 H
indazol-7-yl), 1-methyl(1 H-indazol-6-yl), 3-methyl(1 H-indazol-6-yl), 3-amino-1
methyl(1 H-indazol-5-yl), 3-cyano(1 H-indazol-5-yl), 3-carboxamide(1 H-indazol
5-yl), 3-carboxamidine(1 H-indazol-5-yl), 3-vinyl(1 H-indazol-5-yl), 3-ethyl(1 H
indazol-5-yl), 3-acetamide(1 H-indazol-5-y), 3-methylsulfonylamine(1 H
indazol-5-yl), 3-methoxycarboxamide(1 H-indazol-5-yl), 3-methylamino(1 H
indazol-5-yl), 3-dimethylamino(1 H-indazol-5-yl), 3-ethylamino(1 H-indazol-5
yl), 3-(2-aminoethyl)amino(1 H-indazol-5-yl), 3-(2-hydroxyethyl)amino(1 H
indazol-5-yl), 3-[(methylethyl)amino](1 H-indazol-5-yl), 6-benzimidazol-5-yl, 6
(2-methylbenzimidazo-5-y), 2-aminobenzimidazol-5-yl, 2
hydroxybenzimidazol-5-yl, 2-acetamidebenzimidazol-5-y, 3-aminobenzo[3,4
                                              55F

d]isoxazol-5-yl, 3-aminobenzo[d]isoxazol-6-y, 3-aminobenzo[d]isoxazol-7-yl,
2-methylbenzoxazol-5-yl and 2-methylbenzoxazol-6-yl.
        In some embodiments of compounds of Formula 1,11, 111, IV(a), IV(b),
V(a), V(b), VI, VII(a), VII(b), VIII(a), VIII(b), IX, X(a), X(b), XI(a), XI(b), XII(a),
XII(b), XII(c), XII(d), XII(e), XII(f), XII(g), XII(h), XII(i), XII(j), XII(k), XII(I), XII(m),
XII(n) or XII(o), R2 is selected from 3-6 membered heterocycloalkyl and 3-6
membered heterocycloalkenyl, each optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5
substituents selected from halogen, CN, oxo, (CH 2)nORa, (CH 2 )nOC(O)Ra
(CH 2)nOC(O)ORa, (CH 2)nOC(O)NRbRc, (CH 2)nNRbRc, (CH 2 )nN RdC(O) Ra,
(CH 2 )nN RdC(O)ORa, (CH 2 )nN RdC(O)NRbRc, (CH 2)nN RdC(O)C(O)NRbRc,
(CH 2 )nN RdC(S)Ra, (CH 2 )nN RdC(S)ORa, (CH 2)nN RdC(S)NRbRc,
(CH 2 )nNRdC(NRe)NRbRc, (CH 2 )nNRdS(O)Ra, (CH 2 )nNRdSO 2 Ra,
(CH 2 )nNRdSO 2 N RRC, (CH 2 )nC(O)Ra, (CH 2 )nC(O)ORa, (CH 2)nC(O)N RRC,
(CH 2 )nC(S)Ra, (CH 2 )nC(S)ORa, (CH 2 )nC(S)N RRC, (CH 2 )nC(NRe)N RRC,
(CH2 )nSRa, (CH 2)nS(O)Ra, (CH 2 )nSO 2 Ra, (CH 2)nSO 2 NRRc, C1-6 alkyl, C1-6
haloalkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, (CH 2 )nC3 -8 cycloalkyl, (CH 2)n3-8
membered heterocycloalkyl, (CH 2)nphenyl, (CH 2)nnaphthyl and (CH 2)n5-1 0
membered heteroaryl, wherein each of the C1_6 alkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl,
(CH 2 )nC3 -8 cycloalkyl, (CH 2)n3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl, (CH 2)nphenyl,
(CH 2)nnaphthyl and (CH 2)n5-1 0 membered heteroaryl groups is optionally
substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 Rf substituents.
        In some embodiments of compounds of Formula 1,11, 111, IV(a), IV(b),
V(a), V(b), VI, VII(a), VII(b), VIII(a), VIII(b), IX, X(a), X(b), XI(a), XI(b), XII(a),
XII(b), XII(c), XII(d), XII(e), XII(f), XII(g), XII(h), XII(i), XII(j), XII(k), XII(I), XII(m),
XII(n) or XII(o), R2 is selected from aziridinyl, azetidinyl, pyrrolidinyl,
piperidinyl, piperazinyl and morpholinyl, each optionally substituted with 1, 2,
3, 4 or 5 substituents selected from halogen, CN, oxo, (CH 2)nORa
(CH 2 )nOC(O)Ra, (CH 2)nOC(O)ORa, (CH 2)nOC(O)N RRC, (CH 2 )nNR Rc,
(CH 2 )nNRdC(O)Ra, (CH 2 )nNRdC(O)ORa, (CH 2 )nNRdC(O)NRbRc,
(CH 2 )nN RdC(O)C(O)NRbRc, (CH 2)nN RdC(S)Ra, (CH 2 )nN RdC(S)ORa,
(CH 2 )nN RdC(S)NRbRc, (CH 2 )nN RdC(NRe)NRbRc, (CH 2 )nNRdS(O) Ra,
(CH 2 )nN RdSO 2 Ra, (CH 2 )nNRdSO 2 N RbRc, (CH 2 )nC(O)Ra, (CH 2 )nC(O)ORa,
(CH 2)nC(O)NRbRc, (CH 2)nC(S)Ra, (CH 2 )nC(S)ORa, (CH 2 )nC(S)NRbRc,
                                              .F;F

(CH2 )nC(NRe)N RRc, (CH 2 )nSRa, (CH 2 )nS(O)Ra, (CH 2)nSO 2 Ra
(CH2 )nSO 2 NRbRc, C1-6 alkyl, C1-6 haloalkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, (CH 2)nC3 _
8 cycloalkyl, (CH 2)n3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl, (CH 2)nphenyl,
(CH 2)nnaphthyl and (CH 2)n5-1 0 membered heteroaryl, wherein each of the C1_
6 alkyl,  C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, (CH 2 )nC3 -8 cycloalkyl, (CH 2 )n3-8 membered
heterocycloalkyl, (CH 2)nphenyl, (CH 2)nnaphthyl and (CH 2)n5-1 0 membered
heteroaryl groups is optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 Rf substituents.
         In some embodiments of compounds of Formula 1,11, 111, IV(a), IV(b),
V(a), V(b), VI, VII(a), VII(b), VIII(a), VIII(b), IX, X(a), X(b), XI(a) or XI(b), R2 is
NRbRc, wherein Rb and Rc are as defined herein.
         In some embodiments of compounds of Formula 1,11, 111, IV(a), IV(b),
V(a), V(b), VI, VII(a), VII(b), VIII(a), VIII(b), IX, X(a), X(b), XI(a) or XI(b), R2 is
NRbRc, wherein one of Rb and Rc is hydrogen and the other is C1-6 alkyl
optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 Rf substituents.
         In some embodiments of compounds of Formula 1,11, 111, IV(a), IV(b),
V(a), V(b), VI, VII(a), VII(b), VIII(a), VIII(b), IX, X(a), X(b), XI(a) or XI(b), X is
C(O)- and R2 is NRbRc, wherein Rb and Rc are as defined herein.
         In some embodiments of compounds of Formula 1,11, 111, IV(a), IV(b),
V(a), V(b), VI, VII(a), VII(b), VIII(a), VIII(b), IX, X(a), X(b), XI(a) or XI(b), X is
-C(O)- and R2 is NRbRc, wherein one of Rb and Rc is hydrogen and the other
is C1-6 alkyl optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 Rf substituents.
         In some embodiments of compounds of Formula 1,11, 111, IV(a), IV(b),
V(a), V(b), VI, VII(a), VII(b), VIII(a), VIII(b), IX, X(a), X(b), XI(a) or XI(b), X is
(CH2)p- and R2 is NRbRc, wherein Rb and Rc are as defined herein.
         In some embodiments of compounds of Formula 1,11, 111, IV(a), IV(b),
V(a), V(b), VI, VII(a), VII(b), VIII(a), VIII(b), IX, X(a), X(b), XI(a) or XI(b), X is
-(CH 2)p- and R2 is NRbRc, wherein one of Rb and Rc is hydrogen and the other
is C1-6 alkyl optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 Rf substituents.
         In some embodiments, X, R2 and R , together with the carbon atoms to
which they are bound, form a 5-6 membered ring optionally containing one or
more heteroatoms selected from oxygen nitrogen and sulfur, and optionally
containing one or more double bonds, and optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4
                                             5~7

or 5 Rf substituents.
        In some embodiments, the compound is of Formula XIII, or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof:
                                       N
                                             N
                                                               9
                                                        (CRR     )m          R7
                                              R   R4              Rs      R6
                                        Formula XIII
wherein A is a 5 or 6 membered ring optionally containing one or more
heteroatoms selected from oxygen nitrogen and sulfur, and optionally
containing one or more double bonds; t is 0, 1, 2, 3 or 4; and R1, R4 , R , R ,
R7, R8 , R9 , Rf and m are as defined herein.
        In some embodiments of compounds of Formula XIII, ring A together
with the pyridazine ring to which it is bound form a group selected from
cinnoline, pyrido[2,3-c]pyridazine, pyrido[3,4-c]pyridazine, pyrido[4,3
c]pyridazine, pyrido[3,2-c]pyridazine, 5,6,7,8-tetrahydrocinnoline, 5,6,7,8
tetrahydropyrido[2,3-c]pyridazine, 5,6,7,8-tetrahydropyrido[3,4-c]pyridazine,
5,6,7,8-tetrahydropyrido[4,3-c]pyridazine, 5,6,7,8-tetrahydropyrido[3,2
c]pyridazine, thieno[2,3-c]pyridazine, thiazolo[5,4-c]pyridazine, 7H-pyrrolo[2,3
c]pyridazine, 7H-imidazo[4,5-c]pyridazine, thieno[3,2-c]pyridazine,
thiazolo[4,5-c]pyridazine, 5H-pyrrolo[3,2-c]pyridazine, 5H-imidazo[4,5
c]pyridazine, 1H-pyrazolo[4,3-c]pyridazine, 1H-pyrazolo[3,4-c]pyridazine, 3H
[1,2,3]triazolo[4,5-c]pyridazine, 6,7-dihydro-5H-pyrrolo[2,3-c]pyridazine, 6,7
dihydro-5H-pyrrolo[3,4-c]pyridazine, 6,7-dihydro-5H-pyrrolo[3,2-c]pyridazine
and 6,7-dihydro-5H-cyclopenta[c]pyridazine, each optionally substituted with
1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 Rf substituents.
        In some embodiments of compounds of Formula 1,11, 111, IV(a), IV(b),
V(a), V(b), VI, VII(a), VII(b), VIII(a), VIII(b), IX, X(a), X(b), XI(a), XI(b), XII(a),
XII(b), XII(c), XII(d), XII(e), XII(f), XII(g), XII(h), XII(i), XII(j), XII(k), XII(I), XII(m),
                                              5~R

XII(n), XII(o) or XIII, R1 is selected from hydrogen, halogen, CN, C1-6 alkyl, C1_
6 haloalkyl, C(O)ORa, C(O)NRbRc, ORa, NRbRc, C6-10 aryl and 5-10 membered
heteroaryl.
        In some embodiments of compounds of Formula 1,11, 111, IV(a), IV(b),
V(a), V(b), VI, VII(a), VII(b), VIII(a), VIII(b), IX, X(a), X(b), XI(a), XI(b), XII(a),
XII(b), XII(c), XII(d), XII(e), XII(f), XII(g), XII(h), XII(i), XII(j), XII(k), XII(I), XII(m),
XII(n), XII(o) or XIII, R1 is selected from hydrogen, halogen, CN, C1_6 alkyl, C1_
6 haloalkyl, hydroxyl, 01-6 alkoxy, NH2, NHC 1 _6 alkyl, and N(           16_ alkyl) 2.
        In some embodiments of compounds of Formula 1,11, 111, IV(a), IV(b),
V(a), V(b), VI, VII(a), VII(b), VIII(a), VIII(b), IX, X(a), X(b), XI(a), XI(b), XII(a),
XII(b), XII(c), XII(d), XII(e), XII(f), XII(g), XII(h), XII(i), XII(j), XII(k), XII(I), XII(m),
XII(n), XII(o) or XIII, R1 is selected from hydrogen, halogen, CN, CF 3 and
methyl.
        In some embodiments of compounds of Formula 1,11, 111, IV(a), IV(b),
V(a), V(b), VI, VII(a), VII(b), VIII(a), VIII(b), IX, X(a), X(b), XI(a), XI(b), XII(a),
XII(b), XII(c), XII(d), XII(e), XII(f), XII(g), XII(h), XII(i), XII(j), XII(k), XII(l), XII(m),
XII(n), XII(o) or XIII, R1 is hydrogen.
        In some embodiments of compounds of Formula 1,11, 111, IV(a), IV(b),
V(a), V(b), VI, VII(a), VII(b), VIII(a), VIII(b), IX, X(a), X(b), XI(a), XI(b), XII(a),
XII(b), XII(c), XII(d), XII(e), XII(f), XII(g), XII(h), XII(i), XII(j), XII(k), XII(I), XII(m),
XII(n) or XII(o), R3 is selected from hydrogen, halogen, CN, C1-6 alkyl, C1-6
haloalkyl, C(O)ORa, C(O)NRbRc, ORa, NRbRc, C6-10 aryl and 5-10 membered
heteroaryl.
        In some embodiments of compounds of Formula 1,11, 111, IV(a), IV(b),
V(a), V(b), VI, VII(a), VII(b), VIII(a), VIII(b), IX, X(a), X(b), XI(a), XI(b), XII(a),
XII(b), XII(c), XII(d), XII(e), XII(f), XII(g), XII(h), XII(i), XII(j), XII(k), XII(I), XII(m),
XII(n) or XII(o), R3 is selected from hydrogen, halogen, CN, C1-6 alkyl, C1-6
haloalkyl, hydroxyl, C1-6 alkoxy, NH2 , NHC 1 _6 alkyl, and N(           _ alkyl) 2.
                                                                        16
        In some embodiments of compounds of Formula 1,11, 111, IV(a), IV(b),
V(a), V(b), VI, VII(a), VII(b), VIII(a), VIII(b), IX, X(a), X(b), XI(a), XI(b), XII(a),
XII(b), XII(c), XII(d), XII(e), XII(f), XII(g), XII(h), XII(i), XII(j), XII(k), XII(I), XII(m),
XII(n) or XII(o), R3 is selected from hydrogen, halogen, CN, CF 3 and methyl.

        In some embodiments of compounds of Formula 1,11, 111, IV(a), IV(b),
V(a), V(b), VI, VII(a), VII(b), VIII(a), VIII(b), IX, X(a), X(b), XI(a), XI(b), XII(a),
XII(b), XII(c), XII(d), XII(e), XII(f), XII(g), XII(h), XII(i), XII(j), XII(k), XII(I), XII(m),
XII(n) or XII(o), R3 is hydrogen.
        In some embodiments of compounds of Formula 1,11, 111, IV(a), IV(b),
V(a), V(b), VI, VII(a), VII(b), VIII(a), VIII(b), IX, X(a), X(b), XI(a), XI(b), XII(a),
XII(b), XII(c), XII(d), XII(e), XII(f), XII(g), XII(h), XII(i), XII(j), XII(k), XII(I), XII(m),
XII(n) or XII(o), R1 and R3 are each hydrogen.
        In some embodiments of compounds of Formula 1,11, 111, IV(a), IV(b),
V(a), V(b), VI, VII(a), VII(b), VIII(a), VIII(b), IX, X(a), X(b), XI(a), XI(b), XII(a),
XII(b), XII(c), XII(d), XII(e), XII(f), XII(g), XII(h), XII(i), XII(j), XII(k), XII(I), XII(m),
XII(n), XII(o), or XIII, R4 is selected from hydrogen, C1-6 alkyl, C1_6 haloalkyl,
C(O)Ra, C(O)ORa, C(O)NRRc and SO 2 Ra
        In some embodiments of compounds of Formula 1,11, 111, IV(a), IV(b),
V(a), V(b), VI, VII(a), VII(b), VIII(a), VIII(b), IX, X(a), X(b), XI(a), XI(b), XII(a),
XII(b), XII(c), XII(d), XII(e), XII(f), XII(g), XII(h), XII(i), XII(j), XII(k), XII(I), XII(m),
XII(n) or XII(o), R4 is hydrogen.
        In some embodiments of compounds of Formula 1,11, 111, IV(a), IV(b),
V(a), V(b), VI, VII(a), VII(b), VIII(a), VIII(b), IX, X(a), X(b), XI(a), XI(b), XII(a),
XII(b), XII(c), XII(d), XII(e), XII(f), XII(g), XII(h), XII(i), XII(j), XII(k), XII(I), XII(m),
XII(n), XII(o), or XIII, R1, R3 and R4 are each hydrogen.
        In some embodiments of compounds of Formula 1,111, IV(b), V(b), VI,
VIl(b), VII(b), IX, X(b), XI(b), XII(a), XII(c), XII(e), XII(f), XII(h), XII(j), XII(k),
XII(m), XII(o) or XIII, R8 and R9 , at each occurrence, are each independently
selected from hydrogen, halogen and C1-6 alkyl.
        In some embodiments of compounds of Formula 1,111, IV(b), V(b), VI,
VIl(b), VII(b), IX, X(b), XI(b), XII(a), XII(c), XII(e), XII(f), XII(h), XII(j), XII(k),
XII(m), XII(o) or XIII, R8 and R9 , at each occurrence, are each hydrogen.
        In some embodiments, the compound is selected from the compounds
in Table 2, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
        The compounds and compositions described and/or disclosed herein
                                               Fo

modulate the contractility of the skeletal sarcomere. Specifically, the
compounds modulate the troponin complex of the fast skeletal muscle
sarcomere through one or more of fast skeletal myosin, actin, tropomyosin,
troponin C, troponin I, and troponin T, and fragments and isoforms thereof.
As used in this context, "modulate" means either increasing or decreasing
activity. In some instances, the compounds described and/or disclosed herein
potentiate (i.e., increase activity) of one or more of fast skeletal myosin, actin,
tropomyosin, troponin C, troponin I, and troponin T, and fragments and
isoforms thereof. In other instances, the compounds described and/or
disclosed herein inhibit (i.e., decrease activity) of one or more of fast skeletal
myosin, actin, tropomyosin, troponin C, troponin I, and troponin T, and
fragments and isoforms thereof.
        In both preclinical and clinical settings, activators of the fast skeletal
troponin complex have been shown to amplify the response of fast skeletal
muscle to nerve stimulation, resulting in an increase in muscle force
development at sub-maximal muscle activation (see, e.g., Russell et al.,
"The Fast Skeletal Troponin Activator, CK-2017357, Increases Skeletal
Muscle Force in vitro and in situ", 2009 Experimental Biology Conference,
New Orleans, LA, April 2009). Activators of the fast skeletal troponin
complex have been shown to increase the sensitivity of skinned skeletal
muscle fibers to calcium, and in living muscle to the frequency of
stimulation, each of which results in an increase in muscle force
development at sub-maximal muscle activation. Such activators have also
been shown to reduce muscle fatigue and/or to increase the overall time to
fatigue in normal and low oxygenated conditions (see, e.g., Russell et al.,
"The Fast Skeletal Troponin Activator, CK-2017357, Increases Skeletal
Muscle Force and Reduces Muscle Fatigue in vitro and in situ", 5th Cachexia
Conference, Barcelona, Spain, December 2009; Hinken et al., "The Fast
Skeletal Troponin Activator, CK-2017357, Reduces Muscle Fatigue in an in
situ Model of Vascular Insufficiency", Society for Vascular Medicine's 2010
Annual Meeting: 21st Annual Scientific Sessions, Cleveland, OH, April 2010).
The increase in muscle force in response to nerve input has been
demonstrated in healthy human volunteers as well (see, e.g., Hansen et al.,
"CK-2017357, a Novel Activator of Fast Skeletal Muscle, Increases Isometric
                                          Ri

Force Evoked by Electrical Stimulation of the Anterior Tibialis Muscle in
Healthy Male Subjects", Society for Neuroscience 40th Annual Meeting:
Neuroscience 2010, November 2010). Work in additional preclinical models
of muscle function suggests that activators of the fast skeletal troponin
complex also cause an increase in muscle power and/or endurance. These
pharmacological properties suggest this mechanism of action could have
application in conditions, for example, where neuromuscular function is
impaired.
        Provided are methods for enhancing fast skeletal muscle efficiency in a
patient in need thereof, comprising administering to said patient an effective
amount of a compound or composition described and/or disclosed herein that
selectively binds the troponin complex of fast skeletal muscle fiber or
sarcomere. In some embodiments, the compound disclosed and/or described
herein activates fast skeletal muscle fibers or sarcomeres. In some
embodiments, administration of a compound disclosed and/or described
herein results in an increase in fast skeletal muscle power output. In some
embodiments, administration of a compound disclosed and/or described
herein results in increased sensitivity of fast skeletal muscle fibers or
sarcomeres to calcium ion, as compared to fast skeletal muscle fibers or
sarcomeres untreated with the compound. In some embodiments,
administration of a compound disclosed and/or described herein results in a
lower concentration of calcium ions causing fast skeletal muscle myosin to
bind to actin. In some embodiments, administration of a compound disclosed
and/or described herein results in the fast skeletal muscle fiber generating
force to a greater extent at submaximal levels of muscle activation.
        Also provided is a method for sensitizing a fast skeletal muscle fiber to
produce force in response to a lower concentration of calcium ion, comprising
contacting the fast skeletal muscle fiber with a compound or composition
described and/or disclosed herein that selectively binds to troponin complexes
in the fast skeletal muscle sarcomere. In some embodiments, contacting the
fast skeletal muscle fiber with the compound results in activation of the fast
skeletal muscle fiber at a lower calcium ion concentration than in an untreated
fast skeletal muscle fiber. In some embodiments, contacting the fast skeletal
muscle fiber with the compound results in the production of increased force at
                                        R?

a lower calcium ion concentration in comparison with an untreated fast
skeletal muscle fiber.
         Also provided is a method for increasing time to fast skeletal muscle
fatigue in a patient in need thereof, comprising contacting fast skeletal muscle
fibers with a compound or composition described and/or disclosed herein that
selectively binds to the troponin complexes of the fast skeletal muscle fibers.
In some embodiments, the compound binds to form ligand-troponin-calcium
ion complexes that activate the fast skeletal muscle fibers. In some
embodiments, formation of the complexes and/or activation of the fast skeletal
muscle fibers results in enhanced force and/or increased time to fatigue as
compared to untreated fast skeletal muscle fibers contacted with a similar
calcium ion concentration.
         The compounds and pharmaceutical compositions described and/or
disclosed herein are capable of modulating the contractility of the fast skeletal
sarcomere in vivo, and can have application in both human and animal
disease. Modulation would be desirable in a number of conditions or
diseases, including, but not limited to, 1) neuromuscular disorders, such as
Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis (ALS), Spinal Muscular Atrophy (SMA),
peripheral neuropathies and myasthenia gravis; 2) disorders of voluntary
muscle, including muscular dystrophies, myopathies and conditions of muscle
wasting, such as sarcopenia and cachexia syndromes (e.g., cachexia
syndromes caused by diseases such as cancer, heart failure, chronic
obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), and chronic kidney disease/dialysis),
and rehabilitation-related deficits, such as those associated with recovery
from surgery (e.g. post-surgical muscle weakness) prolonged bed rest or
stroke rehabilitation; 3) central nervous system (CNS) disorders in which
muscle weakness, atrophy and fatigue are prominent symptoms, such as
multiple sclerosis, Parkinson's disease, stroke and spinal cord injury; and 4)
muscle symptoms stemming from systemic disorders, including Peripheral
Vascular Disease (PVD) or Peripheral Arterial Disease (PAD) (e.g.,
claudication), metabolic syndrome, chronic fatigue syndrome, obesity and
frailty due to aging.
         The compounds and compositions described and/or disclosed herein
may be used to treat neuromuscular diseases, i.e., diseases that affect any
                                         63

part of the nerve-muscle unit. Neuromuscular diseases include, for example:
1) diseases of the motor unit, including but not limited to Amyotrophic Lateral
Sclerosis (ALS) including bulbar and primary lateral sclerosis (PLS) variants;
spinal muscular atrophy types 1-4; Kennedy syndrome; post-polio syndrome;
motor neuropathies including, for example, critical illness polyneuropathy;
multifocal motor neuropathy with conduction block; Charcot-Marie-Tooth
disease and other hereditary motor and sensory neuropathies; and Guillain
Barre Syndrome, 2) disorders of the neuromuscular junction, including
myasthenia gravis, Lambert-Eaton myasthenic syndrome, and prolonged
neuromuscular blockade due to drugs or toxins; and 3) peripheral
neuropathies, such as acute inflammatory demyelinating
polyradiculoneuropathy, diabetic neuropathy, chronic inflammatory
demyelinating polyradiculoneuropathy, traumatic peripheral nerve lesions,
neuropathy of leprosy,vasculitic neuropathy, dermatomyositis/polymyositis
and neuropathy of Friedreich Ataxia.
        The compounds and compositions described and/or disclosed herein
may be used to treat disorders of voluntary muscle. Disorders of voluntary
muscle include 1) muscular dystrophies (including, for example, Duchenne,
Becker, Limb-Girdle, Facioscapulohumeral, limb girdle, Emery-Dreyfus,
oculopharyngeal and congenital muscular dystrophies); and 2) myopathies,
such as nemaline myopathy, central core disease, congenital myopathies,
mitochondrial myopathies, acute myopathy; inflammatory myopathies (such
as dermatomyositis/polymyositis and inclusion body myositis), endocrine
myopathies (such as those associated with hyper- or hypothyroidism),
Cushing's or Addison's syndrome or disease and pituitary gland disorders,
metabolic myopathies (such as glycogen storage diseases, e.g., McArdle's
disease, Pompe disese, etc), drug-induced myopathy (statins, ant-retroviral
drugs, steroid myopathy) restrictive lung disease, sarcoidosis, Schwartz
Jampel Syndrome, focal muscular atrophies, and distal myopathies.
        The compounds and compositions described and/or disclosed herein
may be used to treat or Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis (ALS). ALS is a
disease that generally arises later in life (Age 50+) and has a rapid
progression from initial limb weakness to paralysis and death. Common life
expectancy after diagnosis is 3-5 years. The cause of disease for most ALS
                                          64

patients is unknown (termed the spontaneous form) while a small proportion
of patients have an inherited form (familial) of disease. The condition causes
progressive death of motor neurons through causes that are not clear.
Surviving motor units attempt to compensate for dying ones by innervating
more fibers (termed sprouting) but this can only partially correct muscle
function, as muscles are subsequently more prone to problems of
coordination and fatigue. Eventually, surviving motor neurons die, resulting in
complete paralysis of the affected muscle. The disease is commonly fatal
through the eventual loss of innervation to the diaphragm, resulting in
respiratory failure. Current treatment options for ALS are limited.
       The compounds and compositions described and/or disclosed herein
may be used to treat Spinal Muscular Atrophy (SMA). SMA is a genetic
disorder that arises through the mutation of a protein, SMN1, that appears to
be required for the survival and health of motor neurons. The disease is most
common in children as the majority of patients only survive until 11 -12 years
of age. There is currently no available treatment for SMA.
       The compounds and compositions described and/or disclosed herein
may be used to treat myasthenia gravis. Myasthenia gravis is a chronic
autoimmune neuromuscular disease wherein the body produces antibodies
that block, alter, or destroy proteins involved in signaling at the neuromuscular
junction, thus preventing muscle contraction from occurring. These proteins
include nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (AChR) or, less frequently, a muscle
specific tyrosine kinase (MuSK) involved in AChR clustering (see, e.g.,
Drachman, N. Eng. J. of Med., 330:1797-1810, 1994). The disease is
characterized by varying degrees of weakness of the skeletal (voluntary)
muscles of the body. The hallmark of myasthenia gravis is muscle weakness
that increases during periods of activity and improves after periods of rest.
Although myasthenia gravis may affect any voluntary muscle, certain
muscles, such as those that control eye and eyelid movement, facial
expression, chewing, talking, and swallowing are often, but not always,
involved in the disorder. The muscles that control breathing and neck and limb
movements may also be affected. In most cases, the first noticeable
symptom is weakness of the eye muscles. In others, difficulty in swallowing
and slurred speech may be the first signs. The degree of muscle weakness
                                         65

involved in myasthenia gravis varies greatly among patients, ranging from a
localized form, limited to eye muscles (ocular myasthenia), to a severe or
generalized form in which many muscles - sometimes including those that
control breathing - are affected. Symptoms, which vary in type and severity,
may include a drooping of one or both eyelids (ptosis), blurred or double
vision (diplopia) due to weakness of the muscles that control eye movements,
unstable or waddling gait, weakness in arms, hands, fingers, legs, and neck, a
change in facial expression, difficulty in swallowing and shortness of breath,
and impaired speech (dysarthria). Generalized weakness develops in
approximately 85% of patients.
        The compounds and compositions described and/or disclosed herein
may be used to treat sarcopenia, e.g., sarcopenia associated with aging or
disease (e.g. HIV infection). Sarcopenia is characterized by a loss of skeletal
muscle mass, quality, and strength. Clinically, a decline in skeletal muscle
tissue mass (muscle atrophy) contributes to frailty in older individuals. In
human males, muscle mass declines by one-third between the ages of 50 and
80. In older adults, extended hospitalization can result in further disuse
atrophy leading to a potential loss of the ability for independent living and to a
cascade of physical decline. Moreover, the physical aging process profoundly
affects body composition, including significant reductions in lean body mass
and increases in central adiposity. The changes in overall adiposity and fat
distribution appear to be important factors in many common age-related
diseases such as hypertension, glucose intolerance and diabetes,
dyslipidemia, and atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease. In addition, it is
possible that the age-associated decrement in muscle mass, and
subsequently in strength and endurance, may be a critical determinant for
functional loss, dependence and disability. Muscle weakness is also a major
factor prediposing the elderly to falls and the resulting morbidity and mortality.
        The compounds and compositions described and/or disclosed herein
may be used to treat cachexia. Cachexia is a state often associated with
cancer or other serious diseases or conditions, (e.g, chronic obstructive
pulmonary disease, heart failure, chronic kidney disease, kidney dialysis), that
is characterized by progressive weight loss, muscle atrophy and fatigue, due
to the deletion of adipose tissue and skeletal muscle.
                                          F;F

        The compounds and compositions described and/or disclosed herein
may be used to treat muscular dystrophies. Muscular dystrophy can be
characterized by progressive muscle weakness, destruction and regeneration
of the muscle fibers, and eventual replacement of the muscle fibers by fibrous
and fatty connective tissue.
        The compounds and compositions described and/or disclosed herein
may be used to treat post-surgical muscle weakness, which is a reduction in
the strength of one or more muscles following surgical procedure. Weakness
may be generalized (i.e. total body weakness) or localized to a specific area,
side of the body, limb, or muscle.
        The compounds and compositions described and/or disclosed herein
may be used to treat post-traumatic muscle weakness, which is a reduction in
the strength of one or more muscles following a traumatic episode (e.g. bodily
injury). Weakness may be generalized (i.e. total body weakness) or localized
to a specific area, side of the body, limb, or muscle.
        The compounds and compositions described and/or disclosed herein
may be used to treat muscle weakness and fatigue produced by peripheral
vascular disease (PVD) or peripheral artery disease (PAD). Peripheral
vascular disease is a disease or disorder of the circulatory system outside of
the brain and heart. Peripheral artery disease (PAD), also known as
peripheral artery occlusive disease (PAOD), is a form of PVD in which there is
partial or total blockage of an artery, usually one leading to a leg or arm. PVD
and/or PAD can result from, for example, atherosclerosis, inflammatory
processes leading to stenosis, embolus/ thrombus formation, or damage to
blood vessels due to disease (e.g., diabetes), infection or injury. PVD and/or
PAD can cause either acute or chronic ischemia, typically of the legs. The
symptoms of PVD and/or PAD include pain, weakness, numbness, or
cramping in muscles due to decreased blood flow (claudication), muscle pain,
ache, cramp, numbness or fatigue that occurs during exercise and is relieved
by a short period of rest (intermittent claudication), pain while resting (rest
pain) and biological tissue loss (gangrene). The symptoms of PVD and/or
PAD often occur in calf muscles, but symptoms may also be observed in other
muscles such as the thigh or hip. Risk factors for PVD and/or PAD include
age, obesity, sedentary lifestyle, smoking, diabetes, high blood pressure, and
                                         67

high cholesterol (i.e., high LDL, and/or high triglycerides and/or low HDL).
People who have coronary heart disease or a history of heart attack or stroke
generally also have an increased frequency of having PVD and/or PAD.
Activators of the fast skeletal troponin complex have been shown to reduce
muscle fatigue and/or to increase the overall time to fatigue in in vitro and in
situ models of vascular insufficiency (see, e.g., Russell et al., "The Fast
Skeletal Troponin Activator, CK-2017357, Increases Skeletal Muscle Force
and Reduces Muscle Fatigue in vitro and in situ", 5th Cachexia Conference,
Barcelona, Spain, December 2009; Hinken et al., "The Fast Skeletal Troponin
Activator, CK-2017357, Reduces Muscle Fatigue in an in situ Model of
Vascular Insufficiency", Society for Vascular Medicine's 2010 Annual Meeting:
21st Annual Scientific Sessions, Cleveland, OH, April 2010).
        The compounds and compositions described and/or disclosed herein
may be used to treat symptoms of frailty, e.g., frailty associated with aging.
Frailty is characterized by one or more of unintentional weight loss, muscle
weakness, slow walking speed, exhaustion, and low physical activity.
        The compounds and compositions described and/or disclosed herein
may be used to treat muscle weakness and/or fatigue due to wasting
syndrome, which is a condition characterized by involuntary weight loss
associated with chronic fever and diarrhea. In some instances, patients with
wasting syndrome lose 10% of baseline body weight within one month.
        The compounds and compositions described and/or disclosed herein
may be used to treat muscular diseases and conditions caused by structural
and/or functional abnormalities of skeletal muscle tissue, including muscular
dystrophies, congenital muscular dystrophies, congenital myopathies, distal
myopathies, other myopathies (e.g., myofibrillar, inclusion body), myotonic
syndromes, ion channel muscle diseases, malignant hyperthermias, metabolic
myopathies, congenital myasthenic syndromes, sarcopenia, muscle atrophy
and cachexia.
        The compounds and compositions described and/or disclosed herein
also may be used to treat diseases and conditions caused by muscle
dysfunction originating from neuronal dysfunction or transmission, including
amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, spinal muscular atrophies, hereditary ataxias,
hereditary motor and sensory neuropathies, hereditary paraplegias, stroke,
                                        FR

multiple sclerosis, brain injuries with motor deficits, spinal cord injuries,
Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease with motor deficits, myasthenia
gravis and Lambert-Eaton syndrome.
        The compounds and compositions described and/or disclosed herein
also may be used to treat diseases and conditions caused by CNS, spinal
cord or muscle dysfunction originating from endocrine and/or metabolic
dysregulation, including claudication secondary to peripheral artery disease,
hypothyroidism, hyper- or hypo-parathyroidism, diabetes, adrenal dysfunction,
pituitary dysfunction and acid/base imbalances.
        The compounds and compositions described and/or disclosed herein
may be administered alone or in combination with other therapies and/or
therapeutic agents useful in the treatment of the aforementioned disorders.
        The compounds and compositions described and/or disclosed herein
may be combined with one or more other therapies to treat ALS. Examples of
suitable therapies include riluzole, baclofen, diazepam, trihexyphenidyl and
amitriptyline. In some embodiments, the compounds and compositions
described and/or disclosed herein are combined with riluzole to treat a subject
suffering from ALS.
        The compounds and compositions described and/or disclosed herein
may be combined with one or more other therapies to treat myasthenia gravis.
Examples of suitable therapies include administration of anticholinesterase
agents (e.g., neostigmine, pyridostigmine), which help improve neuromuscular
transmission and increase muscle strength; administration of
immunosuppressive drugs (e.g., prednisone, cyclosporine, azathioprine,
mycophenolate mofetil) which improve muscle strength by suppressing the
production of abnormal antibodies; thymectomy (i.e., the surgical removal of
the thymus gland, which often is abnormal in myasthenia gravis patients);
plasmapheresis; and intravenous immune globulin.
        The compounds and compositions described and/or disclosed herein
may be combined with one or more other therapies to treat PVD or PAD (e.g.,
claudication). Treatment of PVD and PAD is generally directed to increasing
arterial blood flow, such as by smoking cessation, controlling blood pressure,
controlling diabetes, and exercising. Treatment can also include medication,
such as medicines to help improve walking distance (e.g., cilostazol,
                                         F; 9

pentoxifylline), antiplatelet agents (e.g., aspirin, ticlopidine, clopidogrel),
anticoagulents (e.g., heparin, low molecular weight heparin, warfarin,
enoxaparin) throbmolytics, antihypertensive agents (e.g., diuretics, ACE
inhibitors, calcium channel blockers, beta blockers, angiotensin 11receptor
antagonists), and cholesterol-lowering agents (e.g., statins). In some
patients, angioplasty, stenting, or surgery (e.g., bypass surgery or surgery to
remove an atherosclerotic plaque) may be necessary.
        Suitable therapeutic agents include, for example, anti-obesity agents,
anti-sarcopenia agents, anti-wasting syndrome agents, anti-frailty agents,
anti-cachexia agents, anti-muscle spasm agents, agents against post-surgical
and post-traumatic muscle weakness, and anti-neuromuscular disease
agents.
        Suitable additional therapeutic agents include, for example: orlistat,
sibramine, diethylpropion, phentermine, benzaphetamine, phendimetrazine,
estrogen, estradiol, levonorgestrel, norethindrone acetate, estradiol valerate,
ethinyl estradiol, norgestimate, conjugated estrogens, esterified estrogens,
medroxyprogesterone acetate, testosterone, insulin-derived growth factor,
human growth hormone, riluzole, cannabidiol, prednisone, albuterol, non
steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, and botulinum toxin.
        Other suitable therapeutic agents include TRH, diethylstilbesterol,
theophylline, enkephalins, E series prostaglandins, compounds disclosed in
U.S. Patent No. 3,239,345 (e.g., zeranol), compounds disclosed in U.S.
Patent No. 4,036,979 (e.g., sulbenox), peptides disclosed in U.S. Patent No.
4,411,890, growth hormone secretagogues such as GHRP-6, GHRP-1
(disclosed in U.S. Patent No. 4,411,890 and publications WO 89/07110 and
WO 89/07111), GHRP-2 (disclosed in WO 93/04081), NN703 (Novo Nordisk),
LY444711 (Lilly), MK-677 (Merck), CP424391 (Pfizer) and B-HT920, growth
hormone releasing factor and its analogs, growth hormone and its analogs
and somatomedins including IGF-1 and IGF-2, alpha-adrenergic agonists,
such as clonidine or serotonin 5-HTo agonists, such as sumatriptan, agents
which inhibit somatostatin or its release, such as physostigmine,
pyridostigmine, parathyroid hormone, PTH(1 -34), and bisphosphonates, such
as MK-217 (alendronate).
        Still other suitable therapeutic agents include estrogen, testosterone,
                                          7n

selective estrogen receptor modulators, such as tamoxifen or raloxifene, other
androgen receptor modulators, such as those disclosed in Edwards, J. P. et.
al., Bio. Med. Chem. Let., 9, 1003-1008 (1999) and Hamann, L. G. et. al., J.
Med. Chem., 42, 210-212 (1999), and progesterone receptor agonists
("PRA"), such as levonorgestrel, medroxyprogesterone acetate (MPA).
        Other suitable therapeutic agents include anabolic agents, such as
selective androgen receptor modulators (SARMs); antagonists of the activin
receptor pathway, such as anti-myostatin antibodies or soluble activin
receptor decoys, including ACE-031 (Acceleron Pharmaceuticals, a soluble
activin receptor type IIB antagonist), MYO-027/PFE-3446879 (Wyeth/Pfizer,
an antibody myostatin inhibitor), AMG-745 (Amgen, a peptibody myostatin
inhibitor), and an ActRIIB decoy receptor (see Zhou et al., Cell, 142, 531-543,
August 20, 2010); and anabolic steroids.
        Still other suitable therapeutic agents include aP2 inhibitors, such as
those disclosed in U.S. Patent No. 6,548,529, PPAR gamma antagonists,
PPAR delta agonists, beta 3 adrenergic agonists, such as AJ9677
(Takeda/Dainippon), L750355 (Merck), or CP331648 (Pfizer), other beta 3
agonists as disclosed in U.S. Patent Nos. 5,541,204, 5,770,615, 5,491,134,
5,776,983 and 5,488,064, a lipase inhibitor, such as orlistat or ATL-962
(Alizyme), a serotonin (and dopamine) reuptake inhibitor, such as
sibutramine, topiramate (Johnson & Johnson) or axokine (Regeneron), a
thyroid receptor beta drug, such as a thyroid receptor ligand as disclosed in
WO 97/21993, WO 99/00353, and GB98/284425, and anorectic agents, such
as dexamphetamine, phentermine, phenylpropanolamine or mazindol.
        Still other suitable therapeutic agents include HIV and AIDS therapies,
such as indinavir sulfate, saquinavir, saquinavir mesylate, ritonavir,
lamivudine, zidovudine, lamivudine/zidovudine combinations, zalcitabine,
didanosine, stavudine, and megestrol acetate.
        Still other suitable therapeutic agents include antiresorptive agents,
hormone replacement therapies, vitamin D analogues, elemental calcium and
calcium supplements, cathepsin K inhibitors, MMP inhibitors, vitronectin
receptor antagonists, Src SH.sub.2 antagonists, vacuolar H+-ATPase
inhibitors, ipriflavone, fluoride, Tibo lone, pro stanoids, 17-beta hydroxysteroid
dehydrogenase inhibitors and Src kinase inhibitors.
                                           71

        The above therapeutic agents, when employed in combination with the
compounds and compositions disclosed and/or described herein, may be
used, for example, in those amounts indicated in the Physicians' Desk
Reference (PDR) or as otherwise determined by one of ordinary skill in the
art.
        The compounds and compositions disclosed and/or described herein
are administered at a therapeutically effective dosage, e.g., a dosage
sufficient to provide treatment for the disease state. While human dosage
levels have yet to be optimized for the chemical entities described herein,
generally, a daily dose ranges from about 0.05 to 100 mg/kg of body weight;
in some embodiments, from about 0.10 to 10.0 mg/kg of body weight, and in
some embodiments, from about 0.15 to 1.0 mg/kg of body weight. Thus, for
administration to a 70 kg person, in some embodiments, the dosage range
would be about from 3.5 to 7000 mg per day; in some embodiments, about
from 7.0 to 700.0 mg per day, and in some embodiments, about from 10.0 to
100.0 mg per day. The amount of the chemical entity administered will be
dependent, for example, on the subject and disease state being treated, the
severity of the affliction, the manner and schedule of administration and the
judgment of the prescribing physician. For example, an exemplary dosage
range for oral administration is from about 70 mg to about 700 mg per day,
and an exemplary intravenous administration dosage is from about 70 mg to
about 700 mg per day, each depending upon the compound
pharmacokinetics.
        Administration of the compounds and compositions disclosed and/or
described herein can be via any accepted mode of administration for
therapeutic agents including, but not limited to, oral, sublingual,
subcutaneous, parenteral, intravenous, intranasal, topical, transdermal,
intraperitoneal, intramuscular, intrapulmonary, vaginal, rectal, or intraocular
administration. In some embodiments, the compound or composition is
administered orally or intravenously. In some embodiments, the compound or
composition disclosed and/or described herein is administered orally.
        Pharmaceutically acceptable compositions include solid, semi-solid,
liquid and aerosol dosage forms, such as tablet, capsule, powder, liquid,
suspension, suppository, and aerosol forms. The compounds disclosed
                                         72

and/or described herein can also be administered in sustained or controlled
release dosage forms (e.g., controlled/sustained release pill, depot injection,
osmotic pump, or transdermal (including electrotransport) patch forms) for
prolonged timed, and/or pulsed administration at a predetermined rate. In
some embodiments, the compositions are provided in unit dosage forms
suitable for single administration of a precise dose.
        The compounds disclosed and/or described herein can be
administered either alone or in combination with one or more conventional
pharmaceutical carriers or excipients (e.g., mannitol, lactose, starch,
magnesium stearate, sodium saccharine, talcum, cellulose, sodium
crosscarmellose, glucose, gelatin, sucrose, magnesium carbonate). If
desired, the pharmaceutical composition can also contain minor amounts of
nontoxic auxiliary substances such as wetting agents, emulsifying agents,
solubilizing agents, pH buffering agents and the like (e.g., sodium acetate,
sodium citrate, cyclodextrine derivatives, sorbitan monolaurate,
triethanolamine acetate, triethanolamine oleate). Generally, depending on the
intended mode of administration, the pharmaceutical composition will contain
about 0.005% to 95%, or about 0.5% to 50%, by weight of a compound
disclosed and/or described herein. Actual methods of preparing such dosage
forms are known, or will be apparent, to those skilled in this art; for example,
see Remington's Pharmaceutical Sciences, Mack Publishing Company,
Easton, Pennsylvania.
        In some embodiments, the compositions will take the form of a pill or
tablet and thus the composition may contain, along with a compounds
disclosed and/or described herein, one or more of a diluent (e.g., lactose,
sucrose, dicalcium phosphate), a lubricant (e.g., magnesium stearate), and/or
a binder (e.g., starch, gum acacia, polyvinylpyrrolidine, gelatin, cellulose,
cellulose derivatives). Other solid dosage forms include a powder, marume,
solution or suspension (e.g., in propylene carbonate, vegetable oils or
triglycerides) encapsulated in a gelatin capsule.
        Liquid pharmaceutically administrable compositions can, for example,
be prepared by dissolving, dispersing or suspending etc. a compound
disclosed and/or described herein and optional pharmaceutical additives in a
carrier (e.g., water, saline, aqueous dextrose, glycerol, glycols, ethanol or the
                                        72

like) to form a solution or suspension. Injectables can be prepared in
conventional forms, either as liquid solutions or suspensions, as emulsions, or
in solid forms suitable for dissolution or suspension in liquid prior to injection.
The percentage of the compound contained in such parenteral compositions
depends, for example, on the physical nature of the compound, the activity of
the compound and the needs of the subject. However, percentages of active
ingredient of 0.01% to 10% in solution are employable, and may be higher if
the composition is a solid which will be subsequently diluted to another
concentration. In some embodiments, the composition will comprise from
about 0.2 to 2% of a compound disclosed and/or described herein in solution.
         Pharmaceutical compositions of the compounds disclosed and/or
described herein may also be administered to the respiratory tract as an
aerosol or solution for a nebulizer, or as a microfine powder for insufflation,
alone or in combination with an inert carrier such as lactose. In such a case,
the particles of the pharmaceutical composition may have diameters of less
than 50 microns, or in some embodiments, less than 10 microns.
         In addition, pharmaceutical compositions can include a compound
disclosed and/or described herein and one or more additional medicinal
agents, pharmaceutical agents, adjuvants, and the like. Suitable medicinal
and pharmaceutical agents include those described herein.
         The following examples serve to more fully describe the invention
described herein. It is understood that these examples in no way serve to limit
the true scope of this invention, but rather are presented for illustrative
purposes.
Example 1: Preparation of N-(5-(6-(2-(4-Fluoropheny)-2
methylpropylamino)pyridazin-3-y)-1 H-indazol-3-yl)acetamide
                           C1   N~.C                         .
                        +        "N_             __
     H 2N                   CCH                                 N
                                     CI
         6-Chloro-N-(2-(4-fluorophenyl)-2-methylpropyl)pyridazin-3-amine.
A solution of (2-(4-fluorophenyl)-2-methylpropan-1 -amine (27 g, 160 mmol,
1.6 equiv), 3,6-dichloropyridazine (15 g, 100 mmol, 1.0 equiv) and K2 CO3 (42
                                         74

g, 302 mmol, 3.0 equiv) in isopropanol (15 mL) was stirred at 100 2C for 36
hours. The cooled mixture was partitioned between water and EtOAc and the
organic fraction was dried over Na2 SO 4 and concentrated in vacuo. Partial
purification over silica gel using a 30 - 75% gradient of EtOAc/hexanes gave
the desired product (29.6 g, 103%) which was used without further
purification.
                                                     F
  F                    C1  N.F
                                           F
  NC         B(OH) 2 +
                               H                                    N -X
                                                                    H
        2-Fluoro-5-(6-(2-(4-fluorophenyl)-2-methylpropylamino)pyridazin
3-yl)benzonitrile. To a solution of 6-chloro-N-(2-(4-fluorophenyl)-2
methylpropyl)pyridazin-3-amine (5.0 g, 23 mmol, 1.0 equiv) and K2 CO3 (9.4 g,
68 mmol, 3.0 equiv) in dioxane (35 mL) was added Pd(dppf)C12 (1.7 g, 2.3
mmol, 0.1 equiv) and 3-cyano-4-fluorophenylboronic acid (5.0 g, 30 mmol, 1.3
equiv). The mixture was stirred at 80 2C for 3 hours after which it was allowed
to cool to room temperature and concentrated in vacuo. The residue was
diluted with EtOAc, washed with saturated NaHCO 3 , dried over Na2 SO 4 and
evaporated to dryness. The residue was purified by reverse phase HPLC
using a CH 3CN/water gradient to give the desired product (5.3 g, 63%).
                                                  H
    F                             FN                                         F
                   N                                         'NF
      NC   -
                                                                 N Xa
                          NH                    2N
                        H                                        H
        5-(6-(2-(4-Fluorophenyl)-2-methylpropylamino)pyridazin-3-y)-1 H
indazol-3-amine. To a solution of 2-fluoro-5-(6-(2-(4-fluorophenyl)-2
methylpropylamino)pyridazin-3-yl)benzonitrile (0.53 g, 1.5 mmol, 1.0 equiv) in
n-butanol (10 mL) was added hydrazine monohydrate (1.0 mL, 32 mmol, 20
equiv). The mixture was stirred at 110 2C for two hours followed by
evaporation of the solvents in vacuo. Purification on a preparatory TLC plate
using 5% MeOH/DCM as eluent gave the desired product (195 mg, 36%), m/z
 = 377.1 [M+H].
                                         75~

   H                                                       H
   N  N                                                    N      N
                                 F                       N
            .-  N~                                                      N~r           F
 H2N                 NHNN
                     H                                      rH
        N-(5-(6-(2-(4-Fluorophenyl)-2-methyl propylamino)pyridazi n-3-yl)
1H-indazol-3-yl)acetamide. To a solution of 5-(6-(2-(4-fluorophenyl)-2
methylpropylamino)pyridazin-3-yl)-1H-indazol-3-amine (50 mg, 133 pmol) in
pyridine (1 mL) was added acetyl chloride (9.5 pL, 133 pmol). The mixture
was stirred for 15 min, concentrated, purified by reverse phase
chromatography using a CH 3CN/water gradient to afford 25 mg of white solid,
m/z = 419.9 [M+H].
Example 2: Preparation of N-(2-(4-Fluorophenyl)-2-methylpropyl)-6-(1 H
pyrazol-1 -yl)pyridazin-3-amine
                                                                                    F
      N-N          Step 1      N     N-N        Step 2
C1--           CI           [   'N--     \CI           '     N,     N-N
                                                                N           NH
        Step 1: To a solution of pyrazole (3.69 g, 25 mmol, 1.0 equiv) in NMP
(25 mL) was added sodium hydride (60% dispersion in mineral oil, 1.5 g, 38
mmol, 1.5 equiv). The mixture was stirred for 15 min, followed by the addition
of 3,6-dichloropyridazine (3.02 g, 25 mmol, 1.0 equiv). The reaction mixture
was stirred for 1.5 h and then diluted with water (50 mL) and ethyl acetate
(100 mL). After transferring to a separatory funnel and shaking, the organic
layer was separated from the aqueous layer and then washed with brine (3 x
50 mL). The organic layer was then dried over Na2 SO 4 , filtered, and
concentrated to give 3.89 g of 3-chloro-6-(1 H-pyrazol-1 -yl)pyridazine as a
crude tan solid that was used directly in the next step.
        Step 2: To a 5 mL microwave vial was added 3-chloro-6-(1 H-pyrazol-1
yl)pyridazine (320 mg, 1.8 mmol, 1.0 equiv), 2-(4-fluorophenyl)-2
methylpropan-1 -amine (386 mg, 2.3 mmol, 1.3 equiv), diisopropylethylamine
(620 pL, 3.6 mmol, 2.0 equiv), and NMP (4 mL). The reaction was heated in a
microwave reactor to 250    OC  and stirred for 15 min. A portion (roughly a third)
                                          7R

of the reaction was purified by reverse phase chromatography and then silica
gel chromatography (10% MeOH/DCM) to give 61 mg of N-(2-(4
fluorophenyl)-2-methylpropyl)-6-(1 H-pyrazol-1 -yl)pyridazin-3-amine, m/z    =
312.1 [M+H].
Example 3: Preparation of 5-(6-(2-(4-fluorophenyl)-2-methylpropylamino)
pyridazin-3-y)-1,3,4-oxadiazol-2(3H)-one
                                                                                     F
                                       F
   0     N-N                                                   0    N-N
                 CI  +   H2 N          F                                    NH
                -0                                          -0
        Methyl 6-(2-(4-fluorophenyl)-2-methylpropylamino)pyridazine-3
carboxylate. To a 25 mL round bottom flask was added methyl 6
chloropyridazine-3-carboxylate (0.50 g, 2.90 mmol, 1.0 equiv), 2-(4
fluorophenyl)-2-methylpropan-1 -amine (0.60 g, 3.6 mmol, 1.2 equiv),
potassium carbonate (300 mg, 2.2 mmol, 0.75 equiv), and isopropanol (3 mL).
The reaction mixture was stirred and heated at 120    OC for 12 h. The reaction
was then filtered through celite, concentrated, and purified by silica gel
chromatography (0-40% EtOAC/hexanes) to afford 360 mg (43%) of methyl 6
(2-(4-fluorophenyl)-2-methylpropylamino)pyridazine-3-carboxylate as an off
white foam.
                            F                                                        F
   o     N-N                                             0     0    N-N
                      /NH \                                                   H    \
   -0                                                     HNNN
        5-(6-(2-(4-Fluorophenyl)-2-methylpropylamino)pyridazin-3-yl)
1,3,4-oxadiazol-2(3H)-one. To a 25 mL round bottom flask was added
methyl 6-(2-(4-fluorophenyl)-2-methylpropylamino)pyridazine-3-carboxylate
(100 mg, 0.3 mmol, 1.0 equiv), hydrazine hydrate (1 mL), and ethanol (5 mL)).
The reaction was refluxed for 2 h and concentrated. N,N'
Carbonyldiimidazole (100 mg, 0.6 mmol, 2.0 equiv) and DMF (1 mL) were
then added to the crude product and the reaction was heated to 90      OC  for 1.5
h. The reaction mixture was directly purified by reverse phase column
                                       77

chromatography to afford 72 mg (67%) of 5-(6-(2-(4-fluorophenyl)-2
methylpropylamino)pyridazin-3-yl)-1,3,4-oxadiazol-2(3H)-one as a white solid,
m/z = 330.0 [M+H].
Example 4: Preparation of 6-(2-Amino-1H-imidazol-4-yl)-N-(2-(4
fluorophenyl)-2-methylpropyl)pyridazin-3-amine
                           F                                                      F
         N-N                                                 0    N-N
 ci     /   '-   NH
                                                         Br     /     "  NH
          2-Bromo-1 -(6-(2-(4-fluorophenyl)-2-methylpropylamino)pyridazi n
3-yl)ethanone. 6-chloro-N-(2-(4-fluorophenyl)-2-methylpropyl)pyridazin-3
amine (300 mg, 1.1 mmol, 1.0 equiv) and dioxane (5 mL) were added to a
microwave vial and sonication was applied until the mixture was
homogeneous. Tributyl(1 -ethoxyvinyl)stannane (475 pL, 1.4 mmol, 1.3 equiv)
and trans-dichlorobis(triphenylphosphine)palladium (30 mg, 0.04 mmol, 0.03
equiv) were then added, and the reaction was heated in a microwave reactor
at 150    OC   for 20 min. The reaction was concentrated, dissolved in EtOAc (25
mL), and mixed with 2.0 M potassium fluoride (5 mL). The mixture was
filtered through celite, and then washed with water, dried over Na2 SO 4 ,
filtered, and concentrated. The crude solid was redissolved in 50%
THF/water (4 mL), followed by the addition of NBS (300 mg, 1.7 mmol, 1.5
equiv). The reaction mixture was stirred for 1 h and then diluted with brine (20
mL) and ethyl acetate (20 mL). After transferring to a separatory funnel and
shaking, the organic layer was separated from the aqueous layer. The
organic layer was then dried over Na2 SO 4 , filtered, and concentrated to give a
brown oil that was purified by silica gel chromatography (0-100%
EtOAC/hexanes) to afford 270 mg of 2-bromo-1 -(6-(2-(4-fluorophenyl)-2
methylpropylamino)pyridazin-3-yl)ethanone as an orange oil.
                              F                                                     F
      o      N-N                               _ ,____AcHN          N-N
 Br                  NH                                   HN              NH
                                          7R

        N-(4-(6-(2-(4-Fluorophenyl)-2-methyl propylamino)pyridazi n-3-yl)
1H-imidazol-2-yl)acetamide. To a 3 mL microwave reaction vial was added
2-bromo-1 -(6-(2-(4-fluorophenyl)-2-methylpropylamino)pyridazin-3
yl)ethanone (125 mg, 0.3 mmol, 1.0 equiv), acetyl guanidine (90 mg, 0.6
mmol, 2.0 equiv) and acetonitrile (2 mL). The reaction was heated in a
microwave reactor at 100    OC for 13 min. The reaction was filtered and directly
purified by reverse phase column chromatography to afford N-(4-(6-(2-(4
fluorophenyl)-2-methylpropylamino)pyridazin-3-y)-1 H-imidazol-2-yl)acetamide
(70 mg) as an white solid. m/z = 369.2 [M+H]+.
                                F                                               F
 AcHN     N     N-N                               H2N     N     N-N
      HN               NH                             HN/             NH
        6-(2-Amino-1 H-imidazol-4-y)-N-(2-(4-fluorophenyl)-2
methylpropyl)pyridazin-3-amine. To a 10 mL round bottom flask was
added N-(4-(6-(2-(4-fluorophenyl)-2-methylpropylamino)pyridazin-3-y)-1 H
imidazol-2-yl)acetamide (22 mg, 59 pmol), concentrated HCI (100 pL) and
methanol (1 mL). The reaction was refluxed for 12 h and then concentrated,
redissolved in EtOAc (10 mL), washed with saturated sodium carbonate (2 x
10 mL) and brine (1 x 10 mL), dried (Na2SO 4) and concentrated to yield 8 mg
(42%) of 6-(2-amino-1 H-imidazol-4-yl)-N-(2-(4-fluorophenyl)-2
methylpropyl)pyridazin-3-amine as a pale yellow solid, m/z = 327.2 [M+H].
Example 5: Preparation of 6-(5-Amino-1 H-pyrazol-3-yl)-N-(2-(4
fluorophenyl)-2-methylpropyl)pyridazin-3-amine
                           F                                                    F
         ON-N
        0*NNH                                         HN-N      N-N
                    r/NH                    ,HNH
 Br/                                              H2 N
        To a 20 dram vial was added 2-bromo-1 -(6-(2-(4-fluorophenyl)-2
methylpropylamino)pyridazin-3-yl)ethanone (13 mg, 35 pmol, 1.0 equiv),
sodium cyanide (25 mg, 500 pmol, 15.0 equiv) and ethanol (1 mL). The
                                        7P

reaction mixture was heated to 60       OC for 30 min. After cooling to room
temperature, the reaction was filtered. Hydrazine hydrate (250 pL) was then
added, and the reaction mixture was heated to 100        OC for 2 h. The reaction
was filtered and directly purified by reverse phase column chromatography to
afford 6-(5-amino-1 H-pyrazol-3-yl)-N-(2-(4-fluorophenyl)-2
methylpropyl)pyridazin-3-amine (2 mg) as an white solid, m/z = 327.2 [M+H].
Example 6: Preparation of 6-Ethyl-N-(2-(4-fluorophenyl)-2-methylpropyl)
pyridazin-3-amine
                         F                               F                        F
                           Step 1                     -  Step 2
       N-N                              N-N                          N-N
 C1   /   "     NH                              NH                          NH
        Step 1: To a 5 mL microwave reaction vial was added 6-chloro-N-(2
(4-fluorophenyl)-2-methylpropyl)pyridazin-3-amine (123 mg, 441 pmol, 1.0
equiv), 2,4,6-trivinyl-1,3,5,2,4,6-trioxatriborinane(159 mg, 661 pmol, 1.5
equiv), Cl 2Pd(dppf) (54 mg, 66 pmol, 0.15 equiv), potassium carbonate (182
mg, 1.32 mmol, 3 equiv), and dioxane (21 mL). The reaction was heated in a
microwave reactor at 140      OC  for 12 min and then diluted with water (20 mL)
and ethyl acetate (50 mL). After transferring to a separatory funnel and
shaking, the organic layer was separated from the aqueous layer and then
washed with brine (1 x 20 mL). The organic layer was then dried over
Na2 SO 4 , filtered, and concentrated to give a crude solid that was purified by
silica gel column chromatography (20-50% EtOAc/hexanes) to give 50 mg
(46%) of N-(2-(4-fluorophenyl)-2-methylpropyl)-6-vinylpyridazin-3-amine as a
white solid.
        Step 2: The isolated product from Step 1 was dissolved in ethanol (10
mL) and transferred to a 20 dram vial. Palladium (10% on carbon, 10 mg)
was then added, and the reaction was stirred under 60 psi of hydrogen for 3
days. The reaction was then filtered, concentrated, and purified by reverse
phase column chromatography to afford 3 mg (10%) of 6-ethyl-N-(2-(4
fluorophenyl)-2-methylpropyl) pyridazin-3-amine as a clear oil, m/z = 274
[M+H].
                                            Rfl

Example 7: Preparation of 2-(6-((1-(3-Fluoropyridin-2
yl)cyclobutyl)methylamino)pyridazin-3-yl)propan-2-ol
   0      N-N         CN
                       +              N                   -O     N-N
                                                                 Y       Nf  N ---- F
                 CI"   'i     H2N        F                          "    NHF
         Methyl 6-((1-(3-fluoropyridin-2
yl)cyclobutyl)methylamino)pyridazine-3-carboxylate. To a 20 dram vial
was added methyl 6-chloropyridazine-3-carboxylate (510 mg, 2.7 mmol, 1.0
equiv), (1-(3-fluoropyridin-2-yl)cyclobutyl)methanamine (738 mg, 4 mmol, 1.5
equiv), DIPEA (0.7 mL, 4 mmol, 1.5 equiv), and NMP (2 mL). The reaction
was heated at 120     OC  for 40 min and then diluted with water (20 mL) and ethyl
acetate (50 mL). After transferring to a separatory funnel and shaking, the
organic layer was separated from the aqueous layer and then washed with
brine (1 x 20 mL). The organic layer was then dried over Na2 SO 4 , filtered,
and concentrated to give a crude solid that was purified by silica gel column
chromatography (20-100% EtOAc/hexanes) to give 440 mg (48%) of methyl
6-((1-(3-fluoropyridin-2-yl)cyclobutyl)methylamino)pyridazine-3-carboxylate as
a white solid. m/z = 331.1 [M+H]+.
                           N                                               N
      -O       N-N                F                    HO     N-N               F
               Y N    NH                                              NH
         0
         2-(6-((1-(3-Fluoropyridin-2-yl)cyclobutyl)methylamino)pyridazin-3
yl)propan-2-ol. A portion of the isolated methyl 6-((1-(3-fluoropyridin-2
yl)cyclobutyl)methylamino)pyridazine-3-carboxylate (99 mg, 0.3 mmol, 1.0
equiv) was dissolved in THF (10 mL) and transferred to a 20 dram vial. The
mixture was cooled to 0 OC and MeMgBr (3M in Et2 0, 0.5 mL, 1.5 mmol, 5
equiv) was added. The reaction was allowed to warm to rt and then stirred for
15 min. The reaction mixture was poured into a mixture of EtOAc (30 mL)
and saturated ammonium chloride (15 mL). The organic layer was separated,
dried over Na2 SO 4 , filtered, and concentrated to give a crude solid that was
purified by silica gel column chromatography (0-20% MeOH/CH 2Cl 2) to give
                                           Ri

42 mg (43%) of 2-(6-((1-(3-fluoropyridin-2
yl)cyclobutyl)methylamino)pyridazin-3-yl)propan-2-ol as a white powder. m/z
= 317 [M+H]+.
Example 8: Preparation of 1-(6-((1-(3-Fluoropyridin-2
yl)cyclobutyl)methylamino)pyridazin-3-yl)ethanone
                                                                           N
       N-N           +   H2 N                                   N-N             F
 NC           CI                      F                   NC           NH
        6-((1-(3-Fluoropyridin-2-yl)cyclobutyl)methylamino)pyridazine-3
carbonitrile. To a 20 dram vial was added 6-chloropyridazine-3-carbonitrile
(1.0 g, 7.2 mmol, 1.0 equiv), (1-(3-fluoropyridin-2-yl)cyclobutyl)methanamine
(1.36 g, 7.6 mmol, 1.05 equiv), triethylamine (2.1 mL, 14.4 mmol, 2.0 equiv),
and NMP (2 mL). The reaction was heated at 130        OC for 12 h and then
diluted with water (20 mL) and ethyl acetate (50 mL). After transferring to a
separatory funnel and shaking, the organic layer was separated from the
aqueous layer and then washed with brine (1 x 20 mL). The organic layer
was then dried over Na2 SO 4 , filtered, and concentrated to give a crude solid
that was purified by silica gel column chromatography (20-30%
EtOAc/hexanes) to give 507 mg (25%) of 6-((1-(3-fluoropyridin-2
yl)cyclobutyl)methylamino)pyridazine-3-carbonitrile. m/z = 284 [M+H]+.
                   N                                          N
       N-N              F                     0    N-N              F
 NC           NH                                  /       NH
        1-(6-((1-(3-Fluoropyridin-2-yl)cyclobutyl)methylamino)pyridazin-3
yl)ethanone. 6-((1-(3-Fluoropyridin-2-yl)cyclobutyl)methylamino)pyridazine
3-carbonitrile (500 mg, 1.8 mmol, 1.0 equiv) was dissolved in THF (4.5 mL)
and transferred to a 20 dram vial. The mixture was cooled to 0 OC and
MeMgBr (1.8 mL, 5.3 mmol of a 3M solution in Et20, 2.9 equiv) was added.
The reaction was stirred at this temperature for 15 min. The reaction mixture
was poured into ice water, acidified to pH of 2 with 2N aqueous hydrochloric
acid, and then extracted EtOAc (30 mL). The organic layer was then
                                         R?

separated, dried over Na2 SO 4 , filtered, and concentrated to give a crude solid
that was purified by silica gel column chromatography (50% EtOAc/hexanes)
to give 104 mg (18%) of 1-(6-((1-(3-fluoropyridin-2
yl)cyclobutyl)methylamino)pyridazin-3-yl)ethanone as a white powder. m/z           =
301.1 [M+H]+.
Example 9: Preparation of N-(2-(4-fluorophenyl)-2-methylpropyl)-6
(pyridin-2-yl)pyridazin-3-amine
                                                                                     F
                                           F
      N
          Br     +              NN            ---------- A-         N N
                                                              "          NH
                         N-N
                     Ci  /   "'   NH
        To a 25 mL round bottom flask was added 2-bromopyridine (500 mg,
3.2 mmol, 1.0 equiv), triisopropylborate (654 mg, 3.5 mmol, 1.1 equiv), and an
80% toluene/THF mixture (16 mL). The mixture was cooled to -78           OC.  After
stirring for 10 min, n-BuLi (1.7 mL, 3.48 mmol, 1.1 equiv of a 2.0 M/hexanes
solution) was slowly added over an hour. After the addition was complete, the
reaction mixture was stirred for 30 min and allowed to warm to rt and stirred
overnight. The reaction was then concentrated at 100        OC  and dried in vacuo
for 2 h. To 100 mg of this crude solid in a microwave vial was added 6-chloro
N-(2-(4-fluorophenyl)-2-methylpropyl)pyridazin-3-amine (70 mg, 0.25 mmol),
Pd2dba3 (10 mg, 0.011 mmol), PO(tBu) 3 (5 mg, 0.030 mmol), potassium
fluoride (43 mg, 0.75 mmol), and dioxane (0.75 mL). The reaction was
degassed with nitrogen for 5 minutes and then heated in a microwave reactor
at 160   OC  for 15 min. The reaction was then concentrated, dissolved in
EtOAc (25 mL), washed with water, dried over Na2 SO 4 , filtered, concentrated,
and purified by reverse phase column chromatography to give 5 mg of N-(2
(4-fluorophenyl)-2-methylpropyl)-6-(pyridin-2-yl)pyridazin-3-amine as a white
solid. m/z = 323.1 [M+H]+.
Example 10: Preparation of 6-(6-(2-(4-fluorophenyl)-2
methylpropylamino)pyridazin-3-yl)nicotinamide
                                          RRq

                                                F                                      F
           N
 NC              Br +          N-N                              0        N     N-N
                         Br           N 'o                     H2                   NH
                                   __  Boo                    HAN
        To a 20 dram vial was added 2-bromo-5-cyanopyridine (182 mg, 1.0
mmol, 1.0 equiv), hexamethylditin (639 mg, 1.1 mmol, 1.1 equiv),
Cl 2Pd(Ph 3 P)2 (91 mg, 0.13 mmol, 0.13 equiv), triphenylarsine (34 mg, 0.11
mmol, 0.11 equiv), and dioxane (7 mL). The reaction mixture was stirred and
heated to 80      OC for 12 h. The reaction was then concentrated, followed by the
addition of tert-butyl 6-bromopyridazin-3-yl(2-(4-fluorophenyl)-2
methylpropyl)carbamate (423 mg, 1.0 mmol, 1.0 equiv), Pd(Ph3 P)4 (172 mg,
0.15 mmol, 0.15 equiv), and DMF (3.3 mL). The reaction was stirred and
heated to 100      OC  for 3 h. After cooling to room temperature, the reaction was
diluted with aqueous potassium fluoride (5 mL), extracted with ethyl acetate
(20 mL) and washed with brine (20 mL). The organic layer was then dried
(Na2 SO 4 ), filtered, and concentrated to give crude tert-butyl 6-(5-cyanopyridin
2-yl)pyridazi n-3-yl(2-(4-fluorophenyl)-2-methylpropyl)carbamate.
        To a 20 dram vial was added crude tert-butyl 6-(5-cyanopyridin-2
yl)pyridazin-3-yl(2-(4-fluorophenyl)-2-methylpropyl)carbamate, hydrogen
peroxide (2 mL), and potassium carbonate (150 mg). The reaction was stirred
for 30 min and then diluted with water (20 mL) and ethyl acetate (50 mL).
After transferring to a separatory funnel and shaking, the organic layer was
separated from the aqueous layer and then washed with brine (20 mL). The
organic layer was then dried over Na2 SO 4 , filtered, and concentrated to give a
crude solid that was subsequently treated with 4N HCI/dioxane (1 mL). The
reaction was stirred for 1 h at room temperature, concentrated, quenched with
aqueous sodium bicarbonate, and extracted with ethyl acetate (20 mL). The
organic layer was then dried (Na2 SO 4 ), filtered, and concentrated to give a
crude solid that was purified by reverse phase column chromatography to
afford 10 mg of 6-(6-(2-(4-fluorophenyl)-2-methylpropylamino)pyridazin-3
yl)nicotinamide, m/z = 366.1 [M+H].
Example 11: Preparation of 6-(2-aminopyridin-3-y)-N-((1-(3
                                             R4

fluoropyridin-2-yl)cyclobutyl)methyl)pyridazin-3-amine
                                 N                                              N1
                       -            N               0
       N-N                F   +                                     N-N               FN
                                                                                      F
 CI           NH                          B(OH) 2                          NH
        N-((1 -(3-Fluoropyridi n-2-yl)cyclobutyl)methyl)-6-(2
methoxypyridin-3-yl)pyridazin-3-amine. To a 20 dram vial was added 6
chloro-N-((1 -(3-fluoropyridin-2-yl)cyclobutyl)methyl)pyridazin-3-amine (1.8 g,
6.23 mmol, 1.0 equiv), 2-methoxypyridin-3-ylboronic acid (1.0 g, 6.54 mmol,
1.1 equiv), Cl 2Pd(dppf) (350 mg, 0.43 mmol, 0.07 equiv), 2M potassium
carbonate (8 mL, 15.5 mmol, 2.5 equiv), and dioxane (21 mL). The reaction
was stirred and heated to 90    OC   for 2h and then diluted with water (20 mL)
and ethyl acetate (50 mL). After transferring to a separatory funnel and
shaking, the organic layer was separated from the aqueous layer and then
washed with lithium chloride (1 x 20 mL). The organic layer was then dried
over Na2 SO 4 , filtered, and concentrated to give a crude solid that was purified
by silica gel column chromatography to give N-((1 -(3-fluoropyridin-2
yl)cyclobutyl)methyl)-6-(2-methoxypyridin-3-yl)pyridazin-3-amine (1.7 g, 77%)
as an off-white solid.
                        N                                                     N
      0                                                       CI
  N        N-N               F   ______                   N       N-N               F
                   NH        F                                           NH         F
        6-(2-Chloropyridin-3-yl)-N-((1 -(3-fluoropyridin-2
yl)cyclobutyl)methyl)pyridazin-3-amine. To a 50 mL round bottom flask
was added N-((1-(3-fluoropyridin-2-yl)cyclobutyl)methyl)-6-(2-methoxypyridin
3-yl)pyridazin-3-amine (1.7 g, 4.7 mmol), concentrated hydrochloric acid (15
mL), and methanol (15 mL). The reaction was heated to 90          OC and stirred for
12 h. The reaction was concentrated, brought to pH of 11 through the
addition of saturated potassium carbonate (20 mL), and then diluted with ethyl
acetate (50 mL). After transferring to a separatory funnel and shaking, the
organic layer was separated from the aqueous layer and washed with lithium
chloride (1 x 20 mL). The organic layer was then dried over Na2 SO 4 , filtered,
and concentrated to give 3-(6-((1-(3-fluoropyridin-2
                                            RF5

yl)cyclobutyl)methylamino)pyridazin-3-yl)pyridin-2-ol (1.6 g, 95%) as a tan
powder. The isolated product (1.3 g, 3.7 mmol, 1.0 equiv) was transferred to
a 100 mL round bottom flask, followed by the addition of a mixture of
phosphorous oxytrichloride (24 mL) and DMF (8 mL). The reaction was
heated to 90       OC and stirred for 6 h. The reaction was concentrated and
carefully quenched with a 50% mixture of saturated sodium bicarbonate and
lithium chloride until gas evolution ceased. The mixture was extracted with
ethyl acetate (100 mL). The combined organic layers were then dried over
Na2 SO 4 , filtered, concentrated, and purified by silica gel column
chromatography to give 1.2 g (88%) of 6-(2-chloropyridin-3-yl)-N-((1 -(3
fluoropyridin-2-yl)cyclobutyl)methyl)pyridazin-3-amine as an off-white solid.
        CI                                                       NH2
                                                              N       N-N           F
  N           N-N"NH            F
                                F                                        ~NH
      '                                                                             F
           6-(2-Aminopyridin-3-yl)-N-((1-(3-fluoropyridin-2
yl)cyclobutyl)methyl)pyridazin-3-amine. To a 5 mL microwave reaction
vessel was added 6-(2-chloropyridin-3-yl)-N-((1 -(3-fluoropyridin-2
yl)cyclobutyl)methyl)pyridazin-3-amine (750 mg, 2.0 mmol), hydrazine hydrate
(1 mL), and dioxane (4 mL). The reaction was heated in a microwave reactor
to 160     OC  for 15 min, then diluted with ethyl acetate (50 mL), and washed with
brine (20 mL). The organic layer was dried over Na2 SO 4 , filtered, and
concentrated to give a crude solid that was purified by reverse phase column
chromatography to give 150 mg of N-((1 -(3-fluoropyridin-2
yl)cyclobutyl)methyl)-6-(2-hydrazinylpyridin-3-yl)pyridazin-3-amine as an off
white solid. The isolated product was then dissolved in methanol and added
to a vial containing ~1 mL of Raney Nickel suspension in water. The mixture
was then stirred under 50 psi of hydrogen for 2 h. The reaction was then
filtered, concentrated, and purified by reverse phase column chromatography
to give 10 mg (88%) of 6-(2-aminopyridin-3-y)-N-((1-(3-fluoropyridin-2
yl)cyclobutyl)methyl)pyridazin-3-amine as an off-white solid, m/z = 351.1
[M+H].
Example 12: Preparation of N1-(5-(6-((1-(3-Fluoropyridin-2
                                             RR;

yl)cyclobutyl)methylamino) pyridazin-3-y)-1H-indazol-3-yl)ethane-1,2
diamine
                           N/\                                                   N
                                      N__N____N-N                                     F
               N-NH
                F~                F                 :     F                   HN
                                                                             NHI/
                                                              "s            NH
 HOOC                                                   H
                                               CbzHN
        Benzyl 2-(2-Fluoro-5-(6-((1-(3-fluoropyridin-2
yl)cyclobutyl)methylamino)pyridazin-3-yl)benzamido)ethylcarbamate.                 To
a 20 dram vial was added 2-fluoro-5-(6-((1-(3-fluoropyridin-2
yl)cyclobutyl)methylamino)pyridazin-3-yl)benzoic acid (320 mg, 0.8 mmol, 1.0
equiv), benzyl 2-aminoethylcarbamate (242 mg, 1.0 mmol, 1.3 equiv), HOBt
(141 mg, 1.0 mmol, 1.3 equiv), EDC HCI (200 mg, 1.0 mmol, 1.3 equiv),
DIPEA (550 pL, 3.8 equiv) and CH 2 Cl2 (5 mL). The reaction was stirred for 4
h and then concentrated and then purified using a silica gel column (50%
100% EtOAc/hexanes) to afford 230 mg (50%) of benzyl 2-(2-fluoro-5-(6-((1
(3-fluoropyridin-2-yl)cyclobutyl)methylamino)pyridazin-3
yl)benzamido)ethylcarbamate as a white foam.
                                     N                                            N
                         N-N               F                            N-N             F
           F                    NH                          F          /      NH
          HN                                             HN
               0j                                               S
CbzHN                                            CbzHN
        Benzyl 2-(2-fluoro-5-(6-((1-(3-fluoropyridin-2
yl)cyclobutyl)methylamino)pyridazin-3
yl)phenylthioamido)ethylcarbamate.            In a 20 dram vial containing benzyl 2
(2-fluoro-5-(6-((1-(3-fluoropyridin-2-yl)cyclobutyl)methylamino)pyridazin-3
yl)benzamido)ethylcarbamate (230 mg, 0.5 mmol, 1 equiv) was added
Lawesson's reagent (162 mg, 0.4 mmol, 0.8 equiv) and dioxane (10 mL). The
reaction was heated to 100     OC  and stirred for 1 h, concentrated, and then
purified using a silica gel column (35%-100% EtOAc/hexanes) to give 203 mg
(86%) of benzyl 2-(2-fluoro-5-(6-((1-(3-fluoropyridin-2
yl)cyclobutyl)methylamino)pyridazin-3-yl)phenylthioamido)ethylcarbamate as
                                           R7

a pale yellow oil.
                                    N                                         N
                         N-N             F                          N-N         F
            F                  NH        FHN                               NH
                      HNN
         -N     SbHN                                      N
 CbzHN                                         CbzHN
        Benzyl 2-(5-(6-((1-(3-fluoropyridin-2
yl)cyclobutyl)methylamino)pyridazin-3-y)-1 H-indazol-3
ylamino)ethylcarbamate. The isolated benzyl 2-(2-fluoro-5-(6-((1-(3
fluoropyridin-2-yl)cyclobutyl)methylamino)pyridazin-3
yl)phenylthioamido)ethyl-carbamate was transferred to a 20 dram vial,
followed by the addition of hydrazine hydrate (0.1 mL) and dioxane (2 mL).
The reaction was heated to 100     OC and stirred for 12 h, concentrated, and
then purified using a silica gel column (5%-10% MeOH/EtOAc) to yield 48 mg
(25%) of benzyl 2-(5-(6-((1-(3-fluoropyridin-2
yl)cyclobutyl)methylamino)pyridazin-3-y)-1 H-indazol-3
ylamino)ethylcarbamate as a pale yellow oil.
                                  N                                           N
                        N-N            F                            N-N         F
         HN                   NH            -         HN                 NH f
          N                                            N
 CbzHN       NH                                  H2N      NH
        N1 -(5-(6-((1-(3-Fluoropyridin-2
yl)cyclobutyl)methylamino)pyridazin-3-yl)-l H-indazol-3-yl)ethane-11,2
diamine. Benzyl 2-(5-(6-((1-(3-fluoropyridin-2
yl)cyclobutyl)methylamino)pyridazin-3-y)-1 H-indazol-3
ylamino)ethylcarbamate (48 mg, 84 pmol) was dissolved in acetonitrile (5 mL),
and TMSI (0.5 mL) was added. The reaction was stirred for 15 min, diluted
with methanol (15 mL), concentrated, and was directly purified by reverse
phase column chromatography to yield 20 mg (88%) of N1 -(5-(6-((1-(3
fluoropyridin-2-yl)cyclobutyl)methylamino)pyridazin-3-y)-1 H-indazol-3
yl)ethane-1,2-diamine as a yellow solid, m/z = 433 [M+H].
                                        RR

Example 13: Preparation of 6-(5-Aminopyridin-2-y)-N-((1-(3
fluoropyridin-2-yl)cyclobutyl)methyl)pyridazin-3-amine
           N                                        N
 H2 N          Br                            N          Br
        2-Bromo-5-(2,5-dimethyl-1H-pyrrol-1-yl)pyridine. To a 25 mL round
bottom flask was added 5-amino-2-bromopyridine (600 mg, 3.5 mmol, 1.0
equiv), hexane-2,5-dione (420 mg, 4.2 mmol, 1.2 equiv), p-toluenesulfonic
acid (5 mg), and toluene (3.5 mL). A Dean-Stark trap was fitted on top of the
round bottom flask and the reaction mixture was heated to reflux for 2 h. The
reaction was then concentrated and purified by silica gel column
chromatography (5% ethyl acetate/hexanes) to give 660 mg (76%) of 2
bromo-5-(2,5-dimethyl-1 H-pyrrol-1 -yl)pyridine.
                                                                                  N
         N   N                       N     FN                          N N          F
        N ~      Br   +                                   N      "    /   "
                          N-N             F                                   'Boo
                           CI_   NBoc
        tert-Butyl-6-(5-(2,5-dimethyl-1 H-pyrrol-1 -yl)pyridin-2-yl)pyridazin-3
yl((1-(3-fluoropyridin-2-yl)cyclobutyl)methyl)carbamate. THF (8.5 mL)
was cooled to -78     OC under a nitrogen atmosphere. iBuLi (1.7 mL, 2.9 mmol,
2.0 equiv) was added, followed by the addition of 2-bromo-5-(2,5-dimethyl-1 H
pyrrol-1 -yl)pyridine (370 mg, 1.47 mmol, 1.0 equiv dissolved in 2 mL THF)
over 2 min. The reaction as stirred for 45 min at -78   OC. Zinc chloride (510
mg, 3.75 mmol, 2.5 equiv dissolved in 5 mL of THF) was added and the
reaction was allowed to warm to rt and stirred for 3 h. (t-Bu 3 P)2Pd (41 mg,
0.015 mmol, 0.10 equiv dissolved in 5 mL of THF) and t-butyl 6
chloropyridazin-3-yl((1-(3-f luoropyridin-2-yl)cyclobutyl)methyl)carbamate (393
mg, 0.1 mmol, 0.07 equiv dissolved in 5 mL of THF) were added and the
reaction was refluxed for 4 h followed by dilution with sodium bicarbonate (20
mL), and extraction with ethyl acetate (40 mL). The organic layer was dried
over Na2 SO 4 , filtered, and concentrated to give a crude solid that was purified
                                         R9

by silica gel column chromatography (35% EtOAc/hexanes) to give 245 mg
(46%) of tert-butyl 6-(5-(2,5-dimethyl-1 H-pyrrol-1 -yl)pyridin-2-yl)pyridazin-3
yl((1 -(3-fluoropyridin-2-yl)cyclobutyl)methyl)carbamate.
                               N                                                N
                                                                N    N-N          F
              N    N-N              F
                                                        2                     I
                  /- "    NBoo
         6-(5-Aminopyridin-2-yl)-N-((1-(3-fluoropyridin-2
yl)cyclobutyl)methyl)pyridazin-3-amine. To a 20 dram vial was added tert
butyl 6-(5-(2,5-dimethyl-1 H-pyrrol-1 -yl)pyridin-2-yl)pyridazin-3-yl((1 -(3
fluoropyridin-2-yl)cyclobutyl)methyl)carbamate (245 mg, 0.5 mmol) and a 5
mL of a 50% mixture of TFA and CH 2 Cl 2 . The reaction was stirred for 15 min,
concentrated, and then diluted with sodium bicarbonate (20 mL) and extracted
with ethyl acetate (40 mL). The organic layer was dried over Na2 SO 4 , filtered,
and concentrated to give a crude solid that was purified by silica gel column
chromatography (60% EtOAc/hexanes) to give 91 mg (46%) of 6-(5-(2,5
dimethyl-1 H-pyrrol-1 -yl)pyridin-2-yl)-N-((1 -(3-fluoropyridin-2
yl)cyclobutyl)methyl)pyridazin-3-amine. This product was transferred to a 100
mL round bottom flask to which was added hydroxylamine hydrochloride (270
mg), triethylamine (5 mL), and ethanol (20 mL). The reaction mixture was
heated to reflux overnight and then concentrated, diluted with sodium
bicarbonate (20 mL) and extracted with ethyl acetate (40 mL). The organic
layer was dried over Na2 SO 4 , filtered, and concentrated to give a crude solid
that was purified by reverse phase column chromatography to afford 28 mg of
6-(5-aminopyridin-2-yl)-N-((1 -(3-fluoropyridin-2-yl)cyclobutyl)methyl)pyridazin
3-amine, m/z = 351.2 [M+H].
Example 14: Preparation of 3-(6-(2-(4-Fluorophenyl)-2
methylpropylamino)-4-methylpyridazin-3-yl)benzamide
 CI     N      i     H              F               CI    N                 F
             CI     H2NN
         6-Chloro-N-(2-(4-fluorophenyl)-2-methylpropyl)-5-methylpyridazin
3-amine. A solution of (2-(4-fluorophenyl)-2-methylpropan-1 -amine (5.5 g, 33
                                          qn

mmol, 1.8 equiv), 3,6-dichloro-4-methylpyridazine (3.0 g, 18 mmol, 1.0 equiv)
and K2 CO 3 (5.1 g, 37 mmol, 2.0 equiv) in isopropanol (7.5 mL) was stirred at
100 2C under a blanket of nitrogen for 18 hours. The cooled mixture was
partitioned between water and EtOAc and the organic fraction was
concentrated in vacuo. Purification over silica gel using a 20 - 35% gradient
of EtOAc/hexanes gave the desired product (0.80 g, 15%) of a yellow oil
which was determined by HPLC to be a 5:1 mixture of regioisomers by HPLC.
 NC         B(OH) 2          N
                             HN
        2-Fluoro-5-(6-(2-(4-fluorophenyl)-2-methylpropylamino)-4
methylpyridazin-3-yl)benzonitrile. To a solution of 6-chloro-N-(2-(4
fluorophenyl)-2-methylpropyl)-5-methylpyridazin-3-amine (0.8 g, 2.7 mmol, 1.0
equiv) and 2 M aqueous K2 CO3 (2.0 mL, 8.2 mmol, 3.0 equiv) in dioxane (14
mL) was added Pd(dppf)C12 (0.11 g, 0.14 mmol, 0.05 equiv) and 3
cyanophenylboronic acid (0.48 g, 3.3 mmol, 1.2 equiv). The mixture was
stirred at 80 2C for 2 hours under a blanket of nitrogen. This was followed by
addition of another 100 mg (0.68 mmol, 0.25 equiv) of the boronic acid and 30
mg (0.037 mmol, 0.013 equiv) of Pd(dppf)C12 and another 1 h of heating at
100 2C. The mixture was allowed to cool to room temperature.and then was
diluted with EtOAc. The solution was washed with 50% NaCI solution, dried
over Na2 SO 4 and evaporated to dryness. The residue was purified by over
silica gel using a 20 - 50% EtOAc/hexanes stepwise gradient to give the
desired product (850 mg, 86%) as a single regioisomer.
               N..F                          0            _N               F
 NC
                    N                           NH2           N
                    H                                         H
        3-(6-(2-(4-Fluorophenyl)-2-methylpropylamino)-4-methylpyridazin
3-yl)benzamide. A 0 2C solution of 2-fluoro-5-(6-(2-(4-fluorophenyl)-2
methylpropylamino)-4-methylpyridazin-3-yl)benzonitrile (0.80 g, 2.2 mmol, 1.0
equiv), 30% hydrogen peroxide (0.45 mL, 4.4 mmol, 2.0 equiv), and K2 CO3
(600 mg, 4.4 mmol, 2.0 equiv) in DMSO (9.0 mL) was stirred for 1 hour. The
mixture was diluted with EtOAc, washed with saturated NaCI, water and
                                        91

saturated NaCI again, and then dried over Na2 SO 4. Purification by reverse
phase HPLC using a gradient of 20 - 70% CH 3CN/water gave the desired
product (420 mg, 51%) as a yellow solid. m/z = 379. 1 [M+H]+.
Example 15: Preparation of 3-(5-Cyano-6-(2-(4-fluorophenyl)-2
methylpropylamino)pyridazin-3-yl)benzamide
                              -i                    N-'-N
                         0       _ ci                     cl
                           ci                   NH2
          3,6-Dichloropyridazine-4-carboxamide. A solution of NH40H (1.1
mL, 17 mmol, 1.2 equiv) and diisopropylethylamine (6.2 mL, 36 mmol, 2.1
equiv) in THF (57 mL) was sonicated until homogeneous after which was
added DMAP (1.0 g, 14 mmol, 1.0 equiv). 3,6-dichloropyridazine-4-carbony
chloride (3.0 g, 14 mmol, 1.0 equiv) was then added and the solution was
stirred at room temperature for 20 minutes. The solution was filtered and
partitioned between EtOAc and 1 M KHSO 4 solution. The organic layer was
washed once more with 1 M KHSO 4 and saturated NaCI, dried over Na2 SO 4 ,
and evaporated to dryness to give the desired product (2.6 g, 96%).
       CI     NC                      F             C1     NF
                                                                           F
             -;:'"N    +
                                    2                        I N
        NH2                                             O    NH
                                                        0    NH 2
          6-Chloro-3-(2-(4-fluorophenyl)-2-methylpropylamino)pyridazine-4
carboxamide. Using a similar procedure as was used for 6-chloro-N-(2-(4
fluorophenyl)-2-methylpropyl)-5-methylpyridazin-3-amine in example 14, 3,6
dichloropyridazine-4-carboxamide (2.6 g, 13 mmol, 1.0 equiv), (2-(4
fluorophenyl)-2-methylpropan-1 -amine (2.5 g, 15 mmol, 1.1 equiv), and
diisopropylethylamine (2.8 mL, 16 mmol, 1.2 equiv) in CH 3CN (54 mL) was
heated at 60 - 90 2C for 48 hours. The product was purified over silica gel
with 100% EtOAc to give the desired product (3.4 g, 78%) as a yellow foamy
solid.
            C1      NF                         CN            H       F
                       NN
                               N                       N
                               HN
                o    NH2                            O

       6-Chloro-3-(2-(4-fluorophenyl)-2-methylpropylamino)pyridazine-4
carbonitrile. To a portion of 6-chloro-3-(2-(4-fluorophenyl)-2
methylpropylamino)pyridazine-4-carboxamide (3.4 g, 11 mmol, 1.0 equiv) was
added POC 3 (10 mL) at room temperature. The mixture was stirred at reflux
for 3 hours and then quenched by pouring it into ice water containing
NaHCO 3 . Dioxane and EtOAc were added to facilitate mixing of the layers.
The layers were allowed to separate and the aqueous layer was extracted
with EtOAc and the combined organic phases were washed with saturated
NaCI. The organics were dried over Na2 SO 4 and evaporated to dryness in
vacuo. Purification over silica gel using a gradient of 10 - 20 %
EtOAc/hexanes yielded the desired product (0.60 g, 19%) as a yellow oil.
      N ..              F
           N                   NH 2                    NH             N
      ON                                                         CN
       3-(5-Cyano-6-(2-(4-fl uorophenyl)-2-methyl propylamino)pyridazi n-3
yl)benzamide. To a solution of 6-chloro-3-(2-(4-fluorophenyl)-2
methylpropylamino)pyridazine-4-carbonitrile (550 mg, 1.8 mmol, 1.0 equiv), 3
aminocarbonylphenylboronic acid, pinacol ester (330 mg, 2.0 mmol, 1.1
equiv) and aqueous K2 CO3 (2.0 M, 5.0 mL, 5.4 mmol, 3.0 equiv) in dioxane
(18 mL) was added Pd(dppf)C12 (150 mg, 0.18 mmol, 0.1 equiv). The mixture
was stirred at 120 2C for 10 minutes in a microwave and allowed to cool to
room temperature. The solvents were evaporated in vacuo, and the residue
was dissolved in dichloromethane. The solution was filtered and the solvent
dried over Na2 SO 4 . Purification over silica gel using a gradient of 40 - 80%
EtOAc/hexanes gave a yellow solid that was slurried with CH 3CN to give the
desired product (30 mg, 4.3%) as a yellow solid. m/z = 390.2 [M+H]+.
Example 16: Preparation of (S)-2-(4-Fluorophenyl)propan-1-amine
                                                            0            F
                                   F0
             0          F                   _        O_   N
                                                           Bn
       (S)-4-Benzyl-3-(2-(4-fluorophenyl)acetyl)oxazolidin-2-one.          To a
                                         q9q

cooled (-78     OC)  solution of (S)-4-benzyloxazolidin-2-one (10 g, 58 mmol, 1.0
equiv) in 100 mL THF was added dropwise n-BuLi (40 mL, 1.6 M in hexanes,
64 mmol, 1.1 equiv). After stirring for 30 minutes, 4-fluorophenylacetyl
chloride (10 g, 0.58 mmol, 1.0 equiv) was added dropwise. After stirring for
an additional 30 minutes, the reaction mixture was allowed to warm to room
temperature. The reaction was quenched with saturated aq. NH4CI, extracted
with dichloromethane, and washed with brine. The organic layer was then
dried over sodium sulfate, filtered, and concentrated in vacuo. Purification by
silica gel (10 - 20% EtOAc/hexanes) provided the title compound as a thick oil
(14.7 g, 81%).
             0    0                F                           0             F
                          0_1        N  ~                  0N.
                                                                     Me
                 Bn                                              Bn
        (S)-4-Benzyl-3-((S)-2-(4-fluorophenyl)propanoyl)oxazolidin-2-one.
To a room-temperature solution of (S)-4-benzyl-3-(2-(4
fluorophenyl)acetyl)oxazolidin-2-one (5.1 g, 16.3 mmol, 1.0 equiv) in dry THF
(100 mL) was added iodomethane (1.0 mL, 16.2 mmol, 1.0 equiv) by syringe.
The resulting mixture was cooled to -78 0C, and NaHMDS (8.15 mL, 2M in
THF, 16.3 mmol, 1.0 equiv) was added dropwise by syringe. After stirring for
15 minutes at -78       OC,   the reaction mixture was allowed to warm to room
temperature. The reaction was quenched with saturated aq. NH4CI, and
diluted with EtOAc. The organic layer was washed with brine, dried over
Na2 SO 4 , filtered and concentrated in vacuo. Purification by silica gel
chromatography (7 - 20% EtOAc/hexanes) provided the title compound (2.6
g, 49%).
                    00         ~.    F                                     F
             O      N                                       HO             F
                            e                                       e
                     Bn
        (S)-2-(4-Fluorophenyl)propan-1-ol.           To a room-temperature solution
of (S)-4-benzyl-3-((S)-2-(4-fluorophenyl) propanoyl)oxazolidin-2-one (1.8 g,
5.5 mmol, 1.0 equiv) in THF (18 mL) was added a solution of NaBH 4 (1.0 g,
26.4 mmol, 4.8 equiv) in water (6.0 mL). The reaction mixture was stirred for
3 h at room temperature and then quenched by the careful addition of aq. 1 M
                                               9q4

HCl. The reaction mixture was diluted with water and ethyl acetate. The
layers were separated and the organic layer was subsequently washed with
brine, dried over Na2 SO 4 , filtered and concentrated in vacuo. Purification by
silica gel chromatography (10 - 75% EtOAc/Hexanes) provided the title
compound (0.824 g, 97%).
                           F                              0             F
           H0     ~                                        N
                  Me                                          Me
                                                          0
         (S)-2-(2-(4-Fluorophenyl)propyl)isoindoline-1,3-dione. To a solution
of (S)-2-(4-fluorophenyl)propan-1 -ol (0.82 g, 5.35 mmol, 1.0 equiv),
phthalimide (0.82 g, 5.6 mmol, 1.05 equiv), and triphenyl phosphine (2.1 g,
8.03 mmol, 1.5 equiv) in dry THF (18 mL) was added dropwise
diethylazodicarboxylate (3.6 mL, 15% in toluene, 8.0 mmol, 1.5 equiv). The
reaction mixture was stirred over 72 h and then concentrated in vacuo.
Purification by silica gel chromatography (15 - 25% EtOAc/Hexanes) provided
the title compound (0.9 g, 59%).
                   o                F                                    F
                    N                                    H2N             F
                        Me                                     Me
                   0
         (S)-2-(4-Fluorophenyl)propan-1 -amine. To a room-temperature
solution of (S)-2-(2-(4-fluorophenyl)propyl)isoindoline-1,3-dione (900 mg, 3.2
mmol, 1.0 equiv) in toluene (14 mL) was added hydrazine hydrate (1.4 mL, 45
mmol, 14 equiv) by syringe. The resulting mixture was heated to 80 OC for 30
minutes and then cooled to room temperature. The resulting solution was
decanted from the solid in the reaction mixture, and the solid was washed with
additional toluene. The combined organic layers were combined and
concentrated in vacuo to provide the title compound (491 mg, 99%), which
was used without further purification.
Example 17: Preparation of 2-(4-Fluorophenyl)-2-methylpropan-1 -amine
                                                                     F
              N-.F.H                                   2N
                                                          MeMe
                                          q5~

        To a solution of 4-fluorophenylacetonitrile (50 g, 370 mmol, 1.0 equiv)
and iodomethane (70 mL, 1.1 mol, 3 equiv) in THF (370 mL) was added KOt
Bu (124 g, 1.1 mol, 3 equiv) as a solid in portions such that the reaction
mixture did not exceed 50 C. The reaction mixture was stirred overnight and
then quenched by the addition of brine. The mixture was diluted with EtOAc
and washed twice with brine. The organic layer was dried over Na2 SO 4 ,
filtered, and concentrated in vacuo to provide 2-(4-fluorophenyl)-2
methylpropanenitrile as a yellow oil (57 g, 94%), which was used without
further purification in the next step. To a solution of the nitrile in dry THF (800
mL) was added a solution of lithium aluminum hydride (210 mL, 2 M in ether,
420 mmol, 1.2 equiv). After the mixture was heated at reflux overnight, the
reaction was allowed to cool to room temperature, and a Fieser and Fieser
work-up (300 uL water/mmol, 1.0 mL 3N NaOH/mmol, 300 uL water/mmol)
was performed. Filtration of the resulting solids provided the title compound
as an orange oil (57 g, 92%).
Example 18: Preparation (1-(4-Fluorophenyl)cyclobutyl)methanamine
                                                                  F      F
            N4              FH
                                                      2N
        A solution of 4-fluorophenylacetonitrile (6.7 g, 75 mmol, 1.5 equiv), 1,3
dibromopropane (10 mL, 50 mmol, 1 equiv), KOH (27 g, 150 mmol, 3.0
equiv), and tetrabutylammonium bromide (100 mg) in toluene (135 mL) was
heated to 100   OC  for 3 hours. The organic layer was separated and
concentrated to dryness. Silica gel chromatography using a gradient of 0
30% EtOAc/hexanes resulted in partially purified product which was further
purified by Kugelrohr distillation at 200 OC to provide 3.76 g (22 mmol) of the
intermediate nitrile product as an oil. The residue was dissolved in dry THF
(22 mL) and treated with a solution of LAH (27 mL, 2 M in ether, 55 mmol, 2.5
equiv). The mixture was stirred at 0 OC for 2 hours followed by a Fieser and
Fieser work-up (38 uL water/mmol, 118 uL 3N NaOH/mmol, 38 uL
water/mmol). The organic layer was concentrated to dryness to provide the
desired product (3.6 g, 40% overall) as a yellow oil.
                                         9RF

Example 19: Preparation of (1-(6-Methoxypyridin-2
yl)cyclobutyl)methanamine
                  'NN
         F    N       F                                            NNF
        1-(6-Fluoropyridin-2-yl)cyclobutanecarbonitrile. Following the
same procedure as described for 2-(3-fluoropyridin-2-yl)acetonitrile (Example
18), 2,6-difluoropyridine (5.0 g, 43 mmol, 1.0 equiv), cyclobutylcarbonitrile (3.5
g, 43 mmol, 1.0 equiv) and NaHMDS (2.0 M in THF, 24 mL, 47 mmol, 1.1
equiv) in toluene (100 mL) gave the desired product (4.9 g, 64%) as a
colorless oil following purification over silica gel using 25% EtOAc/hexanes as
eluent.
                         N     F                    N           OMe
        1-(6-Methoxypyridin-2-yl)cyclobutanecarbonitrile. To stirred 6.0 mL
of anhydrous methanol at 0 2C under nitrogen was added sodium metal (~1 g)
and the mixture stirred for 30 minutes. To this was added 1-(6-fluoropyridin-2
yl)cyclobutanecarbonitrile (1.6 g, 9.1 mmol) and the resulting mixture heated
to 75 2C for 45 minutes. The solution was cooled to room temperature and
partitioned between water and EtOAc. The layers were separated, the
aqueous phase was extracted with EtOAc, and the combined organic phases
were washed with saturated NaCI, dried over Na2 SO 4 and concentrated in
vacuo to give the desired product (1.7 g, 97%) as a colorless oil.
                 N             F                 H2N            OMe
        (1-(6-Methoxypyridin-2-yl)cyclobutyl)methanamine.         To a stirred
solution of 1-(6-methoxypyridin-2-yl)cyclobutanecarbonitrile (1.7 g, 8.8 mmol,
1.0 equiv) in THF (20 mL) was added lithium aluminum hydride solution (1.0
M in THF, 11 mL, 11 mmol, 1.1 equiv). The mixture was refluxed for 1.5
hours and allowed to cool to room temperature. Water (0.43 mL) was added
                                         9q7

slowly followed by 0.43 mL of 3 M NaOH and then three additions of 0.43 mL
of water (Fieser and Fieser workup). The resulting mixture was filtered
through diatomaceous earth and rinsed with THF. The combined organics
were dried over Na2 SO 4 and concentrated to dryness to give the desired
product (1.6 g, 97%) as a viscous oil.
Example 20: Preparation of 1-(3-Fluoropyridin-2-yl)cyclobutanamine
                               N                              0   N
             NC
                                                         H2 N
         1-(3-Fluoropyridin-2-yl)cyclobutanecarboxamide. To a 250 mL
round bottom flask containing DMSO (60 mL), 1-(3-fluoropyridin-2
yl)cyclobutanecarbonitrile (2.96 g, 16.8 mmol, 1.0 equiv) was added and the
mixture was stirred until homogenous. Potassium carbonate (7.0 g, 50.4
mmol, 3.0 equiv) was then added and the reaction mixture was cooled to 0
OC,  followed by the addition of 35% hydrogen peroxide (6.5 mL). The reaction
was stirred at 0   OC  for 30 min and then warmed to room temperature. At this
time, the reaction was diluted with water (50 mL) and ethyl acetate (100 mL).
After transferring to a separatory funnel and shaking, the organic layer was
separated from the aqueous layer and then washed with brine (3 x 50 mL).
The organic layer was then dried over Na2 SO 4 , filtered, and concentrated to
give a crude solid that was purified by silica gel chromatography (10%
EtOAC/hexanes) to afford 1.92 g (59%) of 1-(3-fluoropyridin-2
yl)cyclobutanecarboxamide as a white solid.
                 O    N11                                      H   N1
            H2 N
                         F                                  0        F
             Methyl 1-(3-fluoropyridin-2-yl)cyclobutylcarbamate. 1-(3
fluoropyridin-2-yl)cyclobutanecarboxamide (1.92 g, 9.88 mmol, 1.0 equiv) was
dissolved in methanol (20 mL) and potassium hydroxide (1.11 g, 19.8 mmol,
2.0 equiv) was added. The mixture was sonicated until homogeneous,
followed by the addition of iodosobenzene diacetate (4.77 g, 14.8 mmol, 1.5
equiv).    The reaction was stirred for 20 min and then diluted with water (100
mL) and ethyl acetate (125 mL). After transferring to a separatory funnel and
                                          9qR

shaking, the organic layer was separated from the aqueous layer, and the
aqueous layer was extracted with EtOAc (50 mL). The combined organic
layers were then dried over Na2 SO 4 , filtered, and concentrated to give a crude
oil that was purified by silica gel chromatography (40% EtOAC/hexanes) to
afford 1.47 g (67%) of methyl 1-(3-fluoropyridin-2-yl)cyclobutylcarbamate as a
white solid.
                        N   ~-N
                  N       1O                               H2 N
                0          F                                         F
         1-(3-Fluoropyridin-2-yl)cyclobutanamine. To a 20 mL microwave
reaction vial was added methyl 1-(3-fluoropyridin-2-yl)cyclobutylcarbamate
(1.47 g, 6.56 mmol), ethanol (12 mL) and 3N aqueous sodium hydroxide (7
mL). The reaction mixture was heated in the microwave reactor at 150         OC for
30 min. The ethanol was evaporated under reduced pressure and the mixture
was extracted with ethyl acetate (30 mL). The aqueous layer was then
extracted with ethyl acetate (2 x 30 mL). The organic layers were combined,
dried over Na2 SO 4 , filtered, and concentrated to give 1-(3-fluoropyridin-2
yl)cyclobutanamine (1.01 g, 93%) as a crude yellow oil that was used in the
next reaction step without further purification.
Example 21: Preparation of 2-(3-Fluoropyridin-2yl)acetonitrile
                    ci                              N
                            F                                F
        To a 0 2C solution of 2-chloro-3-fluoropyridine (3.0 g, 23 mmol, 1.0
equiv) and acetonitrile (1.3 mL, 25 mmol, 1.1 equiv) in toluene (50 mL) was
added sodium hexamethyldisilazide (NaHMDS) (2.0 M in THF, 13 mL, 25
mmol, 1.1 equiv). The resulting mixture was stirred for 2 hours at 0 2C and
then partitioned between EtOAc and water. The aqueous layer was extracted
with EtOAc and the combined organic phases were washed with saturated
NaCI, dried over Na2 SO 4 and concentrated in vacuo to provide the crude
desired product as an oil which was used without further purification.
                                         q9

Example 22: Preparation of 6-Chloro-N-(2-phenylpropan-2-yl)pyridazin
3-amine
                                            F
                N-N              NH 2                       N-N
                                    DIPEA    -        CI           NH
         CI   -    --   CI
         To a 5 mL microwave reaction vial was added 3,6-dichloropyridazine
(544 mg, 3.7 mmol, 1.0 equiv), cumylamine (500 mg, 3.7 mmol, 1.0 equiv),
and DIPEA (640 pL, 3.7 mmol, 1.0 equiv). The reaction was heated in a
microwave reactor to 225      OC  for 15 min and then diluted with brine (20 mL)
and extracted with ethyl acetate (40 mL). The organic layer was dried over
Na2 SO 4 , filtered, and concentrated to give a crude solid that was purified by
silica gel column chromatography (20% EtOAc/hexanes) to yield 48 mg (5%)
of 6-chloro-N-(2-phenylpropan-2-yl)pyridazin-3-amine as a white solid.
Example 23: Preparation of 2-(2-(6-((1-(3-fluoropyridin-2
yl)cyclobutyl)methylamino)pyridazin-3-yl)thiazol-5-yl)acetamide
                           NN
                   HO      s                         TBDMSO         S
         5-((t-Butyldimethylsilyloxy)methyl)thiazole. Thiazole-5-methanol (65
g, 0.56 mol), imidazole (58 g, 0.85 mol), and CH 2 Cl2 (700 mL) were added to a
round bottom flask, followed by TBSCI (93 g, 0.62 mol). The reaction was
stirred for 20 min and the resultant white solid was filtered off. The filtrate was
washed with saturated sodium bicarbonate, dried over sodium sulfate,
concentrated, and purified by silica gel chromatography (10%
EtOAC/hexanes) to afford 140 g of 5-((t-butyldimethylsilyloxy)methyl)thiazole
as a clear oil.
                      N                                                       N
       N-N                 F                                N     N-N             F
                 N                                           N           Nf
 Cli - /    "
                  'Boc                        TBDMSO        S              Boo
         t-butyl 6-(5-((t-butyldimethylsilyloxy)methyl)thiazol-2-yl)pyridazin
3-yl((1-(3-fluoropyridin-2-yl)cyclobutyl)methyl)carbamate. To a stirring
mixture of THF (2000 mL) and diisopropylamine (79.3 mL, 0.56 mol) at -78         OC
                                          1n

was added n-BuLi (244 mL, 0.56 mol) dropwise. After stirring for 20 min at
78   OC, a solution of 5-((t-butyldimethylsilyloxy)methyl)thiazole (110.9 g, 0.49
mol in 300 mL of THF) was added dropwise to the reaction mixture while
maintaining a temperature less than -70         OC. After the addition was complete,
the reaction was stirred for an additional 30 min and a solution of zinc bromide
(126.6 g, 0.56 mol in 300 mL of THF) was added dropwise to the reaction
mixture while maintaining a temperature less than -65         OC.  The reaction was
warmed to 0 OC, stirred for 30 min, and added to a stirring mixture of t-butyl 6
chloropyridazin-3-yl((1-(3-f luoropyridin-2-yl)cyclobutyl)methyl)carbamate (100
g, 0.26 mol), tetrakis(triphenylphosphine)palladium(0) (56 g, 0.05 mol), and
THF (2000 mL) heated to 80        OC. The reaction mixture was stirred overnight at
80   OC.  The reaction was concentrated and then slurried in ethyl acetate and
brine. The resultant solid was filtered off, and the filtrate was dried over
sodium sulfate, concentrated, and purified twice by silica gel chromatography
(EtOAc/hexanes) to afford 112.5 g of t-butyl 6-(5-((tert
butyldimethylsilyloxy)methyl)thiazol-2-yl)pyridazin-3-y((1 -(3-fluoropyridin-2
yl)cyclobutyl)methyl)carbamate as a dark oil.
                                   N    \                                         N
                 N     N-N                F                    N      N-N             F
 TBDMSO  TBM     S
                              N'Boc                   HO                      'Boc
         t-butyl (1-(3-fluoropyridin-2-yl)cyclobutyl)methyl(6-(5
(hydroxymethyl)thiazol-2-yl)pyridazin-3-yl)carbamate.              To a solution of t
butyl 6-(5-((tert-butyldimethylsilyloxy)methyl)thiazol-2-yl)pyridazin-3-y((1 -(3
fluoropyridin-2-yl)cyclobutyl)methyl)carbamate (112.5 g, 0.19 mol) in THF
(1000 mL) was added TBAF (105 mL, 0.29 mol, 75% w/w). The reaction was
stirred for 30 min followed by the addition of ammonium chloride (200 mL).
The organic layer was separated, washed with brine (300 mL x 3), and
concentrated (this wash was repeated once). Ethyl acetate was added to the
oil, resulting in a white solid. Filtration of the solid afforded 44 g of t-butyl (1
(3-fluoropyridin-2-yl)cyclobutyl)methyl(6-(5-(hydroxymethyl)thiazol-2
yl)pyridazin-3-yl)carbamate.
                                            101

                                  NN
              N     N-N               F                   N     N-N           F
                          ~N   /                           "   /      N
    HO        S              Boc                 CI                   N'Boc
        t-butyl 6-(5-(chloromethyl)thiazol-2-yl)pyridazin-3-yl((1-(3
fluoropyridin-2-yl)cyclobutyl)methyl)carbamate. To a solution of t-butyl (1
(3-fluoropyridin-2-yl)cyclobutyl)methyl(6-(5-(hydroxymethyl)thiazol-2
yl)pyridazin-3-yl)carbamate (44.1 g, 93.8 mmol) in dioxane (235 mL) was
added thionyl chloride (27.3 mL, 375.3 mmol). The reaction was stirred until it
was homogeneous. The reaction was then slowly quenched by pouring into a
mixture of saturated potassium carbonate solution and ethyl acetate. The
organic layer was then separated, dried over Na2 SO 4 , filtered, concentrated,
and purified by silica gel chromatography (EtOAC/hexanes) to afford 33.1 g of
t-butyl 6-(5-(chloromethyl)thiazol-2-yl)pyridazin-3-yl((1 -(3-fluoropyridin-2
yl)cyclobutyl)methyl)carbamate as a white solid.
             N     N-N               F                    N    N-N            F
                           Nf/                         INX           N
                                                                     N/f_
    CI                     NBoc                 NC                   NBoo
        t-butyl 6-(5-(cyanomethyl)thiazol-2-yl)pyridazin-3-yl((1-(3
fluoropyridin-2-yl)cyclobutyl)methyl)carbamate. To a solution of t-butyl 6
(5-(chloromethyl)thiazol-2-yl)pyridazin-3-yl((1 -(3-fluoropyridin-2
yl)cyclobutyl)methyl)carbamate (33.1 g, 68 mmol) in CH 2 Cl 2 (450 mL) was
added tetrabutylammonium cyanide (36 g, 135 mmol). The reaction was
heated to 45 OC and stirred for 1 h, followed by concentration and purification
by silica gel chromatography (EtOAc/hexanes) to afford 13.4 g of t-butyl 6-(5
(cyanomethyl)thiazol-2-yl)pyridazin-3-yl((1 -(3-fluoropyridin-2
yl)cyclobutyl)methyl)carbamate as an off-white solid.
                                 N                                          N
             N     N-N               F                     N     N-N           F
              N           Noc                       0   i              NH
   NC,                                       H2 N
        2-(2-(6-((1-(3-fluoropyridin-2-yl)cyclobutyl)methylamino)pyridazin
3-yl)thiazol-5-yl)acetamide. To a solution of t-butyl 6-(5
                                         1n

(cyanomethyl)thiazol-2-yl)pyridazin-3-yl((1 -(3-fluoropyridin-2
yl)cyclobutyl)methyl)carbamate (12.5 g, 26.0 mmol) in DMSO (260 mL) was
added potassium carbonate (14.4 g, 104.1 mmol). The mixture was cooled to
0 *C and hydrogen peroxide (86 mL) was slowly added. The reaction was
warmed to rt and stirred for 90 min. The reaction was diluted with EtOAc (200
mL) and water (500 mL), and the organic layer was washed three times with
brine (150 mL). The organic layer was then dried over Na2 SO 4 , filtered, and
concentrated to give a crude solid that was purified by silica gel
chromatography (CH 3CN/CH 2Cl2) to afford 6.2 g of t-butyl 6-(5-(2-amino-2
oxoethyl)thiazol-2-yl)pyridazin-3-yl((1 -(3-fluoropyridin-2
yl)cyclobutyl)methyl)carbamate as a reddish solid. This compound was
combined with other batches (15.5 g overall), dissolved in 25% TFA/CH 2Cl2 ,
and stirred for 1 h. The reaction was then concentrated, dissolved in ethyl
acetate (75 mL), and washed three times with potassium carbonate. The
organic layer was then dried over Na2 SO 4 , filtered, and concentrated to give a
crude solid that was recrystallized with THF to give 10.8 g of 1-(2-((-3-fluoro
1-(3-fluoropyridin-2-yl)cyclobutyl)methylamino)pyrimidin-5-y)-1 H-pyrrole-3
carboxamide as an off-white solid (M+H=399.1).
Example 24: Preparation of 2-(2-(6-((1-(3-fluoropyridin-2
yl)cyclobutyl)methylamino)pyridazin-3-yl)thiazol-5-y)-N
methylacetamide
                          N                                                 N
          N     N-N             F                           N     N-N              F
      NC/          "  N/_                             0      N~/        NH
  NC                  NBoc                          N       SNH
                                                    H
        A solution of t-butyl 6-(5-(cyanomethyl)thiazol-2-yl)pyridazin-3-yl((1 -(3
fluoropyridin-2-yl)cyclobutyl)methyl)carbamate (1 g, 2 mmol) in HCI (30 mL,
conc) was heated to 105 *C in a microwave reactor and stirred for 15 min.
The reaction was concentrated to give 900 mg (2.3 mmol) of a crude reddish
solid. To this solid was added methylamine hydrochloride (183 mg, 2.7
mmol), HOBt (365 mg, 2.7 mmol), EDC (516 mg, 2.7 mmol), DMF (30 mL),
and TEA (1.3 mL, 9 mmol). The reaction was stirred at rt overnight. The
reaction was then poured into ethyl acetate (200 mL), washed with water
                                         1flR

(3x1 00 mL), and the organic layer was separated, dried over Na2 SO 4 , filtered,
concentrated, and recrystallized from EtOAc to give 408 mg of 2-(2-(6-((1-(3
Fluoropyridin-2-yl)cyclobutyl)methylamino)pyridazin-3-yl)thiazol-5-y)-N
methylacetamide as a white solid (M+H=413.3).
Example 25: Preparation of N-((2-(6-((1-(3-fluoropyridin-2
yl)cyclobutyl)methylamino)pyridazin-3-yl)thiazol-5-yl)methyl)-2
hydroxyacetamide
                           N                                                       N
                                                                 N    N-N            F
 CI                  N'Boo                         N      N      S            'Boc
                                                        0
        t-butyl 6-(5-(Azidomethyl)thiazol-2-yl)pyridazin-3-yl((1-(3
fluoropyridin-2-yl)cyclobutyl)methyl)carbamate. To a stirring solution of t
butyl 6-(5-(chloromethyl)thiazol-2-yl)pyridazin-3-yl((1 -(3-fluoropyridin-2
yl)cyclobutyl)methyl)carbamate (60.7 g, 124 mmol) in DMF (800 mL) was
added sodium azide (22.2 g, 341 mmol) and DIPEA (31.1 mL, 171 mmol).
The reaction was heated to 60     OC and stirred for 1 h. The reaction was
poured into ethyl acetate (2000 mL), washed with water (3x400 mL), and the
combined organic layers were separated, dried over Na2 SO 4 , filtered,
concentrated, and purified by silica gel chromatography (EtOAC/hexanes) to
afford 20.0 g of t-butyl 6-(5-(azidomethyl)thiazol-2-yl)pyridazin-3-yl((1 -(3
fluoropyridin-2-yl)cyclobutyl)methyl)carbamate as a yellow oil.
                                N                                           N
            N     N-N              F                      N     N-N               F
    N3                     N'Boc                H2 N                   NBoc
        t-butyl 6-(5-(Aminomethyl)thiazol-2-yl)pyridazin-3-yl((1-(3
fluoropyridin-2-yl)cyclobutyl)methyl)carbamate. Tin(II) chloride dihydrate
(15.5 g, 80 mmol) was added to a solution of t-butyl 6-(5-(azidomethyl)thiazol
2-yl)pyridazin-3-yl((1-(3-fluoropyridin-2-yl)cyclobutyl)methyl)carbamate (20 g,
40 mmol) in methanol (400 mL) and the reaction was stirred at rt for 30 min.
The reaction was poured into ethyl acetate (1000 mL), washed with water
                                         1n4

(3x200 mL), and the combined organic layers were separated, dried over
Na2 SO 4 , filtered, concentrated, and purified using silica gel column
chromatography (9% MeOH/90% EtOAc/1 % TEA) to give 35 g of t-butyl 6-(5
(aminomethyl)thiazol-2-yl)pyridazin-3-yl((1 -(3-fluoropyridin-2
yl)cyclobutyl)methyl)carbamate as a yellow oil.
                              N _N
            N      N-N            F                             N    N-N          F
                      / N                                IH   ~          NH
 H2 N                    NBoc                   HO       NNH
                                                      0
        N-((2-(6-((1-(3-fluoropyridin-2
yl)cyclobutyl)methylamino)pyridazin-3-yl)thiazol-5-yl)methyl)-2
hydroxyacetamide. t-butyl 6-(5-(aminomethyl)thiazol-2-yl)pyridazin-3-yl((1
(3-fluoropyridin-2-yl)cyclobutyl)methyl)carbamate (4.8 g, 10 mmol), glycolic
acid (0.9 g, 12 mmol), HOBt (1.6 g, 12 mmol), EDC (2.3 g, 12 mmol), DMF
(50 mL), and TEA (5.9 mL) were added to a 250 mL round bottom flask and
the reaction was heated to 60     OC and stirred for 1 h. The reaction was poured
into ethyl acetate (400 mL), washed with water (3x1 00 mL), and the combined
organic layers were separated, dried over Na2 SO 4 , filtered, concentrated, and
purified by silica gel chromatography (EtOAC/hexanes) to afford 3.9 g of t
butyl (1-(3-fluoropyridin-2-yl)cyclobutyl)methyl(6-(5-((2
hydroxyacetamido)methyl)thiazol-2-yl)pyridazin-3-yl)carbamate as a white
solid. This compound was dissolved in 30% TFA/CH 2Cl2 (30 mL) and stirred
for 1 h. The reaction was concentrated, dissolved in EtOAc (200 mL), washed
with potassium carbonate (3x30 mL), concentrated, and then recrystallized
with ethanol to give a white solid that was further purified with reverse phase
chromatography to give 305 mg of N-((2-(6-((1-(3-fluoropyridin-2
yl)cyclobutyl)methylamino)pyridazin-3-yl)thiazo-5-yl)methyl)-2
hydroxyacetamide as a white solid (M+H=429.1).
Example 26: Preparation of 1-(6-((1-(3-fluoropyridin-2
                                         105r;

yl)cyclobutyl)methylamino)pyridazin-3-y)-1 H-pyrrole-3-carboxamide
                       N    \                                            N    _
            N-N               F   __       _                  N-N             F
       F    /     N                                       N  /\N,
                    Boc                           NC                'Boc
         t-butyl 6-(3-Cyano-1H-pyrrol-1-yl)pyridazin-3-yl((1-(3-fluoropyridin
2-yl)cyclobutyl)methyl)carbamate. To a stirring solution of t-butyl 6
fluoropyridazin-3-yl((1-(3-fluoropyridin-2-yl)cyclobutyl)methyl)carbamate (200
mg, 551 pmol) in DMF (2 mL) was added 3-cyanopyrrole (61 mg, 661 pmol)
and potassium carbonate (152 mg, 1.1 mmol). The reaction was heated to
110   OC  and stirred for 30 min. The reaction was then poured into ethyl
acetate (100 mL), washed with water (3x25 mL), and the organic layer was
separated, dried over Na2 SO 4 , filtered, concentrated, and purified by silica gel
chromatography (EtOAC/hexanes) to afford 130 mg of t-butyl 6-(3-cyano-1 H
pyrrol-1 -yl)pyridazin-3-yl((1 -(3-fluoropyridin-2-yl)cyclobutyl)methyl)carbamate
as a pale yellow solid.
                             N                                              N
                 N-N               F                              N-N           F
   NC                     Boc                    H2 N
                                                       0
         1-(6-((1-(3-Fluoropyridin-2-yl)cyclobutyl)methylamino)pyridazin-3
yl)-1H-pyrrole-3-carboxamide.         t-butyl6-(3-cyano-1H-pyrrol-1-yl)pyridazin-3
yl((1 -(3-fluoropyridin-2-yl)cyclobutyl)methyl)carbamate (120 mg, 267 pmol),
potassium carbonate (147 mg, 1.1 mmol), and DMSO (3 mL) were combined
in a vial and cooled to 0 OC. Hydrogen peroxide (700 uL) was added
dropwise, and the reaction was warmed to rt and stirred for 1 h. The reaction
was then poured into ethyl acetate (50 mL), washed with water (3x20 mL),
and the organic layer was separated, dried over Na2 SO 4 , filtered, and
concentrated. The crude solid was dissolved in 50% TFA/CH 2CI 2 (2 mL) and
stirred for 30 min. The reaction was then concentrated and purified using
reverse phase chromatography to give 29 mg of 1-(6-((1-(3-fluoropyridin-2
yl)cyclobutyl)methylamino)pyridazin-3-y)-1 H-pyrrole-3-carboxamide as a tan
solid (M+H=367.1).
                                          10R

Example 27: Preparation of 2-(6-((1-(3-fluoropyridin-2
yl)cyclobutyl)methylamino)pyridazin-3-yl)-4-hydroxy-2,5-dihydrothiazole
5-carboxamide
                    N                                          N
        N-N                 F                      N-N              F
 N --           NH                           N --         N o
                                                           IBoo
        t-butyl 6-Cyanopyridazin-3-yl((1-(3-fluoropyridin-2
yl)cyclobutyl)methyl)carbamate. To a solution of 6-((1-(3-fluoropyridin-2
yl)cyclobutyl)methylamino)pyridazine-3-carbonitrile (3.3 g, 4.7 mmol) in THF
(30 mL) was added di-t-butyl dicarbonate (2.8 g, 13 mmol), and DMAP (0.5 g,
4.3 mmol). The reaction mixture was refluxed for 2 h. The reaction was
concentrated and then poured into ethyl acetate (150 mL) and washed with
0.1 M HCI (50 mL, aq) and brine (50 mL). The organic layer was separated,
dried over Na2 SO 4 , filtered, and concentrated to give a crude oil that was
purified by silica gel column chromatography (EtOAC/hexanes) to afford 3.9 g
of t-butyl 6-cyanopyridazin-3-yl((1 -(3-fluoropyridin-2
yl)cyclobutyl)methyl)carbamate as a white solid.
                    N'    \                                     N
        N-N                 F                   S   N-N              F
 N- -           N                                          N
                 Boc                         H2 N            Boc
        t-butyl 6-Carbamothioylpyridazin-3-yl((1-(3-fluoropyridin-2
yl)cyclobutyl)methyl)carbamate. NMP (40 mL) and DIPEA (10 mL) were
added to t-butyl 6-cyanopyridazin-3-yl((1 -(3-fluoropyridin-2
yl)cyclobutyl)methyl)carbamate (3.9 g, 10 mmol), and hydrogen sulfide was
bubbled through the reaction mixture for 2 h. The reaction was diluted with
water, and the resultant yellow solid was filtered and dried under vacuum to
give 2.1 g of t-butyl 6-carbamothioylpyridazin-3-yl((1 -(3-fluoropyridin-2
yl)cyclobutyl)methyl)carbamate as a yellow solid.
                                         1n7

                      N       N                                          N '
    S    N-N                 F                     HO    N    N-N            F
             /    N                                       "/         NH
 H2 N              Boc                            O      S
                                                     0
        Ethyl 2-(6-(t-butoxycarbonyl((1-(3-fluoropyridin-2
yl)cyclobutyl)methyl)amino)pyridazin-3-y)-4-hydroxy-2,5
dihydrothiazole-5-carboxylate. t-Butyl 6-carbamothioylpyridazin-3-yl((1-(3
fluoropyridin-2-yl)cyclobutyl)methyl)carbamate (1.0 g, 2.4 mmol),
diethylbromomalonate (2 mL, 12 mmol), and toluene were added to a round
bottom flask, heated to 90      OC, and stirred for 40 min. The reaction was
concentrated and purified using reverse phase chromatography to yield 219
mg of ethyl 2-(6-(t-butoxycarbonyl((1 -(3-fluoropyridin-2
yl)cyclobutyl)methyl)amino)pyridazi n-3-yl)-4-hydroxy-2,5-dihydrothiazole-5
carboxylate as an off-white solid.
                               N                                         N
     HO    N      N-N               FO                   N    N-N            F
                         NIH                    HO            /      NH
     O        '
        O                                         O
      0                                             0
        2-(6-(t-Butoxycarbonyl((1-(3-fluoropyridin-2
yl)cyclobutyl)methyl)amino)pyridazin-3-yl)-4-methoxy-2,5
dihydrothiazole-5-carboxylic acid. To a stirring solution of ethyl 2-(6-(t
butoxycarbonyl((1 -(3-fluoropyridin-2-yl)cyclobutyl)methyl)amino)pyridazin-3
yl)-4-hydroxy-2,5-dihydrothiazole-5-carboxylate (350 mg, 0.7 mmol) in DMF (4
mL) was added methyl iodide (200 pL, 3.3 mmol) and sodium hydride (60%
dispersion in mineral oil, 40 mg, 1 mmol). The reaction was stirred at rt for 1 h
and at 40   OC  for 45 min. The reaction was then concentrated and quenched
with water (5 mL), poured into ethyl acetate (150 mL), and washed with 0.1 M
HCI (50 mL, aq) and brine (50 mL). The organic layer was separated, dried
over Na2 SO 4 , filtered, concentrated and purified by silica gel column
chromatography (EtOAC/hexanes) to afford 205 mg of ethyl 2-(6-(tert
butoxycarbonyl((1 -(3-fluoropyridin-2-yl)cyclobutyl)methyl)amino)pyridazin-3
yl)-4-methoxy-2,5-dihydrothiazole-5-carboxylate. This compound was
                                            10R

dissolved in methanol (4 mL) and 1M KOH (aq, 2 mL). The reaction mixture
was heated to 75    OC  and stirred for 45 min. The reaction was cooled and the
pH was adjusted to 4 using 1M HCI. The reaction was then poured into ethyl
acetate (50 mL), washed with brine (15 mL), dried over Na2 SO 4 , filtered, and
concentrated to give 175 mg of 2-(6-(t-butoxycarbonyl((1 -(3-fluoropyridin-2
yl)cyclobutyl)methyl)amino)pyridazi n-3-yl)-4-methoxy-2,5-dihydrothiazole-5
carboxylic acid as a white foam.
                              N                                          N
          N      N-N              F                    N     N-N              F
                         NI/H                           N            NiH
 HO                      NHH                     2N                  N
     O                                              0
        t-butyl 6-(5-Carbamoyl-4-methoxy-2,5-dihydrothiazol-2
yl)pyridazin-3-yl((1-(3-fluoropyridin-2-yl)cyclobutyl)methyl)carbamate.
To a 50 dram vial was added 2-(6-(t-butoxycarbonyl((1 -(3-fluoropyridin-2
yl)cyclobutyl)methyl)amino)pyridazi n-3-yl)-4-methoxy-2,5-dihydrothiazole-5
carboxylic acid (175 mg, 0.34 mmol), HATU (194 mg, 0.51 mmol), HOAt (70
mg, 0.51 mmol), DIPEA (296 pL, 1.7 mmol), NMP (2 mL), and ammonium
chloride (180 mg, 3.4 mmol). The reaction was stirred overnight at rt. The
reaction was then poured into ethyl acetate (50 mL), washed with aqueous
sodium bicarbonate, and brine (50 mL). The organic layer was separated,
dried over Na2 SO 4 , filtered, concentrated and purified by silica gel column
chromatography (EtOAC/hexanes) to afford 120 mg of t-butyl 6-(5-carbamoyl
4-methoxy-2,5-dihydrothiazol-2-yl)pyridazin-3-yl((1 -(3-fluoropyridin-2
yl)cyclobutyl)methyl)carbamate.
                              N                                          N
   -O     N      N-N              F                HO  N     N-N              F
           '    /   "    NH                             N       ~    NH
 HO                      NH                     H2N    s
     0                                              0
        2-(6-((1-(3-Fluoropyridin-2-yl)cyclobutyl)methylamino)pyridazin-3
yl)-4-hydroxy-2,5-dihydrothiazole-5-carboxamide. To a stirring mixture of
t-butyl 6-(5-carbamoyl-4-methoxy-2,5-dihydrothiazol-2-yl)pyridazin-3-yl((1 -(3
fluoropyridin-2-yl)cyclobutyl)methyl)carbamate (60 mg, 0.12 pmol) in CH 2 CI 2
                                          1 0l9

(2 mL) was added BBr 3 (140 pL, 1.2 mmol). The reaction was stirred at rt for
2 h and then at 60   OC   for 15 min. The reaction was cooled to rt and carefully
diluted with methanol (2 mL). The reaction was concentrated, diluted with
ethyl acetate (20 mL), and saturated sodium bicarbonate (10 mL) was added.
The mixture was agitated and then filtered. The subsequent crude solid was
then purified using reverse phase chromatography to give 15 mg of 2-(6-((1
(3-fluoropyridin-2-yl)cyclobutyl)methylamino)pyridazin-3-yl)-4-hydroxy-2,5
dihydrothiazole-5-carboxamide as a yellow solid (M+H=401.3)
Example 28: Preparation of 4-fluoro-3-(6-(((trans)-3-fluoro-1-(3
fluoropyridin-2-yl)cyclobutyl)methylamino)pyridazin-3-y)-2
hydroxybenzamide
                    F                                                      F
                                                      Br   OMe
         NBN   Boc                _     _   _    _                   Boc
    Br         N          N        __          _   _N                       .,   N
                                F                           FF
        t-butyl 6-(3-Bromo-6-fluoro-2-methoxyphenyl)pyridazin-3
yl(((trans)-3-fluoro-1-(3-fluoropyridin-2-yl)cyclobutyl)methyl)carbamate.
t-Butyl 6-Bromopyridazin-3-yl(((trans)-3-fluoro-1-(3-fluoropyridin-2
yl)cyclobutyl)methyl)carbamate (3.0 g, 6.61 mmol), 3-bromo-6-fluoro-2
methoxyphenylboronic acid (1.64 g, 6.61 mmol), (dppf)PdCl2 ( 0.48 g, 0.66
mmol), nitrogen-sparged dioxane (13.2 mL) and aq. 2 N K2 CO 3 (0.6 mL) were
combined and heated in a microwave reactor at 125        OC.   The reaction mixture
was diluted with EtOAc and washed with satd. aq. NaHCO 3 and brine. The
organic layer was dried over sodium sulfate, filtered, and concentrated. Silica
gel chromatography afforded the title compound as a yellow solid (1.4 g,
37%), (m/z [M+H] = 579.1).
                      F                                  NC    OMe
   Br             BoeN-N                                                Boc
                  N    *oN=N
                          ,           Bocp                              N          N
                      F     FF                                                 F
        t-butyl 6-(3-cyano-6-fluoro-2-methoxyphenyl)pyridazin-3
yl(((trans)-3-fluoro-1-(3-fluoropyridin-2-yl)cyclobutyl)methyl)carbamate.
                                           11n

t-Butyl 6-(3-Bromo-6-fluoro-2-methoxyphenyl)pyridazin-3-yl(((trans)-3-fluoro-1
(3-fluoropyridin-2-yl)cyclobutyl)methyl)carbamate (1.4 g, 3.0 mmol), zinc
cyanide (0.42 g, 3.6 mmol), Pd(PPh3 )4 (1.0 g, 0.9 mmol), DMF (3 mL) were
combined and heated to 100      OC. The reaction mixture was diluted with EtOAc
and washed with satd. aq. NaHCO 3 and brine. The organic layer was dried
over sodium sulfate, filtered, and concentrated. Silica gel chromatography
afforded the title compound as a yellow solid (1.0 g, 63%), (m/z [M+H]    =
526.2).
   NC    OMe                                              0              F
                 NBoc                               H2N              Boc
         F             F                                      F          Fu
        t-butyl 6-(3-carbamoyl-6-fluoro-2-methoxyphenyl)pyridazin-3
yl(((trans)-3-fluoro-1-(3-fluoropyridin-2-yl)cyclobutyl)methyl)carbamate.
t-Butyl 6-(3-cyano-6-fluoro-2-methoxyphenyl)pyridazin-3-yl(((trans)-3-fluoro- 1
(3-fluoropyridin-2-yl)cyclobutyl)methyl)carbamate (1.0 g, 1.9 mmol), K2 CO3
(0.8 g, 5.8 mmol), and DMSO (10 mL) were combined in a round bottom flask,
cooled to 0 OC, and H2 0 2 (2 mL of 35% solution) was added dropwise. The
reaction mixture was diluted with EtOAc and washed with satd. aq. NaHCO 3
and brine. The organic layer was dried over sodium sulfate, filtered, and
concentrated. Silica gel chromatography afforded the title compound as a
white solid (0.32 g, 33%), (m/z [M+H] = 545.1).
              0               F                     0              F
         H2 N    OMe                           H2 N     OH
                      N=N Boc                               N=N  H
                          N    > N                             / N
                  F           F-F                                  FU
        4-Fluoro-3-(6-(((trans)-3-fluoro-1-(3-fluoropyridin-2
yl)cyclobutyl)methylamino)pyridazin-3-yl)-2-hydroxybenzamide.            t-Butyl
6-(3-carbamoyl-6-fluoro-2-methoxyphenyl)pyridazin-3-yl(((trans)-3-fluoro-1 -(3
fluoropyridin-2-yl)cyclobutyl)methyl)carbamate (0.32 g, 0.59 mmol), lithium
iodide (0.71 g, 5.34 mmol), and pyridine (5 mL) were combined in a
microwave reactor and heated to 125     OC. The reaction mixture was diluted
with EtOAc and washed with satd. aq. NaHCO 3 and brine. The organic layer
was dried over sodium sulfate, filtered, and concentrated. Reverse phase
chromatography provided 4-fluoro-3-(6-(((E)-3-fluoro-1-(3-fluoropyridin-2
                                       111

yl)cyclobutyl)methylamino)pyridazin-3-yl)-2-hydroxybenzamide as a white
solid (0.024 g, 10%), (m/z [M+H] = 430.1).
Example 29: Preparation of 4-fluoro-5-(6-(((trans)-3-fluoro-1-(3
fluoropyridin-2-yl)cyclobutyl)methylamino)pyridazin-3-y)-2
hydroxybenzamide
                      F                                                      F
                                                        Br
             N=N  Boc           ________
                                                                   =N  Boc
        Br         N                                MeO                Nc
                      F   -~F                                                FU
        t-Butyl 6-(5-bromo-2-fluoro-4-methoxyphenyl)pyridazin-3
yl(((trans)-3-fluoro-1-(3-fluoropyridin-2-yl)cyclobutyl)methyl)carbamate.
t-Butyl 6-bromopyridazin-3-yl(((trans)-3-fluoro-1-(3-fluoropyridin-2
yl)cyclobutyl)methyl)carbamate (3.0 g, 6.61 mmol), 2-(5-bromo-2-fluoro-4
methoxyphenyl)-4,4,5,5-tetramethyl-1 ,3,2-dioxaborolane (2.2 g, 6.61 mmol),
(dppf)PdCl 2 (0.48 g, 0.66 mmol), nitrogen-sparged dioxane (13.2 mL) and aq.
2 N K2 CO3 (0.6 mL) were combined and heated to 90             OC.  The reaction
mixture was diluted with EtOAc and washed with satd. aq. NaHCO 3 and brine.
The organic layer was dried over sodium sulfate, filtered, and concentrated.
Silica gel chromatography provided a light yellow solid (1.7 g, 44%), (m/z
[M+H] = 579.1).
                                                                                F
                          F                                 NC
                                                                 NC             F
                 N-N  Boc                               MeO                N Bo     N
    MeO    '          N    *., NN                                                *.
                                                                   F            F:
              F           FU
        t-Butyl 6-(5-cyano-2-fluoro-4-methoxyphenyl)pyridazin-3
yl(((trans)-3-fluoro-1-(3-fluoropyridin-2-yl)cyclobutyl)methyl)carbamate.
t-Butyl 6-(5-bromo-2-fluoro-4-methoxyphenyl)pyridazin-3-yl(((trans)-3-fluoro- 1
(3-fluoropyridin-2-yl)cyclobutyl)methyl)carbamate (1.7 g, 3.6 mmol), zinc
cyanide (0.51 g, 4.3 mmol), Pd(PPh3 )4 (1.26 g, 1.0 mmol), DMF (5 mL) were
combined and heated to 100       OC.     The reaction mixture was diluted with EtOAc
and washed with satd. aq. NaHCO 3 and brine. The organic layer was dried
over sodium sulfate, filtered, and concentrated. Silica gel chromatography
provided a yellow solid (1.1 g, 66%), (m/z [M+H] = 526.2).
                                            112

            N CN  =N    B oc          _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _     /N      NN    B oc  F
   MeO                           N                       MeO
                     FF                                          F               F:
        t-Butyl 6-(5-carbamoyl-2-fluoro-4-methoxyphenyl)pyridazin-3
yl(((trans)-3-fluoro-1-(3-fluoropyridin-2-yl)cyclobutyl)methyl)carbamate.
t-Butyl 6-(5-cyano-2-fluoro-4-methoxyphenyl)pyridazin-3-yl(((trans)-3-fluoro- 1
(3-fluoropyridin-2-yl)cyclobutyl)methyl)carbamate (0.21 g, 0.4 mmol), K2 CO 3
(0.22 g, 1.6 mmol), and DMSO (4 mL) were combined in a round bottom flask,
cooled to 0 OC, and H2 0 2 (1.3 mL of 35%) was added dropwise. The reaction
mixture was diluted with EtOAc and washed with satd. aq. NaHCO 3 and brine.
The organic layer was dried over sodium sulfate, filtered, and concentrated.
Silica gel chromatography provided a white solid (0.10 g, 46%), (m/z [M+H]             =
545.1).
    H2N           N=     Bo   FH                          2N       NN     H
    MeO                                                   HO              N         N
              F       F                                         FF
        4-Fluoro-5-(6-(((trans)-3-fluoro-1-(3-fluoropyridin-2
yl)cyclobutyl)methylamino)pyridazin-3-yl)-2-hydroxybenzamide.                    t-Butyl
6-(5-carbamoyl-2-fluoro-4-methoxyphenyl)pyridazin-3-yl(((trans)-3-fluoro-1 -(3
fluoropyridin-2-yl)cyclobutyl)methyl)carbamate (0.10 g, 0.18 mmol), lithium
iodide (0.22 g, 1.65 mmol) and pyridine (3 mL) were combined in a microwave
reactor and heated to 125        OC. The reaction mixture was diluted with EtOAc
and washed with satd. aq. NaHCO 3 and brine. The organic layer was dried
over sodium sulfate, filtered, and concentrated. Reverse phase
chromatography provided the title compound as a white solid (0.023 g, 30%),
(m/z [M+H] = 430.1).
Example 30: Preparation of 5-(6-((1-(3-fluoropyridin-2
yl)cyclobutyl)methylamino)pyridazin-3-y)-1 H-pyrazole-3-carboxamide
              N=N     Boo                                     =    Boo
         CI           N     N   cNEtO                              N           N
                            F                                           F
        t-Butyl 6-(1-ethoxyvinyl)pyridazin-3-yl((1-(3-fluoropyridin-2
                                              113

yl)cyclobutyl)methyl)carbamate. t-Butyl 6-chloropyridazin-3-yl((1-(3
fluoropyridin-2-yl)cyclobutyl)methyl)carbamate (5.1 g, 13.0 mmol), tributyl(1
ethoxyvinyl)stannane (6.1 g, 16.9 mmol), (PPh 3 )2PdC      2 (2.3 g, 3.2 mmol), and
nitrogen-sparged dioxane (18 mL) were combined and heated in a microwave
reactor at 150   OC.  The reaction mixture was diluted with EtOAc and washed
with satd. aq. NaHCO 3 and brine. The organic layer was dried over sodium
sulfate, filtered, and concentrated. Silica gel chromatography provided a light
yellow solid (3.9 g, 71%), (m/z [M+H] = 429.2).
                 NtN   Boc                            0   N N    Boc
             Et    /Y  N        N     _  _       _               N          N_
                           F                                          F
         t-Butyl 6-acetylpyridazin-3-yl((1-(3-fluoropyridin-2
yl)cyclobutyl)methyl)carbamate. t-Butyl 6-(1-ethoxyvinyl)pyridazin-3-yl((1
(3-fluoropyridin-2-yl)cyclobutyl)methyl)carbamate (1.0 g, 2.3 mmol), EtOH (75
mL), and 1 N HCI (15 mL) were combined at 0         OC, warmed to 25    OC,   and
stirred for 1 h. The reaction mixture was concentrated and silica gel
chromatography provided a colorless oil (0.6 g, 64%), (m/z [M+H] = 401.1).
       0                                                H
             N=N   BocN                                      N=
                                  ____NN
                                                                N=NB           Nc
                       F                       EtO 2C                   F
         Ethyl 5-(6-(tert-butoxycarbonyl((1-(3-fluoropyridin-2
yl)cyclobutyl)methyl)amino)pyridazin-3-y)-1H-pyrazole-3-carboxylate.                  t
Butyl 6-acetylpyridazin-3-yl((1 -(3-fluoropyridin-2
yl)cyclobutyl)methyl)carbamate (2.5 g, 6.2 mmol) in THF (150 mL) was
treated with NaOEt (3.44 g, 10.6 mmol, 21% in EtOH). The resulting mixture
was then treated with diethyl oxalate (1.7 mL, 12.5 mmol), heated to 45           OC,
and stirred for 4 h. The reaction mixture was added to 1 N HCI, extracted with
EtOAc, and washed with satd. aq. NaHCO 3 and brine. The organic layer was
dried over sodium sulfate, filtered, and concentrated. A portion of the
resultant oil was dissolved in AcOH and hydrazine (0.41 g, 13.2 mmol) was
added and stirred at 80    OC.  Concentration afforded a yellow oil which was
purified by reverse-phase chromatography to give solid (0.285 g, 62%), (m/z
[M+H] = 497.2).
                                         114

                H                                                H
             WIN      N=N Bo                                  WIN    IN=IN    H_    N
                S/   \/   N          N_                HN      III            IN
    EtO 2 C
                                 IF                        0F
          5-(6-((1-(3-Fluoropyridin-2-yl)cyclobutyl)methylamino)pyridazin-3
yl)-1 H-pyrazole-3-carboxamide. Ethyl 5-(6-(t-butoxycarbonyl((1 -(3
fluoropyridin-2-yl)cyclobutyl)methyl)amino)pyridazin-3-y)-1 H-pyrazole-3
carboxylate (0.28 g, 0.56 mmol) and 7N ammonia in MeOH were combined in
a microwave reactor and heated to 110         OC for 1 h. The reaction mixture was
then concentrated, diluted with EtOAc, and washed with satd. aq. NaHCO3
and brine. The organic layer was dried over sodium sulfate, filtered, and
concentrated. The resultant oil was diluted in 10 mL of DCM and TFA (15
mL) was added. The reaction mixture was then concentrated and purified by
reverse phase chromatography to give the title compound as a white solid (18
mg, 12%), (m/z [M+H] = 368.1).
Example 31: Preparation of 3-(6-((1-(3-fluoropyridin-2
yl)cyclobutyl)methylamino)pyridazin-3-yl)isoxazole-5-carboxamide
                   N=N   Bo                                         Bo
             ci          IN         NIN                                          IN
                              F                                            IF
           t-Butyl (1-(3-fluoropyridin-2-yl)cyclobutyl)methyl(6-vinylpyridazin
3-yl)carbamate. t-Butyl 6-chloropyridazin-3-yl((1-(3-fluoropyridin-2
yl)cyclobutyl)methyl)carbamate (2.5 g, 6.36 mmol), triethenylboroxin pyridine
complex (1.0 g, 4.13 mmol), Pd(PPh 3 )4 (0.3 g, 0.25 mmol), nitrogen-sparged
dioxane (13.2 mL) and aq. 2 N K2 CO3 (0.9 mL) were combined and heated to
110   OC    for 25 min. The reaction mixture was diluted with EtOAc and washed
with satd. aq. NaHCO 3 and brine. The organic layer was dried over sodium
sulfate, filtered, and concentrated. Silica gel chromatography provided a light
yellow oil (2.1 g, 86%), (m/z [M+H] = 385.2).
                    NIN   Boc                         0     N=N    Boc
                          IN         N_                   - \N                 N_
                                                      H
                                IF                                       IF
           t-Butyl (1-(3-fluoropyridin-2-yl)cyclobutyl)methyl(6
                                          115

formylpyridazin-3-yl)carbamate.              t-Butyl (1-(3-fluoropyridin-2
yl)cyclobutyl)methyl(6-vinylpyridazin-3-yl)carbamate (3.4 g, 8.84 mmol) was
added as a dioxane (100 mL) solution to a mixture of sodium periodate (10.8
g, 50.5 mmol) and 4% osmium tetraoxide solution (6.5 mL) in H2 0 (30 mL) at
0   OC. The reaction was stirred for 2 h. The reaction mixture was filtered
through a pad of celite and washed with EtOAc. The organic layer was
washed with satd. aq. NaHCO 3 , brine and dried over sodium sulfate, filtered,
and concentrated. Silica gel chromatography provided a colorless oil (1.4 g,
41%), (m/z [M+H] = 387.2).
      0     N=N  Boo                                           0 N
                                                               f-      N-N Boo
         Y       N          N_    ______N___
      H    \-N                                                                      N
                       F                               MeO 2 CO
         Methyl-3-(6-(tert-butoxycarbonyl((1 -(3-fluoropyridin-2
yl)cyclobutyl)methyl)amino)pyridazin-3-yl)isoxazole-5-carboxylate. To t
butyl (1-(3-fluoropyridin-2-yl)cyclobutyl)methyl(6-formylpyridazin-3
yl)carbamate (1.4 g, 3.6 mmol) in ethanol (10 mL) and water (2 mL) was
added hydroxylamine hydrochloride (0.27 g, 3.8 mmol) followed by sodium
acetate (0.32 g, 3.8 mmol) and stirred at 24            OC  for 30 min. The crude reaction
mixture was concentrated and diluted with EtOAc. The organic layer was
washed with satd. aq. NaHCO 3 and brine, then dried over sodium sulfate,
filtered, and concentrated. The crude mixture was then diluted in THF (2 mL)
and pyridine (57 mg, 0.72 mmol) then treated with NCS (0.58 g, 4.35 mmol)
and heated to 40     OC  for 1.5 h. The crude mixture was then treated with
methyl propiolate (0.30 g, 3.56 mmol) and TEA (0.36, 3.56 mmol), and the
reaction was stirred for 45 min. The reaction mixture was concentrated and
diluted with EtOAc, and then washed with satd. aq. NaHCO 3 and brine. The
organic layer was dried over sodium sulfate, filtered, concentrated, and
purified by reverse phase chromatography to give a white solid (0.53 g, 31%).
                N=N    BooO-                                               N=N   H,
                   \   N         NN__                _
 MeO 2C OBH                                                       2N             N       N
                            F                                        0               F
        3-(6-((1-(3-Fluoropyridin-2-yl)cyclobutyl)methylamino)pyridazin-3
yl)isoxazole-5-carboxamide. Methyl 3-(6-(tert-butoxycarbonyl((1-(3
                                                11R

fluoropyridin-2-yl)cyclobutyl)methyl)amino)pyridazin-3-yl)isoxazole-5
carboxylate (0.53 g, 1.1 mmol), methanol (5 mL) and concentrated ammonium
hydroxide (8 mL) were combined in a microwave reactor and heated to 100
OC  for 60 min. The reaction mixture was then concentrated and diluted with
EtOAc and washed with satd. aq. NaHCO 3 and brine. The organic layer was
dried over sodium sulfate, filtered, and concentrated. Resultant oil was
diluted in 10 mL of DCM and TFA (6 mL) was added and the reaction was
stirred for 35 min. The reaction mixture was then concentrated and purified
by reverse phase chromatography to give the title compound as a white solid
(144 mg, 36%), (m/z [M+H] = 369.1).
Example 32: Preparation of 2-(6-((1-(3-fluoropyridin-2
yl)cyclobutyl)methylamino)pyridazin-3-yl)thiazole-5-carboxamide
                       N_/   F                    ON                   /F
              N=N                               o     S  N=N
         CI          NBoc                                         NBoc
                                                      N
        Ethyl 2-(6-(tert-butoxycarbonyl((1-(3-fluoropyridin-2
yl)cyclobutyl)methyl)amino)pyridazin-3-yl)thiazole-5-carboxylate. tert
butyl 6-chloropyridazin-3-yl((1 -(3-fluoropyridin-2
yl)cyclobutyl)methyl)carbamate (500 mg, 1.27 mmol), ethyl thiazole-5
carboxylate (300 mg, 1.91 mmol), Pd(OAc) 2 (86 mg, 0.13 mmol), JohnPhos
(92 mg, 0.26 mmol) and CS2CO3 (827 mg, 2.54 mmol) in toluene (10 mL)
were combined and heated in a microwave reactor for 30 min at 145         OC. The
reaction mixture was filtered through a celite plug and the filtrate was
concentrated. The resulting residue was purified on silica gel using a mixture
of ethyl acetate and hexanes to provide the title compound as yellow oil (162
mg, 82% pure, 21%), LRMS (M+H+) m/z 514.3.
    O                  N   /  F                   NH2              N/      F
     0   S    N=N     NF                     -01      S  N=N
                      NBoc                                        NBoc
         N    \   /N
        t-Butyl 6-(5-carbamoylthiazol-2-yl)pyridazin-3-yl((1-(3
fluoropyridin-2-yl)cyclobutyl)methyl)carbamate. To a solution of ethyl 2
                                         117

(6-(tert-butoxycarbonyl((1 -(3-fluoropyridin-2
yl)cyclobutyl)methyl)amino)pyridazin-3-yl)thiazole-5-carboxylate (162 mg,
0.32 mmol) in MeOH (8 mL) was purged with NH3 gas for 5 min. The reaction
mixture was sealed and heated in a microwave reactor for 30 min at 120     OC.
The reaction mixture was concentrated and used in next step without
purification, LRMS (M+H+) m/z 484.2.
                              r"
                                       NN'              F
       0       s    N-N    r                       -. :   S   N-N         F
         O                NBoc      F            , O              NH
               N                                          N
         2-(6-((1-(3-Fluoropyridin-2-yl)cyclobutyl)methylamino)pyridazin-3
yl)thiazole-5-carboxamide. To a crude mixture of t-butyl 6-(5
carbamoylthiazol-2-yl)pyridazin-3-yl((1 -(3-fluoropyridin-2
yl)cyclobutyl)methyl)carbamate (141 mg, crude) in DCM (6 mL) was added
TFA (2 mL) at rt. The reaction mixture was further stirred at rt for 2 hr
followed by concentration to dryness. The crude mixture was purified on RP
HPLC using a mixture of acetonitrile and H2 0 to provide the title compound as
a pale yellow solid (98.5 mg, 99% for 2 steps), LRMS (M+H+) m/z 385.2.
Example 33: Preparation of 5-(6-((1-(3-fluoropyridin-2
yl)cyclobutyl)methylamino)pyridazin-3-yl)isoxazole-3-carboxamide
                                                                        N
             'N                  __                           N=N           F
                   NBoc     FQ                                     NH
         Ethyl 5-(6-((1-(3-fluoropyridin-2
yl)cyclobutyl)methylamino)pyridazin-3-yl)isoxazole-3-carboxylate. To t
butyl 6-(1 -ethoxyvinyl)pyridazin-3-yl((1 -(3-fluoropyridin-2
yl)cyclobutyl)methyl)carbamate (439 mg, 1.02 mmol) in THF (5.0 mL) was
added (E)-ethyl 2-chloro-2-(hydroxyimino)acetate (465 mg, 3.06 mmol) and
TEA (1.4 mL, 10.2 mmol). The reaction mixture was stirred at rt for 30 min
followed by addition of TFA (5 mL) and then heated to reflux overnight. The
mixture was then concentrated and purified by reverse phase chromatography
to give 415 mg of the title compound as a colorless oil, LRMS (M+H+) m/z
                                         11R

398.3.
                             NO-                       NH2
  0               N=N             F                0o           N=N              F
                         NH       F                                    NH
         5-(6-((1-(3-Fluoropyridin-2-yl)cyclobutyl)methylamino)pyridazin-3
yl)isoxazole-3-carboxamide. To a solution of ethyl 5-(6-((1-(3-fluoropyridin
2-yl)cyclobutyl)methylamino)pyridazin-3-yl)isoxazole-3-carboxylate (200 mg,
0.40 mmol) in THF/MeOH mixture (12 mL, 5:1) was added LiOH (1 M, 1.2 mL)
at rt. The reaction mixture was stirred overnight and concentrated. To this
crude mixture was added NH4 CI (60 mg, 1.2 mmol), HBTU (246 mg, 0.65
mmol), DIEA (132 uL, 0.8 mmol), and DMF (5.0 mL). The mixture was stirred
at rt overnight, filtered, and purified by reverse phase chromatography to
provide the title compound as a white solid (23.2 mg, 16%), LRMS (M+H+)
m/z 369.2.
Example 34: Preparation of 5-(5-(6-((1-(3-Fluoropyridin-2
yl)cyclobutyl)methylamino)pyridazin-3-yl)thiophen-2-y)-2H-1,2,4-triazol
3(4H)-one
                     N      F
                                                                       N/     F
           N=N                                     NC    S    N=N
      CI           NBoc                                              NBoc
         t-Butyl 6-(5-cyanothiophen-2-yl)pyridazin-3-yl((1-(3-fluoropyridin
2-yl)cyclobutyl)methyl)carbamate. t-Butyl 6-chloropyridazin-3-yl((1-(3
fluoropyridin-2-yl)cyclobutyl)methyl)carbamate (900 mg, 2.29 mmol, 1 equiv),
5-cyanothiophen-2-ylboronic acid (390 mg, 2.52 mmol, 1.1 equiv), (dppf)PdCl 2
(164 mg, 0.23 mmol, 0.1 equiv), nitrogen-sparged dioxane (6.0 mL) and aq. 2
N K2CO3 (2.3 mL) were combined and heated in a microwave reactor for 30
min at 140    OC.  The reaction mixture was filtered through a Celite plug and the
filtrate was concentrated. The resulting residue was purified on silica gel using
a mixture of ethyl acetate and hexanes to provide the title compound as a
yellow oil (340 mg, 32%), LRMS (M+H+) m/z 466.3.
                                          119

                        N /F                         N
                                                   N.~
                      NBoc                     O                       NBoc
        tert-butyl (1-(3-fluoropyridin-2-yl)cyclobutyl)methyl(6-(5-(5-oxo-4,5
dihydro-lH-1,2,4-triazol-3-yl)thiophen-2-yl)pyridazin-3-yl)carbamate. To
a solution of tert-butyl 6-(5-cyanothiophen-2-yl)pyridazin-3-yl((1 -(3
fluoropyridin-2-yl)cyclobutyl)methyl)carbamate (340 mg, 0.73 mmol, 1 equiv)
in MeOH (10 mL) was added sodium methoxide (0.59 g, 1.1 mmol, 1.5 equiv).
The reaction mixture was stirred at rt overnight followed by addition of
hydrazine (0.5 mL). The mixture was then heated to reflux for 2 h and
concentrated to dryness. The crude mixture was partitioned between EtOAc
and water. The organic layer was washed with brine, dried over Na 2SO 4 ,
filtered, and concentrated. The crude product was dissolved in dioxane (3
mL), combined with CDI (137 mg, 1.46 mmol, 2 equiv), and heated for 4 h at
100 OC. The mixture was cooled, filtered, and purified by reverse phase
chromatography to give the title compound as a yellow solid (86 mg, 23%
over 3 steps), LRMS (M+H+) m/z 524.3.
          H                                       H
                             NNN   F
          N'    S     N=N            ~N             -'S       N=N       N-  F
              H    ~         NBoH                                     NH
        5-(5-(6-((1-(3-Fluoropyridin-2-yl)cyclobutyl)methylamino)pyridazin
3-yl)thiophen-2-y)-2H-1,2,4-triazol-3(4H)-one. To tert-butyl (1-(3
fluoropyridin-2-yl)cyclobutyl)methyl(6-(5-(5-oxo-4,5-dihydro-1 H-1,2,4-triazol-3
yl)thiophen-2-yl)pyridazin-3-yl)carbamate (86 mg, 0.16 mmol) in DCM (6 mL)
was added TFA (2 mL) at rt. The reaction mixture was stirred at rt for 2 hr
followed by concentration to dryness. The crude mixture was purified by
reverse phase chromatography to provide the title compound as a pale yellow
solid (73.6 mg, quantitative). LRMS (M+H+) m/z 424.2.
Example 35: Preparation of 4-fluoro-3-(6-(((trans)-3-fluoro-1-(3
                                        190

fluoropyridin-2-yl)cyclobutyl)methylamino)pyridazin-3-y)-N
methylbenzamide
                                   IN
                             +                              IN
                               CI                  NC
                      CN              F                F
         1-(3-Fluoropyridin-2-yl)-3-methylenecyclobutanecarbonitrile. To a
solution of 3-methylenecyclobutanecarbonitrile (150 g, 1.61 mol, 1 equiv) and
2-chloro-3-fluoropyridine (212 g, 1.61 mmol, 1 equiv) in toluene (1 L) was
added NaHMDS (2 M in THF, 885 mL, 1.1 equiv) dropwise at 0-10         O*C. Upon
completion of addition, the reaction mixture was warmed to rt, stirred
overnight, and quenched with NH4CI(sat.) solution. The organic layer was
washed with water (500 mL x 2) and brine (500 mL), dried over Na2 SO 4 ,
filtered, and concentrated to give a crude title compound (272 g, 90%), which
was used in the next step without further purification, LRMS (M+H+) m/z
189.1.
                                                      0
                            ,    N                         IN
                      NC       /                ,NC        N
                          F                           F
         1-(3-Fluoropyridin-2-yl)-3-oxocyclobutanecarbonitrile. To a mixture
of 1-(3-fluoropyridin-2-y)-3-methylenecyclobutanecarbonitrile (272 g, 1.45
mol) and RuCl 3.H20 (9.0 g, 0.044 mol) in DCM (1 L), acetonitrile (1 L), and
water (1.5 L) was added solid NalO 4 (1235 g, 5.8 mol) portionwise at 10-30
OC.   Upon completion of the addition, the reaction was stirred 1 h at 15  OC and
overnight at rt. The solid precipitate was filtered off and washed with DCM (1
L x 2). The organic layer was washed with water (500 mL x 2) and brine (500
mL), dried over Na2 SO 4 , and concentrated to provide the title compound as a
crude dark solid (238 g, 86.3%), LRMS (M+H+) m/z 191.1.
                         0                             OH
                                IN                          IN
                     NC         N                  NC       N
                         F                             IF
         1-(3-Fluoropyridin-2-yl)-3-hydroxycyclobutanecarbonitrile. To a
                                        121

solution of 1-(3-fluoropyridin-2-yl)-3-oxocyclobutanecarbonitrile (231 g, 1.22
mol) in a mixture of DCM (2 L) and MeOH (200 mL) was added NaBH 4
portion-wise at -78   OC. The reaction mixture was stirred 1 h at -78 OC  and then
quenched with a mixture of methanol and water (1/1). The organic layer was
washed with water (500 mL x 3), dried over Na2 SO 4 , and concentrated. The
residue was purified on silica gel (50% EtOAc in Hexanes) to provide the title
compound as an amber oil (185.8 g, 77.5%), LRMS (M+H+) m/z 193.2.
                            OH                        F
                                ,NN
                        NC     /                'NC     '
                            F                         F
        trans-3-Fluoro-1-(3-fluoropyridin-2-yl)cyclobutanecarbonitrile. To
a solution of 1-(3-fluoropyridin-2-yl)-3-hydroxycyclobutanecarbonitrile (185 g,
0.96 mol) in DCM (1 L)was added DAST portion-wise at 0-10 *C. Upon the
completion of addition, the reaction was refluxed for 6 h. The reaction was
cooled to rt and poured onto sat. NaHCO 3 solution. The mixture was
separated and the organic layer was washed with water, dried over Na2 SO 4 ,
and concentrated. The residue was purified on silica gel (100% DCM) to
provide the title compound as a brown oil (116 g, 62%) with a trans/cis ratio of
8:1 as determined by 1H NMR. The above brown oil (107 g) was dissolved in
a mixture of toluene (110 mL) and hexanes (330 mL) at 70       OC. The solution
was cooled to 0 OC and stirred at 0   OC  overnight. The precipitate was filtered
and washed with hexanes to provide a single trans-isomer white solid (87.3 g,
81.6%), LRMS (M+H+) m/z 195.1.
                          F                             F
                     NC                      -   H2 N       N
                                  F                     F
        trans-3-Fluoro-1-(3-fluoropyridin-2-yl)cyclobutyl)methanamine. A
mixture of trans-3-fluoro-1 -(3-fluoropyridin-2-yl)cyclobutanecarbonitrile (71 g,
0.37 mol) and Raney nickel (~7 g) in 7N ammonia in methanol (700 mL) was
charged with hydrogen (60 psi) for 2 days. The reaction was filtered through a
celite pad and washed with methanol. The filtrate was concentrated under
                                         122

high vaccum to provide the title compound as a light green oil (70 g, 98%),
LRMS (M+H+) m/z 199.2.
                                N-                                                 F
 CI            F    +                                          CI         N           F
                             7
                        H2N'          FIII                                          F
                                    F
        t-Butyl 6-chloropyridazin-3-yl(((trans)-3-fluoro-1-(3-fluoropyridin-2
yl)cyclobutyl)methyl)carbamate. 3-Chloro-6-fluoropyridazine (10.11 g,
76.30 mmol, 1 equiv), trans-3-fluoro-1-(3-fluoropyridin-2
yl)cyclobutyl)methanamine (15.10 g, 76.30 mmol, 4:1 trans/cis ratio), and
K2CO3    (29.27 g, 304.9 mmol) in CH 3CN (20 mL) were refluxed overnight.
Upon cooling, water was added into the mixture. The precipitate was
collected and dried to give 9.2 g (39 %) of desired product with ratio of
trans:cis greater than 20:1. To this solid (9.2 g) and DMAP (353 mg, 2.9
mmol) in THF (100 mL) was added (Boc) 20 (12.8 g, 58.7 mmol). The mixture
was then refluxed for 2 h, cooled, and concentrated. The residue was purified
on silica gel to provide the title compound as a white solid (9 g, 75%), LRMS
(M+H+) m/z411.2.
                                           00
               N      F   +0F                              0                       F
      N-N        -        F_                  __  _   _N=N
 CI-     /
         /foc            F -- B,                                    \/        C     F~c
                            HO'    0H
                                                                  F
        Methyl 3-(6-(t-butoxycarbonyl(((trans)-3-fluoro-1-(3-fluoropyridin
2-yl)cyclobutyl)methyl)amino)pyridazin-3-yl)-4-fluorobenzoate.          To t-butyl
6-chloropyridazin-3-yl(((trans)-3-fluoro-1 -(3-fluoropyridin-2
yl)cyclobutyl)methyl)carbamate (30.3 g, 73.9 mmol, 1 equiv), 2-fluoro-5
(methoxycarbonyl)phenylboronic acid (16.1 g, 81.3 mmol, 1.1 equiv),
(dppf)PdCl 2 (6.0 g, 7.39 mmol, 0.1 equiv), K2CO3 (40.8 g, 296 mmol, 4 equiv)
were added dioxane (160 mL) and water (40 mL). The mixture was heated 2
h at 80   OC, cooled and diluted with EtOAc. The organic layer was washed
with brine, dried over Na2 SO 4 , filtered, and concentrated. The residue was
purified on silica gel to provide the title compound as pale orange solid (29.4
g, 75%), LRMS (M+H+) m/z 529.2.
                                           123

     0-                                                     OH                N
   0N                         F                         0N                         F
                  ~N=N                 _____N=NNSi
                               F                                                    F
          F                                                     F
        3-(6-(t-butoxycarbonyl(((trans)-3-f luoro-1 -(3-fluoropyridin-2
yl)cyclobutyl)methyl)amino)pyridazin-3-yl)-4-fluorobenzoic acid.
To a 500 mL round bottom flask was added methyl 3-(6-(t
butoxycarbonyl(((trans)-3-fluoro-1 -(3-fluoropyridin-2
yl)cyclobutyl)methyl)amino)pyridazin-3-yl)-4-fluorobenzoate (29.4 g, 55.7
mmol, 1 equiv), THF (200 mL), MeOH (100 mL), and NaOH (74.2 mL of a 3N
aqueous solution, 222 mmol). The mixture was heated 30 min at 60          OC,
cooled, acidified to pH 3 with NaHSO 4 (1N), and concentrated. The residue
was partitioned between EtOAc and water. The organic layer was washed
with brine, dried over Na2 SO 4 , filtered, and concentrated to provide the title
compound as a pale orange solid (29 g, crude), LRMS (M+H+) m/z 515.2.
     OH                N)HN-                                                  N
                     N         F                                            N       F
          F                                                     F
        t-Butyl ((trans)-3-fluoro-1-(3-fluoropyridin-2
yl)cyclobutyl)methyl(6-(2-fluoro-5-(methylcarbamoyl)phenyl)pyridazin-3
yl)carbamate. To 3-(6-(t-butoxycarbonyl(((trans)-3-fluoro-1 -(3-fluoropyridin
2-yl)cyclobutyl)methyl)amino)pyridazin-3-yl)-4-fluorobenzoic acid (29 g, 55.7
mmol, 1 equiv) in DCM (200 mL) was added oxalyl chloride (19.4 mL, 222
mmol, 4 equiv). The reaction was stirred for 1 h, concentrated, and
azeotroped twice with toluene. The crude product was then dissolved in DCM
and cooled to 0 OC. To this mixture was added NH2Me (2 M/THF, 278 mL,
556.8 mmol). The mixture was warmed to rt and stirred at rt for 30 min. The
solid was filtered off and the filtrate was concentrated. The crude product was
purified on silica gel to provide the title compound as pale yellow solid (28.1 g,
96%), LRMS (M+H+) m/z 528.2.
                                              124

     HN-                NHN-                                                     N
 O=-                           F                          0
                             3                                         N=   NH<       F
               N=N    N
                                 F                                            NF
                                                                                    F
           F                                                       F
         4-fluoro-3-(6-(((trans)-3-fluoro-1 -(3-fluoropyridin-2
yl)cyclobutyl)methylamino)pyridazin-3-yl)-N-methylbenzamide.
To tert-butyl ((trans)-3-fluoro-1 -(3-fluoropyridin-2-yl)cyclobutyl)methyl(6-(2
fluoro-5-(methylcarbamoyl)phenyl)pyridazin-3-yl)carbamate (28.1g, 53.3
mmol) in DCM (100 mL) was added TFA (40 mL, 533 mmol, 10 equiv) at rt.
The reaction mixture was further stirred at rt for 2 h followed by concentration
to dryness. The residue was partitioned between EtOAc and NaHCO3 . The
pH was further adjusted to pH 9 with NaOH (1 N). The organic layer was
washed with brine, dried over Na2 SO 4 , filtered, and concentrated to give 25.2
g of a pale yellow solid. The solid was dissolved in EtOH (80 mL), warmed to
66 'C and diluted with water (80 mL) at 66 C. The mixture was slowly cooled
to rt with stirring. The precipitate was filtered, washed with water, and dried to
provide the title compound as a white solid (21.2 g, 93%), LRMS (M+H+) m/z
428.2.
Example 36: Preparation of 6-(5-(1 H-pyrazol-3-yl)thiazol-2-y)-N-((1 -(3
fluoropyridin-2-yl)cyclobutyl)methyl)pyridazin-3-amine
       N NNNN-N                                                    N      N
                           N                                             N
   S              Boc                                 Br                 Bo c
                                    F                                         F
         t-Butyl 6-(5-bromoth iazol-2-yl)pyridazin-3-yl((1 -(3-fl uoropyrid i n-2
yl)cyclobutyl)methyl)carbamate. To a 100 mL round bottom flask was
added t-butyl (1-(3-fluoropyridin-2-yl)cyclobutyl)methyl(6-(thiazol-2
yl)pyridazin-3-yl)carbamate (2.0 g, 4.6 mmol), NBS (1.6 g, 9.1 mmol), and
DMF (20 mL). The reaction was heated to 100          OC  and stirred overnight. The
reaction mixture was then was poured into ethyl acetate (200 mL), washed
with water (100 mL), dried over Na2 SO 4 , filtered, concentrated, and purified by
silica gel chromatography (EtOAc/hex) to afford 1.8 g of t-butyl 6-(5
bromothiazol-2-yl)pyridazin-3-yl((1 -(3-fluoropyridin-2
                                          125

yl)cyclobutyl)methyl)carbamate.
        r    N                       N                                  H
                     N         N_\/
  Br                  oc
                     BO          NN~            H
                          F                                                 F
        6-(5-(1 H-pyrazol-3-yl)thiazol-2-yl)-N-((1 -(3-fl uoropyrid in-2
yl)cyclobutyl)methyl)pyridazin-3-amine. To a microwave vial was added t
butyl 6-(5-bromothiazol-2-yl)pyridazin-3-yl((1 -(3-fluoropyridin-2
yl)cyclobutyl)methyl)carbamate (100 mg, 0.19 mmol), 1H-pyrazol-5-ylboronic
acid (32 mg, 0.29 mmol), (dppf)PdCl 2 (16 mg, 0.02 mmol), dioxane (2 mL),
and K2CO 3 (0.2 mL of a 2M aqueous solution, 38 mmol). The mixture was
heated to 140 *C in a microwave reactor and stirred for 20 min. The reaction
mixture was then poured into ethyl acetate (50 mL), washed with water (20
mL), dried over Na2SO 4 , filtered, concentrated, and purified by silica gel
chromatography (EtOAc/hex) to afford 38 mg of t-butyl 6-(5-(1 H-pyrazol-3
yl)thiazol-2-yl)pyridazin-3-yl((1 -(3-fluoropyridin-2
yl)cyclobutyl)methyl)carbamate. This compound was dissolved in CH 2 Cl2 (5
mL) and TFA (1 mL). The reaction was stirred for 30 min at rt, concentrated,
and then purified using reverse phase chromatography to give 15 mg of 6-(5
(1H-pyrazol-3-yl)thiazol-2-y)-N-((1 -(3-fluoropyridin-2
yl)cyclobutyl)methyl)pyridazin-3-amine, (M+H=408.3).
Example 37: Preparation of 6-(6-((trans-3-fluoro-1-(3-fluoropyridin-2
yl)cyclobutyl)methylamino)pyridazin-3-yl)imidazo[2,1 -b]thiazole-3
carboxamide
                  N=N                                    0       N=N
             CI           CI                    -     B                   I
        2-Bromo-1-(6-chloropyridazin-3-yl)ethanone. To a stirring solution
of dioxane (100 mL, degassed) was added 3,6-dichloropyridazine (5.0 g, 34
mmol), Cl 2Pd(PPh3 )2 (2.4 g, 3.4 mmol), and tributyl(lethoxyvinyl)tin (18.2 g,
50 mmol). The reaction was heated to 100         OC and stirred for 1 h. The
reaction was then concentrated, followed by the addition of EtOAc (100 mL)
and potassium fluoride (50 mL of a saturated aqueous solution). The mixture
was stirred for 30 min and then filtered through a pad of Celite. The filtrate
                                          19R

was concentrated and then dissolved in THF (80 mL) and water (80 mL).
NBS (18.1 g, 102 mmol) was then added, and the reaction was stirred for 20
min at rt. The reaction mixture was poured into ethyl acetate (200 mL),
washed twice with brine (50 mL), dried over Na2 SO 4 , filtered, concentrated,
and purified by silica gel chromatography to afford 4.2 g of 2-bromo-1 -(6
chloropyridazin-3-yl)ethanone.
            o     N=N                                  S     N      N=N
        Br                CI                             NCI
                                                  0
                                                        OEt
        Ethyl 6-(6-chloropyridazin-3-yl)imidazo[2,1-b]thiazole-3
carboxylate. To a 20 dram vial was added 2-bromo-1 -(6-chloropyridazin-3
yl)ethanone (4.2 g, 18 mmol), ethyl-2-aminothiazole-4-carboxylate (3.1 g, 18
mmol), and methylethylketone (40 mL). The mixture was heated to 90           OC and
stirred overnight. The reaction was then concentrated and purified by silica
gel chromatography (EtOAc/hex) to afford 1.0 g of ethyl 6-(6-chloropyridazin
3-yl)imidazo[2,1 -b]thiazole-3-carboxylate as a yellow solid.
             S     N     N=N                          S     N      N=N
                                   CI                                      F
          o                                       0
              OEt                                      QEt
        Ethyl 6-(6-fluoropyridazin-3-yl)imidazo[2,1-b]thiazole-3
carboxylate. To a 20 dram vial was added ethyl 6-(6-chloropyridazin-3
yl)imidazo[2,1 -b]thiazole-3-carboxylate (1.0 g, 3.2 mmol), 1,8
bis(dimethylamino)naphthalene (1.4 g, 6.4 mmol), and Et3 N-3HF (30 mL).
The reaction was heated in a microwave to 140       OC  and stirred for 1.5 h. The
reaction mixture was poured into ethyl acetate (100 mL), washed with water
(50 mL), dried over Na2 SO 4 , filtered, concentrated, and purified by silica gel
chromatography to afford 760 mg of ethyl 6-(6-fluoropyridazin-3
yl)imidazo[2,1 -b]thiazole-3-carboxylate as a yellow solid.
                                                                         F
        S     N     N=N                       S     N      N=N      H
                             F                                      N    F
         OEt                                   OEt
                                          127

        Ethyl 6-(6-(((trans)-3-fluoro-1-(3-fluoropyridin-2
yl)cyclobutyl)methylamino)pyridazin-3-yl)imidazo[2,1 -b]thiazole-3
carboxylate. Ethyl 6-(6-fluoropyridazin-3-yl)imidazo[2,1-b]thiazole-3
carboxylate (65 mg, 0.2 mmol), (trans-3-fluoro-1 -(3-fluoropyridin-2
yl)cyclobutyl)methanamine (56 mg, 0.29 mmol), DIPEA (114 pL, 0.66 mmol),
and NMP (3 mL). The reaction was heated to 165         OC  and stirred for 2 h. The
reaction was then purified directly using reverse phase chromatography to
give 15 mg of ethyl 6-(6-(((trans)-3-fluoro-1-(3-fluoropyridin-2
yl)cyclobutyl)methylamino)pyridazin-3-yl)imidazo[2,1 -b]thiazole-3-carboxylate.
                            F                                                  F
     S    N      N=N   H                              S     N      N=N    H
    O                  N                           O      NN                       NN
      OEt                                               NH2
        6-(6-(((trans)-3-fluoro-1 -(3-fluoropyridin-2
yl)cyclobutyl)methylamino)pyridazin-3-yl)imidazo[2,1 -b]thiazole-3
carboxamide. To a solution of ethyl 6-(6-(((trans)-3-fluoro-1 -(3-fluoropyridin
2-yl)cyclobutyl)methylamino)pyridazin-3-yl)imidazo[2,1 -b]thiazole-3
carboxylate (20 mg, 0.05 mmol) in dioxane (0.5 mL) was added LiOH (1 M,
0.15 mL, 0.15 mmol). The reaction mixture was stirred at rt for 1 h and then
concentrated. To this crude mixture was added NH4 CI (28 mg, 0.5 mmol),
HATU (28 mg, 0.075 mmol), HOAt (10 mg, 0.075 mmol), DIEA (19 mg, 0.15
mmol), and DMF (1 mL). The mixture was stirred at 50        OC for 30 min and
then was purified directly by reverse phase chromatography to provide 2 mg
of 6-(6-(((trans)-3-fluoro-1-(3-fluoropyridin-2
yl)cyclobutyl)methylamino)pyridazin-3-yl)imidazo[2,1 -b]thiazole-3
carboxamide as a white solid, (M+H=442.1).
Example 38: Preparation of 4-Fluoro-3-(6-(((trans)-3-fluoro-1-(3
fluoropyridin-2-yl)cyclobutyl)methylamino)pyridazin-3-yl)benzamide and
4-fluoro-3-(6-(((cis)-3-fluoro-1-(3-fluoropyridin-2
yl)cyclobutyl)methylamino)pyridazin-3-yl)benzamide
                                         12R

                                   NN
      F                               FF
                        F                 N-N     -j-,F          ,~N-N           F
           N-N
              /"NH                            ~N4                   "'   NH
      NF                      H,_F                         H,                  F
 NC                N    F     H2N               N       F  H2NN                  F
                                    0                           0
        To a solution of 4-fluoro-3-(6-((3-fluoro-1 -(3-fluoropyridin-2
yl)cyclobutyl)methylamino)pyridazin-3-yl)benzonitrile (482 mg, 1.22 mmol,
95:5 cis/trans ratio) in DMSO (3 mL) was added potassium carbonate (673
mg, 4.88 mmol). The mixture was cooled to 0 OC and hydrogen peroxide (0.6
mL) was slowly added. The reaction was warmed to rt and stirred for 2 h.
The reaction was diluted with EtOAc (75 mL) and water (50 mL), and the
organic layer was washed three times with brine (50 mL). The organic layer
was then dried over Na2 SO 4 , filtered, concentrated, and purified by reverse
phase chromatography to afford 470 mg of 4-fluoro-3-(6-(((trans)-3-fluoro-1
(3-fluoropyridin-2-yl)cyclobutyl)methylamino)pyridazin-3-yl)benzamide and 6
mg of 4-fluoro-3-(6-(((cis)-3-fluoro-1-(3-fluoropyridin-2
yl)cyclobutyl)methylamino)pyridazin-3-yl)benzamide as white solids
(M+H=414.3).
Example 39: Preparation and assay of fast skeletal myofibrils
        Preparation of fast skeletal myofibrils. Rabbit skeletal myofibrils
were prepared based upon the method of Herrmann et al. (Biochem.
32(28):7255-7263(1993). Myofibrils were prepared from rabbit psoas muscle
purchased from Pel-Freez Biologicals (Arkansas) within 2 days of ordering,
stored on ice. Minced muscle was homogenized in 10 volumes of ice-cold
"standard" buffer (50mM Tris, pH 7.4, 0.1 M potassium acetate, 5 mM KCI, 2
mM DTT, 0.2 mM PMSF, 10 pM leupeptin, 5 pM pepstatin, and 0.5 mM
sodium azide) containing 5 mM EDTA and 0.5% Triton X-1 00 using an Omni
Macro homogenizer. Myofibrils were recovered by low speed centrifugation
(3000 rpm for 10 minutes) and washed 2 times in the Triton X-1 00 containing
buffer to ensure removal of cellular membrane. Following the Triton washes,
myofibrils were washed 3 times in "standard" buffer containing 2 mM
magnesium acetate. A final wash in assay buffer (12 mM PIPES, pH 6.8, 60
mM KCI, 1 mM DTT) was performed and brought to 10% sucrose for flash
freezing in liquid nitrogen and storage at -80*C.
                                         129

        Activation of Fast Skeletal Myofibrils. Fast fiber activators were
identified by measuring the enzymatic activity of muscle myofibril preparations
using the proprietary PUMATM (see, e.g., U.S. Patent Nos. 6,410,254,
6,743,599, 7,202,051, and 7,378,254) assay system. Myofibril preparations
consisted of rabbit skeletal muscle (approximately 90% fast fibers) that had
been mechanically homogenized and washed with a detergent (triton X-1 00)
to remove cellular membranes. This preparation retained all of the
sarcomeric components in a native conformation and the enzymatic activity
was still regulated by calcium. Compounds were tested using a myofibril
suspension and a level of calcium sufficient to increase enzymatic activity of
the myofibrils to 25% of their maximal rate (termed pCa25). Enzymatic
activity was tracked via a pyruvate kinase and lactate dehydrogenase-cou pled
enzyme system. This assay regenerates myosin-produced ADP into ATP by
oxidizing NADH, producing an absorbance change at 340 nm. The buffering
system was 12 mM Pipes, 2 mM MgCl 2 , 1 mM DTT at pH 6.8 (PM12 buffer).
Data was reported as AC1.4, which is the concentration at which the
compound increased the enzymatic activity by 40%. The results are
summarized in Table 2 below.
Example 40: Preparation and Assay of Sarcomeric Proteins from
Skeletal Muscle
        Powder Preparation
1.      Volumes are given per about 1000 g of the minced muscle.
2.      Pre-cut and boil cheesecloth for 10 min in water. Drain and dry.
3.      Mince chicken breast in a prechilled meat grinder.
4.      Extract with stirring in 2 L of 0.1 M KCI, 0.15 M K-phosphate, pH 6.5 for
10 min at 4    OC. Spin 5000 rpm, 10 min, 4     OC in JLA. Collect the pellet.
5.      Extract pellets with stirring with 2 L of 0.05 M NaHCO 3 for 5 min. Spin
5000 rpm, 10min, 4 *C in JLA. Collect the pellet. Repeat the extraction once
more.
6.      Extract the filtered residue with 2 L of 1 mM EDTA, pH 7.0 for 10 min
with stirring.
7.      Extract with 2 L of H2 0 for 5 min with stirring. Spin 10000 rpm, 15min, 4
                                           130n

*C in JLA. Carefully collect the pellet, part of which will be loose and
gelatinous.
8.       Extract 5 times with acetone (2 L of acetone for 10 min each with
stirring). Squeeze through cheesecloth gently. All acetone extractions are
performed at room temperature. Acetone should be prechilled to 4       O*C.
9.       Drying: Place the filtered residue spread on a cheesecloth in a large
glass tray and leave in a hood overnight. When the residue is dry, put in a
wide mouth plastic bottle and store at 20     O*C.
        Alternate Powder Preparation
(See Zot & Potter (1981) Prep. Biochem. 11(4) pp. 381-395)
1.       Dissect left ventricles of the cardiac muscle. Remove as much of the
pericardial tissue and fat as possible. Grind in a prechilled meat grinder.
Weigh.
2.       Prepare 5 volumes of Extract buffer (see below). Homogenize the meat
in a blender, 4 times 15 sec on blend with 15 secs in between. Do this with 1
volume (weight/volume) of buffer taken from the 5 volumes already prepared.
Add the homogenate back to the extract buffer and stir until well mixed (5
minutes).
3.       Filter through one layer of cheesecloth in large polypropylene strainer.
Resuspend back into 5 volumes of extract buffer as above.
4.       Repeat Step 3 four more times. At the end, do not resuspend in
extraction buffer but proceed to Step 5. The pellets should be yellow white.
5.       Resuspend in 3 volumes (according to original weight) of 95% cold
ethanol. Stir for 5 min and squeeze through cheesecloth as above, repeat two
more times.
6.      Weigh squeezed residue and then resuspend in 3 volumes (new
weight/volume) of cold diethyl ether.
7.       Repeat Step 6 a total of three times.
8.       Leave overnight in a single layer on a cheesecloth in a glass tray.
9.      When dry, collect the powder, weigh and store in a wide-mouth jar at 4
*C.
EXTRACT BUFFER: 50 mM KCI, 5 mM Tris pH 8.0 Prepare as 50 times
concentrate. For 2L: 250 mM Tris pH 8.0. Tris Base (121.14 g/mol, 60.6 g),
pH to 8.0 with conc. HCI, then add 2.5 M KCI (74.55 g/mol, 372 g).
                                          131

        Actin Preparation
1.      Extract powder (as described above) with 20 ml buffer A (see below,
add BME and ATP just prior to use in each of the following steps) per gram of
powder (200 ml per 10 g). Use a large 4 L beaker for 150 g of powder. Mix
vigorously to dissolve powder. Stir at 4  OC. for 30 min.
2.      Separate extract from the hydrated powder by squeezing through
several layers of cheesecloth. Cheesecloth should be pre-sterilized by
microwaving damp for 1-2 min.
3.      Re-extract the residue with the same volume of buffer A and combine
extracts.
4.      Spin in JLA10 rotor(s) for 1 hr at 10K rpm (4 OC.). Collect supernatant
through 2 layers of cheesecloth.
5.      Add ATP to 0.2 mM and MgCl 2 to 50 mM. Stir on stir plate at 4 *C for
60 minutes to allow actin to polymerize/form para-crystals.
6.      Slowly add solid KCI to 0.6 M (45 g/I). Stir at 4 *C for 30 min.
7.      Spin in JLA10 rotor(s) at 10K rpm for 1 hr.
8.      Depolymerization: Quickly rinse surface of pellets with buffer A and
dispose of wash. Soften the pellets by pre-incubation on ice with small
amount of buffer A in each tube (use less than half of final resuspension
volume total in all tubes). Resuspend by hand first with cell scraper and
combine pellets. Wash tubes with extra buffer using a 25 ml pipette and
motorized pipettor, aggressively removing actin from sides of tubes.
Homogenize in large dounce in cold buffer A on ice. Use 3 ml per gram of
powder originally extracted.
9.      Dialyze against buffer A with 4 changes over 48 hour period.
10.     Collect dialyzed actin and spin in the 45Ti rotor at 40K rpm for 1.5 hr
(4 *C).
11.     Collect supernatant (G-Actin). Save a sample for gel analysis and
determination of protein concentration.
12.     To polymerize G-actin for storage, add KCI to 50 mM (from 3 M stock),
MgCl 2 to 1 mM, and NaN 3 to 0.02% (from 10% stock). Store at 4 *C. Do not
freeze.
Buffer A: 2 mM tris/HCI, 0.2 mM CaCl 2, 0.5 mM (36 pl/L) 2-mercaptoethanol,
0.2 mM Na2 ATP (added fresh), and 0.005% Na-azide; pH 8.0.
                                        132

        Purification of Skeletal Muscle Myosin
(See Margossian, S.S. and Lowey, S. (1982) Methods Enzymol. 85, 55-123;
and Goldmann, W.H. and Geeves, M.A. (1991) Anal. Biochem. 192, 55-58)
Solution A: 0.3 M KCI, 0.15 M potassium phosphate, 0.02 M EDTA, 0.005 M
MgCl 2 , 0.001 M ATP, pH 6.5.
Solution B: 1 M KCI, 0.025 M EDTA, 0.06 M potassium phosphate, pH 6.5.
Solution C: 0.6 M KCI, 0.025 M potassium phosphate, pH 6.5.
Solution D: 0.6 M KCI, 0.05 M potassium phosphate, pH 6.5.
Solution E: 0.15 M potassium phosphate, 0.01 M EDTA, pH 7.5.
Solution F: 0.04 M KCI, 0.01 M potassium phosphate, 0.001 M DTT, pH 6.5.
Solution G: 3 M KCI, 0.01 M potassium phosphate, pH 6.5.
All procedures are carried out at 4    OC.
1.      Obtain approx. 1000 g skeletal muscle, such as rabbit skeletal muscle.
2.      Grind twice; extract with 2 L solution A for 15 min while stirring; add 4 L
cold H2 0, filter through gauze; dilute with cold H2 0 to ionic strength of 0.04,
(about 10-fold); let settle for 3 h; collect precipitate at 7,000 rpm in GSA rotor
for 15 min.
3.      Disperse pellet in 220 ml solution B; dialyze overnight against 6 L
solution C; slowly add -400 ml equal volume cold distilled H2 0; stir for 30 min;
centrifuge at 10,000 rpm for 10 min in GSA rotor.
4.      Centrifuge supernatant at 19,000 rpm for 1 h.
5.      Dilute supernatant to ionic strength of 0.04 (-8-fold); let myosin settle
overnight; collect about 5-6 L fluffy myosin precipitate by centrifuging at
10,000 rpm for 10 min in GSA rotor.
6.      Resuspend pellet in minimal volume of solution G; dialyze overnight
against 2 L solution D; centrifuge at 19,000 rpm for 2 h, in cellulose nitrate
tubes; puncture tubes and separate myosin from fat and insoluble pellet.
7.      Dilute supernatant to 5-10 mg/ml and dialyze against solution E
extensively, load onto DEAE-sephadex column.
8.      Pre-equilibrate with solution E; apply 500-600 g myosin at 30 mI/h;
wash with 350 ml solution E; elute with linear gradient of 0-0.5 M KCI in
solution E (2 x 1 liter); collect 10 ml fractions; pool myosin fractions (>0.1 M
KCI); concentrate by overnight dialysis against solution F; centrifuge at 25,000
rpm for 30 min; store as above.
                                           133

9.       The myosin is then cut with chymotrypsin or papain in the presence of
EDTA to generate the S1 fragment which is soluble at the low salt conditions
optimal for ATPase activity (Margossian, supra).
         Preparation and Assay
         Myosin is prepared by precipitation from salt extracts of rabbit psoas
muscle, and a soluble S1 fraction is prepared by digestion with chymotrypsin
(Margossian and Lowey, 1982).
         Actin is purified by first preparing an ether powder of cardiac muscle
(Zot HG and Potter J D. (1981) Preparative Biochemistry 11:381-395) as
described above. Subsequently, actin is cycled between the filamentous and
soluble state through rounds of centrifugation and dialysis (Spudich J A and
Watt S. (1971) J. Biol. Chem. 246:4866-4871).
         Tropomyosin is extracted from the ether powder and separated from
the other proteins based on pH dependent precipitations followed by
successive ammonium sulfate cuts at 53% and 65% (Smillie LB. (1981)
Methods Enzymol 85 Pt B:234-41). The troponins are isolated as an intact
complex of TnC, TnT, and Tnl. Ether powder is extracted in a high salt buffer.
Successive ammonium sulfate cuts of 30% and 45% are done; the precipitate
is solubilized by dialysis into a low salt buffer and then further purified on a
DEAE Toyopearl column with a 25-350 mM KCI gradient. There is no
measurable ATPase in any of the components except for myosin which
naturally had a very low basal ATPase in the absence of actin.
         Prior to screening, the actin, tropomyosin, and troponin complex are
mixed together in the desired ratio (e.g., 7:1:1) to achieve maximal calcium
regulation of the actin filament. The screen is conducted at a concentration
that gives 25% activation. This calcium concentration is in the physiological
range during muscle contraction.
         To measure the generation of ADP during the reaction, a pyruvate
kinase/lactate dehydrogenase/NADH coupled enzyme system (PK/LDH) is
added to the actin. The myosin is kept separately, and added to the regulated
thin filaments to initiate the reaction. Oxidation of NADH is monitored in real
time, so that kinetic curves are obtained. Compounds are dissolved in DMSO
and spotted onto the bottoms of 384 well plates at 10 to 40 pg/ml final
concentration.
                                            1'4

         Using procedures similar to those described herein, utilizing reagents
and intermediates commercially available (e.g., Sigma-Aldrich, St. Louis, MO)
or readily synthesized by one of skill in the art, the compounds in Table 2
were synthesized, characterized and tested. AC1.4 values were determined
according to the procedure described in Example 39, and the reported median
AC1.4 values are as follows: A =< 1 uM; B = 1-10 uM; C= 10-20 uM; D = >20
uM.
                                        Table 2
                                                                             m/z  Mean
             Compound                           Structure
                                                                            (M+H) AC1.4
3-(6-{[2-(4-fluorophenyl)-2-                          N-        N
                                                    /              NH
methylpropyl]amino}pyridazin-3-                           -                 365.2   A
yl)benzamide                                NH2
                                                                       F
4-(6-{[2-(4-fluorophenyl)-2-          O                  N-N
methylpropyl]amino}pyridazin-3-     H2N                                     365.1   B
yl)benzamide
                                                                          F
5-(6-{[2-(4-fluoropheny)-2-               N         N-N
                                                  /         \     N
methylpropyl]amino}pyridazin-3-               -                             348.1   B
yl)pyridine-3-carbonitrile
                                                                      F
methyl 5-(6-{[2-(4-fluorophenyl)-2-          N         N-N
                                                     /        \     N
methylpropyl]amino}pyridazin-3-                                             381.1   B
yl)pyridine-3-carboxylate
                                                                         F
                                          125

5-(6-1[2-(4-flIuorophenyl) -2-                N                  N-N
                                                                          NH
methylpropyl]am inolpyridazi n-3-                                                 366.1 B
yI)pyrid in e-3-carboxam id e                 NH,
                                                                             F
[2-(4-flIuorophenyl) -2
methyl propyl] (6-pyrazol1-4-                                N-121
ylpyridazi n-3-yI)am in e               H                          \  N
                                                                     NH
[2-(4-flIuorophenyl) -2
methyl propyl] (6-prop-2-                                                         281.6 B
enyl pyridazi n-3-yI)am ine
                                                                           F
                                                         \   ~       NH
[6-((l E)prop-1 -enyl)pyridazi n-3
yI] [2-(4-fI uorophenyl)-2-                                                       286.1 B
methyipropyllaminep
                                                                           F
                 3-(61[(S)-2(4-N                                -N
                                                    . ,N                NH
fluorophenyl)propyl]aminolpyridaz         \/351.0                                       B
in-3-yI)benzamide                  H2N-
                                           0                                   F
                 3-(61[(R)-2(4-N                                -N
                                                     ..,                 H
fluorophenyl)propyl]aminolpyridaz         \       /        -                      351.0 B
in-3-yI)benzamide                    N
                                           0                                   F
                                                                               ci
3-(6-{[2-(4
chlorophenyl)ethyl]aminolpyridazi              -_             N -N                353.1 D
n-3-yI)benzamide                         \/N
                                   H2N-
                                           0
                                             13

ch lorophenyl)ethyl]am inolpyridazi                                       353.1 B
n-3-yI)benzamide                        2
                                             0
chlorophenyl)ethyl]am inolpyridazi                      N-       rP     1 353.1 B
n-3-yI)benzamide
                                        H2N-
                                               0
methylph en yl) ethyl]am inolpyridazi                  ,N -N              333.2 C
n-3-yI)benzamide                               \ /N
                                        H2N-
                                               0
                                                                      F
3-(6-{[2-(4
flIuoroph enyl)ethyl]am inolpyridazi n                  N -N              337.1 D
-3-yI)benzamide                               \ /N
                                               0
                                                                    0
3-(6-{[2-(4
methoxyph en yl) ethyl]am inolpyrida                 ,,N-N                349.1 D
zin-3-yI)benzamide                           \/N
                                       H2N
                                             0
(6-1[2-(4-fluorophenyl) -2
methylpropyl]am inolpyridazi n-3-                                         276.1 D
yI)methan-1 -ol                                              NHN
                                               HOF-
                                                 127

                                                                F
methyl 6-{[2-(4-fluorophenyl)-2
methylpropyl]aminolpyridazine-3-                                          304.2 C
carboxylate                                y"            NH
                                               0,I
3-(6-{[2-(2,4
dichlorophenyl)ethyl]aminolpyrida          _       N-N      /-        cI  387.0 D
zin-3-yI)benzeae                        \    /               NH
                                    HN
3-(6-{[2-(3,4-                                                    \ C
dichlorophenyl)ethyl]am inolpyrida                  N-N                c  387.0 C
zin-3-y)benzamide                      \ /                 NH
                                   HN
                                         0
                                                                       Fl
3-(6-{[2-(3,4-a
dilorophenyl)ethyl]aminolpyridaz                       -                  355.0 D
 in-3-y)benzamide                       \ /N
                                   HN
                                         0
                                                1RF

                                                                       F
3-(6-{[2-(3,4-                                                             F
difl uorophenyl)ethyl]am ino}pyridaz                N-N                      355.1 C
                                                               NH
in-3-yl)benzamide
                                     H2N
3-(6-{[2-(3,5-                                                             F
difluorophenyl)ethyl]amino}pyridaz                  N--N                     355.1 D
                                                               NH
in-3-yl)benzamide                          \   /               NH
                                     H2N
                                                 0E
                                                                         N
3-{6-[(2-(4
pyridyl)ethyl)am ino]pyridazi n-3-                     N-N        NH         320.1 D
yl}benzamide
                                       H2N
                                             0
                                                                     N
3-{6-[(2-(3
pyridyl)ethyl)am ino]pyridazi n-3-                     N-N        NH         320.1 D
yl}benzamide
                                       H2N
                                             0
3-{6-[(2-(2-                                               -NN
pyridyl)ethyl)am ino]pyridazi n-3-                                NH         320.1 D
yl}benzamide
                                       H2N
                                             0
3-{6-[(2
phenylethyl)amino]pyridazi n-3-                        N-N        NH         319.1 D
yl}benzamide
                                       H2N
                                             0
                                              13

                                                                 N-N
                                                                               z
methylbutyl) am ino]pyridazi n-3-                                  _         NH     319.1 D
yIlbenzamide                               H2N-
                                                       0
                                                               N-N
              3          -16           -[NH               -_
phenylpropyl)am ino]pyridazi n-3-                 \/333.1                                 B
yIlbenzamide                               0
                                                    NH2
                                                                         NH
flIuoroph enyl)ethyl]am inolpyridazi n           \ /--                              337.1 C
-3-yI)benzam ide                          N
                                                  0
[(phenylethyl)am ino]pyridazi n-3-                \                          H319.1       D
yIlbenzamide                              H2N-
                                                     0
     3-6[33-
di methylbutyl)am ino]pyridazi n-3-                          /NH                    299.2 D
yIlbenzamide                                H2N-
                                                       0
3-{6-[(2-pyrazi n-2
ylethyl)am ino]pyridazi n-3-                                                NHN-    321.1 D
yIlbenzamide
                                                     0
3- (6-1[2- (2-ch lo roph en yl) -2-                                           i
methylpropyl]am inolpyridazi n-3-                                  N-N              381.1 A
yI)benzamide                                           \ /       /     \        N
                                                         0
                                                      14nl

3-(6-{[2-(4-chlorophenyl)-2-                           N-        N
                                            \       /\              NH
methylpropyl]amino}pyridazin-3-                                                 381.1 B
yl)benzamide                             NH2
                                                                          cI
                                                                            F
3-(6-{[2-(2,4-difluorophenyl)-2
                                                                    F
methylpropyl]amino}pyridazin-3-                         N--N                    383.1 B
yl)benzamide                                                          NH
                                  H2N
                                          0
3-[6-({[(4-                                          N-     N
                                                                   NH
fluorophenyl)cyclopropyl]methyl}a                                               362.2 A
mino)pyridazi n-3-yl]benzam ide
                                        NH2
                                                                              F
                                                                           F
(6-(1 H-indazol-6-yl)pyridazin-3
yl)[2-(4-fluorophenyl)-2-                                                       362.1 A
methylpropyl]amine                 N\          /N        N-H
                                      H
3-(6-{[2-(4-fluorophenyl)-2-                         N-        N
                                              \/  /           ~NH
methylpropyl]amino}pyridazin-3-                          -/347.1                      B
yl)benzenecarbonitrile
                                                                         F
                                                                           F
(6-(1 H-indazol-5-yl)pyridazin-3
yl)[2-(4-fluorophenyl)-2-          HN                                NH         362.2 A
                                       H/                            NH
methylpropyl]amine
                                        141

3-(6-1[2-(2-flIuorophenyl) -2-                                  F
methylpropyl]am inolpyridazi n-3-                    N-N               365.1  A
yI)benzamide                              \ /      /     \       N
                                           0
(6-(l H-indazol-4-yI)pyridazin'-3-   HN-~~
                                       ",
yI)[2-(4-fluorophenyl)-2-                        N                     362.1  A
methyipropyllamine                    \ /N
fluorophenyl)cyclopropyl]methylla             ~       -        N;H
                                                 __364.1                      B
mino)pyridazin-3-yI]pyridine-3-    0
carboxamide                               N2F
fluorophenyl)cyclopropyl]methylla                N-           NH
                                                              N;
                                                __346.1                       B
mino)pyridazin-3-yI]pyridine-3-7
                                                                     F
6-{[2-(4-fluorophenyl)-2
methylpropyl]aminolpyridazine-3-                                       271 .1 D
carbonitrile
                                       N_                  NH
                                                                   F
6-{[2-(4-fluorophenyl)-2
methylpropyl]aminolpyridazine-3-                                       289.1  C
                                                    N
carboxamide0                                              NH
                                        H2NI
                                          142

5-(6-1[2-(4-flIuorophenyl) -2-
                                0
methylpropyl]aminolpyridazin-3-                                         378.1 A
yI)-3-hydrobenzim idazol-2-one
3-(6-{[2-(3-fluorophenyl)-2-              __         N-N
                                             '~/                 NH
methylpropyl]aminolpyridazin-3-         \/365.1                               A
yI)benzamide0F
                                         NH2
                                                                    F
(6-(l H-i ,2,3,4-tetraazol-5
yI)pyridazin-3-yI)[2-(4
                                                                        314.1 D
fluorophenyl)-2-                      -- N       N-N
                                        N                   NH
methyipropyllamine
                                          H
5-(6-{[2-(2-chlorophenyl)-2-                                     i
methylpropyl]aminolpyridazin-3-           N           NN          N     382.1 B
                                                                  N/
yI)pyridine-3-carboxamide                              __
                                 H2N-
                                          0
5-(6-{[2-(2-chlorophenyl)-2
methylpropyl]aminolpyridazin-3-         N           NN         N        364.1 B
                                                          /
yI)pyridine-3-carbonitrile__
                                                                      F
[(6-{ [2-(4-flIuoroph enyl )-2
methylpropyl]aminolpyridazin-3-                                         353.1 B
                                                   N-N
yI)methyl](methylsulfonyl)amine        0         /          -\NH
                                         143HI

                                                                F
N-[(6-{[2-(4-fI uoroph enyl)-2
methylpropyl]amino}pyridazin-3-                                    333.2 D
yl)methyl]methoxycarboxamide                     N  /       NH
                                               NH
                                   -0
[6-(3-amino(1 H-indazol-5-                                       F
                                        NH2
yl))pyridazin-3-yl][2-(4-       N
fluorophenyl)-2-                HN                           NH
methylpropyl]amine
                                                                 F
[6-(3-amino(1 H-indazol-7
yl))pyridazin-3-yl][2-(4
                                                                   377.0 B
fluorophenyl)-2-                                       N-N   N
                                                             NH
methylpropyl]amine
                                HN
                                             N
                                                                 F
[6-(3-aminobenzo[3,4-d]isoxazol
5-yl)pyridazin-3-yl][2-(4
                                                       N--N        378.0 B
fluorophenyl)-2-                         /                  NH     37.\
methylpropyl]amine              N
                                        NH2
[6-(3-aminobenzo[d]isoxazol-7-                                   F
yl)pyridazin-3-yl][2-(4-        H2N
                                                       N--N        388.0 B
fluorophenyl)-2-                                             NH
methylpropyl]amine
                                       N           N-N
[2-(2-chlorophenyl)-2-               \      /NH
methylpropyl](6-(3-                                                339.1 B
pyridyl)pyridazin-3-yl)amine
                                         144

[2-(2-ch lo roph en yl) -2-                                Yj\
                                                           N            N
methylpropyl] (6-pyri mid in -5-                                                       340.1   B
ylpyridazi n-3-yI)am in e
ch loroph enyl)cyc lopropyl] meth ylla                           N-N                   379.1   A
mino)pyridazi n-3-yI]benzam ide                \ /             /~          N
                                                0
3-(6-1[2-(4-flIuorophenyl) -2
methylpropyl]amino}-5-                               /                    N            361.1NH
methylpyridazin-3
yI)be nzen ecarbon itri le                  NF
3-(6-1[2-(4-flIuorophenyl) -2-                    __              N-N
                                                        \/      /           NH
methylpropyl]amino}-5-                    H2N          /                               379.1   B
methylpyridazi n-3-yI)benzam ide          H      0
                                                                                   F
3-(6-1[2-(4-flIuorophenyl) -2
                                                               N-N
methylpropyl]amino}-4-                               /                    N            361.1NH
methylpyridazin-3
yI)be nzen ecarbon itri le                  NF
3-(6-1[2-(4-flIuorophenyl) -2-                    __              N-N
                                                        \/      /           NH
methylpropyl]amino}-4-                    H2N          /                               379.1   B
methylpyridazi n-3-yI)benzam ide          H      0
                                                                                   F
[3-(6-1[2-(4-fluoroph enyl)-2
methylpropyl]am inolpyridazi n-3-      HO                    /                  NH
                                                           /         __   ]N-(2        409.1   B
               yl
              yI~heyl]N-2-HNT
                                                       0
hydroxyethyl)carboxam ide                                                            F
                                               145~

N-(2,3-di hydroxypropyl)[3-(6-{[2
(4-fluorophenyl)-2-                                      /
                                     OH                                NH43.         B
methylpropyl]am inolpyridazi n-3-          HN
                                                   0
yI)ph enyl]carboxam ide           HO
3-(6-1[2-(4-flIuorophenyl) -2-                     __       N-N        N
methylpropyl]am inolpyridazi n-3-              \ /           __          H     433.2 B
yI)phenyl piperidyl ketone                N       )
3-(6-{[2-(4-fluorophenyl)-2-                                N       NH
methylpropyl]aminolpyridazin-3-                 \               _'-            435.1 B
yI)phenyl morpholin-4-y ketone    0                                        9
                                                                             F
N-(2-aminoethyl)[3-(6-{[2-(4
fi uoroph enyl)-2-
                                                                               4082
methylpropyl]aminolpyridazin-3-            HN
yI)phenyl]carboxam ide            H2NF
[3-(6-{[2-(4-fluorophenyl)-2-                    N
                                                      alzz:
                                                      N  H,   F
methylpropyl]aminolpyridazin-3-          /N
                                        N
yI)phenyl]-N-(2-{[3-(6-{[2-(4-            "/
fluorophenyl)-2-                   / \755.3                                          B
methylpropyl]aminolpyridazin-3
yI)phenyl]carbonylaminolethyl)car       N              /    N_
boxamide                                HNT            >NH
                                                 0
                                                                             F
                                            14R

tert-butyl 4-{[3-(6-{[2-(4-                                 N-     N
fluorophenyl)-2
methylpropyl]amino}pyridazin-3-               N                                    534.2 B
yl)phenyl]carbonyl}piperazinecarb                  N
oxylate
2-(6-{[2-(4-fluorophenyl)-2-                             N-     -N   N
methylpropyl]amino}pyridazin-3-                                                    365.0 B
yl)benzamide                                     0     NH2
                                                                           F
5-[6-({[(4-                        0        H
                                          0  H     _N           -- N
fluorophenyl)cyclopropyl]methyl}a      HN                               NH
                                                                                   376.1 A
mino)pyridazin-3-yl]-3
hydrobenzimidazol-2-one                                                          F
                                                                             F
[2-(4-fluorophenyl)-2
methylpropyl][6-(1 -methyl(1 H-                             NN                     376.2 B
indazol-6-yl))pyridazin-3-yl]amine    N                                NH
                                                            N-N
3-(6-{[2-(4-fluorophenyl)-2-                                N--        NH
methylpropyl]amino}pyridazin-3-                                                    434.2 B
yl)phenyl piperazinyl ketone
                                                                             F
                                                C  NHF
1-[(6-{[2-(4-fluorophenyl)-2
                                              0     0        N-N
methylpropyl]amino}pyridazin-3-                                         NH
                                     H2N            N                              386.1 D
yl)carbonyl]pyrrolidine-2
carboxamide                                                                    F
                                             147

ethyl 1-[(6-{[2-(4-fluorophenyl)-2
                                                      0            N-N
methylpropyl]amino}pyridazin-3-
                                                     H                            N          401.1 D
yl)carbonylamino]cyclopropanecar
boxylate                                                                                F
                                                                                    F
6-{[2-(4-fluorophenyl)-2
methylpropyl]amino}pyridazine-3-                                                             290.1 D
carboxylic acid                               0           N-               N
                                            HO
1-[(6-{[2-(4-fluorophenyl)-2
                                                   0           N-N
methylpropyl]amino}pyridazin-3-
                                                H           /                  N             373.1 D
                                                HN
yl)carbonylam ino]cyclopropanecar        HO
boxylic acid                                                                          F
3-(6-{[2-(2-                                  __                 N--N
                                                              /,       \        NH
chlorophenyl)pentyl]amino}pyridaz                                 __/                        395.1 B
in-3-yl)benzamide                  H2N
                                            0
[6-(3-amino-1 -methyl(1 H-indazol-                                                       F
                                              NH2
5-yl))pyridazin-3-yl][2-(4-            N
                                                        \           N---N391.0                     B
fluorophenyl)-2-                       N                                           NH
methylpropyl]amine
3-(6-{[2-(2-fluorophenyl)-4-              __               N-N                             0
                                               \ ,,                         NH
methoxybutyl]amino}pyridazin-3-                               __/                            395.1 D
yl)benzamide
                                         NH2
                                          0
6-{[2-(4-fluorophenyl)-2-                                   /\                 NH
methylpropyl]amino}pyridazin-3-yI                  0                                         359.1 D
morpholin-4-yl ketone
                                                                                      F
                                             14R

6-{[2-(4-fluorophenyl)-2-                    N       N--N
methylpropyl]amino}pyridazin-3-yl                                           372.1 D
4-methylpiperazinyl ketone
                                                                   F
tert-butyl 4-[(6-{[2-(4-                                      N   NHN-
fluorophenyl)-2-                                   N
methylpropyl]amino}pyridazin-3-                N
                                                                          F
yl)carbonyl]piperazinecarboxylateOF      0
tert-butyl 4-[(6-{[2-(4
fluorophenyl)-2-                                              N   NHN-
methylpropyl]amino}pyridazin-3-                    N
                                                                            488.2 D
yl)carbonyl]-3-                                N           OH
                                                                          F
(hydroxymethyl)piperazinecarboxy
late
1-[(6-{[2-(4-fluorophenyl)-2
                                                 0        N-N
methylpropyl]amino}pyridazin-3-        0                        NH            72
                                  H2N
yl)carbonyl]azetidine-2-
carboxamide                                                             F
1-[(6-{[2-(4-fluorophenyl)-2
                                           0     0       N-N
methylpropyl]amino}pyridazin-3-   H2N
                                                                N           400.1 D
yl)carbonyl]piperidine-2
carboxamide                                                            F
4-[(6-{[2-(4-fluorophenyl)-2-                0       N-N
methylpropyl]amino}pyridazin-3-              N                              372.1 D
yl)carbonyl]piperazin-2-one           HN
                                                                   F
                                         149

5-(6-{[2-(2-fluorophenyl)-2-
                                        H
                                                                 NH
methylpropyl]amino}pyridazin-3-                                           378.2 A
                                                               F
yl)-3-hydrobenzim idazol-2-one
[6-(3-amino(1 H-indazol-6
yl))pyridazin-3-yl][2-(4
                                                                          377.0 A
fluorophenyl)-2-                    HN
methylpropyl]amine                       N
                                             H
[6-(3-aminobenzo[d]isoxazol-6-                                          F
yl)pyridazin-3-yl][2-(4
                                                            N--N378.0           A
fluorophenyl)-2-                                                 NH
methylpropyl]amine
                                               0
                                     H2N
3-fluoro-5-(6-{[2-(4-fluorophenyl)-                   N   -    NH
2-methylpropyl]amino}pyridazin-3-                                         383.1 B
                                           F
yl)benzamide                               F
                                                                      F
                                                                      F
N-(1 -carbamoyl-3-methylbutyl)(6
{[2-(4-fluorophenyl)-2-                        NH2
                                       0402.2                                   C
methylpropyl]amino}pyridazin-3-                    NH N-N
yl)carboxamide                                                 N
N-((1 S)-1 -carbamoyl-2-                                              F
hydroxyethyl)(6-{[2-(4
fluorophenyl)-2-                       0         NH                       376.1 D
methylpropyl]amino}pyridazin-3-      HO                       N
yl)carboxamide
                                           1Fr0

(6-1[2-(4-fluorophenyl) -2
methylpropyl]am inolpyridazi n-3
                                                   0       N-N             369.1    C
yI)-N-(pyrazol-3-                                                 NH
                                                   NH
ylmethyl)carboxamide
                                     HN
3-(5-cyano-6-{[2-(4-flIuorophenyl) -             -_        N-N
2-methylpropyl]am inolpyridazi n-3-         \ /          /        N        390.2    C
yI)benzamide                                   0                N
                                                                         F
                                                                         F
6-(3-carbamoylphenyl)-3-{[2-(4
fi uoroph enyl)-2-
methylpropyl]am inolpyridazi ne-4-          /-                             40/8.2NH
                                                   HN
                                        0  N
(hyd roxym ethyl) ph enyl]-2-          HN)                          NH
                                                                __390.1             B
methyipropyllam ino)pyridazi n-3
yI]-3-hydrobenzi midazol-2-one
1-[(6-1[2- (4-fluo roph en yl) -2-             0       N-N
methylpropyl] am inol pyridaz in-3-            NH
                                                                           400.1    D
yI)carbo nyl]pi perid in e-3-C
                                                                       F
carboxamide0
                                             H2N
(2S,1 R)-2-[(6-{[2-(4-fluorophenyl)
                                                 0       N-N
2-methylpropyl]aminolpyridazin-3-                      /       -NH
                                                                                    D
yI)carbonylam inolcyclopentanecar                 N40.
boxamide                              H2N       0F
                                           15 F1

                                                                              F
N-(2-carbamoylethyl)(6-{[2-(4
fluorophenyl)-2-                    HN36.                                                D
methylpropyl]am inolpyridazi n-3-     0              NH
yI)carboxamide                                                 /)-        NH
4-[(6-1[2-(4-flIuoroph enyl)-2-                0         N-N        N
methylpropyl]am inolpyridazi n-3-
                                                                                  40.N
yI)carbo nyl]piperaz in e-2-
                                          HN
                                                                            F
carboxamide                                            NH
                                               0
1-[(6-1[2-(4-fluoroph enyl)-2
                                                   0           N-N
methylpropyl]am inolpyridazi n-3-                                         NH
                                                                         NH       38   .
yI)carbonyl]pyrrolidine-3-
                                     0
carboxamide                            H2NF
1-[(6-{[2-(4-fluorophenyl)-2
                                               0          N -N
methylpropyl]aminolpyridazin-3-                         /        \, NH37.                D
yI)carbonylam inolcyclopropanecar
                                           29
boxamide                                       0F
dimethylpropyl)amino]pyridazin-3-       HNNH                                      298.2  D
yI-3-hydrobenzim idazol-2-one+
3-(6-{[3-(1 ,3-dioxolan-2-yI)-2-(2-                    NN             -8        O
fluorophenyl)propyl]aminolpyridaz             /NH                                 423.1  D
in-3-yI)benzamide
                                         NH2
                                          HN
6-{[2-(4-fluorophenyl)-2-                      N               \    NH
methylpropyl]aminolpyridazin-3-yI              0358.0                                    D
piperazinyl ketone
                                             15p2

4-[(6-{1[2-(4-f Iuoroph enyl)-2-                      0           N-N
methylpropyl]am inolpyridazi n-3-                      NH
yI)carbo nyl]pipe razin ecarboxam id            O      N41.
                                                                                F
e                                        H2N   <
5-16- [(2- methyl -2-                      HNNH
phenylpropyl)am ino]pyridazi n-3-                 h'/360.1                                A
yI}-3-hydrobenzi m idazol-2-one
                                                                                  F
5-(6-1[2-(4-fluorophenyl) -tert-     0       H
              buty~ami   n-3yl)3-
                       nopyrdaz                                           N         37.1N
                                                                 N-N
hydrobenzi midazol -2-one
(6-1[2-(4-fluorophenyl) -2-
methylpropyl]am inolpyridazi n-3-                                                   355.1 D
                                                     0           N-N
yI)-N-pyrazol-5-ylcarboxamide                 H                /     \    N
                                          No         NH
                                                  0
(6-1[2-(4-fluorophenyl) -2-                                       N-N
methylpropyl]am inolpyridazi n-3-                       HN-     /        -~NH
                                                                                    386.1 D
yI)-N-(2-oxo(3
pipe ridyl))carboxam ide
                                                                                F
4-[(6-{1[2-(4-f Iuoroph enyl)-2
methylpropyl]am inolpyridazi n-3
                                     H2N                                            401.1 D
yI)carbonylam inolpiperid inecarbox          NC)          -NH          -      /
amide
                                                            05

(6-1[2-(4-fluorophenyl) -2-                                               N
                                                    HNY       (-
methylpropyl]am inolpyridazi n-3
                                                                                     386.2 C
yI)-N-[(5-oxopyrrol idi n-2
yI) methyl]carboxam ide
                                                         NH
                                                    0
                3-(61[2(2-N                                        -N
                                                                             NH
flIuoroph enyl)butyl]am inolpyridazi n         \/F                                   365.1 B
-3-yI)benzam ide                       H2N-
                                                0
                                                  0
(6-1[2-(4-fluorophenyl) -2-               N             -            NN
methylpropyl]am inolpyridazi n-3-                           HN-   /         -NH
                                                                                     372.1 C
yI)-N-(2-oxopyrrolIid in-3
yI)carboxamide
N-{3-[(tert-                                           __            N-N
                                                                        /       NH
butoxy)carbonylam ino]propyl} [3-                 \/                  _
(6-1[2-(4-fluorophenyl) -2-              7N                                          522.2 B
                                                                                   F
methylpropyl]aminolpyridazin-3
yI)phenyl]carboxam ide                     N         0
N-(3-aminopropyl)[3-(6-{[2-(4-                                       N-N
fluorophenyl)-2-                                    \ /             /   \       NH
                                                            H    1422.2                    B
methylpropyl]aminolpyridazin-3-0
                                                                                   F
yI)phenyl]carboxam ide
                                           NH,
                                                                                   F
(6-benzimidazol-5-ylpyridazin-3
yI)[2-(4-fluorophenyl)-2-                                                            362.2 A
methyipropyllamine                       HN:                                   NH
                                                 15F4

                                                                                F
[2-(4-flIuorophenyl) -2
methylpropyl][6-(2
                                                                                    376.2 B
methylbenzi midazol1-5-                         /             -N         N
                                                                         NH_
    yIpriai-3-yI]amine
[6-(2-am inobenzi midazol -5
yI)pyridazin-3-yI][2-(4
                                                                                    377.2 A
fluorophenyl)-2-                                  /             -NH
methyipropyllamine
                                       H,
[3-(6-1[2-(4-fluoroph enyl)-2-                    __        N-N
methylpropyl]am inolpyridazi n-3-               \/379.1                                   B
yI)ph enyl]-N-methylcarboxam ide        p
                                                                              F
3-(6-{[2-(2-                                               NN        r
                                                     \ ,NH                    N
oxopyrrolIidi nyl)propyl]am inolpyrid       \/340.1                                       D
                                                                       0
azin-3-yI)benzamide                    0     NH2
3-(6-{[2-(2-                                   __          N-N
oxopiperidyl)propyl]am inolpyridazi         \2--/                   NH        N
                                                                                    354.1 D
n-3-yI)benzamideHN
                                             0
N-[5-(6-{[2-(4-fluoroph enyl) -2-         HN                  N-NH
methylpropyl]am inolpyridazi n-3-     0   HN__              C     Y        NH       380.2 B
yI)-2-pyridyl] acetamnide
                                                                                  F
                                                                                F
[2-(4-flIuorophenyl) -2
methylpropyl][6-(2
                                                                                    377.2 B
methyl ben zoxazoI-5-yI) pyri dazin-             /            -N         N
                                                                         N
3-yI]amine
                                              N5

[2-(4-flIuorophenyl) -2-                                                         F
methylpropyl][6-(2-                          07.
methyl benzoxazoI-6-y) pyri dazin-                              \     HN
3-yI]amine
1-[(6-1[2-(4-fluoroph enyl)-2-                      0          N-N
                                                                    /  NH
methylpropyl]am inolpyridazi n-3-                   'N40.
                                                                                           D
yI)carbo nyl]pipe rid in e-4
                                                                               F
carboxamide                          H2N
                                                 0
N-((1 S)-1 -carbamoyl -2-                                                          F
phenylethyl)(6-{[2-(4
fluorophenyl)-2-                        /436.1                                             C
methylpropyl]aminolpyridazin-3-    C     H            IIN         N    NH/
yI)carboxamide                                     00
N-((l R)-1 -carbamoyl-2-                                                           F
phenylethyl)(6-{[2-(4
fluorophenyl)-2-                         /               H436.1                            C
methylpropyl]aminolpyridazin-3-                         N         N-        /
                                         H2N                               NH
yI)carboxamide                                     00
                                                                              F
N-(carbamoylmethyl)(6-{[2-(4
fluorophenyl)-2-                               NH2                                     4.
                                                                                     34.0
methylpropyl]aminolpyridazin-3-       O            NH         N-N      /
yI)carboxamide                                              /      \  NH
                                                   0F
N-(1 ,3-dicarbamoylpropyl)(6-{[2
(4-fluorophenyl)-2-                                NH2
                                           0                                         417.1 D
methylpropyl]aminolpyridazin-3-                         NH        N    NH
yI)carboxamide                     H2N-k                0
                                           0
                                             1rIR

                 3-(6-1   2-(2-N
                                                               -N       N
flIuoroph enyl)propyl]am inol pyridaz          \ /F-                             351.1 B
in-3-yI)benzamide                      H2N-
                                                0
3-(6-1[2-(3-flIuoro(2-pyridyl)) -2-                              N      F
methylpropyl]am inolpyridazi n-3-                                 NN      i      366.1 B
yI)benzamide                                      s"/             _
                                                    0
3-(6-1[2-(5-flIuoro(2-pyridyl)) -2-                     -_      N-N
                                                      \       /       \ NH
methylpropyl]am inolpyridazi n-3-                 \                 _'N          366.1 C
yI)benzamide                                      NH2
                                                                             F
3-[6-(3,3
                                                                 N-N
di methyl indol inyl) pyridazi n-3-                        /N                    345.2 D
yI]benzamide                             H2N-,
                                                   0
6-(6-1[2-(4-flIuorophenyl) -2-                      /-NH
                                                        HNH
methylpropyl]am inolpyridazi n-                                                  379.2 A
yI)-3- hyd roben zoxazol1-2-o ne
3-(6-1[2-(4-flIuorophenyl) -2-                              -         N   NH
methylpropyl]am inolpyridazi n-3-        __             \ /9                     426.2 D
yI)phenyl phenyl ketone               \ /                 0
                                                                               F
4-(6-{[2-(4-fluorophenyl)-2-                            /--NH
methylpropyl]aminolpyridazin-3-       q     O426.2                                     D
yI)phenyl phenyl ketone
                                                                               F
                                                 15F7

[6-(3-amino(1 H-indazol-5-                  NH2                                     F
yl))pyridazin-3-yl]{[(4-              N
                                              \            N-N                        375.3 A
fluorophenyl)cyclopropyl]methyl}a    HN                               NH
mine
                                                                                F
[2-(4-fluorophenyl)-2
methylpropyl][6-(3-iodo(1 H-                 /NN                       NH             488.0 B
indazol-5-yl))pyridazin-3-yl]amine                -_
[2-(4-fluorophenyl)-2-                                                        F
methylpropyl](6-(4-1,2,5,6
tetrahydropyridyl)pyridazin-3-           HN                          NH               3     B
yl)amine
                                                                            F
[2-(4-fluorophenyl)-2
methylpropyl](6-pyrazol-3-                                                            312.1 B
ylpyridazin-3-yl)amine                    HN             N-N       N
                                                      \/      \    NH
1-acetyl-4-(6-{[2-(4-fluorophenyl)-                          N-  N
                                             N                          NH
2-methylpropyl]amino}pyridazin-3-                                                     369.1 D
yl)-1,2,5,6-tetrahydropyridine
                                                                                 F
methyl 4-(6-{[2-(4-fluorophenyl)-2
                                     0                       N-N
methylpropyl]amino}pyridazin-3-              N                          NH
yl)-1,2,5,6-                           \
tetrahydropyridi necarboxyl ate                                                  F
4-(6-{[2-(4-fluorophenyl)-2
methylpropyl]amino}pyridazin-3-     -N-N-                                NH
                                                I    /c  -                            405.1 B
yl)-1 -(methylsulfonyl)-1,2,5,6
tetrahydropyridine                                                                 F
                                             15 FR

4-(6-1[2-(4-flIuorophenyl) -2-                                                      F
methylpropyl]am inolpyridazi n-3-
                                                                                      37.   B
yI)-1,2,5,6-                          HN                          j   /     NH
tetrahydropyridi necarboxam ide         NN
piperidylpropyl)am ino]pyridazi n-3-          \2--/                     NH        N
                                                                                      340.1 D
yIlbenzamideHz
                                                0
                                             NH2
[6-(3-amino(l H-indazol-5
yI))pyridazin-3-yI](2-               H\352.2
                                                HNNH
                                                                                            D
                                                                                  N
piperidylpropyl)amine                                       _
3-16-[(1,2,3,4
tetrahydronaphthylmethyl)am ino]p                          N          NH'-            359.0 B
                                                     \ /NH
yridazin-3-yIlbenzamide
                                     H2N-
                                                0
(tert-butoxy)-N-(2-{[5-(6-{[2-(4-                                   N
fluorophenyl)-2-                        7 \                               NH
                                             NH
yI)(1 H-indazol-3-                          CN          OF
yI)]aminoethyl)carboxamide
                                                  H      X
                                                                                 F
[2-(4-fluorophenyl)-2-                        H
methylpropyl] (6-pyrro lo [3,2-                               N-N        NH362.2            A
b]pyridin-6-ylpyridazin-3-yI)amine      ~             /        _
                                                                                  F
[2-(4-fluorophenyl)-2
b]pyrnm5-ylpyridazin-3-ylarine                        /        _          N36.              B
                                                 15 q~

5-(6-1[2-(4-flIuorophenyl) -2
methylpropyl]aminolpyridazin-3-                                                379.2  B
yI)-3-hydrobenzoxazol-2-one
                                          NH2
[6-(3-amino(l H-indazol-5
yI))pyridazin-3-y]{[(2-               HN    /            NN       NH
                                                                               375.1  A
fluorophenyl)cyclopropyl]methylla
                                                                  F      -- ~z
mine
[6-(3-amino(l H-indazol-5
yI))pyridazin-3-y]{[(2-                     NH2                   F38.                A
fluorophenyl)cyclobutyl]methyllam      A /         ~      NN       N
ine
[6-(3-amino(l H-indazol-5-                 NH,
yI))pyridazin-3-yI][2,2-difluoro-2-     \    /                                 385N0N
                                       HN                    \     N
                                                                   NH38.              B
(4-fluorophenyl)ethyl]amine                                  NF
                                                         N-N
3-[6-(indan-2-ylamino)pyridazin-3-          \ /        /     \     N
                                                                                3.
yI]benzamide                           O      NH,
3-{6
[(indanylmethyl)amino]pyridazin-3-                   /~
                                                      N-       NH              345.0  B
yIlbenzamide                        2
                                          0
                                             1 Rfl

(6-{3-[(2-aminoethyl)amino](1 H-    H2N            NH                                 F
                                                  NH
indazol-5-yl)}pyridazin-3-yl)[2-(4
                                                   N                 N--N               420-1A
fluorophenyl)-2-                            HN                                 NH
methylpropyl]amine
                                                                           F
1-(6-{[2-(4-fluorophenyl)-2
methylpropyl]amino}pyridazin-3-                                                         288.1  D
yl)ethan-1 -one                                  O       N-   N
                                                                      NH
                                                         F
4-fluoro-3-(6-{[2-(4-fluorophenyl)-                             N-N
                                                                           NH
2-methylpropyl]amino}pyridazin-3-                    /              -                   283.1  A
yl)benzamide                            H2N
                                                                                   F
3-{6-[((2S,1 R)-2-                                         N-N
phenylcyclopropyl)amino]pyridazi                 /NH                                    331.0  D
n-3-yl}benzamide
                                            NH2
                                                                                    F
[2-(4-fluorophenyl)-2
methylpropyl][6-(3-methyl(1 H-                                                          376.0  B
indazol-6-yl))pyridazin-3-yl]amine                                          NH
                                              H
[6-(3-amino(1 H-indazol-5-                    NH2                                 F
yl))pyridazin-3-yl]{[(4-                 N
                                                       \        N   -N389.1                    A
fluorophenyl)cyclobutyl]methyl}am       HN                                NH
ine
[6-(3-amino(1 H-indazol-5
yl))pyridazin-3-yl]{[(2-                     NH2                                 x
                                                      NF403.1                                  A
fluorophenyl)cyclopentyl]methyl}a       \                      N-N
mine
                                                1R1

                                                 NH2
[6-(3-amino(1 H-indazol-5-                                   N--N
                                        HN
                                                                         NH
yl))pyridazin-3-yl][2-methyl-2-(2-                                                     373.2 A
methylphenyl)propyl]amine
[6-(3-amino(1 H-indazol-5-                   NH2                           F
yl))pyridazin-3-yl]{[(4-              N                    N -N
                                     H        /\                      NH               417.2 A
fluorophenyl)cyclohexyl]methyl}a       NNH
mine
[6-(3-amino(1 H-indazol-5-                     NH2
yl))pyridazin-3-                       N                    N--N
                                      H N357.1                                               A
yl][(phenylcyclopropyl)methyl]amin                                      NH
e
                                                 NH2
[6-(3-amino(1 H-indazol-5
                                                         /   N-N
yl))pyridazin-3-                       HN                    N-N         N             371.1 A
yl][(phenylcyclobutyl)methyl]amine
                                             NH2
[6-(3-amino(1 H-indazol-5
                                                 /         N- N
yl))pyridazin-3-yl][(2,2-dimethyl-1- HN                    N--N       NH               385.2 A
phenylcyclopropyl)methyl]amine
                                                  N
5-(6-{[2-(4-fluorophenyl)-2
methylpropyl]amino}pyridazin-3-         N                                NH            387.1 D
                                       HN         /    \                  H
yl)-l H-indazole-3-carbonitrile                                   _N-N
[6-(3-amino( H-indazol-5-                    NH2                             F
yl))pyridazin-3-yl]{[(4-               N                   N-N
                                                                               H-403.1       A
fluorophenyl)cyclopentyl]methyl}a                                      NH
mine
                                                  1 R9

5-(6-1[2-(4-flIuorophenyl) -2-                       __            N-N
                                     HN        \           /     /       NH
methylpropyl]am inolpyridazi n-3-      /         '        /405.1                               A
                                      N
yI)-1 H-indazole-3-carboxamide
                                                       NH2
                                         0
[4-(2-{[6-(3-amino(l H-indazol-5-                                 N-N
                                     HN      \             /NH
yI))pyridazin-3-yI]amino}-tert-       I            '/389.2                                     D
butyl)phenyl]methan-1 -ol              ;NH       2
                                                                                      OH
{[4-(2-{[6-(3-amino(l H-indazol-5-                    _          N-N
yI))pyridazin-3-yI]amino}-tert-     HN     \ /NH
butyl)phenyl]m ethylldimethyl am in    NH46.,
e                                                                                   N
[2-(4-fluorophenyl)-2
methylpropyl][6-(3-vinyl(l H-        A /                           N-N   NH388.1               A
indazol-5-yI))pyridazin-3-yI]amine__
[6-(3-ethyl(l H-indazol-5-                                                       F
yI))pyridazin-3-yI][2-(4-N
fluorophenyl)-2-                     HN        / \                       NH39.                 B
methyipropyllamine
                                            0
3-(6-{[2-(4-fluorophenyl)-2-        HN                    N          N-N   N
methylpropyl]aminolpyridazin-3-                      0___
                                                                                         357.1 C
yI)-l ,2,4-oxadiazole-5
carboxamide
                                                                                   -9
                                              1 RR.

                                              NH2
[6-(3-amino(1 H-indazol-5-               NN-                          N
                                        HN     / \                             H
yI))pyridazin-3-yI][2-(3-fluoro(2-                __                __378.1                      B
pyridyl))-2-methylpropyl]amine                                                           N
[6-(3-amino(1 H-indazol-6
                                                                               F
yI))pyridazin-3-yI][2-(3-fluoro(2-                   __               -N        NH378.1          B
pyridyl))-2-methylpropyl]amine       H,                  /5H_                   N
                                                H
                                                                                      F
[6-(3-amino(1 H-indazol-5-                    NH2
yI))pyridazin-3-yI][2-(5-fluoro(2-      H
                                         N
                                               /                 N
                                                                 NN                     N  378.1 B
                                                          N /                 NH
pyridyl))-2-methylpropyl]amine__
[6-(3-amino(1 H-indazol-6
yI))pyridazin-3-yI][2-(5-fluoro(2-                                                         378.1 C
pyridyl))-2-methylpropyl]amine       H2\N                                 NH    N
                                                H
1-[5-(6-{[2-(4-fluorophenyl)-2-                                                 NHN
methylpropyl]aminolpyridazin-3-            /\            /422.1                                  B
yI)-1 H-indazol-3-yI]ethane-1,2-dial
                                     HO                OHF
                                               HN    N
                                                              N-   N
2-amino-6-(6-{[2-(4-fluorophenyl)-         HN        /      /                H
2-methylpropyl]aminolpyridazin-3-            0355.1                                              B
yI)-3-hydropyrimidin-4-one
                                                                                    F
                                               1R4

N-[6-(2-am ino-6-                                                         Y
oxohydropyri midi n-4-yI)pyridazi n-                  __-N          N-N   N    =
3-yI] (te rt-butoxy) -N -[2- (4-                           /455.1                               B
                                                  0
fi uoroph enyl)-2-                                                                 '
methyl propyllcarboxam ide
6-(6-{[2-(4-fluorophenyl)-2-                             __           N-N
                                                      N                      NH
methylpropyl]aminolpyridazin-3-                                                           390.1 B
yI)-3-hydroquinazolin-4-one                    HN       0o
                                                                                     F
                                                     NH2
[6-(3-amino(l H-indazol-5
                                                     N.               N-N        N
yI)) pyr iuazi n-- yJ (- methyl-2-I(1,3/-                                   N             350.3 D
oxazol-2-yI)propyl)amine
ethyl 2-fluoro-5-(6-{[2-(4-0
                                                                     N-N
fi uoroph enyl)-2-                             F                            NH
                                                                            NH            41.
methylpropyl]aminolpyridazin-3
yI)benzoate
                                                                                   F
2-am ino-6-(6-{ [2-(4-flIuorophenyl)-                        -__
                                                    N            /NH
2-methylpropyl]aminolpyridazin-3-         H2N_                                          ' 405.1 A
yI)-3-hydroquinazolin-4-one                       HNf
                                                                                       F
                                                      1 R5~

                                                                     N
4-(2-{[6-(3-am ino(l H-indazol-5
yI))pyridazin-3-yI]amino}-tert-                                             384.1 A
                                                         N-N
butyl)benzenecarbonitrile           HN    \ /          /         NH
                                         NH2
                                                                   0    NH2
4-(2-{[6-(3-am ino(l H-indazol-5
yI))pyridazin-3-yI]amino}-tert-                                             402.2 D
butyl)benzamide                    HN                           NH
                                        NH2
[6-(3-amino(l H-indazol-5-                                              NH2
                                        NH2
yI))pyridazin-3-y]{2-[4-N-NN38.                                                   D
(aminomethyl)phenyl]-2-            HY    / \                    NH
methyipropyllamime
5-(6-{[2-(4-fluorophenyl)-2-                  __         N-N
                                   HN     \         /  /         NH
methylpropyl]aminolpyridazin-3-      I      '/404.1                               B
yI)-l H-indazole-3-carboxamidine
                                                                     FH
                                     HN
                                                                        OH
2-[4-(2-{[6-(3-amino(l H-indazol-5
yI))pyridazin-3-yI]amino}-tert-                                             417.2 D
                                                        N-N
butyl)phenyl]propan-2-oI           HN             /   /      ' -NH
                                    Np
                                        NH,
                                          1 RRF

                                                                                  OH
[3-(2-{[6-(3-amino(l H-indazol-5
yI))pyridazin-3-yI]amino}-tert-        HNNN                            NH389.2             B
butyl)phenyl]methan-1 -ol              N
                                             NH2
2-[5-(6-{ [2-(4-flIuorophenyl)-2-                     ___
                                           HN    \          /   /           NH
methylpropyl]aminolpyridazin-3-             I       "                                420.1 B
yI)-1 H-i ndazol-3-yI]propan-2-oI           N           OHF
                                                                                F
3-(6-{[2-(3,5-difluoro(2-pyridyl))-2-F
methylpropyl]aminolpyridazin-3-                       __          N-N                384.0 B
yI)benzamide                                      \        /    /            NH
                                                    0
[5-(6-{ [2-(4-flIuoroph enyl)-2-                      __         N-N
                                           HN               /               NH
methylpropyl]aminolpyridazin-3-             /       '/392.1                                A
yI)-1 H-indazol-3-yI]methan-1 -ol
{[3-(2-{[6-(3-amino(1 H-indazol-5-N
yI))pyridazin-3-yI]amino}-tert-                                  N41.
                                                                                           D
butyl)phenyl]m ethylldi methyl         HN                             NH41.                D
                                       N
amine                                    ;
                                             NH2
3-(2-{[6-(3-am ino(l H-indazol-5
yI))pyridazin-3-yI]amino}-tert-                               N                      384.2 A
butyl)benzenecarbonitrileHN                   \      /H
                                             NH,
                                                 1R7

                                                                           0
                                                                               NHg
3-(2-{[6-(3-amino(1 H-indazol-5
yl))pyridazin-3-yl]amino}-tert-                       N-N                          402.2 D
butyl)benzamide                    HN                           NH
                                    N
                                         NH2
                                                                                OH
2-[3-(2-{[6-(3-amino(1 H-indazol-5
yl))pyridazin-3-yl]amino}-tert-                       N-N                          417.2
butyl)phenyl]propan-2-ol           HN                           N
                                    N
                                         NH2
                                             NH2
[6-(3-amino(1 H-indazol-5-             N                   N--N
yl))pyridazin-3-yl][2-(3,5-            HN                           NH
                                                                                   396.0 A
difluoro(2-pyridyl))-2-                                            F
methylpropyl]amine
                                                                        F
[6-(3-amino(1 H-indazol-5
                                             NH2
yl))pyridazin-3-yl]{[(3-fluoro(2-      N                           F               390.0 A
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}amine      H                    N-N      NH
                                                           N-N
3-[6-({[(3-fluoro-2-                          \    /                 NH
pyridyl)cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)py    H2N                           F              378.2 A
ridazin-3-yl]benzamide                                                       N
N-[5-(6-{[2-(4-fluorophenyl)-2-                     /     /           N
                                                                      N
                                        HN
methylpropyl]amino}pyridazin-3-          N                                         419.1 A
yl)-l H-indazol-3-yl]acetamide                NH                         F
                                           0
                                              1 FR

[6-(3-am inopyrazolo[5,4-b]pyridin-                                                 F
                                                NH2
5-yl)pyridazin-3-yl][2-(4-                N
                                                                  N-N                       387.3 A
fluo ro phenyl)-2-                           N      HN                          NH
                                                  HN
methylpropyl]amine
[3-(2-{[6-(3-amino(1 H-indazol-5-            N
                                           NH,
yl))pyridazin-3-yl]amino}-tert-     N                                                    NH
                                                           \  N                             416.2 D
butyl)phenyl]-N-                     N         H                          N
                                            HN
methylcarboxamide
[3-(2-{[6-(3-amino(1 H-indazol-5-           N
                                          NH2
yl))pyridazin-3-yl]amino}-tert-     N                                                  N
                                                                       N-N430.2                   C
                                    \N-
butyl)phenyl]-N,N-                                 /                     NH
                                            HN
dimethylcarboxamide
[5-(6-{[2-(4-fluorophenyl)-2-                        __            N-N
                                                                         /\      NH
methylpropyl]amino}pyridazin-3-           HN            /H
                                                                                            455.1 A
yl)(1 H-indazol-3
yl)](methylsulfonyl)amine                                                           F
[2-(2-{[6-(3-amino(1 H-indazol-5-                            N-N
yl))pyridazin-3-yl]amino}-tert-     HN                                     NH            OH 389.1 B
butyl)phenyl]methan-1 -ol
                                            NH2
[6-(3-amino(1 H-indazol-5
                                                              N -N
yl))pyridazin-3-yl]2-[3-              HN                                     NH
                                                                  -/388.2                         C
(aminomethyl)phenyl]-2-                NC
methylpropyllamine                            NH2                                      NH2
1[(4-                                                                                F
fluorophenyl)cyclobutyl]methyl}[6
(2-methoxypyrimidin-5-                     O                                     NH         366
yl)pyridazin-3-yl]amine
                                                  1R9

flIuoroph enyl)cyclobutyl]m ethyllamn     0                /         /        NH
                                                                                            5.
ino) pyri dazin-3-yI]-3-                         H7
hydropyrimidin-2-oneF
                                                     0
                                         H2N
                                                                        N-N
5-(6-1[2-(4-flIuorophenyl) -2-                                        /
                                          HN      \         /                  NH
methylpropyl]am inolpyridazi n-3-          N-.                                             405.1 B
yI)-l H-i ndazole-7-carboxamide
[6-(3-amino(l H-indazol-5-NH
yI))pyridazin-3-yI][2-(3-N
methoxyphenyl)-2-                         HN:I              \                 NH38.              A
methyipropyllamine
[6-(3-amino(l H-indazol-5-                     NH2
yI))pyridazin-3-yI][2-methyl-2-(4-                 /-                                      3731
                                         HN      /           \        /       NH37.              A
methylphenyl)propyl]amine                                                _
                                                                                        OH
2-[3-(2-{[6-(3-amino(l H-indazol-5-          NH2
yI))pyridazin-3-yI]amino}-tert-        N       ,                   N-                      403.2 B
                                      HN:/               \         /        NH
butyl)phenyl]ethan-1 -ol
[6-(3-amino(l H-indazol-5-                     NH2
yI))pyridazin-3-yI]{[(5-fluoro(2-        A H/ ~ N:                      N-N
                                                                              NH
                                                                                ~      N   390.0 A
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyllamime__
3-[6-({ [(5-fl uoro-2-                                 __               N-N
pyridyl)cyclobutyl]methyllamino)py                  \                               -- N   378.0 B
                                         H2N
ridazi n-3-yI]benzamide0
                                                               17F

                                                                                 F
(te rt-butoxy)-N -[6- (2,3-dioxo (1 4
di hydroqu inoxal in -6-yI))pyridazi n
3-yI]-N-[2-(4-fluoroph enyl)-2-              HN       \ /N                             506.1   D
                                       0
methyl propyllcarboxam ide                        -NH0/
                                                                                 0==
                                           0
                                                          __     N-N
{2-[3-(2-{[6-(3-amino(1 H-indazol-       NH
5-yI))pyridazin-3-yI]amino}-tert-        N:                                            430.2   D
butyl)phenyl]ethylldi methyl am ine           NH,
3-(2-{[6-(3-amino(1 H-indazol-5-                                N_ N
yI))pyridazin-3-yI]amino}-tert-        HN                                 NH/          375.1   B
butyl)phenol                                                                 C     'OH
                                             NH2
6-(6-{[2-(4-fluorophenyl)-2
methylpropyl]aminolpyridazin-3-          ==HN-PN                                       406.1NH
yI)-1 ,4-dihydroquinoxaline-2,3-                    NH
diane                                       0F
                                                NH2
[6-(3-amino(1 H-indazol-5
yI))pyridazin-3-y]{2-[2-                  HN     /       ~           -       H
                                                                             V_        403.2   C
(methoxymethyl)phenyl]-2
methyipropyllamime
3-(6-{(tert-butoxy)-N-[2-(3-N
                                                                           F
fluoro(2-pyridyl))-2-                                ___N          N-N46.
methylpropyl]carbo nylam inolpyrid                \ /                           =O
                                                             00
                                                 171

(tert-butoxy)-N-[2-(3-flIuoro(2
pyridyl))-2-methylpropyl]-N-[6-(2-  HO             __49._
hydroxybenzimidazol-5-                           \ /              _
yI)pyridazin-3-yI]carboxamide
                                    HO
5-(6-{[2-(3-fluoro(2-pyridyl))-2-        HN-b                                  N
methylpropyl]aminolpyridazin-3-                         /379.1                                    A
yI)benzimidazol-2-o                                                            _,
(6-(l H-indazol-5-yI)pyridazin-3-      HN     / \            /      \      NH
yI)[2-(3-fluoro(2-pyridyl))-2-                                                              363.1 B
methyipropyllamineN
N-[6-(6-{ [2-(4-flIuoroph enyl) -2-           HN    /~              NN             N
methylpropyl]aminolpyridazin-3-__                                      _                 '  41.   A
yI)benzimidazol-2-yI]acetamide            H
6-(6-{[2-(4-fluorophenyl)-2
methylpropyl]aminolpyridazin-3-           HN              /NH                -
                                                              '~'  __           ~        -' 406.1 B
yI)-1 ,3-dihydroquinazoline-2,4-          HNP(
diane                                              0F
4-[6-({[(3-fluoro-2-                            / \            /             NH
pyridyl)cyclobutyl]methyllam ino)py                                                         378.0 B
                                                                           F
                                                                                 ,
                                                                                     G
ridazi n-3-yI]benzamide
4-fluoro-3-[6-({[(3-fluoro(2-                                 N-N
                                                    \ / / \NH
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyllamino)p                                         \-          ]    396.2 A
                                       0                                 F
yridazin-3-yI]benzamide                        NH2
                                              172

(6-(1 H-indazol-5-yl)pyridazin-3
yl){[(3-fluoro(2-                 N                     F          375.0 A
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}amine HN                       N
                                       0
                                 HN
                                      J-\        N-N
2-(6-{[2-(4-fluorophenyl)-2-     H N                       N
methylpropyl]amino}pyridazin-3-           N                        366.0 A
yl)pyridine-4-carboxamide
                                                                 F
                                       0
                                 H2N
6-(6-{[2-(4-fluorophenyl)-2-     H N                       NH
methylpropyl]amino}pyridazin-3-                                    366.1 B
yl)pyridine-2-carboxamide
                                                                 F
                                       0
3-(6-{(tert-butoxy)-N-[2-(4-     H2N           ;NN--N N      0>O 0
fluorophenyl)-2-                          /6.3             NN
                                                                   465.3 D
methylpropyl]carbonylaminolpyrid
azin-3-yl)benzamide
                                                                 F
                                       0
                                                          O
3-(6-{(tert-butoxy)-N-[2-(4-     H2N
                                                 N--N            O
fluorophenyl)-2-                                           N
                                                                   483.3 D
methylpropyl]carbonylaminolpyrid            F
azin-3-yl)-4-fluorobenzamide
                                                                 F
                                     173

(6-(1 H-indazol-6-yl)pyridazin-3
                                                                         F
yl){[(3-fluoro(2-                                               N-N                  375.0 A
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}amine        N/NH
                                           H
(6-(1 H-indazol-6-yl)pyridazin-3
yl){[(6-methoxy(2-                                                               N   387.1 A
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}amine   N                                    NH
                                         N
                                         H
(6-(1 H-indazol-5-yl)pyridazin-3
yl){[(6-methoxy(2-                 H                                           N     387.1 A
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}amine
4-fluoro-3-[6-({[(6-methoxy(2-                        F      N--N
                                                   \/                   NH
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)p                                      N            408.1 A
yridazin-3-yl]benzamide
                                             NH2
4-fluoro-3-(6-{[(2-                                        F     N- N
                                                        \/     /    \       N
pyridylcyclobutyl)methyl]amino}pyr                                          NH     N 378.1 A
idazin-3-yl)benzamide                H2N
                                                0
(6-(1 H-indazol-5-yl)pyridazin-3
yI)[(2-                              HN/                \     /     \      NH        357.2 A
pyridylcyclobutyl)methyl]amine
(6-(1 H-indazol-6-yl)pyridazin-3
                                                                    N-N
yl)[( 2 -                                                                  NH        357.2 A
pyridylcyclobutyl)methyl]amine        N
                                                               N-N
2-fluoro-3-[6-({[(3-fluoro(2-                                             NH
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)p    0                   F              F           396.0 B
yridazin-3-yl]benzamide                        NH2
                                              174

                                         O                              N--N
3-fluoro-4-[6-({[(3-fluoro(2-                                                       NH
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}am ino)p                              F                F             396.0 B
yridazin-3-yl]benzamide
2-fIuoro-4-(6-{[2-(4-fluorophenyl)-    HO                               N-N
2-methylpropyl]amino}pyridazin-3-                                                               384.1 D
yl)benzoic acid                                       F
                                                                                          F
methyl 3-amino-5-(6-{[2-(4
                                                                               N-NH
fluorophenyl)-2-                                  N                               N     H
                                                                                                43.   B
methylpropyl]amino}pyridazin-3-                  N
yl)-l H-indazolecarboxylate                              NH2                                  F
methyl 5-(6-{[2-(4-fluorophenyl)-2-                          __            N-N
methylpropyl]amino}pyridazin-3-                                 /                     NH
yl)-3-(methoxycarbonylamino)-1 H
                                          \              NH
indazolecarboxylate                         0-<                                               F
N-[5-(6-{[2-(4-fluorophenyl)-2-                                          N-N
methylpropyl]amino}pyridazin-3-               HN                                     NH
                                                                N  -~                           435.1 A
yl)(1 H-indazol-3                                       NH
                                               / .....
yl)]methoxycarboxamide                                                                      F
                                                    0
[3-amino-5-(6-{[2-(4-fluorophenyl)-     \N'
2-methylpropyl]amino}pyridazin-3-    0
                                     oKN                                              NH
                                                                      \ /   __            ~     448.1 B
yl)(1 H-indazolyl)]-N,N-                         N
dimethylcarboxamide                                      NH2                                  F
6-(I[(6-(1 H-indazol-5-yl)pyridazin-                                                            3   .
                                                    N                  N-N
3-yI)amino]methyllcyclobutyl)            HN/\                       /~           NH N           373.1 D
pyridin-2-ol
                                                     175

                                                                      HO
6-({[(6-(1 H-indazol-6-yl)pyridazin-                                  HO
3-yl)amino]methyl}cyclobutyl)                                            NH      373.1 D
pyridin-2-ol                              N
                                            H
                                                     F
4-fluoro-3-[6-({[(6-hydroxy(2-                       F     N-N
                                                                    xNH
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)p                           _/N                 394.1 D
yridazin-3-yl]benzamide              0        N                               OH
                                             NH2
2-({[(6-(1 H-indazol-5-yl)pyridazin-        N7
3-yI)amino]methyllcyclobutyl)          HN/             \     /\          NH      373.1 D
pyridin-4-ol
4-fluoro-3-[6-({[(4-methoxy(2-                           F     N-N
                                                                    S   NH
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)p                                          N    408.2 B
                                        0         N
yridazin-3-yl]benzamide                         NH2
(6-(1 H-indazol-5-yl)pyridazin-3-                                      u
yl){[(4-methoxy(2-                                                           N   387.2 A
                                                             /      \    NH N    38.   A
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}amine
(6-(1 H-indazol-6-yl)pyridazin-3-                                      o
yl){[(4-methoxy(2-                               ---           N-N           N   387.2 A
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}amine       N                                 NH
                                            H
                                                                      HO
2-({[(6-(1 H-indazol-6-yl)pyridazin
3-yl)amino]methyl}cyclobutyl)                                /           N   N   373.2 D
pyridin-4-ol                              N
                                            H
4-fluoro-3-[6-({[(4-hydroxy(2-                           F     N-N
                                                            /      \    NH
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)p                                          N    394.2 D
yridazin-3-yl]benzamide                 0        N                    HO
                                                NH1
                                               17R

5-[6-({[(3-fluoro-2-                           0        H
pyridyl)cyclobutyl] methyllam ino)py              HN           /                   H
                                                                              __391.0         B
ridaz i n-3 -yI]-3 -hyd rob enz im idazolI-F
2-one
{[(3-fluoro(2
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}(6-                                            F             325.0 C
                                                                 N-N
pyrazol-4-ylpyridazin-3-yI)amine                    HI     /           "   NH
{[(3-fluoro(2
prdl)lbtlmethylprz       l-4-I-yriaz n-                                    F-         N
                                                                       \ NH
                                                  0    N
methylpraopI-amino pyridazi n-3-                                             Ni         40.   D/
                                                       N
6-m--(6-{[2-(4-fluorophenyl)-/                                                    NH
  methylpropyl]aminopyridazin-3-                0                                       405.1 D
yI)-3 -droquyinazolin-4-one
                                                                                      F
                                                     H    N          N-N
3-[mn--6-({fuoo2-(4\                 heyl                    /    /              NH
pyiylcobtlmethylprpl        amino        pyi-3                                          414.4 A
                                                                                      F
ridazi n-3-yI]benzenesulfonamide                 H2N
                                                       177

{4-[6-({ [(3-f Iluoro (2-
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]m ethyllam ino)p     HN             NH                    2.
yridazin-3-F
yI]phenyl}(methylsulfonyl)amine
{3-[6-({[(3-fluoro(2-                              __          -N
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyllam ino)p      0_                             NH
                                         11__
                                     _______NH
                                                                             428.3 B
                                                                       F
yridazin-3-                              1
yI]phenyl}(methylsulfonyl)amine
3-{6-[(2-methyl-2-pyrim idin-2-                                  N
ylpropyl)amino]pyridazin-3-                    \      /     __           N N 349.0 D
yIlbenzamideHN
                                                0
4-fluoro-3-[6-({[(3-methoxy(2-NN
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyllamino)p                                           408.2 B
                                       0                           0
yridazin-3-yI]benzamide                        NH2
(6-(l H-indazol-5-yI)pyridazi n-3
yI){[(3-methoxy(2-                     N-                                    387.2 B
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyllamine      HN/~                   -        NH
yI){[(3-methoxy(2-                               __P      N-N        iN      387.1 B
                                                 N
                                           H
4-fluoro-3-[6-({[(5-methoxy(2-                            N-N
                                                    \   /        \   NH
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyllamino)p            "/           _               N 408.1 D
                                                   00
                                              17R

                                                                      0
(6-(1 H-indazol-5-yl)pyridazin-3
yl){[(5-methoxy(2-                                  N-N                        387.2 B
                                      HN       /NH
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}amine                                 \
(6-(1 H-indazol-6-yl)pyridazin-3
yl){[(5-methoxy(2-                                  N-N        N          N    387.2 B
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}amine        I                       N
                                            H
3-{[(6-(1 H-indazol-6-yl)pyridazin-
                                                                        N
3-yl)amino]methyl}-3-(2-            NCPNH                           -          373.1 D
pyridyl)cyclobutan-1 -ol                  H
                                                                             H
3-{[(6-(1 H-indazol-6-yl)pyridazin
3-yl)amino]methyl}-3-(2-            N       \H                          N      373.2 D
                                      N
pyridyl)cyclobutan-1 -ol                  H
                                                                            OH
3-[6-({[(4-                                          N-     N
                                                          /      NH
fluorophenyl)cyclobutyl]methyl}am                       -/377.3                      A
                                      H2N
ino)pyridazin-3-yl]benzamide
                                                                       F
3-[6-({[(3-fluoro(2-                                N-N
                                                               NH
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}am ino)p                                            392.3 B
                                       0                      F
yridazin-3-yl]-4-methylbenzam ide               NH2
                                                                      N
6-({[(6-(1 H-indazol-5-yl)pyridazin
3-yl)amino]methyl}cyclobutyl)          N            N-N                        382.2 B
pyridine-3-carbonitrile               H         /
                                              HNN               NH
                                                                  N
                                               179

6-[6-({[(3-fluoro(2-
                                              0O    N
py ridyl1)) cycIobut yI]met hylIIa mino)p                                     N
                                                                          __418.0                D
yr idaz in -3-y133 3-d ime th ylIind olIin -F
2-one
3-[6-({[(4-cyano-2-                                              NN
pyridyl)cyclobutyl]methyllamino)py                        /N_                NH            385.1 B
ridazin-3-yI]benzamide                          H2N
                                                                          0
                                                                      H2N
carbamoylphenyl)pyridazin-3-                                    N-NN
                                                          / \/        ~     NH    ~N       403.2 D
yI]aminolmethyl)cyclobutyl]pyridin__                             __
e-4-carboxam ide                                 0
                                                     NH2
3-[6-({[(4-cyano(2-
                                                                      /     NH
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyllamino)p                  \    /       _                  "N..   403.1 B
yridazi n-3-yI]-4-fluo robe nzamnide0                 H
                                                                          0
2-[({[6-(3-carbamoyl-6
                                                            F         H2N
fi uorophenyl)pyridazi n-3-                                     N-N
                                                          /   /       \      H    N        421.2 D
yI]aminolmethyl)cyclobutyl]pyridin__                             __
e-4-carboxam ide                                 0   NH2
                                                                    N
3-yI)amino]methyllcyclobutyl)                   HN  / \       /              H             382.1 A
pyridine-4-carbonitrile
                                                                          0
2-({[(6-(1 H-indazol-5-yI)pyridazin-                                    2
3-yI)amino]methyllcyclobutyl)                   A               N-N           ~          N 400.2 C
pyridine-4-carboxam ide                                _
                                                    1Rf

3-[6-({[(6-cyano-2-                                          N
                                                   \/                NH
pyridyl)cyclobutyl] methyllam ino)py        \/385.1                                      B
ridazin-3-yI]benzamide               H2N                                      "
                                                      00
                                                                 H2N
carbamoylphenyl)pyridazin-3-                               N-N           N          0.
yI]aminolmethyl)cyclobutyl]pyridin__
e-2-carboxamide                           0      NH2
                                                               N
                                         HN
3-yI)amino]methyllcyclobutyl)            H                               N  N      382.1 B
pyridine-2-carbonitrile
                                                                       0
6-({[(6-(1 H-indazol-5-yI)pyridazin-                               2
                                                N~                               '
3-yI)amino]methyllcyclobutyl)                   /N-                         N       0.
                                                              __         N
pyridine-2-carboxamide
(6-(l H-indazol-6-yI)pyridazi n-3-                                              F
                                                           / \                     374.1 A
fluorophenyl)cyclobutyl]methyl}l                                         NH
amine                                       H
(6-(l H-indazol-5-yI)pyridazi n-3-                                              F
fluorophenyl)cyclobutyl]methyllam        H     / \          N~           NH37.           A
ine
                                                         F
4-fluoro-3-[6-({[(1 -methyl-6-oxo(2-            ___        N-N]
hydropyridyl))cyclobutyl]methylla             \              _N                    408.1 D
mino)pyridazin-3-yI]benzamide         HaN
                                              0
                                              1Ri

3-(6-{[(2-                                        _N-            N
                                                                  /       NH
pyridylcyclobutyl)methyl]amino}pyr            \       /                             N   360.2 A
idazin-3-yl)benzamide
                                                 NH2
({[(6-(1 H-indazol-5-yl)pyridazin-3-                        N-N
yl)amino]methyl}cyclobutyl)metha        HN                                N             310.2 D
n-1-ol
                                                                                  'OH
1-({[6-(3-cyanophenyl)pyridazin-3-                        N-N
                                             / \        /     \N       N
yl]amino}methyl)cyclobutanecarbo                __          __             O     OH     309.2 D
xylic acid
1-({[6-(3
                                                            N-N
carbamoylphenyl)pyridazin-3-                  /      \    /      \       N
                                                                         _OH            327.2 D
yl]amino}methyl)cyclobutanecarbo
xylic acid                                      NH2
1-({[6-(3-cyanophenyl)pyridazin-3-                        N-N
yl]amino}methyl)cyclobutanecarbo
                                                /\      /
                                                           __
                                                              \N      N
                                                                      N__        NH2    308.2 D
xamide
                                                                             O      NH2
                                                                                    NH
3-(6-O
                                                            N-N
{[(carbamoylcyclobutyl)methyl]ami                                         NH            326.2 D
no}pyridazin-3-yl)benzamide            H2N
                                                0
methyl 3-(3-fluoro(2-pyridyl))-3
{[(6-(1 H-indazol-5-yl)pyridazin-3-                                F
yl)amino]methyl}azetidinecarboxyl    H     /                        NH         N4.
ate
                                                                                 0
                                               1R?

methyl 3-(1[6-(3
                                                                   F
carbamoylphenyl)pyridazin-3-                            N-NL                             3.
yI]aminolmethyl)-3-(3-fluoro(2-      /\              ~NH                      N      /r 43.0
pyridyl))azetidi necarboxyl ate
                                                                                0
                                       NH2
{[(3-fluoro(2-
                                                                            '      N
pyridyl))cyclobutyllmethy}{6-[3-          NHN
                                                                                        40.
(methylamino)(1 H-indazol-5-                               ;-/ N\    N
                                                                     i
yI)]pyridazin-3-yIlamine           HNN_
                                            0
                                   HO
2-fluoro-5-[6-({[(3-fluoro(2-                 __             N-N
                                    F
                                                                     NH                 397.0
pyridyl))cyclobutyllmethyllamino)p\                /39.                                       B
yridazin-3-yI]benzoic acid                                                        N
{2-f Iuoro-5-[6-({[(3-f luoro (2-  H
                                                              N-N
pyridyl))cyclobutyllmethyllamino)p  F              /        /10.0NH    N
yridazin-3-yI]phenyl}-N-F
methylcarboxamide
N-{5-[6-({[(3-fluoro-2
                                                0N
pyridyl)cyclobutyllmethyllamino)py 0       NHF43.
                                                                                              B
ridazin-3-yI]-l H-indazol-3-
                                    HN      /        \NH               NH~
yIjacetamide                                   ___                NN
2-amino-N-{5-[6-({[(3-fluoro(2-       HN             /H
pyridyl))cyclobutyllmethyllamino)p     I_
                                    N                                  F                447.2 B
yridazin-3-y](1 H-indazol-3-       VNH                                   "C
yI)}acetamide0
                                           1RRq

{5-[6-({[(3-fluoro(2-                               -         N-N
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)p      H                                    N
                                         N
                                                                                         468.2 A
yridazin-3-yl](1 H-indazol-3-                NHF
yl)}(methylsulfonyl)amine
3-amino-5-[6-({[(3-fluoro(2-                          _            N-N
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)p           N                                    NH
                                             N                                           433.3 B
yridazin-3-yl]-1 H-                                                             F
                                                   NH                                  N
indazolecarboxamide
[6-(3-aminophenyl)pyridazin-3
yl]{[(3-fluoro(2-                                           N--N                         350.2 A
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}amine                                         N
                                          HN
[6-(4-aminophenyl)pyridazin-3
yl]{[(3-fluoro(2-                                                          F             350.2 A
                                                              N-N
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}amine       H2N     //                       --   NH
(6-{3-[(2-aminoethyl)amino](1 H-   H2N
                                                          NHN
indazol-5-yl)}pyridazin-3-yl){[(3-             N   H
                                                         NF                            N 433.0 A
fluoro(2-                                    HNN/                      N
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}amine                      -_
amino{3-[6-({[(3-fluoro(2-                                     N-N
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)p    HN                                   \N
                                                NH
                                                                                         392.2 B
                                                                             F
yridazin-3-                          H2N                                             N
yl]phenyl}carboxamidine
amino{4-[6-({[(3-fluoro(2
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)p                                              F
                                                                                         392.2 B
yridazin-3-                            HNHN                                      NH
yl]phenyl}carboxamidine            H2NNH-N
                                               1R4

3-(6-{[(pyrazin-2-                            __           N-N
ylcyclobutyl) methyl]am inolpyridazi      \                         ~  N          361 .3 D
n-3-yI)benzamide                                                          N
                                            NH2
(6-(1 H-indazol-6-yI)pyridazi n-3-                                         N~'
yI)[(pyrazin-2-                                       N  /        "NH           N 358.3  C
ylcyclobutyl) methyl] amin eH
(6-(1 H-indazol-5-yI)pyridazi n-3-N
                                                    ~
yI)[(pyrazin-2-                        A /N
                                                          /
                                                              -NN
                                                                        NH        358.3  C
ylcyclobutyl) methyl]am ine
amino-N-{3-[6-({[(3-fluoro(2-                                /~        - NH
                                       0                       __
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyllam ino)p         NH                          F         393.2  A
yridazin-3-yI]phenyllamide           H2N
                                             0
5-[6-({[(3-fluoro-2-                   HO
                                                            N-N
pyridyl)cyclobutyl]methyllamino)py         \ /            /             NH
                                                                                  423.2  D
ridazin-3-yI]benzene-1  ,3-            HO                             F
dicarboxylic acid                            0
                                             0
5-[6-({[(3-fluoro-2-                  H2N
                                                             N-N
pyridyl)cyclobutyl]methyllamino)py          \ /            /            NH
                                                                                  421.2  B
ridazin-3-yI]benzene-1  ,3-           H2N                              F
dicarboxamide0
3-[6-({[(3-fluoro-2-                             -_          N-N
pyridyl)cyclobutyl]methyllamino)py          \ /            /      \     N
                                                  'F                           Z   7.
ridazi n-3-                           HN
                                                       NHN
                                             NH
y]benzenecarboxamidine
                                           1R5~

3-[6-({[1 -acetyl-3-(3-fluoro(2-
pyridyl))azetidin-3-                       \ /NH                                     N42.          D
yI]methyllamino)pyridazin-3-         0                                 F
                                            NH2
yI]benzamide
1-acetyl-3-(3-fluoro(2-pyridyl))-3-N
1[(6-(l H-indazol-5-yI)pyridazin-3-  N           ~            NN                             418.2 D
                                     H      N/\           ;/\             N
yI)amino]methyllazetidine                     __              __
(6-(l H-indazol-5-yI)pyridazi n-3
                                                                                 F
yI)[3-(3-fluoro(2-pyridyl))azetidin-     N                                                   376.2 D
3-yI]methyllamine                               /H \                -H       NN
3-[6-({ [3-(3-flIuoro-2-                          __              N-N
pyridyl)azetidin-3-\                                  /         /             NH           H
                                                                                             379.2 D
yI]methyllam ino)pyridazin-3-           H2NTF
                                                                                         N
yI]benzamide
3-(3-fluoro(2-pyridyl))-3-{[(6-(l H
indazol-5-yI)pyridazin-3-                                                F
                                                       j;N454.2
                                                                                                   D
yI)amino]methyl}-1 -                 HN     / \                   \       NH
(methylsu Ifonyl)azetidine
3-[6-({[3-(3-fluoro(2-pyridyl))-l -                           N-N0\,
(methylsulfonyl)azetidin-3-                 \ /             /              NH       -N~
                                                                                             457.2 D
yI]methyllamino)pyridazin-3-         HN            'F                             zz~
                                              0
yI]benzamide
                                                                                 NN
yI)[3-(3-fluoro(2-pyridyl))azetidin-     HN     /5.                                                D
3-yI]methyl}(methylsulfonyl)amine__

amino{5-[6-({[(3-fluoro(2-                  NH,
                                    HN j\
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}am ino)p H          NH                                 N
                                                                          F         432.2 B
yridazin-3-yl](1 H-indazol-3
                                                                             NH
                                         HN
yl)}carboxamidine
3-[6-({[3-(4-fluorophenyl)oxetan-3-               __        N-N
                                                                         NH
yl]methyl}amino)pyridazin-3-                   \    /                               379.0 D
yl]benzamide                         H2N
                                                0
                                                                               F
[2-(4-fluorophenyl)-2-                                                          F
                                              NH
methylpropyl](6-{3
                                                                                    419.3 A
[(methylethyl)amino](1H-indazol-        H                    N--N         NH
5-yl)}pyridazin-3-yl)amine
                                                                                F
[6-(2-aminopyrimidin-5
yl)pyridazin-3-yl][2-(4
                                                                                    339.2 B
fluorophenyl)-2-                                 N           N-N
methylpropyl]amine                    H2N            /NH
[2-(4-fluorophenyl)-2-                                                         F
                                             NH
methylpropyl]{6-[3-                    N
                                                      \     N---N391.3                    B
(methylamino)(1H-indazol-5-            HN                                NH
yl)]pyridazin-3-yl}amine
[2-(4-fluorophenyl)-2-                                                          F
methylpropyl][6-(2
methoxypyrimidin-5-yl)pyridazin-3-                         /\N2
yl]amine
                                                                             F
[2-(4-fluorophenyl)-2
methylpropyl][6-(2-methoxy(3-               N__            -N                       353.1 A
                                                        /C     \       NH35.              A
pyridyl))pyridazin-3-yl]amine                               -/N
                                              1R7

{6-[3-(ethylamino)(1 H-indazol-5-                                               F
yl)]pyridazin-3-yl}[2-(4
                                    N                                              405.2 A
fluorophenyl)-2-                   HN                                   NH
methylpropyl]amine
                                                                            F
[2-(4-fluorophenyl)-2
methylpropyl](6-phenylpyridazin-                        N      N                   322.2 A
                                               / \NH
3-yl)amine                                                           NH
                                           HN
                                             0       ~ /           ~NH
5-(6-{[2-(4-fluorophenyl)-2
methylpropyl]amino}pyridazin-3-                                                    339.2 B
yl)hydropyridin-2-one
                                                                               F
                                                                             F
[6-(2-amino(4-pyridyl))pyridazin-3
                                       HN
yl][2-(4-fluorophenyl)-2-                             -        -N                  338.2 B
methylpropyl]amine                                        _>          NH
                                                                                 F
[6-(4-aminophenyl)pyridazin-3
yl][2-(4-fluorophenyl)-2-                                    N    -N               337.1 A
                                   H2N-                                  NH
methylpropyl]amine
                                                                             F
[6-(3-aminophenyl)pyridazin-3
yl][2-(4-fluorophenyl)-2-                                                          337.1 A
methylpropyl]amine                                              -     NH
                                      H2N
3-(6-{[2-(4-fluorophenyl)-2-                            N--N
methylpropyl]amino}pyridazin-3-          N                                         339.1 B
                                                  OH
yl)pyridin-2-ol
                                                                            F

                                                N          N-N
5-(6-1[2-(4-flIuorophenyl) -2
methylpropyl]am inolpyridazi n-3-                                                    340.1 D
yI)-3-hydropyri midi n-2-on e
                                                                                F
                                              0 _        N   N        N
5-(6-1[2-(4-flIuorophenyl) -2-               HN     /NH_
methylpropyl]am inolpyridazi n-3-                                                    330.0 C
yI)-l ,3,4-oxadiazolin-2-on e
                                                                              F
                                                                                 F
[6-(6-am ino(3-pyridyl))pyridazi n-3
yI] [2-(4-f I uorophenyl)-2-                      N_        N-N                      338.2 A
methyipropyllamine                      HN~           /   /\             N
                                                     ~             NH
[2-(4-flIuorophenyl) -2
methylpropyl] (6-vi nylpyridazi n-3-                                                 272.0 B
yI)amine
                                                                            F
[6-(5-am inopyrazol-3-yI)pyridazin
3-yI] [2-(4-fI uorophenyl)-2-                                                        327.2 B
methyipropyllamine                            HN-   N     N     N      N
                                         H2N
[2-(4-fluorophenyl)-2
methylpropyl][6-(6-methoxy(2-                  /              -N                     353.1 A
                                                  /   "          \      NH
pyridyl))pyridazi n-3-yI]amine__
N-[4-(6-{[2-(4-fluorophenyl)-2-                   HN                       NHN
                                                                           NH_
methylpropyl]aminolpyridazin-3-               N
                                     0'       H
yI)imidazol-2-yI]acetamide
                                                                                   F

5-(6-1[2-(4-flIuorophenyl) -2
methylpropyl]am inolpyridazi n-3-                                              348.0   C
yI)pyridi ne-2-carbon itri le
                                                                             F
[6-(2-am inoi midazol1-4-                                                  F
yI)pyridazin-3-yI][2-(4-                 H2N      N          -                 327.2NH
fluorophenyl)-2-                             HNNH_
methyipropyllamine
5-(6-1[2-(4-flIuorophenyl) -2-         0        N            N-N    NH
methylpropyl]am inolpyridazi nH2-3-   HN     _                                 366.1   B
yI)pyridin e-2-carboxam id e
                                                                             F
                                          HO
                                               -N      N -N
6-(6-1[2-(4-flIuorophenyl) -2-              \ /      /              NH
methylpropyl]am inolpyridazi n-3-                                              339.1   B
yI)pyridin-2-oI
{6-[6-(am inomethyl) (3-                                                     F
pyridyl)] pyridazi n-3-y} [2 -(4-      2          NN            -35                 .B
fluorophenyl)-2-                               \ /         /           NH
methyipropyllamine
                                                                         F
[2-(4-flIuorophenyl) -2
methylpropyl][6-(2-                                                            340.1   A
flIuoroph enyl)pyridazi n-3-yI]am ine      / \                      H
                                                   F
                                              19f

                                                                  F
[2-(4-flIuoroph enyl)-2
methylpropyl][6-(3-                                                      340.1 A
       uoroph
            enyl)pyridazi n-3-yI]am ine    /-         N     NH
                                               FF
[2-(4-flIuorophenyl) -2
methylpropyl][6-(4-NN34.                                                       B
                                        F-C/       /           NH34.           B
flIuoroph enyl)pyridazi n-3-yI]am ine                 _
                                                                  F
[6-(2-ch loroph enyl) pyridazi n-3
yI] [2-(4-f I uorophenyl)-2-                                             356.1 A
methylpropyllamine                         /         \      NH
                                                                   F
[6-(3-ch lorophenyl) pyridazi n-3
yI] [2-(4-f I uorophenyl)-2-                                             356.1 A
methylpropyllamine                           /    N-         NH
                                          CI
                                                                     F
[6-(4-ch loroph enyl) pyridazi n-3
yI] [2-(4-f Iuorophenyl)-2-                          N N\      N         356.1 B
methyipropyllamine__                                  __
4-(6-1[2-(4-flIuorophenyl) -2-N__                      /  N
methylpropyl]am inolpyridazi n-3-                                        347.1 B
yI)be nzen ecarbon itri le
                                                                       F

                                                                                     F
[2-(4-flIuorophenyl) -2
methylpropyl] (6-(3-                             N__N33.
                                                      0 / C                  NH               32.I
pyridyl)pyridazi n-3-yI)am ine                 \ /              _
                                                                                      F
[6-(6-am ino(2-pyridyl))pyridazi n-3
yI] [2-(4-fluorophenyl)-2-                       /2    N           -                          338.2 B
                                                       /"      /\             NH
methyipropyllamine__                                             __
N-1{[5-(6-1[2-(4-fluorophenyl) -2-                       Ny             N-       N
methylpropyl]am inolpyridazi n-3-             NH     -                                  9   ' 394.2 C
yI)-2-pyridyl] methyl acetam ide     0
                                                                                          F
N-{ [5-(6-{1[2-(4-f Iuoroph enyl )-2
methylpropyl]am inolpyridazi n-3-N                                        NN
                       yl)(2                                                                  410.2 C
pyridyl)]methyllmethoxycarboxami          >       N9
de
{6-[3-(ethylamino)(1 H-indazol-5-        --  \NH
yI)]pyridazin-3-y}{[(3-fluoro(2-            N                                                 418.2 A
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyllamine            HN           N           -7:N       NH        N
3-(6-1[2- methyl-2-N
(phenylmethoxy)propyl]am inolpyri            \ /             _                                377.0 D
dazin-3-yI)benzamide                   2
                                               0
3-(6-1[2- methyl -2-                        __             N-N
(phenylmethoxy)propyl]am inolpyri        \                               H     0~359.0              D
dazin-3-yI)benzenecarbonitrile        /
                                                  1N

                                                                            F
[2-(4-fluorophenyl)-2
methylpropyl](6-(2-                         N        N-N                          323.1 B
                                             /\       f       \    NH
pyridyl)pyridazin-3-yl)am ine                          _
N-{4-[6-({[(3-fluoro-2-                                       N-N
                                         o  H     \         /     \      NH
pyridyl)cyclobutyl]methyl}am ino)py                                      NH
                                        NK                                        382.1 D
                                                                       F
ridazi n-3-yl]imidazol-2-                                              F        N
yl}acetamide
[6-(2-am inoimidazol-4
yl)pyridazin-3-yl]{[(3-fluoro(2-                                                  340.1 D
                                                         N-N
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}amine        HN     \                     NH
                                    H2N
{[(3-fluoro(2
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}(6-{3-        NH                                   N
                                                                      F           432.2 A
[(methylethyl)amino](1 H-indazol-           NN
                                                  ~       ; N-N    NH
5-yl)}pyridazin-3-yl)amine
{6-[3-(ethylamino)(1 H-indazol-5-        NH
yl)]pyridazin-3-yl}[(2-                                     N-N               N   400.2 A
                                    HN                                 NH
pyridylcyclobutyl)methyl]amine
                                                 \  ~             NH
[6-((1 E)prop-1 -enyl)pyridazin-3
yl][2-(4-fluorophenyl)-2-                                                         286.0 B
methylpropyl]amine
                                                                          F
                                                    N--N
[2-(4-fluorophenyl)-2-                                            NH
methylpropyl][6-(2-methylprop-1 -                                                 300.0 B
enyl)pyridazin-3-yl]amine
                                                                          F
                                         193

[2-(4-flIuorophenyl) -2-                                     NH
methylpropyl][6-(2-                                                       302.0 B
methyl propyl) pyridazi n-3-yI]am ine
                                                                   F
                                                                      F
ethyl 3-(6-{[2-(4-fluorophenyl)-2
methylpropyl]aminolpyridazin-3-                                           346.0 D
yI)propanoate                         \   o         /-          N/
                                          0
6-(6-{[2-(4-fluorophenyl)-2-            0     ___ N       NN
methylpropyl]aminolpyridazinH2-3-                                NH/      366.1 B
yI)pyridine-3-carboxamide
                                                                        F
                                                           NH
(6-ethylpyridazin-3-y)[2-(4
fi uoroph enyl)-2-                                                        274.0 C
methyipropyllamine
[3-(6-{[2-(4-fluorophenyl)-2-
methylpropyl]aminolpyridazin-3-            \/352.2
                                            __
                                                       -N
                                                                                B
                                       HO
yI)phenyl]methan-1 -ol
(tert-butoxy)-N-{[3-(6-{[2-(4
fi uoroph enyl)-2-                    =
                                                                                B
methylpropyl]aminolpyridazin-3-HN45.
yI)phenyl]methyllcarboxamide                 /-        ~      /    NH
                                          1P4

                                                                         F
{6-[3
(am inomethyl)phenyl]pyridazi n-3
                                                                           351.2 B
yI}[2-(4-fluorophenyl) -2-                  /               -          H
methyipropyllamine__
{[(3-fluoro(2
                                                                  F
pyridyl))cyc lobutyl]meth yl}{16-[2-
                                                            N
                                                                 -NH       419.1 A
(trifluoromethoxy)phe nyl]pyridazi n__
-3-yIlamine                               F      0
                                                       FF
                                                     FF
[2-[([-flIuoron-2-                                                  N
methdylpryoyl](5methoy(2-m i                  /op                          35.2  B
 pyi)pridazi l~ h n-3yl etane1                              ___HO
6-[2-(4-fluorophenyl)-2-\                          /        _
methylpropyl]a6(minoopyridzNnN3N                                           33.1  A
[6(-io2pyridyl))pyridazin-3
                                               /   N      N-N
 ylpyrid)ccouymehaine3o                H9                      ~      N
                                           1P5~

                                           F
[2-(4-fluorophenyl)-2-
                                     F           F
                                                                     F
methylpropyl](6-{3-[(2,2,2-                   NH
                                                                       459.2 A
trifluoroethyl)amino](1 H-indazol-5-                      N-N
                                      HN       / \      /         NH
yl)}pyridazin-3-yl)amine
[6-(6-amino(3-pyridyl))pyridazin-3
yl]{[(3-fluoro(2-                                               F      351.2 A
                                                 N        N-N
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}amine     H2N                          NH
[6-(4-amino-3
fluorophenyl)pyridazin-3-yl]{[(3-                               F
                                                          N-N          368.1 A
fluoro(2-                            HN        /        /         NH
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}amine
                                             F
(6-benzotriazol-6-ylpyridazin-3
yl){[(3-fluoro(2-                    HN     N                   F      376.1 A
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}amine                          N-N     NH
                                                     N -N
4-[6-({[(3-fluoro-2-                                          NH
pyridyl)cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)py       HN                            390.1 B
ridazin-3-yl]indolin-2-one
                                                         N--N
(6-benzimidazol-5-ylpyridazin-3-     HN                          NH
yl){[(3-fluoro(2-                         N                            375.1 A
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}amine
N-{3-[6-({[(3-fluoro-2-                            /NH
pyridyl)cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)py            NH                 F     392.2 B
ridazin-3-yl]phenyl}acetamide
                                              19R

{[(3-fluoro(2
pyridyl))cyc lobutyl] meth yl}[6-(4-                                                                N  2.
morphol in-4-ylph enyl) pyridazi n-3-                 N                   /N
                                                                           N           H
yI]amine
{[(3-fluoro(2
pyridyl))cyc lobutyl] meth yl}[6-(2-                                               F
                                                                                                      351.2 D
methylpyri midi n-5-yI)pyridazi n-3-                      N__
yI]amine                                                  N                   ~      N
[5-(6-{1[2-(4-f Iuoroph enyl)-2-                            __         N-N
                                                 HN     \            /               NH
methylpropyl]am inolpyridazi n-3-                 I       "/405.2                                           B
yI)(1 H-indazol-3-yI)]dimethylamine                                                        F
[2-(4-fluorophenyl)-2-                                                                            F
methylpropyl] [6-(3-1[2-N
                                                                               -x                           A
                                                                            ;-51.
(phenylmethoxy)ethyl]amino(1 H- ~'~                       HN      / \                     NH51.             A
indazol-5-yI))pyridazin-3-yI]amine
                                              HO
2-{ [5-(6-{ [2-(4-flIuoroph enyl) -2-                       N
methylpropyl]aminolpyridazin-3-                     N             ~       N-N
                                            -
                                                    HN       /                          NH421.2
                                                                                        N
                                                                                                            A
yI)-1 H-indazol-3-yI]aminolethan-1
ol
                                                                                                F
{[(3-fluoro(2
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}(6-                                                  F337.0                      B
pyrimidin-2-ylpyridazin-3-yI)amine                  /                 - \         NH
                                                             N
{[(3-fluoro(2
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}(6-                                                  F337.0                      B
pyrazin-2-ylpyridazin-3-y~mn                        /                             NiH
                                   -yl~amiN
                                                       1 97

ethyl 6-({[(3-fluoro-2-                       0            ~          N
pyridyl)cyclobutyl]methyllam ino)py           0331.0                                  D
                                                                     F
ridazi ne-3-carboxylate
2-[6-({[(3-fluoro-2-                    HO           ( /          -~NH
pyridyl)cyclobutyl]methyllam ino)py                                             317.0 D
ridazi n-3-yI]propan-2-oI
{[(3-fluoro(2
pyridyl))cyc lobutyl]methyl}1(6 -                                    F          335.1 A
phenylpyridazin-3-yI)amine            /                                 H
{[(3-fluoro(2
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}(6-                                   F285.1               D
vinylpyridazin-3-yI)amine                 /              _        NH
(6-ethylpyridazin-3-y)[(3-fI uoro(2-                                          N  8.
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyllaminme
                                      0
N-{4-[6-({[(3-fluoro-2-              HN                             N     H
pyridyl)cyclobutyl]methyllamino)py                                              392.2 A
                                                                           F
ridazi n-3-yI]phenyllacetamide
[6-(2-am inopyrimidi n-5
yI)pyridazin-3-yI]{[(3-fluoro(2-                                                352.1 B
                                            N                N-N
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyllamine          \~ D         -/                 NiH
                                         1PR

                                           0
N-{5-[6-({[(3-flIuoro-2
pyridyl)cyclobutyl] methyllamni no)py    HN                                   NH
                                                   N-                              394.2    C
ridazi n-3-yI]pyri midi n-2-F
yIjacetamide
N-{5-[6- (1[(3 -fIuo ro(2 -0
pyridyl))cyc lobutyl]meth yllam ino) p     HN                                   NH
                                                               N410.1                       D
yridazin-3-y] pyri m idin-2-F
yI methoxycarboxam ide
{[(3-fluoro(2
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}[6-(5-N                                        F        366.2    B
methoxy(2-pyridyl))pyridazin-3-                       N       N N
yI]amine/0/                                                                N
                                                      N       N     N
6-[6-({[(3-fluoro-2-                   HO-    C\NH
pyridyl)cyclobutyl]methyllamino)py                                                 352.1    A
ridazi n-3-yI]pyridin-3-oI
{5-[6-({[(3-fluoro(2-                              N              N
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyllamino)p               /
                                         HN
                                                                                   43/0.0NH
yridazin-3-y]pyrim idin-2-F
yI(methylsulfonyl)amine
[6-(2,3-difluorophenyl)pyridazin-3-N
yI]{[(3-fluoro(2-                          /              N-N           NH371.0             A
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyllamime__
                                         F           F
{[(3-fluoro(2
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}[6-(3-                                     F
                                                                                   354.0    B
fluoro(2-pyridyl))pyridazin-3-             /     N      N
                                                               \        NiH
yI]amineF
                                                 1F

3-{6-[(1 -methyl-1 -                              __          N-
phenylethyl)amino]pyridazin-3-                                  _          NH                333.2 B
yl}benzamide
                                               NH2
                                                                   N--N
5-[6-({[(3-fluoro-2-                       HN                                   NH
pyridyl)cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)py                                            F              390.1 B
ridazin-3-yl]indolin-2-one
5-[6-({[(3-fluoro-2-                                __           N-N
                                                               /        \
pyridyl)cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)py        HN                                 N
                                         HN                                                  391.1 A
ridazin-3-yl]-1 H-2-hydroindazol-3-                                                      N
one
N-{3-[6-({[(3-fluoro(2
                                                           __       N--N
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)p                       /NH
                                      -NH
yridazin-3-                                       NH                            F            407.2 A
yl]phenyl}(methylamino)carboxami
de
N-{4-[6-({[(3-fluoro(2
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)p    H      HN                         N
                                             HN                                   NH
yridazin-3-                                                                                  407.2 A
yl]phenyl}(methylamino)carboxami
de
tert-butyl 4-{5-[6-({[(3-fluoro-2
pyridyl)cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)py                                                  F      N
                                                I              N                             521.3 D
ridazin-3-yl]pyrimidin-2-           +             N      N                            NH           D
yl}piperazinecarboxylate
2-({5-[6-({[(3-f Iuoro-2-           H2N
                                                       N               N-N
                                                                                   NH
pyridyl)cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)py     O      HN
                                                                        D_                   409.1 C
ridazin-3-yl]pyrimidin-2-                                                         F
                                                                                           N
yl}amino)acetamide
                                                2nn

{6-[2-(am i nomethyl) -5
flIuoroph enyl]pyridazi n-3-y}{ [(3
fi uoro (2-                                                  N-N       i             382.2 C
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]m ethyllam me
                                                   H2N
16-[2-N
                                                                     F
(am inomethyl)phenyl]pyridazi n-3
yI}[(3-fluoro(2-                               /N                      i"H           364.2 D
pyridyl))cyc lobutyl]methyl lamin e
                                                   H2N
16-[4
(am inomethyl)phenyl]pyridazi n-3-                                          F
                                                                                     364.2 B
yI}[(3-fluoro(2-                                    /    ~          N        NH
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]m ethyllam ine      HN_
{[(3-fluoro(2
pyridyl))cyc lobutyl] meth yl}[6-(2-F
                                                                                     421.2 D
piperazi nylpyri midi n-5-            HNN                          N        NH
yI)pyridazin-3-yI]amine                      jN            N
(6-(1 H-indazol-6-yI)pyridazin-3-N
yI) (2,2-difl uo ro-2-(2-                            __P       N-N                F  353.1 D
pyridyl)ethyl)amine                       N'_>                             NH   F
                                                H
3-{6-[(2,2-difluoro-2-(2-                                      N-N
                                                               N_                  F
pyridyl)ethyl)amino]pyridazin-3-                                _       ~NNH         356.1 D
yIlbenzamideHN
                                                   0
[6-(3-chloro(2-pyridyl))pyridazin-3
                                                                     F
yI]{[(3-fluoro(2-                              /      N            NH                370.1 C
                                                                       N___
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyllamime
                                                         ci
                                                  2fl

6-({[(3-fluoro-2-                    N                    NH
pyridyl)cyclobutyl]methyl}am ino)py                             284.0 D
ridazi ne-3-carbon itrile
                                               N-N
1-[6-({[(3-fluoro-2-                                    N
pyridyl)cyclobutyl]methyl}am ino)py                             301.1 D
ridazin-3-yl]ethan-1 -one
{[(3-fluoro(2
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}[6-(2
                                                           F    350.2 C
methyl(3-pyridyl))pyridazin-3-
                                     N           /\N
yl]amine
3-[6-({[(3-fluoro-2-                                         NH
                                     N
pyridyl)cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)py                              361.1 C
                                                           FN
ridazin-3-yl]pyridine-2-carbonitrile        N
3-[6-({[(3-fluoro-2-                               N--N
                                             \               NH
pyridyl)cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)py   N
                                                                379.2 C
ridazin-3-yl]pyridine-2-                                   F
carboxamide
methyl 3-[6-({[(3-fluoro-2-                                  NH
                                     N
pyridyl)cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)py                         F    394.2 C
ridazin-3-yl]pyridine-2-carboxylate
2-{3-[6-({[(3-fluoro-2-                                      NH
                                     N
pyridyl)cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)py                              394.2 D
                                                           F
ridazi n-3-yI]-2-pyridyllpropan-2-oI        OHN
                                       2fl2

                                             0
amino-N-{4-[6-({[(3-fluoro(2-       HHN                         NN
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}am ino)p                                                      393.0 A
                                                                                 F
yridazin-3-yl]phenyl}amide                                                             N
                                                             N-N
2-amino-2-{3-[6-({[(3-fluoro(2-                                            NH
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}am ino)p                                       F407.0               C
                                                                                   N
yridazin-3-yl]phenyl}acetamide        H2N          NH2
{[(3-fluoro(2
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}(6-                                      F                    337.2 D
                                              N__      N-N
pyridazi n-4-ylpyridazin-3-yl)amine       N                          N
                                                        N -NF
3-[6-({[3,3-difluoro-1-(3-fluoro(2-                                    NH            F
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)p                                                       414.0 B
                                     H2Nj                            F
yridazin-3-yl]benzamide
(6-(1 H-indazol-5-yl)pyridazin-3
                                                                            F
yl){[3,3-difluoro-1 -(3-fluoro(2-     NN                            F                    411.0 B
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}amine     H                                NH             F
                                                                                 F
5-[6-({[(3-fluoro(2
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)p                                          F         N
                                            N                                            433.1 B
yridazin-3-yl]-2-(methylethyl)-1 H-        H                                  N
2-hydroindazol-3-one                                           N-N
5-[6-({[(3-fluoro(2
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)p                                          F        N
                                          HN                                             433.1 C
yridazin-3-yl]-1-(methylethyl)-1H-                              ---
                                                                             NH
                                                             2y/
2-hydroindazol-3-one                                           N-N
                                               2 nlq

3-16-[(l -methyl-i    -
                                                                                -NH
phenylethyl)am ino]pyridazi n-3-                 \ /315.0                                              B
yIlbe nzen ecarbon itri le                     //z
3-16- [(te rt-butyl)a minolpyri dazi n~-3-                               /NH
                                                                                       -H271.1         C
yIlbenzamide
                                                           0
3-[6-                                                 __            N-N
                                                            .. ..                   NH
(phenylcarbonylam ino)pyridazi n-                  \                    _319.1                         D
3-yI]benzamide                              H2N-
                                                    0
{[(3-fluoro(2
pyridyl))cyc lobutyl] meth yl}(6-(2-                                            F                336.1 B
pyridyl)pyridazin-3y~mn                          /                                  H
3-16-[(l -methyl-i -(2-                                                -N
pyridyl)ethyl)am inolpyridazi n-3-                 \ /334.1                                            D
yIlbenzamide                                 0       NH2
{3-[6-({[(3-fluoro-2-                            / \NH
                                                   N
pyridyl)cyclobutyl]methyllam ino)py                                                              366.2 C
ridazin-3-yI]-2-pyridyllmethan-1 -ol                   HO                       F,'
                 3-(6{[(4                          ___            N-N
fluorophenyl)cyclobutyl]aminolpyri                                             H
                                                                               -N//\             363.1 A
dazin-3-yI)benzamide                       0
                                                  NH2
(6-(l H-indazol-5-yI)pyridazin-3-          N-                                                  F
                         yl)(4             HNl           y            )      -NH360.1                  A
fluorophenyl)cyclobutyl]amime
                                                     ?nl4

4-{6-[(1-methyl-1
                                              O                     N
phenylethyl)amino]pyridazin-3-         H                                      N          333.1 C
yl}benzamide
(6-(H-indazol-5-yl)pyridazin-3-        \                      N-    --       NH          330.2 B
yl)(1 -methyl-1 -phenylethyl)amine                             _3
                                                N_            N-      N
[6-(6-amino(3-pyridyl))pyridazin-3-
                                              H      /NH                                 306.2 B
yl](1 -methyl-1 -phenylethyl)amine
                                                                    N-N
amino-N-{5-[6-({[(3-fluoro(2-             HN       /        -     /              NH
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)p          NH2                                          394.2 B
yridazin-3-yl](2-pyridyl)}amide
(1-methyl-1-phenylethyl)(6-              /N--                         N   H
                                                                                NH290.1        B
phenylpyridazin-3-yl)amine
1-amino-1 -{4-[6-({[(3-fluoro(2-
                                                                     N-N
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)p   H    2                                      NH
                                       H2N                                               422.2 D
yridazin-3-yl]phenyl}-2-                                                        F
methylpropan-2-ol
amino-N-{5-[6-({[(3-fluoro(2-             HN                     C/     \        NH
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)p          NH2                                          395.2 D
                                                        NHN
yridazin-3-yl]pyrimidin-2-yl}amide
(6-(i H-indazol-6-yl)pyridazin-3-                                                     N
yl){[3,3-difluoro-1-(3-fluoro(2-                            N--   N                      411.1 B
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}amine    N                                      N           F
                                                     NN
                                         H
                                               PnlF;

[6-(2-am ino(3-pyridyl))pyridazin-3
yl]{[(3-fluoro(2-                                      NH2            F              351.1 B
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}amine             N     /   N   --
                                                               N-Ni
                                                                    N  N
[6-(6-amino-5-fluoro(3
pyridyl))pyridazin-3-yl]{[(3-                                              F
                                                 N                N-N                369.1 A
fluoro(2-                               HN              /       /        -NH N
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}amine               F
                                               H
                                      0
6-[6-({[(3-fluoro-2-
                                                                  /N
pyridyl)cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)py                                                   390.1 B
                                                                             F,,
ridazi n-3-yl]indoli n-2-one
[6-(2-aminopyrimidin-5-                      N                N-N                  F
yl)pyridazin-3-yl][(4-              H2N                                NH            337.0 B
fluorophenyl)cyclobutyl]am ine
amino-N-[4-(6-{[(4-                                                 N              F
fluorophenyl)cyclobutyl]am inolpyri        N                              NH         378.2 A
dazin-3-yl)phenyl]amide                    NH2
amino-N-{4-[6-({[3,3-difluoro-1 -(3
fluoro(2-                                                                 F
                                                                  N-N                429.0 A
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)p       HN\                /N                     F
yridazin-3-yl]phenyl}amide                 NH2
                                             0
3-(6-{[1-(4-fluorophenyl)-          H2N
                                                                                   F
isopropyl]amino}pyridazin-3-                                  N--N                   351.1 B
yl)benzamide                                                   __
                                                                                 F
3-(6-{[(2-                                      __             N-N
fluorophenyl)cyclobutyl]aminolpyri           \       /                   NH          363.2 A
dazin-3-yl)benzamide                   0
                                               NH2
                                               ?nFl

                                               0
3-(6-{[1 -(3-fluorophenyl)-         H2N                                        F
isopropyl]amino}pyridazin-3-                 /N--                     NH              351.1 B
yl)benzamide
3-(6-{[(3-                                              N-N                         F
fluorophenyl)cyclobutyl]am inolpyri      \        /               NH                  363.2 B
dazin-3-yl)benzamide
                                           NH2
                                                 0
3-{6-[(2-hydroxy-tert-               H2N
butyl)amino]pyridazin-3-                                     N-N       NH             287.1 D
yl}benzamide                                                                     OH
3-{6-[(2-
pyridylcyclobutyl)amino]pyridazin-                                    NH              346.1 D
                                                                            N
3-yl}benzamide                      H2N
                                               0
(phenylcyclobutyl)(6-                                            NH302.2
                                                       __302.2                              B
phenylpyridazin-3-yl)amine
3-{6-                                                       N-N
[(phenylcyclobutyl)amino]pyridazin                   /NH                              345.1 B
-3-yl}benzamide                     H2N
                                               0
                                                                              F
3-(6-{[(3-fluoro-2-                                        N
pyridyl)cyclobutyl]amino}pyridazin-         \       /        _N      NH    N          364.1 B
3-yl)benzamide
                                              NH2
3-(6-{[(5-fluoro-2-                                     N-N
pyridyl)cyclobutyl]amino}pyridazin-               /      __        H     N          F 364.1 B
3-yl)benzamide
                                           NHz
                                              207

4-f Iuoro-3-(6-{ [(4-
                                                              F''
flIuoroph enyl)cyclobutyl]am inolpyri                    /-~NH                                 381.1   A
dazin-3-yI)benzamide                    HN
                                                  0
[(4-f Iuorophenyl)cyclobutyl] [6-(6-        -0F
methoxy(2 -pyridyl)) pyri dazin -3-             /H                                             351.1NH
yI]amine
(6-benzimidazol-5-ylpyridazin-3
                                          HN/          \          /\4N                         360.1   A
flIuoroph enyl)cyclobutyl]am me
                                                                                             F
[(4-f Iuoroph enyl)cyclobutyl] (6-N              I/         -              --  NH
                                             HN                 ___310.1                               B
pyrazolI-4-yl pyridazin -3-yI) amin e
3-{6-[(1 ,3-th iazol1-2-                                              N-N                 N
ylcyclobutyl)am ino]pyridazi n-3-                          /H_                      N          352.2   D
yIlbenzamide
                                                  RNH2
                                                              F                            F
4-fIuoro-3-(6-{[(3-fIuoro(2-
                                                      __
pyridyl))cyc lobutyl]am inol pyridazin                               /        \     -NH
                                                                                        N
                                                                                               382.1   B
                                                                       N-N
                                                          I-
-3-yI)benzamide                            HN
                                                    0
                                                            F
4-flIuoro-3-(6-{[1 -(4-flIuoroph enyl)-                             NN
isopropyl]am inolpyridazi n-3-                                                    -NH          369.1   A
yI)benzamide                            HN
                                                  0
3-(6-{[(4-methoxy-2-__                                             NN
pyridyl)cyclobutyl]aminolpyridazin-                    /N                                      376.0   D
3-yI)benzamide                           0
                                                 NH2
                                                    2flR

[6-(3-flIuoro(4-pyridyl))pyridazi n-3-                                   FF
                      yl[(-                                            _H339.2                B
flIuoroph enyl)cyclobutyl]am me
                                                                                      F
[(4-fluorophenyl)cyclobutyl] (6-(4-      N'                              NH32.                B
pyridyl)pyridazin-3-yI)amime
                                                               N-N
fluorophenyl)cyclobutyl]aminolpyri         N                             -NH            346.2 B
                                                         ""'                      /F
dazin-3-yI)pyridine-2-carbonitrile       4
                                                                 N-N
fluorophenyl)cyclobutyl]aminolpyri           N k\-NH                                    364.2 B
                                                           ""'                     /F
dazin-3-yI)pyridine-2-carboxamide      OF
                                                NH2
fluorophenyl)cyclobutyl]aminolpyriNN
                                                         / \/                  NI       413.1 B
dazin-3-                                              __             _
yI)phenyl](methylsulfonyl)amine
[(4-fluorophenyl)cyclobutyl][6-(2-0
                                                                                      F
                                            N_               N-N
methoxy(3-pyridyl))pyridazin-3-           \                       \      NH             351.2 A
yI]amine
                                              F
[(4-fluorophenyl)cyclobutyl]{6-[2-      F+
(2,2,2-trifluoroethoxy)(3-                    N-                      NHF               419.2 B
pyridyl)]pyridazin-3-yIlamine                       /           __
chlorophenyl)cyclobutyl]aminolpyr             \                   \       H379.1              B
idazin-3-yI)benzam ide                 0
                                                NH2
                                                   Pnl9

cyanophe nyl)cyclobutyl]am inolpyr          \ /               \     NH                    370.1 D
idazin-3-yI)benzam ideN
                                             NH2
3-(6-{[(3-chloro(2-                                       Fc
                pyriyl)cyclbutl~aino~yriazin\           /       /    -      NH             9.
                                                                                   N6
-3-yI)-4-fluorobenzam ide              HN
                                                    0
[3-(6-{1[(4
flIuoroph enyl)cyclobutyl]am i nolpyri                                     NH
dazin-3-                                           "/             _41.                          A
                                           - -   H
yI)ph enyl](m ethylsulIfonyl)am ine
carbamoylphenyl)cyclobutyl]amino                    /        __        -N                 388.2 D
}pyridazin-3-yI)benzamide
[(4-fluorophenyl)cyclobutyl][6-(2-      t/         X        NNF
methyl(4-pyridyl)) pyr idazi n-3-       N'                                NH35.                 B
yI]amine
[(4-fluorophenyl)cyclobutyl][6-(2-          0bN-N                                       F
methoxy(4-pyridyl))pyridazin-3-             N"                            _ NH35.               B
yI]amine
                                                    0
3-(6-{[(6-methoxy-2-                   H2N
pyridyl)cyclobutyl]aminolpyridazin-              /-             /       \       NH        376.1 B
3-yI)benzamide
                                                    0
4-fluoro-3-(6-{[(6-methoxy(2-          H2N
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]aminolpyridazin               /-            /       \       NH        394.1 A
-3-yI)benzam ide                                          F
                                                                                      0
                                                   21in

[3-(6-{[(6-methoxy(2-                     -SNH
                                                   I   I       N-N
pyridyl))cyc lobutyl]am inol pyridazin              /-       /~       NH              426.1 B
-3-yI)phenyl](methylsulfonyl)amine
                                                                                   F
[3-(6-{ [(3-f luoro (2-
                                                               Nb
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]aminolpyridazin               P/               -- N'H             414.1 B
-3-yI)phenyl](methylsulfonyl)amine        -SNH
amino-N-[4-(6-{[(3-fluoro(2-F
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]aminolpyridazin                                    NH             379.2 B
-3-yI)phenyl]amide                            NH2
(6-(l1H-indazol-6-yI)pyridazin-3-                      _    N -N           NN
yI)[(3-fluoro(2-                                                   NH                 361.1 B
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]amine                      H                                F
(6-benzimidazol-6-ylpyridazin-3-              H                                 F
                                                 /
                                               Nj
yI)[(3-fluoro(2-                                                    H361.2                  B
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]amine                                                  N_
                                                0
                                       H2N
3-[6-({[6-(difluoromethoxy)-2-
                                                       /   \N'H?
pyridyl]cyclobutyllamino)pyridazin-               __N                     11__N       412.0 A
3-yI]benzamide                                                                0   _rF
                                                0
                                       H2N
3-[6-({[6-(difluoromethoxy)(2-
                                                       / \/\N'H
pyridyl)]cyclobutyllamino)pyridazin               ___N                                430.1 A
                                                         F
-3-yI]-4-fluorobenzam ide                                                     0,rF
                                                   211

{3-[6-({[6-(difluoromethoxy)(2-               NH                   N-N
                                                    0\NH
pyridyl)]cyclobutyl}amino)pyridazin             /              6/           -N'              462.1 A
-3-yl]phenyl}(methylsulfonyl)amine                                                     O   F
                                                                   FF
4-fluoro-3-(6-{[(4-                                      F
fluorophenyl)cyclobutyl]amino}pyri                                          NH               382.2 B
                                                                                           F
dazin-3-yl)benzoic acid              HO
                                              0
[4-fluoro-3-(6-{[(4
                                                               F
fluorophenyl)cyclobutyl]amino}pyri                                       NN
                                                                                 NHI         453.2 B
dazin-3-yl)phenyl]-N-(2-hydroxy-2-       OF
methylpropyl)carboxam ide
3-(6-{[(3-bromo(2-                                         F
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]amino}pyridazin                                            -NH
                                                                                     N
                                                                                             442.1 A
-3-yl)-4-fluorobenzamide               H2N
                                                   0
                                                           F                             C
3-(6-{[1-(3-chloro(2-pyridyl))-                            F-       N--N
isopropyl]amino}pyridazin-3-yl)-4-
                                                              / /         \     N
                                                                              -NH    N       386.1 B
fluorobenzamide                        H2N
                                                   0
                                                           C1                            F
4-chloro-3-(6-{[(3-fluoro(2-                                                             F
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]amino}pyridazin                      /NH                         N       398.1 B
-3-yl)benzamide                        H2N
                                                   0
[4-(6-{[(4
                                           N-                     N-N
fluorophenyl)cyclobutyl]aminolpyri
dazin-3-yl)(2-pyridyl)]-N-                 N--                        -                    F 3
                                     HN
methylcarboxamide                   /   T
                                                  212

(6-(1 H-indazol-5-yl)pyridazin-3-        N                         -- N           N
yl)[(3-fluoro(2-                        HN                                  NH                361.1  B
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]amine                                                               F
[6-(6-fluoro(1 H-indazol-5-              N                       N-N
                                               HNN
yl))pyridazin-3-yl][(3-fluoro(2-                                            NH                379.1  B
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]amine                                F                              F
amino-N-[4-fluoro-3-(6-{[(3-                               F                              F
fluoro(2-                                                         N    -     NH
                                                                             NH               398.1  B
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]amino}pyridazin                                                  N
                                                  NH
-3-yl)phenyl]amide                    H2N
                                                             F                              F
amino[4-fluoro-3-(6-{[(3-fluoro(2-                           F
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]amino}pyridazin                                           -NH     N       433.1  B
-3-yl)phenyl]sulfonamide             HN-S-NH
amino[3-fluoro-4-(6-{[(3-fluoro(2-                           F                              F
                                                                    N-N
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]amino}pyridazin        HN                     /            NH             433.1  B
-3-yl)phenyl]sulfonamide             H2N
amino-N-[3-fluuoro-4-(6-[(3
                                                             F                             F
fuoroN(2-                                                           N-N
                                           x 2                       \      NH                397 .1 B
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]amino}pyridazin
                                             N
                                             NH2          /N
-3-yl)phenyl]amide
4-fluoro-3-(6-{[1 -methyl-i -(6-                     F
                                                                                    H
oxo(2-
                                              /\                         NH
hydropyridyl))ethyl]amino-pyridazi
                                      0
n-3-yl)benzamide                               NH      F
                                                0
3-[6-({11-[6-(difluoromethoxy) (2-   HN                        ;
                    pyiy)-N                                                                   418.1  A
isopropyllamino)pyridazi n-3-yI]-4-F
fi uorobe nzam ide
                                                                                           F

                                              0
3-[6-({1 -[6-(difluoromethoxy)(2-   HN
pyridyl)]-                                                N-N       NH
                                                                            N               -002 B
isopropyl}amino)pyridazin-3
yl]benzamide
                                                                                   F
{3-[6-({1-[6-(difluoromethoxy)(2-       - -
                                           HH
pyridyl)]-                                                           NH       N         450.1    A
isopropyl}amino)pyridazin-3
yl]phenyl}(methylsulfonyl)amine
3-(6-{[(4-cyano(2-                                  F
                                                          /N-
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]amino}pyridazin                              NH     N               389.1    D
-3-yl)-4-fluorobenzamide            H2N
                                             0
2-({[6-(3-carbamoyl-6-                            F
fluorophenyl)pyridazin-3-                /      \     /-          N   N
                                                                                     NH 407.1    D
yl]amino}cyclobutyl)pyridine-4-     C
carboxamide                                NH2
3-(6-{[(5-cyano(2-                                  F
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]amino}pyridazin                              NH     N|              389.2    D
-3-yl)-4-fluorobenzam ideHNN
3-(6-{ [(6-cyano(2-                   HNN--N
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]amino}pyridazin                           _       NH_     N-        389.2    B
-3-yl)-4-fluorobenzam ide                             F
                                                                                 N
6-({[6-(3-carbamoyl-6-                            F
filuoroph enyl)pyridazin-3-              /      \     /-N       H
                                                                           N            407.2    D
yl]amino}cyclobutyl)pyridine-2
carboxamide                                N
                                                214

                                                              F                           OH
4-f Iuoro-3-(6-{[(3-hydroxy(2
                                                                  N -N
pyridyl))cyc lobutyl]am inol pyridazin                           /~           -NH               380.2 D
-3-yI)benzam ide                            HN
                                                     0
4-flIuoro-3-(6-{[(3-m ethoxy(2-                               F
pyridyl))cyc lobutyl]am inol pyridazin                      /                  NH               394.2 C
                                                    \     /        __                N
-3-yI)benzamide                             HN
                                                     0
                                                                                            F
3-[6-(Q[3- (difluoro methoxy) (2-                          F                           0
pyridyl)]cycl obutyll am ino) pyridazi n                                     NH430.2                  C
-3-yI]-4-fluorobe nzam ideNN
                                         HN
                                                  0
3-[6-(Q[3- (difluoro methoxy) -2-                                                      0'     F
pyridyl]cyc lobutyl Iamino) pyridaz in-                         N                               412.2 D
3-yI]benzamide
                                         HN
                                                  0
13- [6-(Q[3- (difluoro methoxy) (2-                                                     0"    F
pyridyl)]cycl obutyll am ino) pyridazi n                                   -I462.2
                                               ___S-NH
4-flI uoro-3-(6-{ [(5-rn ethoxy(2-                       F
                                                                    N-
-3-yI)benzam ide                          ,
                                                 0
3-[6-({[5-(difluoromethoxy)(2-                         F
pyridyl)]cyclobutyllamino)pyridazin                                    _N/                      430.1 D
-3-yI]-4-fluorobenzam ide
                                               NH2
                                                    2 15F

4-flIuoro-3-(6-{[(5-hydroxy(2-                            F    N-N
pyridyl))cyc lobutyl]am inol pyridazin         \                    '           N            380.1 D
                                                                                          OH
-3-yI)benzamide                        HN
                                                0
[(3-fluoro(2-pyridyl))cyclobutyl](6-              \       ~            NHN27.                      D
vinylpyridazin-3-yI)amineF
                                                           F                          F
4-f Iuoro-3-(6-{ [(3-f Iuoro(2-
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]aminolpyridazin            \ /            /             NH               364.1 B
-3-yI)benzenecarbonitrile                 /
[(3-fluoro(2-pyridyl))cyclobutyl](6-        /-                 P           N      N     .
                                                             __321.1                               B
phenylpyridazin-3-yI)amine
                                                                                    F
(6-cyclohexylpyridazin-3-y)[(3-                                                   N           327.
fluoro(2-pyridyl))cyclobutyl]amime
                                                                                    F
(6-cyclohex-1 -enylpyridazin-3-                                     NN
yI)[(3-fluoro(2-/32.                                                                               C
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]amine                                                           F
(6-cyclohex-1 -enylpyridazin-3
yI){[(3-fluoro(2-                                                          F339.2                  A
                                                                N-N
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyllamine                        /                    iH
                                                             F
4-fl uoro-3-{6-
[(methylcyclobutyl)amino]pyridazin                     \                _301.1                     D
-3-yIlbenzamide                           H2N-
                                                        0
(6-cyclohexylpyridazi n-3-yI){[(3
fi uoro (2-                                                                F341.2                  B
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyllamime                                             N\
                                                                             NH
                                                    21   F;

ethyl (2E)-3-[6-({[(3-fluoro(2-                     N-   N
                                         0                      NH
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)p                                          357.2 D
yridazin-3-yl]prop-2-enoate                                             N
ethyl (2E)-3-(6-{[(3-fluoro(2-                                        F
                                                  N-N
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]amino}pyridazin               N--N        NH            343.1 D
                                                                    N
-3-yl)prop-2-enoate                            OP
diethyl 2-[6-({[(3-fluoro-2-                        N
                                           0      N-N
pyridyl)cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)py                            NH            417.2 D
                                           0
ridazin-3-yl]propane-1 ,3-dioate               0             F
                                             0
(1S,2S)-2-[6-({[(3-fluoro(2-        HN
                                                - N-N
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)p                            NH
                                                           __342.2                D
yridazin-3-                                                 F
yl]cyclopropanecarboxamide
                                             0
(2S,1 R)-2-[6-({[(3-fluoro(2-       H2N           N
                                                  N--N
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)p                            NH
                                                                            342.2 D
yridazin-3-                                                 F
yl]cyclopropanecarboxamide
amino-N-{4-[6-({[(3-fluoro(2-                                             N
                                                                  F
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)p                     N-N                  399.3 B
yridazin-3-yl]cyclohexyl}amide        H   NHi
                                       NH2
                                         217

amino-N-{4-[6-({[(3-fluoro(2
                                                                 F
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}am ino)p                    N-N               399.2 C
                                     NHN
4-f Iuoro-3-(6-{[(3-f Iuoro(2-              F                        F
pyridyl))cyclopentyl]amino}pyridazi                         NHN          396.2 A
n-3-yl)benzamide
                                        NH,
amino-N-{3-[6-({[(3-fluoro(2-                                          N
                                                               F
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)p                   N-N                 371.2 C
yridazin-3-yl]cyclobutyl}amide         N           (
                                       NH2
amino-N-{3-[6-({[(3-fluoro(2-                                          N
                                                               F
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)p                   N-N                 371.2 B
                                                           /\   NH
yridazin-3-yl]cyclobutyl}amide       HN
                                       NH2
amino-N-{4-[6-({[(3-fluoro(2
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)p                               F
yridazin-3-yl]cyclohex-3-           HN                        N          397.2 B
enyllamide                           NHz
phenylmethyl 3-[6-({[(3-fluoro-2
pyridyl)cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)py            NNH                        448.2 D
ridazi n-3-yl]azetidinecarboxylate                                 F
                                                21       R

(6-azetidin-3-ylpyridazin-3-yl){[(3
fluoro(2-                                                           F314.2             D
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}amine         HN                          NH
                                      0                   N-N
methyl 3-[6-({[(3-fluoro-2-
                                             N         /            -NH
pyridyl)cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)py                                               372.2 D
ridazi n-3-yl]azetidinecarboxylate
                                     H2N                   N-N
3-[6-({[(3-fluoro-2-                  2       N          /               -NH
pyridyl)cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)py                                               357.2 D
                                                                               F
ridazin-3-yl]azetidinecarboxamide
                                      0                   N-N
1 -acetyl-3-[6-({[(3-fluoro(2-               N         /               -NH
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)p                                               356.2 D
                                                                        F
                                                                            ,
                                                                              C
yridazin-3-yl]azetidine
ethyl 5-[6-({[(3-fluoro-2-                       N   o          N-    N
                                                          / /         \       NH
pyridyl)cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)py
                                         o
                                                                                 398.2 D
ridazin-3-yl]isoxazole-3-                     0
carboxylate
5-[6-({[(3-fluoro-2-                          N    O        N-N
pyridyl)cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)py  HO
                                                                           N     370.2 D
ridazin-3-yl]isoxazole-3-carboxylic        0
acid
5-[6-({[(3-fluoro-2-                           N   0        N-    N
pyridyl)cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)py  H2N                      __            N
                                                                                 369.2 B
ridazin-3-yl]isoxazole-3-                  0
carboxamide
                                             219

am ino-N-{5-[6-({[(3-flIuoro(2-                   /             N-N
                                                                       N
                                         HN
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]m ethyllam ino)p      N
yridazin-3-y](1 H-indlazol-3           Z      /NNH43.
y)amidle
                                             NH2
4-[6-({[(3-fluoro(2-                                           N-N    N
                                                                      NH
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyllamino)p     o              -          _
                                                  0-1F
                                                                            382.3 D
yridazin-3-y]-l -methylim idazole-2-         NH2                          N
carboxamide
4-[6-({[(3-fluoro(2-                   o          /                -N   N
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyllamino)p   H)N                          _
yridazin-3-y]-2-                                 0                    F     408.2 B
methoxylbenzamidle
                                       0                         N-N
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyllam ino)p        HO                         F     394.1 B
yridazin-3-yI]-2-hydroxybenzam ideN
                                                  0
5-[6-({[(3-fluoro(2-                  H2N
                                                        -      N-N
                                               \   :
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyllamino)p                           /        N
                                                                      NH
                                                            \ /408.2              B
yridazin-3-y]-2
methoxylbenzamidleN
                                                  0
                                      H2N
5-[6-({[(3-fluoro(2-                                 ___       N-N
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyllamino)p     HO                 /                 394.1 A
yridazin-3-yI]-2-hydroxybenzam ide
4-[6-({[(3-fluoro(2-                              /                NN
                                                                       NH
                                                                       N
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyllamino)p   HO                          __
yridazin-3-yI]-2-methoxybenzoic                                       F0    409.2 D
acid
                                                 ??nl

                                              0
5-[6-({[(3-fluoro(2-                 HO
                                                         N-N
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}am ino)p    0                           NH
                                                                    \/409.2       D
yridazin-3-yl]-2-methoxybenzoic
                                                                 F
acid
                                         NHz
5-[6-({[(3-fluoro-2
pyridyl)cyclobutyl]methyl}am ino)py             N                 NH
                                                      N369.                     2 B
ridazin-3-yl]-1 ,3-oxazole-2-                                    F
carboxamide
4-[6-({[(3-fluoro-2-                         HN           N-   N
pyridyl)cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)py  H2N           N         --
                                                                            368.2 C
ridazi n-3-yl]imidazole-2-                0
carboxamide
                                         NH2
3-[6-({[(3-fluoro-2
                                     0                   N-N
pyridyl)cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)py                                NH
                                                  N                         369.2 A
ridazi n-3-yl]isoxazole-5-                                       F
carboxamide
                                         NH,
3-[6-({[(3-fluoro-2
                                     0                   N-N
pyridyl)cyclobutyl]methyl}am ino)py                               NH
                                            HN    N                         368.3 B
ridazi n-3-yl]pyrazole-5-                                        F
carboxamide
                                          0
3-[6-({[(3-fluoro(2
                                    H2N                   N--N
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}am ino)p                                 NH
                                               N    /                       382.3 B
yridazin-3-yl]-1 -methylpyrazole-5-                               F
carboxamide

5-[6-({[(3-fluoro(2-                                 N
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}am ino)p   0                                 NH
                                                               __
                                                                                  382.3 B
yridazin-3-yl]-1 -methylpyrazole-3-        NHF
carboxamide
2-[6-({[(3-fluoro-2-                                  N       N-   N
                                                                          NH
pyridyl)cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)py   H2N                                  N
                                                                                  369.1 B
ridazin-3-yl]-1 ,3-oxazole-5-               0                           F
carboxamide
                                           NH2
2-[6-({[(3-fluoro-2
pyridyl)cyclobutyl]methyl}am ino)py                          N-.1H      N
                                                                     __385.1            D
ridazin-3-yl]-1 ,3-thiazole-4-                                         F
carboxamide
                                                                              F
1-[(6-{[(3-fluoro-2-
                                                         N-  N
pyridyl)cyclobutyl]am ino}pyridazin-         N ---NNH
                                                                           N-     368.1 D
3-yl)methyl]pyrazole-4
carboxamide
                                        H2N        0
5-[6-({[(3-fluoro-2-                             N    0       N-   N
                                                       /    /             NH
pyridyl)cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)py   H2N           N                      N
                                                                                  370.2 B
ridazi n-3-yl]-1 ,2,4-oxadiazole-3-         0                           F
carboxamide
2-[6-({[(3-fluoro-2-                                  N       N-N         NH
pyridyl)cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)py   H2N              N                   N
                                                      H
                                                                                  370.3 D
ridazin-3-yl]-2-imidazoline-5-              0
carboxamide
methyl 2-[6-({[(3-fluoro-2-                          N       N-N
pyridyl)cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)py    0              N                  N5
                                                     H                            385.3 D
ridazin-3-yl]-2-imidazoline-5-             0                                    N
carboxylate

2-[6-({[(3-fluoro-2-                            N N-   N
pyridyl)cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)py   HO         N           N
                                                H
                                                                      371.3      D
ridazi n-3-yl]-2-imidazoline-5-           0                         N
carboxylic acid
                                         NHz
2-[6-({[(3-fluoro-2
pyridyl)cyclobutyl]m ethyl}am ino)py                          N369          2DNH
                                                    __                369.2      D
ridazin-3-yl]-1,3-oxazole-4-                              F
carboxamide
2-[6-({[(3-fluoro-2-                            N  N-  N
pyridyl)cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)py   H2N                    N
                                                                      385.2      A
ridazin-3-yl]-1,3-thiazole-5-             0
carboxamide
methyl 2-[6-({[(3-fluoro-2
                                      0-       N\ N-N      N
pyridyl)cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)py                         NH
                                               o                      384.2      D
ridazin-3-yl]-1,3-oxazole-4-                              F
carboxylate
{[(3-fluoro(2
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}{6-[6-                               F
({[(3-fluoro(2-                           HN                     NH   515.4      D
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}am ino)p          F
yridazin-3-yl]pyridazin-3-yl}amine
methyl 2-[6-({[(3-fluoro-2
                                      0-       N\ N-N      N
pyridyl)cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)py                         N0
                                                   s400.2                        D
ridazin-3-yl]-1,3-thiazole-4-                             F
carboxylate

methyl 2-[6-({[(3-fluoro-2-                   N       N-N
pyridyl)cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)py                      _      N
                                                                       384.2  D
ridazin-3-yl]-1,3-oxazole-5-           0                      F
carboxylate
                                       NHz
2-[6-({[(3-fluoro-2
pyridyl)cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)py  0                          NH        682
                                              N
                                              H
                                                                \   _] 368.2  B
ridazin-3-yl]imidazole-4-                                     F
carboxamide
                                       0~~
methyl 2-[6-({[(3-fluoro-2
                                         0    N\      N-N      N
pyridyl)cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)py                             NH
                                              N                        383.3  D
ridazin-3-yl]imidazole-4-                     HF
carboxylate
4-[6-({[(3-fluoro-2-                                   N- N
                                                           /\   NH
pyridyl)cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)py H2N                           FN
                                                                N.
                                                                       385.2  B
ridazin-3-yl]-1,3-thiazole-2-           0
carboxamide
                                       NHz
5-[6-({[(3-fluoro-2
pyridyl)cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)py         N                   NH
                                                            __385          .2 B
ridazin-3-yl]-1,3-thiazole-2-                                 F
carboxamide
                                       NH2
3-[6-({[(3-fluoro-2
                                         0    N       N-N
pyridyl)cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)py                   /N        NH
                                                 0--                   370.1  B
ridazin-3-yl]-1,2,4-oxadiazole-5-                             F
carboxamide
                                          224

5-[6-({[(3-fluoro-2-                                 N    N-   N
pyridyl)cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)py   H2N             N                               C
ridazin-3-yl]-4H-1 ,2,4-triazole-3-         0
carboxamide
methyl 2-[6-({[(3-fluoro(2
                                             o      N   N-N        N
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)p                                 N9
                                                          N397.3                     D
yridazin-3-yl]-1 -methylimidazole-4
carboxylate
                                            0
2-[6-({[(3-fluoro(2
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)p   H2NNH
yridazin-3-yl]-1 -methylimidazole-4-                               F
carboxamide
2-[6-({[(3-fluoro(2-                                N    N-   N
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)p                  NN
                                                                               382.3 B
yridazin-3-yl]-1 -methylimidazole-5-       NH2                               N
carboxamide
2-(6-{[(3-fluoro-2
                                               0                       N
pyridyl)cyclobutyl]amino}pyridazin-                              NH            371.2 B
                                                  N    N-N
3-yl)-1,3-thiazole-5-carboxamide                                           F
5-(6-{[(3-fluoro(2-                  HO                              N   N
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]amino}pyridazin                    N-N                     380.1 B
-3-yl)-2-hydroxybenzamide                     NH2
                                           NH,
5-[6-({[(3-fluoro-2
                                      0             S    N-N
pyridyl)cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)py                                 NH
                                                                               384.1 A
ridazin-3-yl]thiophene-2-                                         F
carboxamide
                                             2 25

                                               NH2
[6-(3-amino(l H-indazol-5
                                                               N-N                 NN
yI))pyridazin-3-yI][(3-fluoro(2-       H~       /N::                          NH      376.2 B
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]amine
5-[6-({ [(3-f Iuoro-2-                  .1
pyridyl)cyclobutyl]methyllam ino)py                                    ~        NH
                                                          N_                          386.1 B
ridazi n-3-y]-1 ,3,4-thiadiazole-2-F
carboxamide
{[(3-fluoro(2
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}(6-(1,3-                                      F342.1             B
thiazol-2-yI)pyridazin-3-yI)amine             CN                           H
(6-(2H-1 ,2,3,4-tetraazol-5
yI)pyridazin-3-yI){[(3-fluoro(2-                                          F327.2            D
                                                        N    N-N
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyllamine                IN /-              \       NiH
                                                 N
    5-6([(3-f Iuoro-2-,4
                                                                       N
pyridyl)cyclobutyl]methyllam ino)py                            /                NH
                                                          N_
                                                                                      370.2 C
ridazin-3-y]-1 ,3,4-oxadiazole-2-F
carboxamide
2-[6-({[(3-fluoro(2-                                  N           N-N
                                                             \/        \        NH
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyllamino)p      0             S              _
                                                                                      399.2 B
yridazi n-3-yI]-4-m ethyl- 1 ,3-               NH2                             F
thiazole-5-carboxamide
fluorophenyl)cyclobutyl]aminolpyri                 N\           -NH                    7.
dazin-3-y)-1 ,3-thiazole-5-          0             sF
carboxamide                                NH2

2-[6-({[(3-fluoro-2-                                  N       N-    N
pyridyl)cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)py     HO                                 N
                                                                                        386.2 C
ridazin-3-yl]-1 ,3-thiazole-5-                                          F
carboxylic acid
5-(6-{[(3-fluoro-2-                          0                                6
pyridyl)cyclobutyl]amino}pyridazin-  H2N                                NH\N        F   370.1 B
3-yl)thiophene-2-carboxamide
5-(6-{[(4
                                          0
fluorophenyl)cyclobutyl]aminolpyri
                                    HN369.1                                                   B
dazin-3-yl)thiophene-2-                                               NH
                                                                          9F
carboxamide
5-(6-{[(3-fluoro-2-                          0                                      F
pyridyl)cyclobutyl]amino}pyridazin-  HO                    /      \     NH    N         371.1 D
                                                        /N                H
3-yl)thiophene-2-carboxylic acid
2-[6-({[(3-fluoro-2-                                N        N-   N
pyridyl)cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)py                  SN
                                                                             F367.1           B
ridazin-3-yl]-1,3-thiazole-5
carbonitrile
                                              OH
5-[6-({[(3-fluoro-2
                                               0S            N--N
pyridyl)cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)py                                       NH
                                                                                        385.0 B
ridazin-3-yl]thiophene-2-carboxylic                                     F
acid
2-[6-({[(3-fluoro(2-                        HO       N       N-    N
                                                   I     - /             NH
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)p                                       N
                                                                                        401.1 B
yridazin-3-yl]-4-hydroxy-1,3-                 NH,                                     N
thiazole-5-carboxamide
                                                227

5-[6-({[(3-fluoro-2-                            N          N         N--N
                                           HN               \     /              NH
pyridyl)cyclobutyl]methyl}am ino)py         HN
                                                                                            398.3 D
ridazin-3-yl]-3-pyrazolino[3,4-                                                F
d]1,3-thiazol-3-one
2-[6-({1-[6-(difluoromethoxy)(2
pyridyl)]-                             H-N                                  NH
                                                                   _                 N      407.1 B
isopropyl}amino)pyridazin-3-yl]-                                                          F
1,3-thiazole-5-carboxamide
{2-[6-({[(3-fluoro-2-                                       N        N-   N
pyridyl)cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)py         HO                                    NH
                                                                                            372.2 B
ridazin-3-yl]-1,3-thiazol-5-                                                    FN
yl}methan-1 -ol
[6-(5-(2H-1,2,3,4-tetraazol-5
yl)(1,3-thiazol-2-yl))pyridazin-3-       HN                                       F    N
                                                                                            410.2 B
yl]{[(3-fluoro(2-                             N               S        N           N
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}amine                              N
5-{2-[6-({[(3-fluoro-2
pyridyl)cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)py                 N                                F    N
                                                   0F                                       426.2 B
ridazin-3-yl]-1,3-thiazol-5-yl}-1,3,4-     0N                                               4
oxadiazolin-2-one                                               N
                                                      0
ethyl 3-[6-({[(3-fluoro(2
                                             HO
                                                                  N-N
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)p
                                                  HN     /                     H413.1             D
yridazin-3-yl]-5-hydroxypyrazole-                     N N            _        N
                                                                            F
4-carboxylate
3-[6-({[(3-fluoro-2-                          0                              NH
                                                 HN'
pyridyl)cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)py                      H                                   341.1 B
ridazin-3-yl]-3-pyrazolin-5-one

3-{2-[6-({[(3-flIuoro-2-                                   N          N-N
pyridyl)cyclobutyl] methyllam ino)py          H_                                  N
                       a o --   l-124   0ilz                                    F--l-13t    425.2 A
                                              H
triazolin-5-one
3-{2-[6-({[(3-flIuoro-2-                                   N          N-N
pyridyl)cyclobutyl] methyl am ino)py          H_                                  N
                                        0O=(F                                               426.2 B
oxadiazolin-5-one
ethyl 2-[6-({[(3-fluoro(2-                        HO       N          N-N
                                                                                  NH
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyllamino)pS43.                    C
                                                                                                  D
yridazin-3-yI]-4-hydroxy-1,3-                       0
th iazole-5-carboxylate
2-(6-{[2-(3-fluoro(2-pyridyl))-2
                                                                           F
methylpropyl]aminolpyridazin-3-                        N\        N-N         NH373.2              A
                                                                             5
                                                                             N_
yI)-l,3-thiazole-5-carboxamide
                                                NH,
2-[6-({[(3-fluoro(2-                           0       N          N-N
                                                      I      - /       \     NH
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyllamino)p                                 __S
                                                                                            415.1 A
yridazin-3-yI]-4-methoxy-1,3-                   NH2
thiazole-5-carboxamide
2-[6-({[(3-fluoro(2-                           0       N          N-N
                                                              \ /        ~   NH
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyllamino)pS
                                                                                            416.2 C
yridazin-3-yI]-4-methoxy-1,3-                   OH
thiazole-5-carboxylic acid
1-{2-[6-({[(3-fluoro-2-                                N\        N-N        N
                                                                       /N\
pyridyl)cyclobutyl]methyllam ino)py                    S             _
                                                                                   F386.2         B
ridazi n-3-yI]-1 ,3-thiazol-5-yIlethan-        OH                          F              N
1-al                                                                                   -

2,2,2-trifluoro-1 -{2-[6-({[(3
                                                 F       N      -   N
fluoro(2-                             F     F                                N
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)p      F                                            440.2 B
                                              OHF
yridazin-3-yl](1,3-thiazol-5
yl)}ethan-1 -ol
{2-[6-({[(3-fluoro(2-                                  N        N-    N
                                                           \/                NH
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)p       HN
                                                                                     427.3 B
yridazin-3-yl](1,3-thiazol-5-yl)}-N-          0                                    N
(methylethyl)carboxamide
ethyl 2-[6-({[(3-fluoro-2
pyridyl)cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)py      o            N       N-N
ridazin-3-yl]-1,3-thiazole-4-                                 -            N4
                                                                         F_,
carboxylate                                                              F       N
                                          0
2-[6-({[(3-fluoro-2-                                        N-N
pyridyl)cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)py      HN                                 NH
                                                                                     396.1 B
ridazin-3-yl]-3-pyrrolino[3,4-d]1,3-                                     F
thiazol-6-one
1-{2-[6-({[(3-fluoro-2-                             N       N-     N
pyridyl)cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)py                                        N             4
                                                                                     384.2 C
ridazin-3-yl]-1,3-thiazol-5-yl}ethan-       0                                   N
1-one
2-{2-[6-({[(3-fluoro-2-                             N       N-N
                                                                         NH
pyridyl)cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)py                  S        _           N
                                                                                     400.3 C
ridazin-3-yl]-1,3-thiazol-5-                  OH                        FN
yl}propan-2-ol
                                              P2q n

1,1,1 -trifluoro-2-{2-[6-({[(3
fluoro(2-                             F       F         N
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)p                                                      454.2 C
                                                OH                           F
yridazin-3-yl](1 ,3-thiazol-5
yl)}propan-2-ol
{2-[6-({[(3-fluoro(2-                                   N           N- N
                                                   HN
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)p      N                                      NH
                                                                                        399.3 A
yridazin-3-yl](1 ,3-thiazol-5-yl)}-N-         0                                       N
methylcarboxamide
3-(6-{[(2-                                      __              N-N
                                                      \   /              NH
pyridylcyclobutyl)methyl]amino}pyr           \      /                    NH       N     342.1 B
idazin-3-yl)benzenecarbonitrile
                                               N
3-(6-{methyl[(2-                                                             N
pyridylcyclobutyl)methyl]amino}pyr    H2N                                               374.2 D
idazin-3-yl)benzam ide                                                              N
                                        N
6-[6-({[(3-fluoro-2-                            __N             N-N
pyridyl)cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)py
                                            x
                                               N
                                                     /        /          NH36.
                                                                                        362.1 B
                                                                                              B
ridazi n-3-yl]pyrazine-2-carbonitrile
                                                            ON
                                                 0
6-[6-({[(3-fluoro-2-                  H2N
pyridyl)cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)py                                           NH H
ridazi n-3-yl]pyrazine-2
carboxamide
2-[6-({[(3-fluoro(2-                      HO                      N-N
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)p                                          N
                                                                                        383.1 D
yridazin-3-yl]-4-hydroxy-1,3-                                             F         N
thiazole-5-carbonitrile
                                                231

pyridylcyclobutyl)methyl]amino}pyr                 N     N      NH                A
idazin-3-yl)-1 ,3-thiazole-5-           0          S         -          N
carboxamide                                 NH2
pyridylcyclobutyl)methyl]amino}pyr                 N                H       368.1 C
idazin-3-yl)-1 ,3-thiazole-5-           0                               N
carboxylic acid                             OH
                                        0
3-{5-[6-({[(3-fluoro-2-                      NH
pyridyl)cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)py      NN
                                                                            424.1 A
ridazin-3-yl]-2-thienyl}-1,2,4
triazolin-5-one
                                          0      H
                                                 N     N--N
3-[6-({[(3-fluoro-2-                                         \   NH
pyridyl)cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)py                                          342.2 C
ridazin-3-yl]-1,2,4-triazolin-5-one
amino{2-[6-({[(3-fluoro(2-                         N     N-N
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}am ino)p     s__
                                                                            401.2 A
yridazin-3-yl](1,3-thiazol-5-               NH2                         N
yl)}methane-1 -thione
2,2,2-trifluoro-1 -{2-[6-({[(3
fluoro(2-                              F     F                       NH
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)p                                          456.2 B
                                       HO      O
yridazin-3-yl](1,3-thiazol-5
yl)}ethane-1,1 -diol
{[(3-fluoro(2
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}{6-[5
                                        F                           F     N 424.2 B
(2,2,2-trifluoroethyl)(1,3-thiazol-2-                S      N-    N
                                      y iF d                         NH
yI)]pyridazin-3-yIlamineN                                    __

5-[6-({[(3-fluoro-2-
                                                                          N
pyridyl)cyclobutyl] methyllam ino)py                     /       /              NH
                                                                            __366.2                B
ridazi n-3-yI]th iophene-2-F
carbonitrile
2-[6-({ [(3-f Iuoro-2-
                                            0                       N-N
pyridyl)cyclobutyl]methyllamino)py      HN               /        /             NH
                                                                            __396.2                B
ridazi n-3-yI]thiopheno[2,3-c]3-F
pyrrolin-6-one
16-[5-(l -amino-2,2,2
trifluoroethyl)(1 ,3-thiazol-2-          F         H                                      -N
                                                                N'F439.2                           B
yI)]pyridazin-3-y}{[(3-fluoro(2-                            s        N-N
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyllamimeN                                     __
[6-(2-am inopyrimidi n-4
yI)pyridazin-3-yI]{[(3-fluoro(2-           H2N                              F352.3                 B
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyllamine                                 N-          NH
                                                                             N''N
2-{5-[6-({[(3-fluoro-2-               0                       N    N
                                                                                  NH
pyridyl)cyclobutyl]methyllamino)py      H2N           N    N           _
                                                                                             384.3 D
ridazin-3-y]-1 ,2,3,4-tetraazol-2-F
yIjacetamide                                                                             0
{6-[2-(2-aminoethyl)(1 ,2,3,4-
                                                                                           '
tetraazol-5-y)]pyridazin-3-y}{[(3-                                                F
fi uoro (2-                                            N -            N-N           NH03
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyllamine     HN ...............
                                               "~    ._,
[6-(3-(2H-1 ,2,3,4-tetraazol-5-N
                                                                              F
yI)phenyl)pyridazin-3-y]{[(3-                                       N-N          Ni            0.
fi uoro (2
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyllamime          N
                                           N ''N/
                                              H
                                                  233~

phenylmethyl 2-{[6-({[(3-fluoro-2
pyridyl)cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)py
                                                    NH     N--N                        450.1 D
ridazin-3-                                               /       \      NH
                                                   0
yl]carbonylaminolacetate
3-{3-[6-({[(3-fluoro-2-                            __          N-N
                                                                   /  \
pyridyl)cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)py                                           N1/.3_
                                                                                       418.3 B
ridazin-3-yl]phenyl}-1,2,4-triazolin-     N                                F        N
5-one                                        H
                                                       F
3-{4-fluoro-3-[6-({[(3-fluoro(2-                       F       N-N
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)p                                           NH
                                                                 --                    436.3 A
yridazin-3-yl]phenyl}-1,2,4-             HN                                F
                                                                                    NN
                                                 N
triazolin-5-one                              N
                                             H
{6-[5-(aminomethyl)(1,3-thiazol-2
yl)]pyridazin-3-yl}{[(3-fluoro(2-                                       F              371.3 B
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}amine      HN                                   NH
N-((2-(6-((1-(3-fluoropyridin-2
yl)cyclobutyl)methylamino)pyridazi                                            F
                                                                                       475.3 B
n-3-yl)thiazol-5-yl)methyl)-2-             H                                    N
methylpropane-2-sulfinamide
{6-[5-(aminoethyl)(1,3-thiazol-2
yl)]pyridazin-3-yl}{[(3-fluoro(2-                                       F              385.3 B
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}amine      H                    /N
{6-[5-(3-aminooxetan-3-yl)(1,3
thiazol-2-yl)]pyridazin-3-yl}{[(3-
                                                                         F
                                                NH2                      F N413.2            D
fuoro(2-                              0              s        N-     N
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}amine                     N         -
                                              ?.q4

                                                   0
2-[6-({[(3-fluoro-2-                    HN
                                                       -N      N-N
pyridyl)cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)py
                                                             /        N        380.3    A
ridazin-3-yl]pyrimidine-4
                                                                    F
carboxamide
{2-[6-({[(3-fluoro(2-                HO
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)p           HN\                          N          2H
                                                                    __429.2             A
yridazin-3-yl](1,3-thiazol-5-yl)}-N-                                     F
(2-hydroxyethyl)carboxamide
ethyl 5-chloro-2-[5-chloro-6-({[(3
fluoro(2
                                                            /N -N
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)p          C                        NH        482.2    D
yridazin-3-yl]-1,3-thiazole-4-                                      F
carboxylate
N-{4-[6-({[(3-fluoro-2-                              __        N-N
pyridyl)cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)py                   N          _     N
                                              _NH                   F39            .
ridazin-3-yl]pyrimidin-2-                                                   N
yl}acetamide
{4-[6-({[(3-fluoro(2-                                  __       N-N
                                                 N\                     NH
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)p         O          N
                                           11_
                                      _______NHF
                                                                               430.3    D
yridazin-3-yl]pyrimidin-2-                        NH                  F      N
yl}(methylsulfonyl)amine
(2E)-3-am ino-3-{2-[6-({[(3
fluoro(2-                                                 N    N-N    N
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)p                                             409.1    B
                                                                            N
yridazin-3-yl](1,3-thiazol-5-yl)}-2-
azaprop-2-enenitrile
                                                 225~

N-({2-[6-({[(3-fluoro-2-                                 N            N-N
                                                                \ /         ~NH
pyridyl)cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)py                       s                       N
                                                                                    F413.3            A
ridazin-3-yl]-1 ,3-thiazol-5-            0                                                  N
yl}methyl)acetam ide
({2-[6-({[(3-fI uoro(2-                                  N           N-N
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}am ino)p                      3                       N
                                                                               F           N  449.2   B
yridazin-3-yl](1 ,3-thiazol-5-
yl)}methyl)(methylsulfonyl)amine
N-({2-[6-({[(3-fluoro(2-                                     N         N-N
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methylam ino)p                                                            429.2   B
yridazin-3-yl](1,3-thiazol-5-               o
yl)}methyl)methoxycarboxam ide
2,2-difluoro-1 -{2-[6-({[(3-fluoro(2-                  N          N-N
                                                                          /   NH
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)p      F                                     N                     .
                                      F                                                       422.2   B
yridazin-3-yl](1,3-thiazol-5-                   OH
yl)}ethan-1 -ol
                                                  0
N-(carbamoylmethyl)[6-({[(3-
                                        H2N          NH          N-N
fluoro(2-                                                      /        \    NH               359.1
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)p                                                            441.3
yridazin-3-yl]carboxamide
2-[6-({[(3-fluoro(2-                                       N          N-N
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)p           N                         __         N
                                                                                              455.3   C
yridazin-3-yl](1,3-thiazol-5-yl)                   0                            F           N
morpholin-4-yl ketone
N-(2-aminoethyl){2-[6-({[(3-            H2N
fluoro(2-                                            N           N-N
                                                           S                 N
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)p      HN                                                    428.4   A
yridazin-3-yl](1,3-thiazol-5-                 0
yl)}carboxamide

N-(2,3-di hydroxypropyl){2-[6-({[(3
fi uoro (2-                                                    \           7         NlK
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]m ethyllamn ino)p HO0                                                       459.3 A
yridazi n-3-y](1 ,3-th iazol -5
yI)}carboxamide
{2-[6-({ [(3-f Iluoro (2
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]m ethyllamn ino)p                              /              N\
                                                                                  NH
                                               HN                                               454.3 A
yridazin-3-y](1 ,3-thiazol-5-ylI)-N-           0
pyrroIid in-3-ylcarboxa mide
2-{2-[6-({[(3-fluoro-2-                              _N                N-N
                                                   o      \          /\NH
pyridyl)cyclobutyl]methyllam ino)py                                      _
                                       H2N                                                      399.3 B
ridazin-3-y]-1 ,3-thiazol-5-N
yIjacetamide
{[(3-fluoro(2
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}[6-(5-         /N~                                   F
                                                     H XF408.3                                        A
pyrazol-4-y(1 ,3-thiazol-2-                              S         '         NH
                                                              /         __H
yI))pyridazin-3-yI]amineN                                              __
{[(3-fluoro(2-
                                           H
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}[6-(5-          NN                                  F'            ~N
                                                                                     F408.3
                                                                                                      A
pyrazol-3-y(1 ,3-thiazol-2-                            S           N-N
                                                             / /             -NiH
yI))pyridazin-3-yI]amineN                                             __
4-[6-({[(3-fluoro-2-                              __               N-N
                                                      /
                                                      N\         /         ~   NH
pyridyl)cyclobutyl]methyllam ino)py                                ___
                                                       H~                     F380.3                  D
ridazin-3-yI]pyrimidine-2-                 2-F                                              N
carboxamide
6-[6-({[(3-fluoro-2-                              __N              N-N
                                                       N                       N
                                                                               NH
pyridyl)cyclobutyl]methyllamino)pyN\/                                _
                                                       H~                     F380.3                  B
ridazin-3-yI]pyrimidine-4-                 2F
                                                            0N
carboxamide
                                               ?.q7

                                                    N
                                                HN~
[6-({[(3-fluoro(2
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}am ino)p            HN          N-N
                                                                                           B
                                                      -( /            NH36.          368.1 B
yridazin-3-yl]-N-pyrazol-5-
ylcarboxamide
N-(carbamoylmethyl){2-[6-({[(3
fluoro(2-                              H\N                                     N
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)p   o                                               442.3 A
                                                     O                        F
yridazin-3-yl](1 ,3-thiazol-5
yl)}carboxamide
4-({2-[6-({[(3-f Iuoro-2
pyridyl)cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)py         HN                  sj               NH
                                            . __N
ridazin-3-yl]-1,3-thiazol-5-                                                   F     497.3 B
yl}carbonyl)piperazine-2
carboxamide
[6-(5-chloro(1 ,3-thiazolino[5,4-      CI      N         S        N-   N
                                                                            NH
b]pyridin-2-yl))pyridazin-3-yl]{[(3-                                        N
                                                                                     427.1 C
fluoro(2
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}am ine
{[(3-fluoro(2-                               N                 N-N
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}(6-(1,3-                                       N
                                                                                     393.1 B
thiazoli no[5,4-b]pyridin-2-                                                       N
yl)pyridazin-3-yl)am ine
[6-(5-amino(1,3-thiazolino[5,4-        H2N               S         N-   N
b]pyridin-2-yl))pyridazin-3-yl]{[(3-                                         N
                                                                                     408.1 B
fluoro(2-                                                                   FN
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}am ine

                                                       F
                                                             N-N
amino{4-fluoro-3-[6-({[(3-fluoro(2-             _    /        -         NH
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)p                                                  447.2 A
yridazin-3-yl]phenyl}sulfonamide               s                      F           N
                                             :'   NH,
2-[6-({[(3-fluoro(2-                  HO
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}am ino)p          N                     _           NH
                                                                                    455.3 C
yridazin-3-yl](1,3-thiazol-5-yl) 3-                                          F
hydroxypyrrolidinyl ketone
4-({2-[6-({[(3-fluoro-2
                                         0                  N      N-N
pyridyl)cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)py                          N                   N
                                                 N                  _
ridazin-3-yl]-1,3-thiazol-5-                                                        503.3 B
                                                      0F
yl}carbonyl)-1,4
thiazaperhydroine-1,1 -dione
N-(1,1 -dioxothiolan-3-yl){2-[6-({[(3
fluoro(2-                                                                       N
                                                       N   S
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)p                                                  503.3 A
yridazin-3-yl](1,3-thiazol-5-         O    \
yl)}carboxamide
{2-[6-({[(3-fluoro(2
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)p    0s                   \     /         N
yridazin-3-yl](1,3-thiazol-5-yl)}-N-                                                491.2 A
[2
(methylsulfonyl)ethyl]carboxamide
                                        HO
2-[6-({[(3-fluoro(2-                    HO               N       N- N
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)p           NNH
                                                    N    S                          469.3 C
yridazin-3-yl](1,3-thiazol-5-yl) 3-                                          F
hydroxypiperidyl ketone

{[(3-fluoro(2
pyridyl))cyc lobutyl]meth yl}(6-                                        F
                                                                             F382.1            A
                                              H
pyrazolo[5,4-d] 1,3-th iazol1-5-           /N            N       N-N
                                          N               \    /    \    NH
ylpyridazin-3-yI)amine                                            _
2-[6-({ [(3-f luoro (2-              HON
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]m ethyllam ino)p                 N_
                                                                                         469.3 C
yridazin-3-y](1 ,3-thiazol-5-y) 4-                        0
hydroxypi per idyl ketone
4-({2-[6-({ [(3-f Iuoro-2-                                              N
pyridyl)cyclobutyl]methyllamino)py    )       ,46.
ridazin-3-y]-1 ,3-thiazol-5-                                                           N
yIlcarbonyl)piperazin-2-one
{2-[6-({ [(3-f luoro (2
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyllamino)p                                  /        NH
                                              0             S'                           469.3 B
yridazin-3-y](1 ,3-thiazol-5-ylI)-N-                    H
(oxolan-2-ylmethyl)carboxamide
1-({2-[6-({[(3-fluoro-2-              2          0
pyridyl)cyclobutyl]methyllamino)pyN                                  NN
ridazin-3-y]-1 ,3-thiazol-5-            6          N                                     496.3 C
yIlcarbonyl)piperidine-3-                               0F,                         Z"
carboxamide
[6-(3-(2H-1 ,2,3,4-tetraazol-5-N
yI)phenyl)pyridazin-3-y][2-(3-                                   N-N      N5               9.
fluoro(2-pyridyl))-2-__
methyipropyllamine                         N
                                            N ''NX
                                                H
                                                   ?4nl

     2-6([(3-f Iuoro-2-
                                                                        N
pyridyl)cyclobutyl] methyllam ino)py                         /              NH
                                                                                136.1 D
ridaz i n-3-yI]1 3-t hiazolIi no[5,4-F
b] pyr idine -5-ca rbox am ide
{[(3-fluoro(2
                                                ooN                  NN
pyr idyl)) cyclIobutyl ]methyl}[6 -(5 -                                    N
                                                                           NI
methoxy(l ,3-thiazoIi no[5,4 -                                                  423.1 D
b] pyridin -2-y))pyr idaz in-3
yI]amine
2-[6-({[(3-fluoro-2-                      HO0      N              NS
                                                           N              N
pyridyl)cyclobutyl]methyllamino)py                                _
                                                                                409.1 B
ridazi n-3-yI]-1,3-thiazoli no[5,4
b]pyridin-5-oI
N-((2R)-2,3-dihydroxypropyl){2-[6
({[(3-fluoro(2-                                 o                    /\NN
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyllamino)p      HO459.3                                       B
yridazin-3-y](1 ,3-thiazol-5
yI)}carboxamide
N-((2S)-2,3-dihydroxypropyl){2-[6
({[(3-fluoro(2-                                 OH             N
                                                         N     S_
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyllamino)p      HO                                      459.3 A
                                                       o
yridazin-3-y](1 ,3-thiazol-5
yI)}carboxamide
N-(2-amino-3,3,3
trifluoropropyl){2-[6-({[(3-fluoro(2-   F        FN                     \    NH
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyllamino)p      HN496.3                                       B
yridazin-3-y](1 ,3-thiazol-5
yI)}carboxamide
                                                   241

N-(3-am ino-2,2-diflIuoropropyl){2
[6-({[(3-fluoro(2-                    FH;                                        I
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]m ethyllam ino)p   F                                      F478.3           A
                                                             CN
yridazi n-3-y](1 ,3-th iazol -5
yI)}carboxamide
{2-[6-({[(3-fluoro(2-                                  N         N-N
                                                     __\                    N\
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyllam ino)p         N                               NH           414.
     ydai-3-y](1 ,3-thiazol-5-y)}-0F
N,N-dimethylcarboxamide
N-(2,2-difi uo ro-3
hydroxypropyl){2-[6-({[(3-f luoro(2 -                              -K           N
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyllam ino)p    F                                       F479.3          A
                                                     0
yridazin-3-y](1 ,3-thiazol-5
yI)}carboxamide
     1 [6I[(3-f luoro (2-N                                           N N
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyllami"'up              N
                                                                                         46.s
yridazin-3-y](1 ,3-thiazol-5-ylI)-N-                             N                     N
(2-oxopyrrolidin-3-yI)carboxam ide
                                                           N -NFF
3-[6-({[3-fluoro-1 -(3-fluoro(2-               \ /NH
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyllamino)p      0=396.3                                                A
yridazin-3-yI]benzamide                         NH2
4-fluoro-3-[6-({[3-fluoro-1 -(3-                       F_    N-N                      F
fi uoro (2-                                          /     /             NH
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyllamino)p     H2N                             F      ~           1.
                                                 0
yridazin-3-yI]benzamide
2-amino-N-({2-[6-({[(3-fluoro(2-                          N\         N
                                           H2                                  N
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyllam ino)p             N_
                                                                                         428.1 A
yridazin-3-y](1 ,3-thiazol-5-                 0
yI)}methyl) acetam ide
                                                 242

((2 S)pyrroIid in-2-y) -N-(12- [6-({[(3
fi uoro (2-                                           0     _           1-N
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]m ethyllam ino)p                           SA
yridazi n-3-y](1 ,3-th iazol -5
ylImethyl)carboxam ide
((2 R)pyrrolidin-2-y)-N-({2-[6-({[(3
fi uoro (2-                                           0        N        N     N  A
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyllam ino)p                II:     'S468.2                       A
yridazin-3-y](1 ,3-thiazol-5
yI)}methyl)carboxam ide
{[(3-fluoro(2-                                          N          N-N
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]m ethyl} (6-(3-__
                                                                                   383.1 D
pyrrol ino[3,4-d] 1 ,3-thiazol-2-N
yI)pyridazi n-3-yI)am me
2-[6-({[(3-fluoro(2-                        0              N          N-N
                                            II -Na
                                                 S                -NH
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]m ethyllam ino)p        IIS
                                                         0461.1                          D
yridazi n-3-yI]-5-(methylsu Ifonyl) -3
pyrrol ino[3,4-d] 1 3-th iazole
N-({2-[6-({[(3-flIuoro (2-                                  N          N-N
                                        HO                   \       /          NH
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]m ethyllam "'i           V   H
                                                                       __p42.
yridazi n-3-y](1 ,3-th iazol -5-              0
yI)}methyl) -2-hydroxyacetam ide
2-[({2-[6-({[(3-flIuoro-2-                                     N        N-N
pyridyl)cyclobutyl] methyllam ino)py    HN)          NJ        s                   4281_
ridazin-3-y]- 1 ,3-th iazol -5-N
yI methyl) am ino]acetam ide
                                                   24q

((2S)-5-oxopyrrolidi n-2-yl)-N-({2
[6-({[(3-fluoro(2-
                                                                  NH
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}am ino)p                                    482.1 A
yridazin-3-yl](1 ,3-thiazol-5
yl)}methyl)carboxam ide
N-({2-[6-({[(3-fluoro(2
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}am ino)p HONH
yridazin-3-yl](1 ,3-thiazol-5-                                 F       457.1 A
                                           0                         N
yl)}methyl)-2-hydroxy-2
methylpropanamide
N-((3S)pyrrolidin-3-yl){2-[6-({[(3
fluoro(2-                                          \            N
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}am ino)p                                    454.3 A
                                          No
yridazin-3-yl](1 ,3-thiazol-5-       H
yl)}carboxamide
N-((3R)pyrrolidin-3-yl){2-[6-({[(3
fluoro(2-                                                       N
                                            Ns
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)p                            F        454.3 A
                                     N,
yridazin-3-yl](1 ,3-thiazol-5-       H
yl)}carboxamide
2-[2-(6-{[1 -(3-fluoro(2-pyridyl))-                       F
isopropyl]amino}pyridazin-3-yl)-                     N-N    /          373.2 D
1,3-thiazol-5-yl]acetamide              0             ---
                                        o      NH2
((3S)morpholin-3-yl)-N-({2-[6-({[(3
                                     0
fluoro(2-
                                                                 N
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}am ino)p           HN                       484.3 A
yridazin-3-yl](1 ,3-thiazol-5
yl)}methyl)carboxam ide
                                             244

N-({2-[6-({[(3-flIuoro (2
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]m ethyllam ino)p   N-NH              \   /    NH
yridazi n-3-y](1 ,3-th iazol -5-                                       465.3 A
yI)}methyl) pyrazol1-5
ylcarboxamide
N-({2-[6-({[(3-flIuoro (2
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]m ethyllam ino)p C                             l
yridazi n-3-y](1 ,3-th iazol -5-        N                        F45.3       A
                                                    oF
yI)}methyl) im idazol -2
ylcarboxamide
N-({2-[6-({[(3-flIuoro (2
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]m ethyllam ino)p  NUN                         NH
yridazi n-3-y](1 ,3-th iazol -5-                                       465.3 A
yI)}methyl) pyrazol1-4
ylcarboxamide
((4S)-2-oxoi midazol idi n-4-y)-N
({2-[6-({[(3-flIuoro(2-                                   NN       NH
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]m ethyllam ino)p        HF                         483.3 A
yridazi n-3-y](1 ,3-th iazol -5
yI)}methyl)carboxam ide
((3S)-6-oxo(3-piperidyl))-N-({2-[6-                  \NH
                                                    S
({[(3-fluoro(2
                                                NH             F
                                            0
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]m ethyllam ino)p                                   496.3 A
yridazi n-3-y](1 ,3-th iazol -5-          Q
yI)}methyl)carboxam ide
                                              0
                                                245

2H-1 ,2,3-triazol-4-yl-N-({2-[6-({[(3
fluoro(2-                             HN                       N     N   H
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)p                                     F     466.3 A
                                                           0N
yridazin-3-yl](1 ,3-thiazol-5
yl)}methyl)carboxam ide
(2S)-2-am ino-N-({2-[6-({[(3
fluo ro (2 -                                       N         NH         NH
                                                 N           s   _
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)p    H2N                              F     458.3 A
                                             O
yridazin-3-yl](1 ,3-thiazol-5
yl)}methyl)-3-hydroxypropanamide
(2R)-2-amino-N-({2-[6-({[(3
fluoro(2-                                   OH     N                    NH
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)p    H2N"                             F     458.3 A
                                             O
yridazin-3-yl](1 ,3-thiazol-5
yl)}methyl)-3-hydroxypropanam ide
((2S)-4-acetylpiperazin-2-yl)-N-                         \          NH
                                                       S
({2-[6-({[(3-fluoro (2
                                               NH                  F       '
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}am ino)p                                          525.3 A
yridazin-3-yl](1 ,3-thiazol-5-           H
                                                N
yl)}methyl)carboxam ide
                                                     0
[(2S)-4-(methylsulfonyl)piperazin-                      \           NH
                                                       S
2-yl]-N-({2-[6-({[(3-fluoro(2
                                               NHF
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}am ino)p                                          562.3 A
yridazin-3-yl](1 ,3-thiazol-5-           HN           0
                                                N!
yl)}methyl)carboxamide
                                                   0
                                               24R

((3S)morpholin-3-yl)-N-({2-[6-({[(3-               N       N-N
fluoro(2-                                          S
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}am ino)p     0      NH                  F         N    484.2 A
yridazin-3-yl](1 ,3-thiazol-5-          HN
yl)}methyl)carboxam ide
1H-1,2,4-triazol-5-yl-N-({2-[6-({[(3
fluoro(2-                            N     N                              NH
pyridyl))cyclobutylmethylamino)p         H                                        466.2 A
                                               oN
yridazin-3-yl](1,3-thiazol-5
yl)}methyl)carboxamide
                                                            N-N
((2R)-6-oxo(2-piperidyl))-N-({2-[6-                  N
({[(3-fluoro(2-
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)p       0      NH                   F         N  495.2 A
yridazin-3-yl](1,3-thiazol-5-            H
yl)}methyl)carboxamide                 0
N-({2-[6-({[(3-fluoro(2
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)p   N/NH                                 NH
yridazin-3-yl](1,3-thiazol-5-                                           F         465.2 A
yl)}methyl)imidazol-5
ylcarboxamide
2-amino-N-({2-[6-({[(3-fluoro(2-                       N       N-N
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)p                                       N
                                                                                  456.2 A
yridazin-3-yl](1,3-thiazol-5-        HN                                F        N
yl)}methyl)-2-methylpropanamide
(2S)-2-amino-N-({2-[6-({[(3
fluoro(2-                                                \                 H
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)p   H2N                                          442.2 A
                                             0
yridazin-3-yl](1,3-thiazol-5
yl)}methyl)propanamide
                                               247

N-({2-[6-({[(3-flIuoro (2
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]m ethyllam ino)p   "0NO
                                              -HN
yridazi n-3-y](1 ,3-th iazol -5-         N                                             F481.2       A
                                                       0                                      N
yI)}methyl) (2-hydroxyi midazol-5
yI)carboxamide
(2S)-2-am ino-N-({2-[6-({[(3
fi uoro (2-                                 HON                               N
                                                                      NNNli
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]m ethyllam iflo)p                   N           s       _
                                                           H~N486.3                                 A
yridazi n-3-y](1 ,3-th iazol -5-F
yI)}methyl) -3-hyd roxy-3
methylbutanamide
(2R)-2-am ino- N-(12- [6- (1[(3
fi uoro (2-                                                                             l
                                                       N            s       _
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]m ethyllam ino)p   H~"442.2                                                     A
                                                    0
yridazi n-3-y](1 ,3-th iazol -5
yI)}methyl)propanam ide
((3 R)-1 ,1-dioxo(1 ,                                         N
thiazaperhydroin-3-y))-N-({2-[6-                                                  N I\
                                                              S
({[(3-fluoro(2-                                                                 F
                                                                                                 3.
                                                0     NH                 ~
                                                                                                53. A
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyllam ino)pN
                                           HN
yridazin-3-y](1 ,3-thiazol-5-I
                                                         0
yI)} methyl)carboxam ide0
((2S)-4,4-diflIuoropyrrol id in-2-y)-N
({2-[6-({[(3-fluoro(2-
                                       F-t
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]m ethyllam ino)p          H504.2                                                A
yridazi n-3-y](1 ,3-th iazol -5
yI)}methyl)carboxamide
                                                      24R

tert-butyl (2S)-4,4-difluoro-2-[N
({2-[6-({ [(3-f luoro (2-                F                        _N     N-N
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyllamino)p                     N
yridazin-3-y](1 ,3-thiazol-5-F60.                                                                B
yI)} methyl)carbamoyl]pyrrolIidi neca
rboxylate
((2S)-4,4-difluoro-1
formylpyrrolidin-2-y)-N-({2-[6-            FN                                N
   ({(-fluoro(2-                                                    >
                          (1(3tN                        N532.1
                                                                                                 A
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyllamino)p          I        o
yridazin-3-y](1 ,3-thiazol-5
yI)}methyl)carboxam ide
((2 R,4R)-4-f Iuoropyrrolidin-2-yI)-N
({2-[6-({[(3-fluoro(2-                                             N    N       NH
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyllamino)p        No486.1                                                A
yridazin-3-y](1 ,3-thiazol-5
yI)}methyl)carboxam ide
N-({2-[6-({[(3-fluoro(2-                                        N     N        NH
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyllam      "'uJp           N            s
                                                                                           441.3 A
yridazin-3-y](1 ,3-thiazol-5-                  0
yI)}methyl)-2-methylpropanam ide
4-f luoro-3-(6-{[1 -(3-f luoro(2-0
pyridyl))-                                2NN                         N      H             3702
isopropyl]aminolpyridazin-3
yI)benzamide                                               F                          F
amino-N-({2-[6-({[(3-f luoro(2-                                N      N        NH
                                                  H                               ~N
                                                                                    F414.1       A
yridazin-3-y](1 ,3-thiazol-5-0
yI)}methyl)amide

((3S)-1 ,1-dioxo(1 ,4-NN
th iazaperh ydroin -3-y))-N- (12- [6-                     '    /      \       NH
                                                       S
({[(3-fluoro(2-                               N
                                       O      N                                       532.3 A
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]m ethyllam ino)p
                                      HN
yridazi n-3-y](1 ,3-th iazol -5-                S
yI)}methyl)carboxam ide0
N-({2-[6-({[3-fIuoro-1 -(3-fIuoro(2-                    N\        N-N        NHF
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyllamino)p         N_
                                                                                    - 431.3 B
                                                                            F
yridazin-3-y]-1 ,3-thiazol-5-            0
yI methyl) acetamn ide
N-({2-[6-({[3-fluoro-1 -(3-fluoro(2-                    N\        N-N        NHF
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyllamino)p         N_
                                                   ,-(431.2                                 B
yridazin-3-y]-1 ,3-thiazol-5-            0
yI methyl) acetamn ide
((2S)pyrrolidin-2-y)-N-{[2-(6-{[2
(3-f Iuoro(2-pyridyl))-2-                                                         N
                                                 N
methylpropyl]aminolpyridazin-3                                                   F    456.3 B
yI)(l ,3-thiazol-5-I
yI)]methyllcarboxam ide
                                            0
2-(6-{[1 -(3-chloro(2-pyridyl))-       2             S         N-N
isopropyl]aminolpyridazin-3-y)-                                            NH
                                                                           NH         37.
1,3-thiazole-5-carboxamide
                                                              FC
4-fluoro-3-[6-({[3-fluoro-1 -(3-__                            N-F
fi uoro (2-                                         /       /             NH
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyllamino)p    HN                                F       ~      1.
                                              0
yridazin-3-yI]benzamide
                                              PFrfl

                                                 F
4-fluoro-3-[6-({[3-fluoro-1 -(3-                 F
fluoro(2-                                                          N       F
                                                                                 396.3 B
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)p                                F
yridazin-3-yl]benzenecarbonitrile
                                                   OH
3-[6-({[3-fluoro-1 -(3-fluoro(2-                          N-N                F
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)p                                               412.3 B
                                     HN                             F
yridazin-3-yl]-4-hydroxybenzamide    H
                                                   F
4-fluoro-3-[6-({[3-fluoro-1 -(3-                   F      N-N
fluoro(2
                                                                                 415.3 A
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)p   HO
yridazin-3-yl]benzoic acid
3-(6-{[2-(3-chloro(2-pyridyl))-2-                                          N
methylpropyl]amino}pyridazin-3-                              N-N                 382.2 A
                                                    \/                  NH
yl)benzamide                                                  ---
                                        H2N
                                               0
3-(6-{[2-(3-chloro(2-pyridyl))-2-                     F               CIN
methylpropyl]amino}pyridazin-3-                              N-N                 400.3 A
                                                    \      /            NH
yl)-4-fluorobenzamide                                         ---
                                        H2N
                                               0
N-((2R)-2,3-dihydroxypropyl){4
                                                        F
fluoro-3-[6-({[3-fluoro-1 -(3-                                                 F
fluoro(2-                              OH                                        488.3 A
                                                  HN                     F
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)p HO       N
yridazin-3-yl]phenyl}carboxamide
                                             25~1

N-((3 R)pyrrol id in-3-yI){4-flIuoro-3-            __          N-N                 F
[6-({[3-fluoro-1 -(3-fluoro(2-                   \N /4/3.3NH
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyllam ino)p        HN                            F
yridazin-3-yI]phenyllcarboxam ide       N
                                        H
N-((3S)pyrrolidin-3-y){4-fluoro-3-                 __          N-N                 F
[6-({[3-fluoro-1 -(3-fluoro(2-                        /B            \     N          48.
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyllam ino)p        HI
                                                   NN
                                        H
[6-(3-(2H-1 ,2,3,4-tetraazol-5-N
yI)phenyl)pyridazin-3-y]{[3-fluoro-                        N -N
                                                        // \ \        NH421.1              A
1-(3-fluoro(2-___F
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyllamime        N
                                         N N/
                                           H
3-(6-{[2-(3-chloro(2-pyridyl))-2-C,                                       O
methylpropyl]aminolpyridazin-3-                             NN364.2                        B
yI)benzenecarbonitrile                        \ /        /       ~    N
3-(6-{[2-(3-chloro(2-pyridyl))-2-F
                                                                        iN
methylpropyl]aminolpyridazin-3-                            N-N                       382.2 B
yI)-4-fluorobenzenecarbonitrile               \ /        /       ~    N
2-[6-({[(3-fluoro-2-                              _N\         N-N        N
                                                                    /N\
pyridyl)cyclobutyl]methyllamino)py                              __
ridazin-3-y]-1 ,3-thiazole-5-           HNF                                   'k'N   421.2 B
sulfonamide
                                               25?2

(aminocyclopropyl)-N-({2-[6-({[(3
fluoro(2-                                                            N
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)p     HN                          F              454.2 A
yridazin-3-yl](1 ,3-thiazol-5-                       NH2
yl)}methyl)carboxam ide
(N-{1 -[N-({2-[6-({[(3-fluoro(2
                                                   N       N-N
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)p                                   NH
yridazin-3-yl](1,3-thiazol-5-          HN          O               F
                                                                                N 614.1 A
yl)}methyl)carbamoyl]-                               NH
isopropyl}carbamoyloxy)ethyl 2
methylpropanoate
                                                          N -NFF
3-[6-({[3-fluoro-1-(3-fluoro(2-           \NH
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)p  0                                             397.2 A
                                                                          N
yridazin-3-yl]benzoic acid                 OH
                                                                              F
3-(6-{[(3-fluoro-1 -(2
pyridyl)cyclobutyl)methyl]amino}py                                   NH           379.3 A
ridazin-3-yl)benzoic acid          HO
                                            0
                                                                              F
3-(6-{[(3-fluoro-1 -(2
                                                 _         N--N
pyridyl)cyclobutyl)methyl]aminolpy                                   NH           379.3 B
ridazin-3-yl)benzoic acid          HO
                                            0
                                              -_         N-N                F
3-[6-({[3-fluoro-1-(3-fluoro(2-                                   N         F
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)p                                                378.2 B
                                                                 F      N
yridazin-3-yI]benzenecarbonitri le   N
                                            252R

N-((2S)-2,3-dihydroxypropyl){4
fluoro-3-[6-({[3-fluoro-1 -(3-                         -N-                     NH       F
fluoro(2-                               OH                          ---                   488.3 A
                                          C   HN                              F
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)p   HO              0
yridazin-3-yl]phenyl}carboxamide
methyl 4-fluoro-3-[6-({[3-fluoro-1 -                         N-N                      F
(3-fluoro(2-                                                               NH
                                                                                          429.3 B
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)p    \                                  F
yridazin-3-yl]benzoate
{4-fluoro-3-[6-({[3-fluoro-1 -(3-                       F
                                                             N-N                      F
fluoro(2-                                        ---                   N    H
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)p                                                        428.3 A
yridazin-3-yl]phenyl}-N-                        0                                 N
methylcarboxamide
{4-fluoro-3-[6-({[3-fluoro-1 -(3-                          F
                                                                N-N                     F
f luo ro (2 -                                        -           N  - -N      NH
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)p                                                        456.3 A
                                          HN _F
yridazin-3-yl]phenyl}-N-                                                    F
(methylethyl)carboxamide
methyl 3-[6-({[3-fluoro-1 -(3-                    -          N-    N                  F
fluoro(2-                                                                  NH
                                                                                          411.3 B
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)p           0F
yridazin-3-yl]benzoate
methylethyl 4-fluoro-3-[6-({[3-                            F
fluoro-1-(3-fluoro(2-                                                         NH
                                                                 ---                      457.3 B
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)p          0Fo
                                                  O                                 N
yridazin-3-yl]benzoate
                                                ?5~4

6-[6-({[(3-fluoro-2-                        S        N             N-N
                                                         -      /             NH
pyridyl)cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)py              N    /I
                                                                                              424.1 A
ridazin-3-yl]imidazo[2,1 -b]1,3-   H2N                                       F
thiazoline-3-carboxamide
6-[6-({[(3-fluoro-2-                        S        N            N-N
                                                        -       /             NH
pyridyl)cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)py              N    /
                                                                                              425.1 A
ridazin-3-yl]imidazo[2,1 -b]1,3-    HO
                                                        0N
                                                                                          N
thiazoline-3-carboxylic acid
6-[6-({[3-fluoro-1 -(3-fluoro(2-         S        N            N-NF
                                                                     /\     NH
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)p            N   /                                                  A
                                                                                       -      442.1 A
yridazin-3-yl]imidazo[2,1-b]1,3-           NH2
thiazoline-3-carboxamide
N-({2-[6-({[(3-fluoro(2
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)p                                N      N-N
                                                            H                      NH
yridazin-3-yl](1,3-thiazol-5-                       N                              NH
                                            NH                                    F           560.2 A
yl)}methyl){3-                                                                              /
[benzylamino]oxetan-3
yl}carboxamide
                                                           N -NFF
3-[6-({[3-fluoro-1-(3-fluoro(2-                            N--          NH
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)p   0                                                        432.2 B
                                     H2N
yridazin-3-yl]benzenesulfonamide
{5-[6-({[3-fluoro-1 -(3-fluoro(2-                             N-N                          F
                                          H/                              N
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)p  HN                                    NH
                                                                         F
                                                                                 N
                                                                                 -C
                                                                                              486.3 A
yridazin-3-yl](1 H-indazol-3-      O       NH                                          N
yl)}(methylsulfonyl)amine
{[3-fluoro-1 -(3-fluoro(2
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}{6-[3-                                       F             NNH
                                    N-                                                        422.3 A
(methylamino)(1 H-indazol-5-
                                                                    N     N
yl)]pyridazin-3-yl}amine                                                                  F
                                             255F

{6-[3-(ethylamino)(1 H-indazol-5
                                       -      NH
yl)]pyridazin-3-yl}{[3-fluoro-1 -(3-                                       F
                                                                                    -       434.3 A
fluoro(2-                                                     N-N            N
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}amine                                                          F
[6-(3-amino(1 H-indazol-5
yl))pyridazin-3-yl]{[3-fluoro-1 -(3-            NH2
                                                                                    F       408.3 A
fluoro(2-                                                    N     N        N
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}amine                                                         F
ethyl 2-fluoro-5-[6-({[3-fluoro-1 -(3-           O
                                         0
fluoro(2-                                                    N--N                       F
                                         F                                 NH               4433
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)p                                           \
yridazin-3-yl]benzoate                                                   F            N
                                                  0
2-fluoro-5-[6-({[3-fluoro-1 -(3-       HO
                                                             N -NFF
fluoro(2-                                 F                  N--N           NH           F
                                                    \      /                                415.3 B
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)p
                                                                          F
yridazin-3-yl]benzoic acid
                                                          F
                                                                  N-   N
2-{4-fluoro-3-[6-({[(3-fluoro(2-
                                                                                 NH
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)p         0                                                410.1 B
                                                                               F
yridazin-3-yl]phenyl}acetamide          H2N
                                                        FN
methyl 2-{4-fluoro-3-[6-({[(3-                          F        N-N
fluo ro (2 -                                /         /         /25.N            N
                                                             '~      /                      425.1 B
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)p
yridazin-3-yl]phenyl}acetate

 N-({4-fluoro-3-[6-({[3-fluoro-1 -(3-               F
                                                          N-N                  F
fluoro(2-
                                                       fi    u 2- \ /NH
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)p                         --                    442.4 B
                                        HN -                         F
yridazin-3
yl]phenyl}methyl)acetamide
 N-({3-[6-({[3-fluoro-1 -(3-fluoro(2-                     N-    N              F
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)p      HN
                                                                      N          424.3 B
yridazin-3-                                                                N
yl]phenyl}methyl)acetamide
{2-fluoro-5-[6-({[3-fluoro-1 -(3-     N
fluoro(2-                                             N-N                    F
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)p                                               428.3
yridazin-3-yl]phenyl}-N-                                                 N
 methylcarboxamide
                                                0
 N-ethyl{2-fluoro-5-[6-({[3-fluoro-1-    N
                                                          N-N                  F
 (3-fluoro(2-                            F        /    /\             NH
                                                                                 442.3 C
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)p
                                                                     F
yridazin-3-yl]phenyl}carboxamide
 methyl 5-[6-({[3-fluoro-1-(3-               0
                                      0
fluoro(2-                                      __     N--N                   F
                                             HN                    NH
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)p    N                   __/\440.3                    B
yridazin-3-yl]-2-                                                 F      N
 (methylamino)benzoate
                                             0
ethyl 5-[6-({[3-fluoro-1-(3-fluoro(2
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)p                    N-N                    F
yridazin-3-yl]-2-                                       ---
 (methylamino)benzoate                                                   N
                                             25 7

                                                               N -N                           F
{3-[6-({[3-fluoro-1 -(3-fluoro(2-                \ /NH
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyllam ino)p      HOS                                F          -383.2         B
yridazin-3-yI]phenyllmethan-1 -ol
2-[2-(6-{[2-(3-chloro(2-pyridyl))-2
                                                                               CIl
methylpropyl]aminolpyridazin-3-                                     N   N
                                                                                                403.2 B
                                                           N
yI)-l ,3-thiazol-5-yI]acetamide                                                    N1
2-amino-N-{[2-(6-{[2-(3-chloro(2
pyridyl))-2
methylpropyl]aminolpyridazin-3-                              N         NN460.1                        A
     y)l,-thiazol-5-yI)]methyl}-2-                           s            ->
methyipropanam ide0
((2S)azetidin-2-y)-N-({2-[6-({[(3
fi uoro (2-                          N                               -        \        N
                                                     N        S
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyllamino)p   'N                                                         454.1 A
                                                         0F
yridazin-3-y](1 ,3-thiazol-5
ylImethyl)carboxam ide
ethyl 2-{2-[6-({[(3-fluoro-2-
pyridyl)cyclobutyl]methyllam ino)py                                                   NH        42.
ridazin-3-y]-1 ,3-thiazol-4-                                                         F
yIjacetate
2-{2-[6-({[(3-fluoro-2-                  0)-"CN                 N-N
                                                                                   N
pyridyl)cyclobutyl]methyllamino)py         HN
                                                                                                399.2 D
ridazin-3-y]-1 ,3-thiazol-4-F
yIjacetamide
6-(6-{[1 -(3-chloro(2-pyridyl))
                                               S        N         N-N
isopropyl]aminolpyridazin-3-                             /      /~             NH
                                                                               N
                                                                           __414.1                    B
yI)imidazo[2,1 -bli ,3-thiazoline-3-   0
                                                 NH2
carboxamide
                                                  p2r;R

6-(6-{[2-(3-chloro(2-pyridyl))-2
                                                                      CIN
methylpropyl]ami no}pyridazin-3
                                            S       N        N-N                      428.1  A
yl)imidazo[2,1 -b]1,3-thiazoline-3-                                     N             428.1H
carboxamide
                                              NH2
6-({[(3-fluoro-2-                                                  NH
pyridyl)cyclobutyl]methyl}am ino)py                                                   302.2  D
ridazi ne-3-carboxamide
2-{2-[6-({[(3-fluoro(2-                            N        N-N
                                                   \      /       \     NH
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}am ino)p                S_
                                                                                      409.1  D
yridazin-3-yl](1 ,3-thiazol-5-yl)}-2-                                 F         N
methylpropanenitrile
2-{2-[6-({[(3-fluoro(2-                             N        N--N
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)p    OSN
                                                                                      427.1  D
yridazin-3-yl](1,3-thiazol-5-yl)}-2-                                              N
methylpropanamide                                                              -1
3-{2-[6-({[(3-f Iuoro-2-                              N          N-N
pyridyl)cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)py                      S                              4 3
                                                                                      413.1  B
ridazi n-3-yl]-1 ,3-thiazol-5-          NH2                                         N
yl}propanamide
3-{2-[6-({[(3-f Iuoro-2-                              N          N-N
pyridyl)cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)py                    SN
                                                                                      414.1  B
ridazin-3-yl]-1,3-thiazol-5-            OH
yl}propanoic acid
methyl 3-{2-[6-({[(3-fluoro-2-                        N          N-N
pyridyl)cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)py                      S      /2           NH
                                                                                      428.1  B
ridazin-3-yl]-1,3-thiazol-5-            0                                 F         N
yl}propanoate
                                              25 q

                                           HO          N-N
6-({[(3-fluoro-2-                          H                  \       NH
                                            0
pyridyl)cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)py                                                        303.2 D
ridazine-3-carboxylic acid
[6-({[(3-fluoro(2-                       -NH             N-N
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)p                  -(  /  __
                                                                        NH
                                                                                          316.2 D
yridazin-3-yl]-N-                                                                  N
methylcarboxamide
[6-({[(3-fluoro(2-                        -N             N-N
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)p                                      NH
                                              O
                                                                                          330.3 D
yridazin-3-yl]-N,N-                                                   F
dimethylcarboxamide
2-amino-N-({2-[6-({[(3-fluoro(2
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)p                       >               \       NH
yridazin-3-yl](1,3-thiazol-5-                                                             470.2 A
                                               H~N
yl)}methyl)-2-methyl-N
methylpropanamide
2-{2-[6-({[3-fluoro-1 -(3-fluoro(2-                N            N-  N                   F
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)p                                          N              4 7
                                                 o                                  -     417.1 B
yridazin-3-yl]-1,3-thiazol-5-                                              FN
yl}acetamide
2-{2-[6-({[3-fluoro-1 -(3-fluoro(2-                N            N-  N                   F
                                      HO        ~             /~            N
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)p                               __
                                                                                          418.1 B
yridazin-3-yl]-1,3-thiazol-5-                                                         N
yl}acetic acid
2-[2-(6-{[1-(3-chloro(2-pyridyl))-                   N           N-   N
isopropyl]amino}pyridazin-3-yl)-                                              NH          389.1 D
                                    H1N
1,3-thiazol-5-yI]acetamide                                                            C
                                            2RFl

(3-aminooxetan-3-y)-N-({2-[6
({[(3-fluoro(2-                                                                       N
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]m ethyllam ino) p                                                                470.1   A
yridazi n-3-y](1 ,3-th iazol -5-         HzN:       0
yI)}methyl)carboxam ide
{3-[6-({[(3-flIuoro (2-                                __            N-N
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]m ethyllam ino)p                        /B            \       N                  39.
yr idaz in-3- yI]phenyl}-N-                   HT
methylcarboxamide
                                                              F
14-flIu oro-3-[6 -(1[(3 -fIu oro (2-_NN
pyr idyl)) cyclIobutyl]meth yl amino) p                     /      /      \       N
                           yriazi-3-I~henl}--H                                  F410.3                       A
                                                     0
methylcarboxamide
N-(Q{5-[6-(1[ (3-fIu oro-2
                                             0   NN
pyrid yl)cycIo butyl ]met hyl amino) py                                               NH33
ridaz in-3 -y]1,,3-thiazol1-2-F
yI methyl) acetamn ide
N-(Q4- [6-(1[(3 -fIu oro-2-                                              N
pyr idyl) cycIobutyl]met hyl Iamino) py           N             N        _133_
ridaz in-3 -y]1,,3-thiazol1-2-                0
yI methyl) acetamn ide
2-{2-[6-({[1 -(3-chloro(2-pyridyl))-3-                     N         N-N                           F
fluorocyclobutyl]methyllam ino)pyri                                   _
                                                         o                               -433.2              B
dazin-3-y]- 1,3-thiazol-5-                                                     CI              N
yIjacetamide
{3-[6-({[3-fluoro-1 -(3-fluoro(2-                   __            N-N                            F
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyllamino)p                        /
                                            H
                                                                                                     410.1NH
yridazin-3-yI]phenyl}-N-                                                                    NN
methylcarboxamide

2-{2-[6-({[(3-chloro-2-                                N        N-N
pyridyl)cyclobutyl]methyl}am ino)py                               __
                                       H2N                                         415.3 A
ridazin-3-yl]-1 ,3-thiazol-5-                                                    N
yl}acetamide
2-{2-[6-({[(3-f Iuoro-2-                               N       N-N
                                                                             NH
pyridyl)cyclobutyl]methyl}am ino)py                              __
                                       HO                                          400.3 B
ridazin-3-yl]-1 ,3-thiazol-5-yl}acetic                                     F
acid
2-{2-[6-({[(3-fI uoro(2-                              N        N-    N
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}am ino)p        HN         SB
                                                                                   413.3 B
yridazin-3-yl](1,3-thiazol-5-yl)}-N
methylacetamide
2-{2-[6-({[(3-fluoro(2-                               N        N--N
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)p          N7        SB
                                                    o                              427.3 B
yridazin-3-yl](1,3-thiazol-5-yl)}-                                              N
N,N-dimethylacetamide
[6-({[(3-fluoro(2
                                               HN        N-N
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)p
                                                                                   369.2 B
yridazin-3-yl]-N-isoxazol-3-
ylcarboxamide
                                                NZ"
[6-({[(3-fluoro(2
                                               HN        N-N
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)p                                                       D
                                                  ./         \       NH36.         369.2 D
yridazin-3-yl]-N-(1,3-oxazol-2-
yl)carboxamide

[6-({[(3-fluoro(2
pyridyl))cyc lobutyl]meth yllam ino) p     HN         N-N
                                                                            A
yridazi n-3-y]-N-(l ,3-th iazol -2-38.
yI)carboxamide
[6-({[(3-fluoro(2
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyllam ino)p        HN         N-N
                                                          / \ NH      386.2 B
yridazin-3-y]-N-(1,3,4-thiadiazol
2-yI)carboxam ide
[6-({[(3-fluoro(2-                                N
pyridyl))cyc lobutyl]meth yllam ino) p     HN         N-N
                                                      /   \   NH36.         C
yridazin-3-yI]-N-imidazol-2-36.
ylcarboxamide
N-(12- [6- (1[(3 -fIuo ro(2
pyridyl))cyc lobutyl]meth yllam ino) p NH\    \                     N
yridazi n-3-y] (1,3-th iazol1-5-                                      470.3 A
yI)}methyl)-2-methyl-2
(methylamino)propanamide
[6-({ [(3-f luoro (2-
                                             P
pyridyl))cyc lobutyl]meth yllam ino) p     HN         N-N
                                                                      382.1 C
yridazi n-3-yI]-N-(l -methylpyrazol             -   /  -_
                                                          \   NH
3-yI)carboxam ideF

                                                 NN
N-(1 H-1,2,4-triazol-5-yl)[6-({[(3-                      NH
                                                            N-  N
fluoro(2-                                    HN
                                                      -   /      \         NH                369.3 D
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)p
yridazin-3-yl]carboxamide
                                            H
N-(4-cyanoimidazol-5-yl)[6-({[(3-        N            NH          N--N
fluoro(2-                             N                                  \      NH
                                                                    o393.3                         C
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)p             N                               F
yridazin-3-yl]carboxamide
                                            H
N-(4-cyanopyrazol-5-yl)[6-({[(3-      N         N
                                                /     NH          N-N
fluoro(2-                                                                       NHN\
                                                                             __393.3               B
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}am ino)p            N
yridazin-3-yl]carboxamide
ethyl 4-{[6-({[(3-fluoro(2-                      N             NN'N
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)p                      N        H                    NH
                                                      0_                                     454.3 D
yridazin-3-yl]carbonylamino}-1-                                                      F     N
methylimidazole-2-carboxyl ate
ethyl 2-{[6-({[(3-fluoro-2
                                         0N
pyridyl)cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)py  "                       NH         N-N
                                                0441.3                                             D
ridazin-3-yl]carbonylamino}-1,3
oxazole-4-carboxyl ate
N-((3S)-2-oxopyrrolidin-3-yl)[6-                 -''IINH           N-    N
({[(3 -flu o ro (2 -                    HN      O                                NH
                                              0        0                                     385.3 D
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)p                                              F
yridazin-3-yl]carboxamide                                                                N
                                              PR4

N-((3 R)-2-oxopyrrol idin-3-yI) [6-                -IH N           N1-N
({[(3-fluoro(2-                                                               NIH
                                                 0    0                                      385.3 D
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]m ethyllam ino)p
yridazi n-3-yI]carboxa mide
N-ethyl{4-fluoro-3-[6-({[3-fluoro-1 -                     F
                                                                   N-NF
(3-f luoro (2-                                 \                              N_
                                                                          __442.3                  B
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyllamino)p         H
                                                     HN                      F          N
yridazin-3-yI]phenyllcarboxam ide
N-(2-fluoroethyl){4-fluoro-3-[6-({[3-                       F
fluoro-1 -(3-fluoro(2-                             \- /N                                      46.F
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyllamino)p                                            F   -F
yridazin-3-yI]phenyllcarboxamide      F
N-(2,2-difluoroethyl){4-fluoro-3-[6-                        F
({[3-fluoro-1 -(3-fluoro(2-                      \ /                /          N
                                                                            __     -         478.3 B
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methylam ino)p
                                      F.
                                                                              Fr
yridazin-3-yI]phenyllcarboxamide      Fp
{4-fluoro-3-[6-({[3-fluoro-1 -(3
fi uoro (2-                                                          (-NH                  F
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyllam ino)p                                                          496.3 B
                                         F   HN                                F    --
yridazin-3-yI]phenyl}-N-(2,2,2-       F                                                  N
trifluoroethyl)carboxamide
{4-fluoro-3-[6-({[3-fluoro-1 -(3-                       F
fi uoro (2-                                                  (/, N-NF
                                                                           NH
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyllamino)p      \~~/442.3                                                  B
yridazin-3-yI]phenyl}-N,N-              /                                             N
dimethylcarboxam ide
                                              PRF;

                                                       OH
3-[6-({[(3-fluoro(2
                                                                N-N
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}am ino)p                  /                            N              95.NH
                                                                             __                395.2   C
yridazin-3-yl]-4-hydroxybenzoic          O                                      F
                                               OHN
acid
2-{[6-({[(3-fluoro-2-                              NH2
pyridyl)cyclobutyl]methyl}am ino)py
ridazin-3-                                                    /                  NH            413.3   D
yl]carbonylam inolcyclopentanecar                                             F
boxamide
[6-({[(3-fluoro(2-                                      NH           N-    N
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}am ino)p                                   _N_
                                                                                               399.3   D
yridazin-3-yl]-N-[(5-oxopyrrolidi n-                                                         N
2-yl)methyl]carboxam ide
                                                0
[6-({[(3-fluoro(2-
                                                      NH          N-     N
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}am ino)p                             /             \   NH
                                                                                               399.3   D
yridazin-3-yl]-N-(2-oxo(3
piperidyl))carboxamide
4-{[6-({[(3-fluoro(2-                        N             NH           N-N
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)p   HN           N                                    NH
                                                0_                                             425.3   D
yridazin-3-yl]carbonylamino}-1-                                                      F
methylimidazole-2-carboxamide
                                           0
2-{[6-({[(3-fluoro-2-                H2N          N
                                                                        N-N              HNH
pyridyl)cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)py
ridazin-3-yl]carbonylamino}-1,3
oxazole-4-carboxamide
                                              ?2RR

                                                       OH
{3-[6-({[(3-f luoro (2
                                                               N-N
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)p                 /        /             NH
                                                                 --                 408.3 B
yridazin-3-yl]-4-hydroxyphenyl}-N-   HN                                 F
                                        /0                                        N
methylcarboxamide
                                                     OH
3-[6-({[(3-fluoro(2-                                        N-     N
                                                                        NH
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)p                                                  394.3 B
yridazin-3-yl]-4-hydroxybenzam ide          NH2                       F       -N
5-{[6-({[(3-fluoro-2-                           NH2
pyridyl)cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)py               NH          N-N
ridazin-3-                                                /                         411.3 C
yl]carbonylamino}pyrazole-4
                                                                                 N
carboxamide
5-[6-({[(3-fluoro(2-                         N                N-    N
                                                            /             NH
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)p
                                                                                    391.1 D
yridazin-3-yl]-2-methoxypyridine-                                       F         N
3-carbonitrile
5-[6-({[(3-fluoro(2-                         N                N-    N
                                                            /             NH
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)p                             __
                                                      0                 F           409.2 C
yridazin-3-yl]-2-methoxypyridine-            NH2                        F         N
3-carboxamide                                                                -H
5-[6-({[(3-fluoro(2-                       HN               N-     N
                                     O           \        /        \    NH
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}am ino)p
                                                     0                F             396.1 D
yridazi n -3-yl]-2-oxohydropyridine- "      OHF                                  N
3-carboxylic acid                           OH
5-[6-({[(3-fluoro(2-                       HN               N-     N
                                     0           \        /        \    NH
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)p
                                                                                    395.1 C
yridazin-3-yl]-2-oxohydropyridine-    "     3aom
                                                                      F           N
                                            NH2
3-carboxamide
                                           PR7

[6-({[(3-fluoro(2-                                 0          N-    N
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}am ino)p               HN        /                NH
                                                                                   F382.3           D
yridazin-3-yl]-N-(pyrazol-5-                 HN                                           N
                                             N
ylmethyl)carboxamide                         N
[6-({[(3-fluoro(2-                                   0         N-    N
                                                                              NH
                                                         Y/
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}am ino)p                HN
                                                                                              396.3 D
yridazin-3-yl]-N-[(1 -methylpyrazol-       \N                                              N
5-yl)methyl]carboxamide
[6-({[(3-fluoro(2-                                     0         N-   N
                                                              /        \       NH
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)p                   HN           _            N
                                                                              F               396.3 D
yridazin-3-yl]-N-[(1 -methylpyrazol-            N                                           N
3-yl)methyl]carboxamide                       N
[6-({[(3-fluoro(2-                                 H                          NH
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)p
                                                                            F385.3                  D
yridazin-3-yl]-N-[(5-oxopyrrolidin
                                            HN
3-yl)methyl]carboxam ide
                                                   0
N-((3S)-6-oxo(3-piperidyl))[6-({[(3- O"'11NH                                N        HN-
fluoro(2-                                   HN                                      N
                                                                         __
                                                                                              399.3 D
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)p                                                 F
yridazin-3-yl]carboxamide
N-((3R)-6-oxo(3-piperidyl))[6-({[(3-                      NH           N         N
fluoro(2-                                   HN                                      N
                                                          o                                   399.3 D
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)p                                                 F
yridazin-3-yl]carboxamide
[6-({[(3-fluoro(2-                                   0        N--N
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)p                 H                         NH
                                                                                   F          393.3 D
yridazin-3-yl]-N-(2-                            _                                         N
pyridylmethyl)carboxamide                    \       /
                                                PRR

                                          0         N-   N
[6-({[(3-fluoro(2-
                                                         /\      NH
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}am ino)p      HNYN
                                                                F                 393.3 C
yridazin-3-yl]-N-(3
pyridylmethyl)carboxamide                 N
                                                NN
[6-({ [(3-f luoro (2-                     0O               N      H
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}am ino)p      HN                      N
                                                                        F         393.3 D
yridazin-3-yl]-N-(4-                   _                                      N
pyridylmethyl)carboxamide            N
[6-({[(3-fluoro(2-                       O         N--N
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}am ino)p     HNN
                                                               F                  399.3 D
yridazin-3-yl]-N-(1,3-thiazol-2-    N                                        N
ylmethyl)carboxamide
[6-({[(3-fluoro(2-                       0         N-   N
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}am ino)p    -N                       N
yridazin-3-yl]-N-methyl-N-(1,3-     N                                        N
thiazol-2-ylmethyl)carboxamide              S
ethyl 2-{[6-({[(3-fluoro-2-                   N
pyridyl)cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)py                                  \\-NH
                                              0                                   457.3 D
ridazin-3-yl]carbonylamino}-1,3-                                           F
thiazole-5-carboxylate
methyl 2-{[6-({[(3-fluoro-2-             N
                                                 NH        N-N
pyridyl)cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)py
                                                                          NH
                                                                                  443.2 B
ridazin-3-yl]carbonylamino}-1 3-0
                                                                        F
th iazole-4-carboxyl ate                                                        N
                                       ?Nq

ethyl 2-(2-{[6-({[(3-fluoro-2-0
pyridyl)cyclobutyl]methyllamino)py                 N
                                                        \  NH          N-N               471.3 A
ridazin-3-yI]carbonylamino}-1,3-                   S               -        \     NH
                                                           0
th jazol -4-yI )acetateF
                                              0
5-[6-({[3-fluoro-1 -(3-fluoro(2-       HO
                                                       -       N -N                    F
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyllamino)p     H0                                     N
                                                             \      /413.1                     B
yridazin-3-yI]-2-hydroxybenzoic
                                                                           F
acid
{3-[6-({[3-fluoro-1 -(3-fluoro(2
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyllam ino)p                       /F_                   N
yridazin-3-yI]phenyl}-N-[2-                  HN470.2                                           B
hydroxy-1 -                           HOF       -H
(hyd roxym ethyl) eth yl]carboxam ide
{5-[6-({[3-fluoro-1 -(3-fluoro(2-       HN
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyllamino)p      HOJ\         /    -N
                                                                                         426.1 B
yridazin-3-yI]-2-hydroxyphenyl}-N
methylcarboxamide
                                              0
                                       H2N
5-[6-({[3-fluoro-1 -(3-fluoro(2-                ___            N- N                    F
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyllamino)p      HO           /N1.
yridazin-3-yI]-2-hydroxybenzam ide                                         F         N
                                              ?7nl

                                                  OH
{3-[6-({[3-fluoro-1 -(3-fluoro(2-                 OH                          F
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)p                               N
                                                                                426.2 B
yridazin-3-yl]-4-hydroxyphenyl}-N-    HN
methylcarboxamide                                                           N
2-{[6-({[(3-fluoro-2-              H2N         N
                                                             N-N        HNH
pyridyl)cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)py
                                                                      N428.1          A
ridazin-3-yl]carbonylamino}-1,3
thiazole-4-carboxamide
                                           0
{5-[6-({[(3-f luoro (2
                                       HN         sN-N
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)p     HNH
                                                                                398.1 B
yridazin-3-yl](2-thienyl)}-N-                                     F
methylcarboxamide
2-[6-({[(3-fluoro-2-                   H
                                     HN
pyridyl)cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)py                 N      N--N
ridazin-3-yl]-4,5,6-                                                NH          425.3 D
trihydrocyclopenta[1,2-d]1,3
thiazole-4-carboxamide
2-[6-({[(3-fluoro-2-                   H
                                     HO
pyridyl)cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)py                 N      N--N
ridazin-3-yl]-4,5,6-                                        __       \426.3           D
trihydrocyclopenta[1,2-d]1,3
thiazole-4-carboxylic acid
{[(3-fluoro(2
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}(6
                                                                       F
(4,5,6,7-tetrahydro-1,3-                                          F             397.5 D
                                       HN       :
thiazolo[5,4-c]pyridin-2-              H               /N
yl)pyridazin-3-yl)amine
                                             271

N-{2-[6-({[(3-fluoro(2
                                                NH
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]m ethyllamni no)p  0_l
yridazi n-3-yl (4,5,6-                                                   NH            455.1 D
trihydrocyclopenta[2,3-d]1,3-                                          F
thiazol-4-yl)}methoxycarboxamide
2-[6-({[(3-fluoro-2
pyridyl)cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)py    H2N        N                          NH
ridazin-3-yl]-4,5,6,7-tetrahydro-                                         F            440.1 D
1,3-thiazolo[5,4-c]pyridine-5
carboxamide
5-acetyl-2-[6-({[(3-fluoro(2-                         N       N-N
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)p            N       S
                                                                         F             439.3 D
yridazin-3-yl]-4,5,6,7-tetrahydro-                                                   N
1,3-thiazolo[5,4-c]pyridine
2-[6-({[(3-fluoro(2
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)p             N                           NH
yridazin-3-yl]-5-(methylsulfonyl)-         \F                                          475.3 D
4,5,6,7-tetrahydro-1,3
thiazolo[5,4-c]pyridine
{5-[6-({[3-fluoro-1-(3-fluoro(2-                        N-- N                      F
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)p      HO_
                                                                                       440.1 B
yridazin-3-yl]-2-hydroxyphenyl}-                    N                F          N
N,N-dimethylcarboxamide
                                                             N    -N              F
4-[6-({[3-fluoro-1-(3-fluoro(2-               /NF
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)p                                                     408.1 B
                                          y                        F           N
yridazin-3-yI]isoindolin-1 -one                    H
                                                  272

5-[6-({[3-fluoro-1 -(3-fluoro(2-     0                       /   \NH
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyllam ino)p     HN-408.1                                            C
yridazin-3-yI]isoindolin-1 -one
                                              0
                6[-13fur-
                      (floo2            NN-N                                     F
                                                  /         /        NH
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyllam ino)p                                                   408.1 B
yridazin-3-yI]isoindolin-1 -one                                                N
[6-(6-amino(4,5,6,7
tetrahydrobenzothiazol-2-                                                F        N
                                                                                      411.5 D
yI))pyridazin-3-yI]{[(3-fluoro(2-     HNS                      N      NH
                                                                          i
                                                                          N
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyllamime                       />
                                                       N         _
amino-N-{2-[6-({[(3-fluoro(2
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyllamino)p  0           H
yridazin-3-yI](4,5,6,7-                                                               454.3 D
                                        HN__:::          s
tetrahydrobenzothiazol-6-                                                   N
                                                                            NH
yI)}amide
N-{3-fluoro-4-[6-({[3-fluoro-1 -(3
fluoro(2-0
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyllamino)p                  /N-                 N
                                                                     __443.3                A
yridazin-3-                                               FF
yI]phenyl}(methylamino)carboxami
de
N-{4-[6-({[3-fluoro-1 -(3-fluoro(2-         NH
                                    0o                                              F
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyllamino)p          N         \ /          \    NH
                                                      /439.3                                D
yridazin-3-yI]phenyl}-N-F
                                                                            FN
methyl (methyl am ino)carboxam ide
                                                 27q

                                                        0
                                                               NH,
N-[4-(carbamoyl methyl) (1 ,3
th iazol -2-yI)] [6-(([(3-flIuoro(2
                                                     HN      N-N                        442.1 A
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]m ethyllam ino)p                               ~   NH
yridazi n-3-yI]carboxa mide
                                                         0
2-(2-{[6-({[(3-flIuoro(2
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]m ethyllam ino)p
                                                    HN       N-N                        456.2 A
yridazi n-3-yI]carbo nylam ino(1 3-                        /       \   NH
thiazol-4-yI))-N-methylacetamide
2-{2-[6-({[l -(3-ch loro (2-pyridyl)) -3-             N          N                F
flIuorocyclobutyl]methyllam i no)pyri                                _
                                                                                 -447.3       B
dazin-3-y](1 ,3-thiazol-5-ylI)-N-                                          CIN
methylacetam ide
3-{6-[4-(3-fluoro(2-pyridyl))-2-                    0OH
azabicyclo[2. 1.1 ]hex-2-                         /9.                   ND     N
yI]pyridazin-3-yI}-4
                                          0
hydroxylbenzamnide                          NH2
                                                         0
                                                               0
ethyl 2-(5-{[6-({[(3-fluoro-2-                   sX        IN
pyridyl)cyclobutyl]methyllamino)py              H     -          -                        7 .
ridazin-3-yI]carbonylamino}-1 ,3,4-                   -(   /           NH
thiadiazol-2-yI)acetate
                                                274

                                                       0
                                                           NH2
th iadiazol-2-y)] [6-(([(3-flIuoro(2-        H              -
                                                                                       4 .
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]m ethyllam ino)p                            \        NH
yridazi n-3-yI]carboxa mide
N-{4-[6-({[3-fluoro-1 -(3-fluoro(2
                                                 0
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyllamino)p        HF      /                 F-F
yridazin-3-                                                                           425.3 A
yI]phenyl}(methylamino)carboxami
de
2-{2-[6-({[(3-chloro(2-                                 NN          N          NH
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyllam ino)p                     S             _292_
yridazin-3-y](1 ,3-thiazol-5-ylI)-N-                                             C
methylacetam ide
N-cyclopropy{4-fluoro-3-[6-({[3-                         F
fluoro-1 -(3-fluoro(2-                         \/               /        "'NH
                                                                              __454.3       A
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyllamino)p     HN                                       F
yridazin-3-yI]phenyllcarboxam ide
5-[6-({[(3-fluoro-2-                   r              N          N-N
pyridyl)cyclobutyl]methyllamino)py    HNN             /        /                 NH
                                                                                      392.1 B
ridazin-3-yI]-8-hydro-3-                     0F
pyrazolino[1 ,5-a]pyrimidin-7-one
                                           H
7-[6-({ [(3-f Iuoro-2-N
                                                   -N           N-N
pyridyl)cyclobutyl]methyllamino)py                            /H
                                       KN                                       NH    39.
ridazin-3-yI]-4-hydro-4-                    0F
imidazolino[1 ,2-a]pyrimidin-5-one
                                              275~

{4-fluoro-5-[6-({[3-fluoro-1 -(3-               0
fi uoro(2-                                                 N-N               F
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyllam ino)p     HO                            N         4.
yridazin-3-yI]-2-hydroxyphenyl}-N-                       F          F      N
methylcarboxamide
                                                0
4-fluoro-5-[6-({[3-fluoro-1 -(3-
                                       HN I
fi uoro (2-                             HO                            N        43/0.1NH
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyllam ino)pFF
yridazin-3-yI]-2-hydroxybenzam ide
     3-6([(3-f luoro (2-0
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyllamino)p            HN N          __
                                                     H                         355.1    D
yridazi n-3-yI]-4- methyl -3-F
pyrazolin-5-one
3-[6-({[(3-fluoro(2-                        0N
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]m ethyllam ino)p          HNZ/N
                                                                               369.2    D
yridazi n-3-yI]-4,4-d imethyl-2-
                                                                        ,G
pyrazolin-5-one
{[(3-fluoro(2-                                                    F
pyridyl))cyc lobutyl] meth yl}[6-                               N  NH          393      D
be nzylpyri dazin -3-yI ]am me
                            ne
3-[6-({[(3-fluoro(2-                              __       N -N
pyridyl))cyc lobutyl]meth yllam ino) -                /N
                                                                               374.1    C
4-methylpyridazin-3-F
yI]be nzenecarbo nitrilIe
                                                27R

                                                              N-N
3-[6-({[(3-fluoro(2-                          \/            /             NH
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]m ethyllamn i o)-                                    F                 392.1 C
4-methylpyridazin-3-yI]benzamide                NH2
N-cyclobutyl{14-flIuoro-3-[6-({[3-                      F
fluoro-1 -(3-fluoro(2-                          \         _/        \       NH
                                                                       __468.3                   A
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyllam ino)p        H
yridazin-3-yI]phenyllcarboxam ide
                                                       F
4-fluoro-3-[6-({[(3-fluoro(2-                                  N-N         N
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyllamino)-                                                         410.1 C
                                         H2N                              F
4-methylpyridazin-3-yI]benzamide0N
N-(3,3-difluorocyclobutyl){4-fluoro-                                                     F
3-[6-({[3-fluoro-1 -(3-fluoro(2-                  \                                 :/""
                                                                           F      =F       504.3 A
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyllam ino) p0N
yridazin-3-yI]phenyllcarboxamide      F
4-fluoro-3-[6-({[3-fluoro-1 -(3-                    F_     N-N                         F
                fl   o o( --                                                               430.0
                                                                  \             :                A
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyllam ino)p     0      H    OH                             N
yridazin-3-yI]-2-hydroxybenzam ide
2-[6-({[(3-fluoro(2-                                N          N-N
                                                                      --   NH
                                                             \/ \
                                                                               F399.1            A
4-methylpyridazin-3-y]-1 ,3-                 NH2
thiazole-5-carboxamide
                                                              N-N
3-[6-({[(3-fluoro(2-                          \/            /             NH
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyllamino)-        0                                                392.1 D
5-methylpyridazin-3-yI]benzamide                NH2
                                              277

N-cyclopropyl{3-[6-({[3-fluoro-1 -(3-               __     N-N                          F
             f u r  ( -HN                                           F         -43           6 .3 B
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyllam ino)pN
yridazin-3-yI]phenyllcarboxam ide
[6-(2-am inopyrimidi n-b-
yI)pyridazin-3-y]{[3-fluoro-1 -(3-                                F
                                                                                 -370.1          B
fi uoro (2-                                    N          N-N               .
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyllamine        HN       Dr/NH
N-azetidin-3-yI{3-[6-({[3-fluoro-1 -                _      N-N                          F
(3-fluoro(2-                                           /B       \     N                   45.
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyllam ino)p        HT
yridazin-3-yI]phenyllcarboxamide      HN
N-(1 -acetylazetidin-3-y){3-[6-({[3-                              N                     F
fluoro-1 -(3-fluoro(2-                         HNF
                                                                                          493.3  B
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyllam ino)p           J                        F           N
yridazin-3-yI]phenyllcarboxamide      0(
{3-[6-({[3-fluoro-1 -(3-fluoro(2-                             N
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyllamino)p\/F
                                              HNF
yridazin-3-y]phenyl}-N-[l -                                                       NN      529.3  B
(methylsulfonyl)azetidin-3-            ,N
yI]carboxamide
{3-[6-({[3-fluoro-1 -(3-fluoro(2
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyllam ino)p                                      NH
yridazin-3-yI]phenyl}-N-(2-                    iN                      F                  468.3  B
hydroxy-2
methyl propyl)carboxam ide
                                               27R

                                                                              F
{3-[6-({[3-fluoro-1 -(3-fluoro(2-                      N-    N
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)p                                 N
                                      HN                         F        -     465.3 B
yridazin-3-yl]phenyl}-N-(1-                                                 N
methylazetidin-3-yl)carboxamide
{3-[6-({[3-fluoro-1 -(3-fluoro(2-        _            N-    N                 F
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)p                                N
                                     HN                         F        -      452.3 B
yridazin-3-yl]phenyl}-N-oxetan-3-                                           N
ylcarboxamide
2-{2-[6-({[(3-fluoro(2-                       N         N-N
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)-                       -           N
                                                                                414.1 B
4-methylpyridazin-3-yl]-1,3-                                       F
thiazol-5-yl}acetic acid
{2-[6-({[(3-fluoro(2-                       N         N-N
                                                  \ /          ~NH
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)- HO                              N
                                                                                386.1 B
4-methylpyridazin-3-yl]-1,3-                                    F           N
thiazol-5-yl}methan-1 -ol
2-{2-[6-({[(3-fluoro(2-                       N         N--N
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)-                                     N2
                                           O427.2                                     B
4-methylpyridazin-3-yl](1,3-                                       F
thiazol-5-yl)}-N-methylacetamide
2-{2-[6-({[(3-fluoro(2-                       N         N-N
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)-
                                           O413.1
                                                                     N1
                                                                                      B
4-methylpyridazin-3-yl]-1,3-                                       F
thiazol-5-yl}acetamide
{4-fluoro-3-[6-({[3-fluoro-1 -(3-               F
                                                       N-N                    F
fluoro(2-                                                     \    NF
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)p    HN                                        483.3 B
yridazin-3-yl]phenyl}-N-(1                                       F
methylazetidin-3-yl)carboxamide

                                                    F
N-(1 -acetylazetidin-3-yl){4-fluoro-                    N-N                    F
3-[6-({[3-fluoro-1-(3-fluoro(2-                  /        --   NH
                                                             F          -        511.3 A
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)p        NN
yridazin-3-yl]phenyl}carboxamide     0
{3-[6-({[3-fluoro-1 -(3-fluoro(2-                     N-N                     F
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)p
                                         NF                                      466.3 B
yridazin-3-yl]phenyl}-N-(3-                                                N
hydroxycyclobutyl)carboxamide        HO
{[(3-fluoro(2
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}{6-[5-                                F
                                                                       F440.3          B
(piperazinylmethyl)(1,3-thiazol-2-         N             N-N
                                     HN                      -     N
yl)]pyridazin-3-yl}amine                         N
{[(3-fluoro(2
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}{6-[5-                               F             N
                                                                                 441.3 B
(morpholin-4-ylmethyl)(1,3-thiazol-      N      s       N--N
                                     0                            NH
                                                                  N
2-yl)]pyridazin-3-yl}amine                      N
4-({2-[6-([(3-fluoro-2
pyridyl)cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)py
ridazin-3-yl]-1,3-thiazol-5-                                                     489.3 D
yl}methyl)-1,4-thiazaperhydroine-            N                      NH
1,1-dione
{[(3-fluoro(2
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}(6-{5-                                 F
                                                                        F     N  454.3 B
[(4-methylpiperazinyl)methyl](1 3-      N          SN
thiazol-2-yl)}pyridazin-3-yl)amine                 N
                                             Rn

{[(3-fluoro(2
pyridyl))cyc lobutyl] meth yl}[6-(5
1[4-(2,2,2-                                                                 NFj          2.
trifluoroethyl)piperazinyl]methyl}(1,    FF              N                         NH
                                                N
3-thiazol-2-yI))pyridazin-3-
yI]amine
1-acetyl-4-({2-[6-({[(3-fluoro(2-0
                                                            '  N       N   \  N
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyllamino)p           -N
                                                 (     N                          NS    482.3 D
yridazin-3-y](1 ,3-thiazol-5-F
yI)}methyl)piperazine
1-({2-[6-({[(3-fluoro(2
                                              0
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyllamino)p                             N       N/"
                                                    0N
yridazin-3-y](1 ,3-thiazol-5-                                                           518.3 D
yI)}methyl)-4
(methylsu Ifonyl)piperazi ne
[(2S)-1 -({2-[6-({[(3-fluoro(2-                    H
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyllamino)p        N\                        ,,          N
yridazin-3-y](1 ,3-thiazol-5-                   N          S470.3                             B
yI)}methyl)piperazin-2-yI]methan-N
1-al
[(2R)-1 -({2-[6-({[(3-fluoro(2-                    H
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyllam ino)p                        N
                                         HN                                     NH
yridazin-3-y](1 ,3-thiazol-5-                   N          s                            470.3 C
ylIm et hyl) pipe raz in -2 -yI] meth an
1-0l
N -(2 H-3,4,5,6-tet ra hyd ropyra n-4-                            N-N                 F
yI){3-[6-({[3-fluoro-1 -(3-fluoro(2-                   "/          __
                                                                            F       -   480.3 B
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyllam ino)pN
yridazin-3-yI]phenyllcarboxamide

{3-[6-({[3-fluoro-1 -(3-fluoro(2
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)p                           /NH
yridazin-3-yl]phenyl}-N-(3-                     HN                               F               480.3 B
hydroxy-3
                                      HO
methylcyclobutyl)carboxamide
N-((3S)oxolan-3-yl){3-[6-({[3-                         -            N-N                        F
fluoro-1-(3-fluoro(2-                                                            NH
                                                                               F                 466.3 B
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)p                                                        N
yridazin-3-yl]phenyl}carboxamide
N-((3R)oxolan-3-yl){3-[6-({[3-                         -            N-N                        F
fluoro-1-(3-fluoro(2-                                                            N
                                             HN                                F     -F466.3           B
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)p                                             F
yridazin-3-yl]phenyl}carboxamide         O
N-((3S,4S)-4-hydroxy-1 ,1-                               __                                    F
dioxothiolan-3-yl){3-[6-({[3-fluoro-                                 N--          NH
1-(3-fluoro(2-                        HO                                        F        N       530.3 B
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)p
yridazin-3-yl]phenyl}carboxamide
N-(1,1 -dioxothiolan-3-yl){3-[6-({[3-                                    \       NH            F
fluoro-1 -(3-fluoro(2
                                             HN
                                                     0
                                                            HNF
                                                                               F
                                                                                          N      514.3 B
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)p
yridazin-3-yl]phenyl}carboxamide      o\
                                                                N-N                          F
3-[6-({[3-fluoro-1-(3-fluoro(2-                                              N               F:N
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)p      HN              OH                                       412.1 A
yridazin-3-yl]-2-hydroxybenzamide                                          F
                                                                 N-N
3-[6-({[(3-fluoro(2-                                                          NH
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)p         0              OH                 F                   394.2 A
yridazin-3-yl]-2-hydroxybenzam ide                 NH2

5-amino-3-[6-({[3-fluoro-1 -(3-         p                  NNN
fi uoro (2-N                                            _(-NH
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyllamino)p     7/          /F                             N39.          A
yridazin-3-yI]benzenecarbonitri le
                                         F
3-[6-({[3-fluoro-1 -(3-fluoro(2-F
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyllamino)p                                        NH
                                                        \ /464.1                                B
yridazin-3-y]-5-F
(trifluoromethyl)benzamide                     NH2
5-chloro-3-[6-({[3-fluoro-1 -(3-                __             NN
                                                                                           F
fi uoro (2
                                                           /          NH
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyllamino)p   H2N            /F                         ~             3.
yridazin-3-yI]benzamide
                                           HO
3-[6-({[3-fluoro-1 -(3-fluoro(2-                              N- N                         F
                                                    \ / / \NH
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyllamino)p                                               -412.1         A
                                     H2N                                  F
yridazin-3-yI]-5-hydroxybenzam ide
5-amino-3-[6-({[3-fluoro-1 -(3-          H2N
fi uoro (2-                                                              N-             F:
                                                                      __      -411.2            B
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyllamino)p H2N                                 F
                                             0
yridazin-3-yI]benzamide
{3-[6-({[3-fluoro-1 -(3-fluoro(2-                             N                            F
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyllamino)p            \ /           /      "'       N
                                                                  OH            -426.2          A
yridazin-3-yI]-2-hydroxyphenyl}-N-0N
methylcarboxamide
3-[6-({[3-fluoro-1 -(3-fluoro(2-                -          N                            F
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyllamino)p         \ /N
yridazin-3-y]-2-                       /            OHF                          N           9.
hydroxybenzenecarbonitrile

3-[6-({[3-fluoro-1 -(3-fluoro(2-                                   N                   F
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyllamino)p          \        /N
                                                                 0                          408.1 C
yridazin-3-y]-2-//                                    /F
methoxybenzenecarbonitri le
3-[6-({[3-fluoro-1 -(3-fluoro(2-                  __                 N -N                 F
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyllamino)p            \          /                      N
                                                                                    -413.1        C
yridazin-3-yI]-2-hydroxybenzoic       HI                   O
acid
                                                0
5-[6-({[3-fluoro-1 -(3-fluoro(2-      H2N
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyllamino)p      0                          /         _\ N
                                                                 \ /426.1                         B
yridazin-3-y]-2
methoxybenzamide
N-(1 ,1-dioxothietan-3-y){3-[6-({[3-                                     N  NF
fluoro-1 -(3-fluoro(2
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyllam ino)pF50.                                                           B
yridazin-3-yI]phenyllcarboxamide
                                                              F
4-fluoro-3-[6-({[(3-fluoro(2-N
                                        H2NJ                  OH                  F
yridazin-3-yI]-2-hydroxybenzam ide0N
                                                   0
                                        H2N
4-fluoro-5-[6-({[(3-fluoro(2-                        ___                N-N
                                         HO                  /NH
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyllamino)p               \         /412.1                                 A
yridazin-3-yI]-2-hydroxybenzamide                             FF
                                                2R4

{3-[6-({[3-fluoro-1 -(3-fluoro(2
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyllam ino)pF
yridazin-3-yI]phenyl}-N-                                                              =466.1       A
                                                       T'I0
[(hydroxycyclopropyl)methyl]carbo0                                               ,C
xamide
{3-[6-({[3-fluoro-1 -(3-fluoro(2-                      -_         N-N        NHF
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyllamino)p                \ /           /     \      N
                                                                         __424.1                   B
yridazin-3-yI]-5-methylphenyl}-N-         H
                                                   0N
methylcarboxamide
3-[6-({[3-fluoro-1 -(3-fluoro(2-                       -              \NNHF
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyllam ino)p                    \/                      U:_           410.0 B
                                         H2N                               F
yridazi n-3-yI]-5- methyl ben zamn ide0
3-[6-({ [(3-f luoro (2-
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyllamino)p                  \ /            /           NH
                                                                                             408.2 B
yridazin-3-yI]-2-hydroxy-5-                HNO
methylbenzam ide
3-[6-({[(3-fluoro(2-                                __            N-N
pyr idyl)) cyclIobutyl]meth ylIa mino) p                  /                 NH
                                                                                             390.2 B
yrid az in-3 -yI]-2-hyd roxy-5-                             O
met hylbe nzeneca rbo nitr iIe
5-bro mo-3 -[6 -(1[(3 -fIu oro (2-             Br       _        N-N
pyr idyl)) cyclIobutyl]meth yl Iamino) p          \ /           /NH
                                                                         __454.0                   A
yridazin-3-y]-2-                             /7             OHF
hyd rox ybe nzeneca rbo nit riIe
3-[6-({[3-fluoro-1 -(3-fluoro(2-                                  N                        F
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyllamino)p\                       /     /      "
yridazin-3-yI]-2-                                           0N                                2.
methoxybenzamide                                                                    -

{5-bromo-3-[6-({[3-fluoro-1 -(3-              B
                                                                   N-N                       F
fi uoro (2-                                      \      /        /             NH
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyllamino)p                                                               507.0 B
                                       HN                 OH                 F
yridazin-3-yI]-2-hydroxyphenyl}-N-    /
methylcarboxamide
{3-[6-({[3-fluoro-1 -(3-fluoro(2
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyllam ino)p                                N-N                       F
                                                        \ //                ~NH
yridazin-3-yI]-2-hydroxy-5-                                                         -440.2             B
                                       HN                 OH                 F
methylphenyl}-N-                      /
methylcarboxamide
methyl 5-[6-({[3-fluoro-1 -(3-                          __N            N-N       NU            F
fi uoro (2-                                   H                           _
                                                    0                                            450.2 A
                                                                                F
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyllam ino)pN                                                   -,
                                         0
yridazin-3-yI]indole-2-carboxylate
5-[6-({[3-fluoro-1 -(3-fluoro(2-                HN                       _        N
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyllamino)p   H11,N45.
                                                        0N
yridazin-3-yI]indole-2-carboxamide         0
5-[6-({[3-fluoro-1 -(3-fluoro(2-                         ___                                   F
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyllamino)p             H/N    \
                                                    HO                                           436.2 B
                                                                                F
yridazin-3-yI]indole-2-carboxylicN                                                      -C
acid
{5-[6-({[3-fluoro-1 -(3-fluoro(2-                          __N                                 F
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyllam ino)p     H         HN                      _       N
                                        N
                                                                                         -       449.1 A
yridazin-3-y]indol-2-y}-N-F                                                                N
methylcarboxamide
[6-(6-am ino(3-pyridyl))pyridazin-3
                                                                             F
yI]{[3-fluoro-1 -(3-fluoro(2-                                                       -369.3             A
                                                   N-
                                                                   N-N
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyllamine       H2N-</                    /      )      NH
                                                              PRFF

{[3-fluoro-1 -(3-fluoro(2-                                              '
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methy}{6-[6                                 F
                                                                          -383.3         B
(methylamino)(3-                             N__        N
                                            HN-(D     /       \  N
pyridyl)]pyridazin-3-yIlamineHN                  /HF
{6-[6-(cyclopropylamino) (3
pyridyl)]pyridazin-3-y}{[3-fluoro-1 -                              F
                                               N_         N-N                    409.3   D
(3-fluoro(2-                             HN   \ /       /           NH
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyllamime
{6-[6-am ino-5-(trifluoromethyl)(3
                                                                F
pyridyl)]pyridazin-3-y}{[3-fluoro-1
                                             N_         N-N                      43.     B
(3-fluoro(2-                          H2N'       /H               N              437.0NH
                                                                               F
                                          F
[N-({2-[6-({[(3-fluoro-2-                        _N        /     NH
pyridyl)cyclobutyl]methyllamino)py__
ridazin-3-y]-1 ,3-thiazol-5-          0      NH                           NN     470.1   A
yIl methyl)carbamoyl]m ethyl            '
acetateZ10
                                                    N       N-N
[N-({2-[6-({[(3-fluoro-2-                           >     /          NH
pyridyl)cyclobutyl]m ethylam
                               ino)py    0     NHF(
ridazin-3-y]-1 ,3-thiazol-5-                                                   N 528.2   A
yIl methyl)carbamoyl]m ethyl (2S)
2-amino-3-methylbutanoate
                                                                  NH
[N-({2-[6-({[(3-fluoro-2-                           N       N
pyridyl)cyclobutyl]methyllam ino)pyS
                                      0      NH
ridazin-3-y]-1 ,3-thiazol-5-                                                   N 500.2   A
yIl methyl)carbamoyl]m ethyl (2S)
2-aminopropanoate
                                             2R7

{[3-fluoro-1 -(3-fluoro(2
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]m ethyl} [6-(6-                                         F
                                                   N_            N-N                         398.3 D
methoxy-5- methyl (3-                   /0       ~      /      /      \       N
pyridyl))pyridazi n-3-yI]amine
[6-(6-am ino-5-m ethyl(3
pyridyl))pyridazin-3-y]{[3-fluoro-1   -                                     F
                                                 PN
                                                   N_
                                                        /B            \
                                                                 N-N38.
                                                                              N              38.   B
(3-fluoro(2-                             H
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyllamime         H2                                    H-          F
(2S)-N-({2-[6-({[(3-fluoro(2-                                 N           N-N
                                                   HQNI
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyllam    "'uo              N
                       yriazn               -                                       F443.1         A
     ydai-3-y](1 ,3-thiazol-5-                0
yI)}methyl)-2-hydroxypropanam ide
(2R)-N-({2-[6-({[(3-fluoro(2-                                 N           N-N
                                        HO                    \j       /\            N
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyllamin~ "'uJ       Y      N          S                              4431
yridazin-3-y](1 ,3-thiazol-5-                 0o
yI)}methyl)-2-hydroxypropanam ide
                                        HO
2-[({2-[6-({[(3-fluoro-2-               H          "       N          N-N
                                                           NN
                                                                               __415.1             B
ridazin-3-y]-1 ,3-thiazol-5
yIlmethyl)amino]ethan-1 -ol
N-({2-[6-({[(3-fluoro(2
pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyllam ino)p                                                  N
                                           o    Ns
yridazin-3-y](1 ,3-thiazol-5-                                                                443.1 B
                                                   o                 (OHF
yI)}methyl)-2-hydroxy-N-                         O
methylacetam ide

[N-({2-[6-({[(3-fluoro-2
pyridyl)cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)py                              NH
ridazin-3-yl]-1 ,3-thiazol-5-                  NH             F      N
                                                                          571.1  A
yl}methyl)carbamoyl]methyl (2S)
2-((2S)-2-                         H2N
                                        0
aminopropanoylamino)propanoate
[N-({2-[6-({[(3-fluoro-2
pyridyl)cyclobutyl]methyl}amino)py                N             NH
ridazin-3-yl]-1,3-thiazol-5
                                                              F
                                          O    NH
yl}methyl)carbamoyl]methyl (2S)-                                          627.3  A
2-((2S)-2-amino-3-                          N2
                                            Nz
methylbutanoylamino)-3-                 0
methylbutanoate
         While the present invention has been described with reference to the
specific embodiments described herein, it should be understood by those
skilled in the art that various changes may be made and equivalents may be
substituted without departing from the true spirit and scope of the invention. In
addition, modifications may be made to adapt a particular situation, material,
composition of matter and/or process to the objective, spirit and scope of the
present invention. All such modifications are intended to be within the scope
of the claims appended hereto.
         The reference in this specification to any prior publication (or
information derived from it), or to any matter which is known, is not, and
should not be taken as an acknowledgment or admission or any form of
suggestion that that prior publication (or information derived from it) or known
matter forms part of the common general knowledge in the field of endeavour
to which this specification relates.
         Throughout this specification and the claims which follow, unless the
context requires otherwise, the word "comprise", and variations such as
"comprises" and "comprising", will be understood to imply the inclusion of a
stated integer or step or group of integers or steps but not the exclusion of
any other integer or step or group of integers or steps.
                                          ?R9q

THE CLAIMS DEFINING THE INVENTION ARE AS FOLLOWS:
1.      A compound of Formula I:
                       X          N
                                                   (CR8 R9 )m        R7
                       R3V                   N 1-*
                                                             R5   R6
                                       Formula I
or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, wherein:
        R1 is selected from hydrogen, halogen, CN, C1_6 alkyl, C1_6 haloalkyl,
C(O)ORa, C(O)NRbRc, ORa, NRbRc, C6-10 aryl and 5-10 membered heteroaryl;
        R2 is selected from C3-8 cycloalkyl, C3-8 cycloalkenyl, 3-8 membered
heterocycloalkyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkenyl, C610 aryl, 5-10
membered heteroaryl and NRbRc, wherein each of the C3-8 cycloalkyl, C3-8
cycloalkenyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl, 3-8 membered
heterocycloalkenyl, C610 aryl and 5-10 membered heteroaryl groups is
optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 substituents selected from halogen,
CN, oxo, (CH 2)nORa, (CH 2)nOC(O)Ra, (CH 2 )nOC(O)ORa, (CH 2)nOC(O)NRbRc,
(CH 2 )nNRbRc, (CH 2 )nN RdC(O)Ra, (CH 2 )nN RdC(O)ORa, (CH 2)nN RdC(O)NRbRc,
(CH 2 )nN RdC(O)C(O)NRbRc, (CH 2)nN RdC(S)Ra, (CH 2 )nN RdC(S)ORa,
(CH 2 )nN RdC(S)NRbRc, (CH 2 )nN RdC(NRe)NRbRc, (CH 2 )nNRdS(O) Ra,
(CH 2 )nN RdSO 2 Ra, (CH 2 )nNRdSO 2 N RbRc, (CH 2 )nC(O)Ra, (CH 2 )nC(O)ORa,
(CH 2 )nC(O)NRbRc, (CH 2)nC(S)Ra, (CH 2 )nC(S)ORa, (CH 2 )nC(S)NRbRc,
(CH 2 )nC(NRe)N RRc, (CH 2 )nSRa, (CH 2 )nS(O)Ra, (CH 2)nSO 2 Ra
(CH 2 )nSO 2 NRbRc, C1-6 alkyl, C1-6 haloalkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, (CH 2 )nC3 _
8 cycloalkyl, (CH 2)n3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl, (CH 2)nC6 _10 aryl and
(CH 2)n5-1 0 membered heteroaryl, wherein each of the C1-6 alkyl, C2-6 alkenyl,
C2-6 alkynyl, (CH 2)nC3 -8 cycloalkyl, (CH 2)n3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl,
(CH 2)nC6 _10 aryl and (CH 2)n5-10 membered heteroaryl groups is optionally
substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 Rf substituents;
        R3 is selected from hydrogen, halogen, CN, C1-6 alkyl, C1-6 haloalkyl,
C(O)ORa, C(O)NRbRc, ORa, NRbRc, C6-10 aryl and 5-10 membered heteroaryl;
                                          Pqn

         R4 is selected from hydrogen, C1-6 alkyl, C1_6 haloalkyl, C(O)Ra
C(O)ORa, C(O)NRbRc and SO 2 Ra;
         R5 and R6 are each independently selected from hydrogen, halogen,
C1-6 alkyl and C1-6 haloalkyl;
         or alternatively, R5 and R6 together with the carbon atom to which they
are bound form a group selected from C3-8 cycloalkyl, C3-8 cycloalkenyl, 3-8
membered heterocycloalkyl and 3-8 membered heterocycloalkenyl, each
optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 substituents selected from halogen,
CN, oxo, ORa, OC(O)Ra, OC(O)ORa, NRbRc, C(O)Ra, C(O)ORa, C(O)NR Rc,
S(O)Ra, SO 2 Ra, SO 2 NRRc, C1-6 alkyl and C1-6 haloalkyl;
         R7 is selected from C3-8 cycloalkyl, C3-8 cycloalkenyl, 3-8 membered
heterocycloalkyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkenyl, C6-10 aryl and 5-10
membered heteroaryl, each optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5
substituents selected from halogen, CN, oxo, ORa, OC(O)Ra, OC(O)ORa,
OC(O)NRbRc, NRbRc, NRdC(O)Ra, NRdC(O)ORa, NRdC(O)NRbRc,
NRdC(O)C(O)NRbRc, NRdC(S)Ra, NRdC(S)ORa, NRdC(S)NRbRc,
NRdC(NRe)NRbRc, NRdS(O)Ra, NRdSO 2 Ra, NRdSO 2 NRbRc, C(O)Ra, C(O)ORa
C(O)NRbRc, C(S)Ra, C(S)ORa, C(S)NRbRc, C(NRe)NRRc, SRa, S(O)Ra
SO 2 Ra, SO 2 NRRc, C1-6 alkyl, C1-6 haloalkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, C3-8
cycloalkyl, C3-8 cycloalkenyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl, 3-8 membered
heterocycloalkenyl, C6-10 aryl, C7-11 aralkyl, and 5-10 membered heteroaryl,
wherein each of the C1-6 alkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, C3-8 cycloalkyl, C3-8
cycloalkenyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl, 3-8 membered
heterocycloalkenyl, C6-10 aryl, C7-11 aralkyl and 5-10 membered heteroaryl
groups is optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 Rf substituents;
         R8 and R9 , at each occurrence, are each independently selected from
hydrogen, halogen and C1-6 alkyl;
         X is selected from a bond, -(CH 2)p-, -(CH2)pC(O)(CH2)q-,
(CH2)pO(CH2)q-, -(CH2)pS(CH2)q-,      -(CH 2)pNRd(CH 2 )q-,  -(CH2)pC(O)O(CH2)q-,
-(CH2)pOC(O)(CH2)q-, -(CH 2 )pN RdC(O)(CH 2)q-, -(CH 2)pC(O)NRd(CH 2)q-,
-(CH 2 )pN RdC(O)NRd(CH 2 )q-, -(CH 2 )pN RdSO 2 (CH 2 )q-, and
-(CH 2 )pSO 2 NRd(CH 2 )q-;
                                          291

        or alternatively, X, R2 and R , together with the carbon atoms to which
they are bound, form a 5-6 membered ring optionally containing one or more
heteroatoms selected from oxygen nitrogen and sulfur, and optionally
containing one or more double bonds, and optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4
or 5 Rf substituents;
         Ra, at each occurrence, is independently selected from hydrogen, C1-6
alkyl, C1_6 haloalkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, C3-8 cycloalkyl, C3-8 cycloalkenyl,
3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkenyl, C61o aryl,
C7-11  aralkyl and 5-10 membered heteroaryl, wherein each of the C1_6 alkyl,
C2-6 alkenyl, C2_6 alkynyl, C3-8 cycloalkyl, C3-8 cycloalkenyl, 3-8 membered
heterocycloalkyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkenyl, C610 aryl, C7_11 aralkyl
and 5-10 membered heteroaryl groups is optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4
or 5 Rf substituents;
         Rb and Rc, at each occurrence, are each independently selected from
hydrogen, C1-6 alkyl, C1-6 haloalkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, C3-8 cycloalkyl,
C3-8  cycloalkenyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl, 3-8 membered
heterocycloalkenyl, C6-10 aryl, C7-11 aralkyl, 5-10 membered heteroaryl,
C(O)R9, C(O)OR9, C(O)NR'R and SO 2R9, wherein each of the C1-6 alkyl, C2-6
alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, C3-8 cycloalkyl, C3-8 cycloalkenyl, 3-8 membered
heterocycloalkyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkenyl, C6-10 aryl, C7-11 aralkyl
and 5-10 membered heteroaryl groups is optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4
or 5 Rf substituents;
         Rd, at each occurrence, is independently selected from hydrogen and
        C1-6 alkyl;
         Re, at each occurrence, is independently selected from hydrogen, CN,
OH, C1-6 alkoxy, C1-6 alkyl and C1-6 haloalkyl;
         Rf, at each occurrence, is independently selected from halogen, CN,
ORh, OC(O)Rh, OC(O)ORh, OC(O)NR'R, NR'R, NRdC(O)Rh, NRdC(O)ORh,
NRdC(O)NR'RI, NRdC(O)C(O)NR'RI, NRdC(S)Rh, NRdC(S)ORh, NRdC(S)NR'RI,
NRdC(NRe)NR'R, NRdS(O)Rh, NRdSO 2 Rh, NRdSO 2NR'RI, C(O)Rh, C(O)ORh,
C(O)NR'R, C(S)Rh, C(S)ORh, C(S)NR'R, C(NRe)NR'RI, SRh, S(O)Rh, SO 2 Rh
SO 2NR'Rj, C1-6 alkyl, C1-6 haloalkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, C3-8 cycloalkyl,
                                          292

C3-8  cycloalkenyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl, 3-8 membered
heterocycloalkenyl, C6-10 aryl, C7_11 aralkyl and 5-10 membered heteroaryl,
wherein each of the C1_6 alkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, C3-8 cycloalkyl, C3-8
cycloalkenyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl, 3-8 membered
heterocycloalkenyl, C610 aryl, C7_11 aralkyl and 5-10 membered heteroaryl
groups is optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 Rk substituents;
        or two Rf substituents bound to a single carbon atom, together with the
carbon atom to which they are both bound, form a group selected from
carbonyl, C3-8 cycloalkyl and 3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl;
         R9, at each occurrence, is independently selected from C1-6 alkyl, C1-6
haloalkyl, phenyl, naphthyl, and C7-11 aralkyl, each optionally substituted with
1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 substituents selected from halogen, CN, OH, C1-6 alkoxy, C1-6
alkyl and C1-6 haloalkyl;
         Rh, at each occurrence, is independently selected from hydrogen, 01-6
alkyl, C1-6 haloalkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, C3-8 cycloalkyl, C3-8 cycloalkenyl,
3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkenyl, C6-10 aryl,
C7-11  aralkyl and 5-10 membered heteroaryl, wherein each of the C1-6 alkyl,
C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, C3-8 cycloalkyl, C3-8 cycloalkenyl, 3-8 membered
heterocycloalkyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkenyl, C6-10 aryl, C7-11 aralkyl
and 5-10 membered heteroaryl groups is optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4
or 5 Rk substituents;
         R' and R', at each occurrence, are each independently selected from
hydrogen, C1-6 alkyl, C1-6 haloalkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, C3-8 cycloalkyl,
C3-8  cycloalkenyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl, 3-8 membered
heterocycloalkenyl, C6-10 aryl, C7-11 aralkyl, 5-10 membered heteroaryl,
C(O)R9, and C(O)OR9, wherein each of the         C1-6 alkyl, C1-6 haloalkyl, C2-6
alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, C3-8 cycloalkyl, C3-8 cycloalkenyl, 3-8 membered
heterocycloalkyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkenyl, C6-10 aryl, C7-11 aralkyl
and 5-10 membered heteroaryl groups is optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4
or 5 substituents selected from halogen, CN, OH, C1-6 alkoxy, C1-6 alkyl and
C1-6 haloalkyl;
         Rk, at each occurrence, is independently selected from halogen, CN,
                                          2q3

OH, C1-6 alkoxy, NH2 , NH(C 1 _6 alkyl), N(    _ alkyl)2, NHC(O)C 1 _6 alkyl,
                                              16
NHC(O)C7_11 aralkyl, NHC(O)OC 1 6_ alkyl, NHC(O)OC7_1 1 aralkyl, OC(O)C1-6
alkyl, OC(O)C711 aralkyl, OC(O)OC1-6 alkyl, OC(O)OC711 aralkyl, C(O)C1-6
alkyl, C(O)C711 aralkyl, C(O)OC1-6 alkyl, C(O)OC711 aralkyl, C1-6 alkyl, C1-6
haloalkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, and C2-6 alkynyl, wherein each C1_6 alkyl, C2-6 alkenyl,
C2-6 alkynyl, and C7-11 aralkyl substituent is optionally substituted with 1, 2 or 3
substituents selected from OH, C1_6 alkoxy, NH2, NH(C 1 _6 alkyl), N(      16 _ alkyl) 2 ,
NHC(O)C 1 _6 alkyl, NHC(O)C7_1 1 aralkyl, NHC(O)OC 1 _6 alkyl, and NHC(O)OC 7 _
11 aralkyl;
        or two Rk substituents bound to a single carbon atom, together with the
carbon atom to which they are both bound, form a carbonyl group;
        m is 0, 1 or 2;
        n, at each occurrence, independently is 0, 1 or 2;
        p is 0, 1 or 2; and
        q is 0, 1 or 2;
        provided the compound is not 6-(4-chlorophenyl)-5-methyl-N-(2-methyl
2-(piperidin-1-yl)propyl)pyridazin-3-amine, N-(2-methyl-2-(piperidin-1
yl)propyl)-6-phenyl-5-propylpyridazin-3-amine or N-(2-methyl-2
morpholinopropyl)-6-phenyl-5-propylpyridazin-3-amine.
2.      The compound of claim 1, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt
thereof, wherein m is 0.
3.      The compound of claim 1, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt
thereof, wherein m is 1.
4.      The compound of claim 3, wherein R8 and R9 are each hydrogen.
5.      The compound of any one of claims 1 to 4, or a pharmaceutically
acceptable salt thereof, wherein R5 and R6 are each C1-6 alkyl.
6.      The compound of claim 5, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt
thereof, wherein R5 and R6 are each methyl.
7.      The compound of any one of claims 1 to 4, or a pharmaceutically
acceptable salt thereof, wherein R5 and R6 together with the carbon atom to
                                         29q4

which they are bound form a group selected from C3-8 cycloalkyl, C3-8
cycloalkenyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl and 3-8 membered
heterocycloalkenyl, each optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 substituents
selected from halogen, CN, oxo, ORa, OC(O)Ra, OC(O)ORa, NRbRc, C(O)Ra,
C(O)ORa, C(O)NRRc, S(O)Ra, SO 2 Ra, SO 2 NRRc, C1-6 alkyl and C1-6
haloalkyl.
8.      The compound of claim 7, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt
thereof, wherein R5 and R6 together with the carbon atom to which they are
bound form C3-8 cycloalkyl optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5
substituents selected from halogen, CN, oxo, ORa, OC(O)Ra, OC(O)ORa,
NRbRC, C(O)Ra, C(O)ORa, C(O)NRRc, S(O)Ra, SO 2 Ra, SO 2 NRRc, C1-6 alkyl
and C1-6 haloalkyl.
9.       The compound of claim 8, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt
thereof, wherein R5 and R6 together with the carbon atom to which they are
bound form a group selected from cyclopropyl, cyclobutyl, cyclopentyl and
cyclohexyl, each optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 substituents
selected from halogen, CN, oxo, ORa, OC(O)Ra, OC(O)ORa, NRbRc, C(O)Ra
C(O)ORa, C(O)NRRc, S(O)Ra, SO 2 Ra, SO 2 NRRc, C1-6 alkyl and C1-6
haloalkyl.
10.     The compound of claim 9, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt
thereof, wherein R5 and R6 together with the carbon atom to which they are
bound form cyclobutyl optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 substituents
selected from halogen, CN, oxo, ORa, OC(O)Ra, OC(O)ORa, NRbRc, C(O)Ra
C(O)ORa, C(O)NRRc, S(O)Ra, SO 2 Ra, SO 2 NRRc, C1-6 alkyl and C1-6
haloalkyl.
11.     The compound of claim 10, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt
thereof, wherein R5 and R6 together with the carbon atom to which they are
bound form cyclobutyl optionally substituted with one or two halogens.
12.     The compound of claim 11, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt
thereof, wherein R5 and R6 together with the carbon atom to which they are
bound form a group selected from cyclobutyl, 3-fluorocyclobutyl and 3,3
difluorocyclobutyl.
                                       PqF;

13.     The compound of claim 10, wherein the compound is of Formula V(a)
or V(b), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof:
                                                  Rm     Rn
                           X           N
                      R2                      N
                           R3                    N          R7
                                                  1
                                       R1        R4
                                   Formula V(a)
                        2x
                                    N
                   R2    XN                     R8    R9
                              R3              N
                                    R1        R4
                                                    Rm      R"
                                   Formula V(b)
wherein Rm and R" are each independently selected from hydrogen, halogen
and C1-6 alkyl.
14.     The compound of claim 13, wherein one of Rm and R" is hydrogen and
the other is halogen.
15.     The compound of claim 14, wherein the halogen and R7 are in a trans
configuration with respect to one another on the cyclobutyl ring.
16.     The compound of claim 14, wherein the halogen and R7 are in a cis
configuration with respect to one another on the cyclobutyl ring.
17.     The compound of any one of claims 13-16, wherein one of Rm and R"
is hydrogen and the other is fluorine.
18.     The compound of any one of claims 1 to 17, or a pharmaceutically
acceptable salt thereof, wherein R7 is phenyl optionally substituted with 1, 2,
3, 4 or 5 substituents selected from halogen, CN, oxo, ORa, OC(O)Ra,
                                          ?W;

OC(O)ORa, OC(O)NRbRc, NRbRc, NRdC(O)Ra, NRdC(O)ORa, NRdC(O)NRbRc,
NRdC(O)C(O)NRbRc, NRdC(S)Ra, NRdC(S)ORa, NRdC(S)NRbRc,
NRdC(NRe)NRbRc, NRdS(O)Ra, NRdSO 2 Ra, NRdSO 2 NRbRc, C(O)Ra, C(O)ORa
C(O)NRbRc, C(S)Ra, C(S)ORa, C(S)NRbRc, C(NRe)NRRc, SRa, S(O)Ra
SO 2 Ra, SO 2 NRRc, C1-6 alkyl, C1-6 haloalkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, C3-8
cycloalkyl, C3-8 cycloalkenyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl, 3-8 membered
heterocycloalkenyl, C610 aryl, C7_11 aralkyl, and 5-10 membered heteroaryl,
wherein each of the C1_6 alkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, C3-8 cycloalkyl, C3-8
cycloalkenyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl, 3-8 membered
heterocycloalkenyl, C610 aryl, C7_11 aralkyl and 5-10 membered heteroaryl
groups is optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 Rf substituents.
19.     The compound of any one of claims 1 to 17, or a pharmaceutically
acceptable salt thereof, wherein R7 is 5-10 membered heteroaryl optionally
substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 substituents selected from halogen, CN, oxo,
ORa, OC(O)Ra, OC(O)ORa, OC(O)NRbRc, NRbRc, NRdC(O)Ra, NRdC(O)ORa
NRdC(O)NRbRc, NRdC(O)C(O)NRbRc, NRdC(S)Ra, NRdC(S)ORa
NRdC(S)NRbRc, NRdC(NRe)NRbRc, NRdS(O)Ra, NRdSO 2 Ra, NRdSO 2 NRbRc,
C(O)Ra, C(O)ORa, C(O)NRbRc, C(S)Ra, C(S)ORa, C(S)NRbRc, C(NRe)NRbRc,
SRa, S(O)Ra, S0 2 Ra, SO 2 NRRc, C1-6 alkyl, C1-6 haloalkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6
alkynyl, C3-8 cycloalkyl, C3-8 cycloalkenyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl, 3-8
membered heterocycloalkenyl, C6-10 aryl, C7-11 aralkyl, and 5-10 membered
heteroaryl, wherein each of the C1-6 alkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, C3-8
cycloalkyl, C3-8 cycloalkenyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl, 3-8 membered
heterocycloalkenyl, C6-10 aryl, C7-11 aralkyl and 5-10 membered heteroaryl
groups is optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 Rf substituents.
20.     The compound of claim 19, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt
thereof, wherein R7 is pyridyl optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5
substituents selected from halogen, CN, oxo, ORa, OC(O)Ra, OC(O)ORa,
OC(O)NRbRc, NRbRc, NRdC(O)Ra, NRdC(O)ORa, NRdC(O)NRbRc,
NRdC(O)C(O)NRbRc, NRdC(S)Ra, NRdC(S)ORa, NRdC(S)NRbRc,
NRdC(NRe)NRbRc, NRdS(O)Ra, NRdSO 2 Ra, NRdSO 2 NRbRc, C(O)Ra, C(O)ORa
C(O)NRbRc, C(S)Ra, C(S)ORa, C(S)NRb Rc, C(NRe)NRRc, SRa, S(O)Ra
SO 2 Ra, SO 2 NRRc, C1-6 alkyl, C1-6 haloalkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, C3-6
                                         297

cycloalkyl, C3-6 cycloalkenyl, 3-6 membered heterocycloalkyl, 3-6 membered
heterocycloalkenyl, phenyl, naphthyl, C7-11 aralkyl, and 5-10 membered
heteroaryl, wherein each of the C1_6 alkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, C3-8
cycloalkyl, C3-8 cycloalkenyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl, 3-8 membered
heterocycloalkenyl, C610 aryl, C7_11 aralkyl and 5-10 membered heteroaryl
groups is optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 Rf substituents.
21.     The compound of claim 20, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt
thereof, wherein R7 is 2-pyridyl optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5
substituents selected from halogen, CN, oxo, ORa, OC(O)Ra, OC(O)ORa,
OC(O)NRbRc, NRbRc, NRdC(O)Ra, NRdC(O)ORa, NRdC(O)NRbRc,
NRdC(O)C(O)NRbRc, NRdC(S)Ra, NRdC(S)ORa, NRdC(S)NRbRc,
NRdC(NRe)NRbRc, NRdS(O)Ra, NRdSO 2 Ra, NRdSO 2 NRbRc, C(O)Ra, C(O)ORa,
C(O)NRbRc, C(S)Ra, C(S)ORa, C(S)NRbRc, C(NRe)NRRc, SRa, S(O)Ra
SO 2 Ra, SO 2 NRRc, C1-6 alkyl, C1-6 haloalkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, C3-6
cycloalkyl, C3-6 cycloalkenyl, 3-6 membered heterocycloalkyl, 3-6 membered
heterocycloalkenyl, phenyl, naphthyl, C7-11 aralkyl, and 5-10 membered
heteroaryl, wherein each of the C1-6 alkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, C3-8
cycloalkyl, C3-8 cycloalkenyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl, 3-8 membered
heterocycloalkenyl, C6-10 aryl, C7-11 aralkyl and 5-10 membered heteroaryl
groups is optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 Rf substituents.
22.     The compound of any one of claims 1 to 21, or a pharmaceutically
acceptable salt thereof, wherein X is a bond.
23.     The compound of claim 22, wherein the compound is of Formula XII(a),
or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof:
                              R1
                    R2
                                   N
                                                    9
                                               N 8 R )m        R7
                                          R3 (CR
                       R3N              N
                                                       R5    R
                                  Formula XII(a).
                                        ?2qR

24.     The compound of any one of claims 1 to 23, or a pharmaceutically
acceptable salt thereof, wherein R2 is phenyl optionally substituted with 1, 2,
3, 4 or 5 substituents selected from halogen, CN, (CH 2)nORa, (CH 2)nOC(O)Ra,
(CH 2)nOC(O)ORa, (CH 2)nOC(O)NRbRc, (CH 2)nNRbRc, (CH 2 )nN RdC(O) Ra,
(CH 2)nN RdC(O)ORa, (CH 2)nN RdC(O)NRbRc, (CH 2)nN RdC(O)C(O)NRbRc,
(CH 2)nN RdC(S)Ra, (CH 2)nN RdC(S)ORa, (CH 2)nN RdC(S)NRbRc,
(CH 2 )nNRdC(NRe)NRbRc, (CH 2 )nNRdS(O)Ra, (CH 2 )nNRdSO 2 Ra,
(CH2)nNRdSO 2 NRRC, (CH 2)nC(O)Ra, (CH 2)nC(O)ORa, (CH 2)nC(O)N RRC,
(CH 2 )nC(S)Ra, (CH 2 )nC(S)ORa, (CH 2 )nC(S)N RRC, (CH 2 )nC(NRe)NRbRc,
(CH2 )nSRa, (CH 2)nS(O)Ra, (CH 2 )nSO 2 Ra, (CH 2)nSO 2 NRRc, C1-6 alkyl, C1-6
haloalkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, (CH 2 )nC3 -8 cycloalkyl, (CH 2)n3-8
membered heterocycloalkyl, (CH 2)nphenyl, (CH 2)nnaphthyl and (CH 2)n5-1 0
membered heteroaryl, wherein each of the C1_6 alkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl,
(CH 2 )nC3 -8 cycloalkyl, (CH 2)n3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl, (CH 2)nphenyl,
(CH 2)nnaphthyl and (CH 2)n5-1 0 membered heteroaryl groups is optionally
substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 Rf substituents.
25.     The compound of any one of claims 1 to 23, or a pharmaceutically
acceptable salt thereof, wherein R2 is 5-10 membered heteroaryl optionally
substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 substituents selected from halogen, CN, oxo,
(CH 2 )nORa, (CH 2)nOC(O)Ra, (CH 2)nOC(O)ORa, (CH 2)nOC(O)N RRC,
(CH 2)nNRbRc, (CH 2)nN RdC(O)Ra, (CH 2)nN RdC(O)ORa, (CH 2)nN RdC(O)NRbRc,
(CH 2)nN RdC(O)C(O)NRbRc, (CH 2)nN RdC(S)Ra, (CH 2)nN RdC(S)ORa,
(CH 2)nN RdC(S)NRbRc, (CH 2)nN RdC(NRe)NRbRc, (CH 2)nNRdS(O) Ra,
(CH 2 )nN RdSO 2 Ra, (CH 2 )nNRdSO 2 N RbRc, (CH 2 )nC(O)Ra, (CH 2 )nC(O)ORa,
(CH 2 )nC(O)NRbRc, (CH 2)nC(S)Ra, (CH 2 )nC(S)ORa, (CH 2 )nC(S)NRbRc,
(CH2)nC(NRe)N RRc, (CH 2 )nSRa, (CH 2 )nS(O)Ra, (CH 2)nSO 2 Ra
(CH 2 )nSO 2 NRbRc, C1-6 alkyl, C1-6 haloalkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, (CH 2 )nC3 _
8 cycloalkyl,  (CH 2)n3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl, (CH 2)nphenyl,
(CH 2)nnaphthyl and (CH 2)n5-1 0 membered heteroaryl, wherein each of the C1
6 alkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, (CH 2 )nC3 -8 cycloalkyl, (CH 2)n3-8 membered
heterocycloalkyl, (CH 2)nphenyl, (CH 2)nnaphthyl and (CH 2)n5-1 0 membered
heteroaryl groups is optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 Rf substituents.
26.     The compound of claim 25, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt
                                           299q

thereof, wherein R2 is selected from pyridyl, pyrimidyl, pyrazyl, pyridazyl,
triazyl, furanyl, pyrrolyl, thiophenyl, thiazolyl, isothiazolyl, thiadiazolyl,
oxazolyl, isoxazolyl, oxadiazolyl, imidazolyl, triazolyl and tetrazolyl, each
optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3 or 4 substituents selected from halogen,
CN, oxo, (CH 2)nORa, (CH 2)nOC(O)Ra, (CH 2 )nOC(O)ORa, (CH 2)nOC(O)NRbRc,
(CH 2 )nNRbRc, (CH 2 )nN RdC(O)Ra, (CH 2 )nN RdC(O)ORa, (CH 2)nN RdC(O)NRbRc,
(CH 2 )nN RdC(O)C(O)NRbRc, (CH 2)nN RdC(S)Ra, (CH 2 )nN RdC(S)ORa,
(CH 2 )nN RdC(S)NRbRc, (CH 2 )nN RdC(N Re)NRbRc, (CH 2 )nNRdS(O) Ra,
(CH2 )nN RdSO 2 Ra, (CH 2 )nNRdSO 2 N RbRc, (CH 2 )nC(O)Ra, (CH 2 )nC(O)ORa,
(CH2 )nC(O)NRbRc, (CH 2)nC(S)Ra, (CH 2 )nC(S)ORa, (CH 2 )nC(S)NRbRc,
(CH 2)nC(NRe)N RRc, (CH 2 )nSRa, (CH 2 )nS(O)Ra, (CH 2 )nSO 2 Ra
(CH 2 )nSO 2 NRbRc, C1-6 alkyl, C1-6 haloalkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, (CH 2 )nC3 _
8 cycloalkyl,  (CH 2)n3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl, (CH 2)nphenyl,
(CH 2)nnaphthyl and (CH 2)n5-1 0 membered heteroaryl, wherein each of the C1_
6 alkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, (CH 2 )nC3 -8 cycloalkyl, (CH 2)n3-8 membered
heterocycloalkyl, (CH 2)nphenyl, (CH 2)nnaphthyl and (CH 2)n5-1 0 membered
heteroaryl groups is optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 Rf substituents.
27.      The compound of claim 26, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt
thereof, wherein R2 is selected from pyridyl, pyrimidyl, pyrazyl, pyridazyl,
triazyl, furanyl, pyrrolyl, thiophenyl, thiazolyl, isothiazolyl, thiadiazolyl,
oxazolyl, isoxazolyl, oxadiazolyl, imidazolyl, triazolyl and tetrazolyl, each
optionally substituted with a substituent selected from (CH 2)nC(O)ORa and
(CH 2)nC(O)NRbRc; and optionally substituted with 1, 2 or 3 additional
substituents selected from halogen, CN, oxo, (CH 2)nORa, (CH 2)nOC(O)Ra
(CH 2)nOC(O)ORa, (CH 2)nOC(O)NRbRc, (CH 2)nNRbRc, (CH 2 )nN RdC(O) Ra,
(CH 2 )nN RdC(O)ORa, (CH 2 )nN RdC(O)NRbRc, (CH 2)nN RdC(O)C(O)NRbRc,
(CH 2 )nN RdC(S)Ra, (CH 2 )nN RdC(S)ORa, (CH 2)nN RdC(S)NRbRc,
(CH 2 )nNRdC(NRe)NRbRc, (CH 2 )nNRdS(O)Ra, (CH 2 )nNRdSO 2 Ra,
(CH 2)nNRdSO 2 NRRC, (CH 2)nC(O)Ra, (CH 2)nC(O)ORa, (CH 2)nC(O)N RRC,
(CH 2 )nC(S)Ra, (CH 2 )nC(S)ORa, (CH 2 )nC(S)N RRC, (CH 2 )nC(NRe)NRbRc,
(CH2 )nSRa, (CH 2)nS(O)Ra, (CH 2 )nSO 2 Ra, (CH 2)nSO 2 NRRc, C1-6 alkyl, C1-6
haloalkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, (CH 2 )nC3 -8 cycloalkyl, (CH 2 )n3-8
membered heterocycloalkyl, (CH 2)nphenyl, (CH 2)nnaphthyl and (CH 2)n5-1 0
                                            nn

membered heteroaryl, wherein each of the C1-6 alkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl,
(CH 2 )nC3 -8 cycloalkyl, (CH 2)n3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl, (CH 2)nphenyl,
(CH 2)nnaphthyl and (CH 2)n5-1 0 membered heteroaryl groups is optionally
substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 Rf substituents.
28.      The compound of claim 27, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt
thereof, wherein R2 is selected from furanyl, pyrrolyl, thiophenyl, thiazolyl,
isothiazolyl, thiadiazolyl, oxazolyl, isoxazolyl, oxadiazolyl, imidazolyl, triazolyl
and tetrazolyl, each optionally substituted with (CH 2)nC(O)NRbRc.
29.      The compound of claim 26, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt
thereof, wherein R2 is selected from pyridyl, pyrimidyl, pyrazyl, pyridazyl,
triazyl, furanyl, pyrrolyl, thiophenyl, thiazolyl, isothiazolyl, thiadiazolyl,
oxazolyl, isoxazolyl, oxadiazolyl, imidazolyl, triazolyl and tetrazolyl, each
optionally substituted with (CH 2)nNRdC(O)Ra, wherein Ra is C1-6 alkyl or 3-8
membered heterocycloalkyl, each optionally substituted with 1, 2 or 3
additional substituents selected from halogen, CN, oxo, (CH 2)nORa,
(CH2)nOC(O)Ra, (CH2)nOC(O)ORa, (CH2)nOC(O)N RRC, (CH2)nNR Rc,
(CH 2 )nNRdC(O)Ra, (CH 2 )nNRdC(O)ORa, (CH 2 )nNRdC(O)NRbRc,
(CH 2)nN RdC(O)C(O)NRbRc, (CH 2)nN RdC(S)Ra, (CH 2 )nN RdC(S)ORa,
(CH 2 )nN RdC(S)NRbRc, (CH 2 )nN RdC(NRe)NRbRc, (CH 2 )nNRdS(O) Ra,
(CH2 )nN RdSO 2 Ra, (CH 2 )nNRdSO 2 N RbRc, (CH 2 )nC(O)Ra, (CH 2 )nC(O)ORa,
(CH2 )nC(O)NRbRc, (CH 2)nC(S)Ra, (CH 2 )nC(S)ORa, (CH 2 )nC(S)NRbRc,
(CH 2)nC(NRe)N RRc, (CH 2 )nSRa, (CH 2 )nS(O)Ra, (CH 2 )nSO 2 Ra
(CH 2 )nSO 2 NRbRc, C1-6 alkyl, C1-6 haloalkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, (CH 2 )nC3
8 cycloalkyl, (CH 2)n3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl, (CH 2)nphenyl,
(CH 2)nnaphthyl and (CH 2)n5-1 0 membered heteroaryl, wherein each of the
C1-6 alkyl, C2_6 alkenyl, C2_6 alkynyl, (CH 2 )nC3 -8 cycloalkyl, (CH 2)n3-8
membered heterocycloalkyl, (CH 2)nphenyl, (CH 2)nnaphthyl and (CH 2)n5-1 0
membered heteroaryl groups is optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 Rf
substituents.
30.      The compound of claim 29, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt
thereof, wherein R2 is is selected from furanyl, pyrrolyl, thiophenyl, thiazolyl,
isothiazolyl, thiadiazolyl, oxazolyl, isoxazolyl, oxadiazolyl, imidazolyl, triazolyl
and tetrazolyl, each optionally substituted with (CH 2)nNRdC(O)Ra, wherein Ra
                                           Rn01

is selected from C1_6 alkyl, C1_6 alkyl-OH and C1_6 alkyl-NH 2, each optionally
substituted with 1, 2 or 3 additional substituents selected from halogen, CN,
(CH 2 )nORa, (CH 2 )nOC(O)Ra, (CH 2 )nOC(O)ORa, (CH 2)nOC(O)N RRC,
(CH 2)nNRbRc, (CH 2)nN RdC(O)Ra, (CH 2)nN RdC(O)ORa, (CH 2)nN RdC(O)NRbRc,
(CH2 )nN RdSO 2 Ra, (CH 2 )nNRdSO 2 N RbRc, (CH 2 )nC(O)Ra, (CH 2 )nC(O)ORa,
(CH2)nC(O)N RRC, (CH 2)nSRa, (CH 2)nS(O)Ra, (CH 2 )nSO 2 Ra, (CH 2 )nSO 2 NRRC,
C1-6 alkyl, C1-6 haloalkyl, C2_6 alkenyl, C2_6 alkynyl, (CH 2 )nC3 -8 cycloalkyl,
(CH 2)n3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl, (CH 2)nphenyl, (CH 2)nnaphthyl and
(CH 2)n5-1 0 membered heteroaryl.
31.     The compound of claim 25, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt
thereof, wherein R2 is selected from indolyl, indazolyl, benzimidazolyl,
benzoxazolyl and benzoisoxazolyl, each optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3 or 4
substituents selected from halogen, CN, oxo, (CH 2)nORa, (CH 2 )nOC(O)Ra
(CH 2)nOC(O)ORa, (CH 2)nOC(O)NRbRc, (CH 2)nNRbRc, (CH 2)nN RdC(O) Ra,
(CH 2)nN RdC(O)ORa, (CH 2)nN RdC(O)NRbRc, (CH 2)nN RdC(O)C(O)NRbRc,
(CH 2)nN RdC(S)Ra, (CH 2)nN RdC(S)ORa, (CH 2)nN RdC(S)NRbRc,
(CH 2 )nNRdC(NRe)NRbRc, (CH 2 )nNRdS(O)Ra, (CH 2 )nNRdSO 2 Ra,
(CH 2)nNRdSO 2 NRRC, (CH 2)nC(O)Ra, (CH 2)nC(O)ORa, (CH 2)nC(O)N RRC,
(CH 2 )nC(S)Ra,   (CH 2 )nC(S)ORa, (CH 2 )nC(S)N RRC, (CH 2 )nC(NRe)NRbRc,
(CH2 )nSRa, (CH 2)nS(O)Ra, (CH 2 )nSO 2 Ra, (CH 2)nSO 2 NRRc, C1-6 alkyl, C1-6
haloalkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, (CH 2 )nC3 -8 cycloalkyl, (CH 2)n3-8
membered heterocycloalkyl, (CH 2)nphenyl, (CH 2)nnaphthyl and (CH 2)n5-1 0
membered heteroaryl, wherein each of the C1-6 alkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl,
(CH 2 )nC3 -8 cycloalkyl, (CH 2)n3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl, (CH 2)nphenyl,
(CH 2)nnaphthyl and (CH 2)n5-1 0 membered heteroaryl groups is optionally
substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 Rf substituents.
32.     The compound of any one of claims 1 to 31, or a pharmaceutically
acceptable salt thereof, wherein R1 is selected from hydrogen, halogen, CN,
CF 3 and methyl.
33.     The compound of claim 32, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt
thereof, wherein R1 is hydrogen.
34.     The compound of any one of claims 1 to 33, or a pharmaceutically
                                          3fl2

acceptable salt thereof, wherein R3 is selected from hydrogen, halogen, CN,
CF 3 and methyl.
35.     The compound of claim 34, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt
thereof, wherein R3 is hydrogen.
36.     The compound of any one of claims 1 to 35, or a pharmaceutically
acceptable salt thereof, wherein R4 is hydrogen.
37.     A compound selected from the compounds in Table 2, or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
38.     A pharmaceutical composition comprising a compound of any one of
claims 1 to 37, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
39.     The pharmaceutical composition of claim 38, wherein the
pharmaceutical composition is formulated for oral, sublingual, subcutaneous,
parenteral, intravenous, intranasal, topical, transdermal, intraperitoneal,
intramuscular, intrapulmonary, vaginal, rectal, or intraocular administration.
40.     The pharmaceutical composition of claim 39, wherein the
pharmaceutical composition is formulated for oral administration.
41.     The use of a compound of any one of claims 1 to 37, or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, for the preparation of a medicament
for the treatment of a disease or condition selected from neuromuscular
disorders, conditions of muscle wasting, muscular myopathies, rehabilitation
related deficits, peripheral vascular disease, peripheral arterial disease, frailty,
muscle atrophy and fatigue, metabolic syndrome, chronic fatigue syndrome.
and obesity.
42.     The use of a compound of any one of claims 1 to 37, or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, for the preparation of a medicament
for the treatment of a disease selected from Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis
(ALS), Spinal Muscular Atrophy (SMA) and myasthenia gravis.
43.      The use of a compound of any one of claims 1 to 37, or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, for the preparation of a medicament
for the treatment of a disease selected from peripheral vascular disease and
peripheral arterial disease.
                                        .qnRq

