   1002003833
                                              ABSTRACT
            An optical device (34, 66, 76) includes an electro-optical layer (48), having an effective
   local index of refraction at any given location within an active area of the electro-optical layer
 5 that is determined by a voltage waveform applied across the electro-optical layer at the location.
   Conductive electrodes (44, 64, 74, 82, 84) extend over opposing first and second sides of the
   electro-optical layer. The electrodes include an array of excitation electrodes, which extend
   along respective, mutually-parallel axes in a predefined direction across the first side of the
   electro- optical layer, and which includes at least first and second electrodes having different,
[0 respective widths in a transverse direction, perpendicular to the axes. Control circuitry (38) is
   coupled to apply respective control voltage waveforms to the excitation electrodes so as to
   generate a specified phase modulation profile in the electro-optical layer.

                    ELECTRICALLY-TUNABLE LENSES AND LENS SYSTEMS
                        CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
             This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application 61/952,226,
  5 filed March 13, 2014; U.S. Provisional Patent Application 61/969,190, filed March 23, 2014;
    and U.S. Provisional Patent Application 61/972,445, filed March 31, 2014. This application is
    also a continuation-in-part of PCT Patent Application PCT/IB2013/058989, filed September 30,
    2013 (published as WO 2014/049577), which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent
    Application 61/707,962, filed September 30, 2012. All of these related applications are
 [0 incorporated herein by reference.
             Also incorporated herein by reference, in its entirety, is PCT/IB2015/051766 (published
    as WO 2015/136458), filed on March 11, 2015.
                                      FIELD OF THE INVENTION
             The present invention relates generally to optical devices, and particularly to
 [5 electrically-tunable lenses.
                                              BACKGROUND
             Tunable lenses are optical elements whose optical characteristics, such as the focal
    length and/or the location of the optical axis, can be adjusted during use, typically under
    electronic control. Such lenses may be used in a wide variety of applications. For example, U.S.
 !0 Patent 7,475,985, whose disclosure is incorporated herein by reference, describes the use of an
    electro-active lens for the purpose of vision correction.
             Electrically-tunable lenses typically contain a thin layer of a suitable electro-optical
    material, i.e., a material whose local effective index of refraction changes as a function of the
    voltage applied across the material. An electrode or array of electrodes is used to apply the
25  desired voltages in order to locally adjust the refractive index to the desired value. Liquid
    crystals are the electro-optical material that is most commonly used for this purpose (wherein
    the applied voltage rotates the molecules, which changes the axis of birefringence and thus
    changes the effective refractive index), but other materials, such as polymer gels, with similar
    electro-optical properties can alternatively be used for this purpose.
30           Some tunable lens designs use an electrode array to define a grid of pixels in the liquid
    crystal, similar to the sort of pixel grid used in liquid-crystal displays. The refractive indices of
    the individual pixels may be electrically controlled to give a desired phase modulation profile.
    (The term "phase modulation profile" is used in the present description and in the claims to
    mean the distribution of the local phase shifts that are applied to light passing through the layer
                                                       1

as the result of the locally-variable effective refractive index over the area of the electro-optical
layer
                                                  la

       WO 2015/136458                                                               PCT/IB2015/051766
    of the tunable lens.) Lenses using grid arrays of this sort are described, for example, in the above
    mentioned U.S. Patent 7,475,985.
             The above-mentioned PCT International Publication WO 2014/049577 describes optical
    devices that include an electro-optical layer, such as a liquid crystal, having an effective local
  5 index of refraction at any given location within the active area of the electro-optical layer that is
    determined by a voltage waveform applied across the electro-optical layer at the given location.
    An array of excitation electrodes, including parallel conductive stripes extending over the active
    area, is disposed over one or both sides of the electro-optical layer. Control circuitry applies
    respective control voltage waveforms to the excitation electrodes and is configured to
 LO concurrently modify the respective control voltage waveforms applied to excitation electrodes so
    as to generate a specified phase modulation profile in the electro-optical layer.
                                                 SUMMARY
             Embodiments of the present invention that are described hereinbelow provide improved
    electrically-tunable optical devices.
 L5          There is therefore provided, in accordance with an embodiment of the invention, an
    optical device, which includes an electro-optical layer, having an effective local index of
    refraction at any given location within an active area of the electro-optical layer that is determined
    by a voltage waveform applied across the electro-optical layer at the location.             Conductive
    electrodes extend over opposing first and second sides of the electro-optical layer. The electrodes
 !0 include an array of excitation electrodes, which extend along respective, mutually-parallel axes
    in a predefined direction across the first side of the electro-optical layer, and which includes at
    least first and second electrodes having different, respective widths in a transverse direction,
    perpendicular to the axes.      Control circuitry is coupled to apply respective control voltage
    waveforms to the excitation electrodes so as to generate a specified phase modulation profile in
25  the electro-optical layer.
             In some embodiments, the respective widths of the electrodes differ from one another
    with a standard variation that is at least 10% of a mean width of all the electrodes.
             Additionally or alternatively, the respective widths of at least some of the electrodes vary
    along the respective axes of the electrodes.
30           In some embodiments, the array of excitation electrodes includes a first array of first
    excitation electrodes, extending in a first direction across the first side of the electro-optical layer.
    The conductive electrodes includes a second array of second excitation electrodes, which extend
    in a second direction, perpendicular to the first direction, across the second side of the electro
                                                      2

        WO 2015/136458                                                           PCT/IB2015/051766
    optical layer, and which includes at least third and fourth electrodes having different, respective
    widths.
             In other embodiments, the conductive electrodes include a common electrode, positioned
    over the active area on the second side of the electro-optical layer. Some embodiments provides
  5 apparatus including first and second optical devices of this sort, wherein the first and second
    optical devices are arranged in series, and wherein the excitation electrodes in the second optical
    device are oriented in a direction orthogonal to the excitation electrodes in the first optical device.
    In one embodiment, the first and second optical devices include respective, first and second
    electro-optical layers that are polarization-dependent and are arranged such that the first optical
 10 device modulates light in a first polarization, while the second optical device modulates the light
    in a second polarization, different from the first polarization, and the apparatus includes a
    polarization rotator positioned between the first and second optical devices so as to rotate the
    light from the first polarization to the second polarization.
             In some embodiments, the first and second electrodes have respective first and second
 15 widths, such that the first width is at least twice the second width, and the control circuitry is
    configured to apply the respective control voltage waveforms so that the specified phase
    modulation profile has an abrupt transition that occurs in a vicinity of at least one of the second
    electrodes. In one such embodiment, generation of the specified phase modulation profile causes
    the device to function as a Fresnel lens. In a disclosed embodiment, the electrodes include parallel
 !0 stripes of a transparent conductive material having gaps between the stripes of a predefined gap
    width, and the second width of the second electrodes is no greater than four times the gap width.
    Additionally or alternatively, the second width of the second electrodes is less than a layer
    thickness of the electro-optical layer.
             In one embodiment, the phase modulation profile has multiple abrupt transitions that
25  occur in respective vicinities of corresponding ones of the second electrodes, and the electro
    optical layer is configured to provide a range of phase modulation values that is proportional to
    a relation between a density of the second electrodes relative to a spacing between the abrupt
    transitions in the phase modulation function.
             In some embodiments, the electro-optical layer includes a liquid crystal.
30           There is also provided, in accordance with an embodiment of the invention, an optical
    device, which includes an electro-optical layer as described above, having opposing first and
    second sides and a layer thickness equal to a distance between the first and second sides.
    Conductive electrodes extend over the first and second sides of the electro-optical layer. The
                                                      3

       WO 2015/136458                                                            PCT/IB2015/051766
    electrodes include an array of excitation electrodes including parallel stripes of a transparent
    conductive material having gaps between the stripes of a gap width that is less than the layer
    thickness of the electro-optical layer. Control circuitry is coupled to apply respective control
    voltage waveforms to the excitation electrodes so as to generate a specified phase modulation
  5 profile in the electro-optical layer.
             In a disclosed embodiment, the gap width is less than half the layer thickness.
             There is additionally provided, in accordance with an embodiment of the invention, an
    optical device, which includes an electro-optical layer as described above, and a buffer layer
    including a transparent dielectric material having an interior surface adjacent to the first side of
 LO the electro-optical layer and an exterior surface opposite the interior surface and a thickness of at
    least 0.2 pm between the interior and exterior surfaces. Conductive electrodes are disposed over
    the first and second sides of the electro-optical layer and include an array of excitation electrodes
    extending across the exterior surface of the buffer layer, which separates the excitation electrodes
    from the electro-optical layer. Control circuitry is coupled to apply respective control voltage
 L5 waveforms to the excitation electrodes so as to generate a specified phase modulation profile in
    the electro-optical layer.
             In a disclosed embodiment, the excitation electrodes include parallel stripes of a
    transparent conductive material having gaps between the stripes of a predefined gap width, and
    the buffer layer has a buffer layer thickness that is more than one-fourth of the gap width.
  0          There is further provided, in accordance with an embodiment of the invention, an optical
    device, which includes an electro-optical layer as described above. A first array of first excitation
    electrodes extend along respective, mutually-parallel first axes in a first direction over the active
    area on a first side of the electro-optical layer. A second array of second excitation electrodes
    extend along respective, mutually-parallel second axes in a second direction, orthogonal to the
25  first direction, over the active area on a second side of the electro-optical layer, opposite the first
    side. Control circuitry is coupled to apply respective control voltage waveforms to the excitation
    electrodes and is configured to concurrently modify the respective control voltage waveforms
    applied to both the first excitation electrodes and the second excitation electrodes so as to generate
    a specified phase modulation profile in the electro-optical layer.
30           In some embodiments, the phase modulation profile is defined as a function that is
    separable into first and second component functions, which respectively vary along the first and
    second axes, and the control voltage waveforms applied to the first and second excitation
    electrodes are specified in accordance with the first and second component functions,
                                                      4

       WO 2015/136458                                                             PCT/IB2015/051766
    respectively. In one embodiment, the first and second component functions are defined in terms
    of a set of component waveforms that are selected so as to correspond to different, respective
    phase shifts in the electro-optical layer, such that the phase modulation profile includes a sum of
    the respective phase shifts due to the first and second component functions at each location within
  5 the active area. Typically, the component waveforms have different, respective duty cycles.
            Additionally or alternatively, the component waveforms are selected so that the sum of
    the respective phase shifts making up the phase modulation profile is a modular sum with a
    modulus of 2nt, wherein n is an integer and may have different, respective values for at least
    some different pairs of the first and second component functions.
 LO         In some embodiments, the control voltage waveforms are selected so that the phase
    modulation profile contains abrupt phase transitions, and the device functions as a Fresnel lens.
    The control circuitry can be configured to apply the respective control voltage waveforms with
    opposite polarities to pairs of mutually-adjacent excitation electrodes in a vicinity of the abrupt
    phase transitions.
 L5         There is moreover provided, in accordance with an embodiment of the invention, optical
    apparatus, which includes a static lens, including a transparent material having a curved exterior
    surface with a specified refractive power and an interior surface containing at least first and
    second overlapping indentations. A dynamic lens is contained in the static lens and has a variable
    phase modulation profile, which modifies the refractive power of the static lens. The dynamic
 !0 lens includes an electro-optical layer, as described above, and first and second transparent
    substrates, which are disposed respectively on the first and second sides of the electro-optical
    layer and are sized and shaped to fit respectively into the first and second indentations in the static
    lens, and which include electrodes configured to apply voltages across the electro-optical layer.
    Control circuitry is coupled to apply the voltages to the electrodes so as to generate the
25  modulation profile in the electro-optical layer.
            In a disclosed embodiment, the control circuitry includes electrical connections disposed
    at an edge of the first transparent substrate, and the interior surface of the static lens contains a
    groove into which the electrical connections fit.
            There is furthermore provided, in accordance with an embodiment of the invention, a
30  method for producing an optical device. The method includes providing an electro-optical layer,
    having an effective local index of refraction at any given location within an active area of the
    electro-optical layer that is determined by a voltage waveform applied across the electro-optical
    layer at the location. Conductive electrodes are positioned over opposing first and second sides
                                                      5

        WO 2015/136458                                                           PCT/IB2015/051766
    of the electro-optical layer. The electrodes include an array of excitation electrodes, which extend
    along respective, mutually-parallel axes in a predefined direction across the first side of the
    electro-optical layer, and which includes at least first and second electrodes having different,
    respective widths in a transverse direction, perpendicular to the axes. Control circuitry is coupled
  5 to apply respective control voltage waveforms to the excitation electrodes so as to generate a
    specified phase modulation profile in the electro-optical layer.
             There is also provided, in accordance with an embodiment of the invention, a method for
    producing an optical device, which includes providing an electro-optical layer as described
    above, the electro-optical layer having opposing first and second sides and a layer thickness equal
 LO to a distance between the first and second sides. Conductive electrodes are positioned over the
    first and second sides of the electro-optical layer. The electrodes include an array of excitation
    electrodes including parallel stripes of a transparent conductive material having gaps between the
    stripes of a gap width that is less than the layer thickness of the electro-optical layer. Control
    circuitry is coupled to apply respective control voltage waveforms to the excitation electrodes so
 L5 as to generate a specified phase modulation profile in the
             There is additionally provided, in accordance with an embodiment of the invention, a
    method for producing an optical device, which includes providing an electro-optical layer as
    described above, and positioning a buffer layer including a transparent dielectric material having
    a thickness of at least 0.2 pm so that an interior surface of the buffer layer is adjacent to the first
 !0 side of the electro-optical layer. Conductive electrodes are positioned over the first and second
    sides of the electro-optical layer. The conductive electrodes include an array of excitation
    electrodes extending across an exterior surface of the buffer layer, which separates the excitation
    electrodes from the electro-optical layer. Control circuitry is coupled to apply respective control
    voltage waveforms to the excitation electrodes so as to generate a specified phase modulation
25  profile in the electro-optical layer.
             There is further provided, in accordance with an embodiment of the invention, a method
    for producing an optical device, which includes providing an electro-optical layer as described
    above, and positioning a first array of first excitation electrodes to extend along respective,
    mutually-parallel first axes in a first direction over the active area on a first side of the electro
30  optical layer. A second array of second excitation electrodes is positioned to extend along
    respective, mutually-parallel second axes in a second direction, orthogonal to the first direction,
    over the active area on a second side of the electro-optical layer, opposite the first side. Control
    circuitry is coupled to apply respective control voltage waveforms to the excitation electrodes
                                                      6

       WO 2015/136458                                                             PCT/IB2015/051766
    and to concurrently modify the respective control voltage waveforms applied to both the first
    excitation electrodes and the second excitation electrodes so as to generate a specified phase
    modulation profile in the electro-optical layer.
            There is moreover provided, in accordance with an embodiment of the invention, a
  5 method for producing an optical device, which includes providing a static lens, including a
    transparent material having a curved exterior surface with a specified refractive power and an
    interior surface containing at least first and second overlapping indentations. A dynamic lens is
    embedded in the static lens, the dynamic lens having a variable phase modulation profile, which
    modifies the refractive power of the static lens. The dynamic lens includes an electro-optical
 LO layer, as described above, and first and second transparent substrates, which are disposed
    respectively on the first and second sides of the electro-optical layer and are sized and shaped to
    fit respectively into the first and second indentations in the static lens, and which include
    electrodes configured to apply voltages across the electro-optical layer. Control circuitry is
    coupled to apply the voltages to the electrodes so as to generate the modulation profile in the
 L5 electro-optical layer.
            There is furthermore provided, in accordance with an embodiment of the invention, an
    optical device, including an electro-optical layer as described above, and conductive electrodes
    extending over opposing first and second sides of the electro-optical layer. The electrodes include
    an array of excitation electrodes, which extend along respective, mutually-parallel axes in a
 !0 predefined direction across the first side of the electro-optical layer, while respective center points
    of the electrodes are displaced transversely by an amount that varies along the respective axes of
    the electrodes. Control circuitry is coupled to apply respective control voltage waveforms to the
    excitation electrodes so as to generate a specified phase modulation profile in the electro-optical
    layer.
25          In one embodiment, the array of the electrodes on the first side of the electro-optical layer
    includes a first array of first excitation electrodes, extending in a first direction across the first
    side of the electro-optical layer, and the conductive electrodes include a second array of second
    excitation electrodes, which extend in a second direction, perpendicular to the first direction,
    across the second side of the electro-optical layer, while respective center points of the second
30  excitation electrodes are displaced transversely along the respective axes thereof.
            There is also provided, in accordance with an embodiment of the invention, an optical
    device, including an electro-optical layer as described above, and conductive electrodes
    extending over the first and second sides of the electro-optical layer. The electrodes including
                                                      7

       WO 2015/136458                                                          PCT/IB2015/051766
    an array of excitation electrodes including parallel stripes of a transparent conductive material.
    Control circuitry is coupled to apply respective control voltage waveforms to the excitation
    electrodes so as to generate in the electro-optical layer a specified phase modulation profile
    containing abrupt phase transitions, while applying the respective control voltage waveforms
  5 with opposite polarities to pairs of mutually-adjacent excitation electrodes in a vicinity of the
    abrupt phase transitions.
            In a disclosed embodiment, the control voltage waveforms are selected so as to cause the
    device to function as a Fresnel lens.
            There is additionally provided, in accordance with an embodiment of the invention, a
 LO method for producing an optical device. The method includes providing an electro-optical layer,
    as described above, and positioning conductive electrodes extending over opposing first and
    second sides of the electro-optical layer. The electrodes include an array of excitation electrodes,
    which extend along respective, mutually-parallel axes in a predefined direction across the first
    side of the electro-optical layer, while respective center points of the electrodes are displaced
 L5 transversely by an amount that varies along the respective axes of the electrodes.           Control
    circuitry is coupled to apply respective control voltage waveforms to the excitation electrodes so
    as to generate a specified phase modulation profile in the electro-optical layer.
            There is further provided, in accordance with an embodiment of the invention, a method
    for producing an optical device, which includes providing an electro-optical layer, as described
 !0 above, and positioning electrodes over opposing first and second sides of the electro-optical layer.
    The electrodes include an array of excitation electrodes including parallel stripes of a transparent
    conductive material. Control circuitry is coupled to apply respective control voltage waveforms
    to the excitation electrodes so as to generate in the electro-optical layer a specified phase
    modulation profile containing abrupt phase transitions, while applying the respective control
25  voltage waveforms with opposite polarities to pairs of mutually-adjacent excitation electrodes in
    a vicinity of the abrupt phase transitions.
            There is moreover provided, in accordance with an embodiment of the invention, optical
    apparatus, which includes first and second optical devices, which have respective first and second
    polarization axes and first and second cylinder axes and are arranged in series such that the first
30  and second polarization axes are mutually non-parallel and the first and second cylinder axes are
    mutually non-parallel. Each of the optical devices includes a polarization-dependent electro
    optical layer, having an effective local index of refraction, for light that is polarized along the
    respective polarization axis and is incident at any given location within an active area of the
                                                     8

        WO 2015/136458                                                          PCT/IB2015/051766
    electro-optical layer, that is determined by a voltage applied across the electro-optical layer at the
    location. Conductive electrodes extend over opposing first and second sides of the electro-optical
    layer. The electrodes include an array of excitation electrodes, which is configured to apply
    respective voltages across the excitation electrodes so as to generate in the electro-optical layer a
  5 cylindrical phase modulation profile oriented along the respective cylinder axis. A polarization
    rotator is positioned between the first and second optical devices so as to rotate a polarization of
    light that has passed through the first optical device and is parallel to the first polarization axis,
    in order to align the polarization of the light with the second polarization axis.
            In some embodiments, the array of excitation electrodes includes an array of parallel
 LO stripes of a transparent, conductive material extending across the first side of the electro-optical
    layer in a direction parallel to the respective cylinder axis, and the conductive electrodes include
    a common electrode, positioned over the active area on the second side of the electro-optical
    layer. Typically, the first and second polarization axes are mutually perpendicular and the first
    and second cylinder axes are mutually perpendicular.
 L5         The present invention will be more fully understood from the following detailed
    description of the embodiments thereof, taken together with the drawings in which:
                             BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
            Fig. 1 is a schematic side view of an optical system, in accordance with an embodiment
    of the present invention;
  M         Fig. 2A is a schematic sectional view of an electrically-tunable lens, in accordance with
    an embodiment of the present invention;
            Fig. 2B is a schematic frontal view of electrodes used in the device of Fig. 2A;
            Fig. 3A is a schematic frontal view of a compound lens containing static and electrically
    tunable components, in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention;
25          Fig. 3B is a schematic sectional view of the static component of the compound lens of
    Fig. 3A, taken along the line 111-111 that is shown in Fig. 3A;
            Fig. 3C is a schematic sectional view of the electrically-tunable component of the
    compound lens of Fig. 3A, taken along the line III-III that is shown in Fig. 3A;
            Figs. 4A and 4B are schematic frontal views of electrodes formed on opposing sides of
30  an electrically-tunable lens, in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention;
            Fig. 4C is a schematic frontal view of the device of Figs. 4A and 4B, showing a
    superposition of the electrodes on the opposing sides of the device, in accordance with an
    embodiment of the present invention;
                                                      9

       WO 2015/136458                                                           PCT/IB2015/051766
            Figs. 5A-5D are plots that schematically show the point spread functions of retinal images
    formed using the device of Figs. 4A-4C for different levels of pixel size variation, in accordance
    with an embodiment of the present invention;
            Figs. 6A and 6B are schematic frontal views of electrodes formed on opposing sides of
  5 an electrically-tunable lens, in accordance with another embodiment of the present invention;
            Fig. 6C is a schematic frontal view of the device of Figs. 6A and 6B, showing a
    superposition of the electrodes on the opposing sides of the device, in accordance with an
    embodiment of the present invention;
            Figs. 7A and 7B are schematic frontal views of electrodes formed on opposing sides of
 LO an electrically-tunable lens, in accordance with an alternative embodiment of the present
    invention;
            Fig. 7C is a schematic frontal view of the device of Figs. 7A and 7B, showing a
    superposition of the electrodes on the opposing sides of the device, in accordance with an
    embodiment of the present invention;
 L5         Fig. 8 is a schematic frontal view of electrodes in an electrically-tunable lens, in
    accordance with an embodiment of the present invention;
            Fig. 9 is a schematic frontal view of electrodes in an electrically-tunable lens, in
    accordance with another embodiment of the present invention;
            Fig. 10 is a plot that schematically shows variation in phase modulation between pixels
 !0 in the device of Fig. 8 and in a device having pixels of uniform width, in accordance with an
    embodiment of the present invention;
            Fig. 11 is a plot that schematically shows variations in phase modulation between adjacent
    electrodes of an electrically-tunable lens for different gap widths between the electrodes, in
    accordance with an embodiment of the present invention;
25          Fig. 12 is a schematic sectional view of an electrically-tunable lens comprising a buffer
    layer between the electrodes and a liquid crystal in the lens, in accordance with an alternative
    embodiment of the present invention;
            Fig. 13 is a plot that schematically shows variation in phase modulation between pixels
    in the device of Fig. 12 and in a device without a buffer layer, in accordance with an embodiment
30  of the present invention;
            Figs. 14A and 14B are schematic frontal views of electrodes formed on opposing sides of
    an electrically-tunable lens, in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention;
                                                     10

       WO 2015/136458                                                            PCT/IB2015/051766
            Fig. 14C is a schematic frontal view of the device of Figs. 14A and 14B, showing a
    superposition of the electrodes on the opposing sides of the device, in accordance with an
    embodiment of the present invention;
            Fig. 15 is a schematic representation of a phase modulation function generated by the
  5 device of Figs. 14A-14C when driven in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention;
            Fig. 16 is a plot that schematically illustrates a phase modulation curve of the device of
    Figs. 14A-14C as a function of the voltage applied across the electrodes, in accordance with an
    embodiment of the present invention;
            Figs. 17A-17D are plots that schematically illustrate voltage waveforms applied to the
 LO electrodes of Fig. 14A, in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention;
            Figs. 18A-18D are plots that schematically illustrate voltage waveforms applied to the
    electrodes of Fig. 14B, in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention;
            Figs. 19A-19G are plots that schematically illustrate voltage waveforms generated across
    the liquid crystal in an electrically-tunable lens as a result of applying different combinations of
 L5 the waveforms of Figs. 17A-17D and Figs. 18A-18D to the electrodes; and
            Fig. 20 is a schematic side view of an optical system, in accordance with another
    embodiment of the invention.
                          DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF EMBODIMENTS
                                                 OVERVIEW
  0         Electrically-tunable lenses using an electro-optical material with a pixel grid can, in
    principle, generate any desired phase modulation profile, within the limits of the achievable range
    of the local refractive index and the pitch of the pixels. Realization of practical lenses for many
    applications, however, such as for ophthalmic use, requires a large addressable grid of very small
    pixels, for example, an array of at least 400 X 400 pixels with a pitch of 50 pm or less.
25          In liquid-crystal display (LCD) panels, the pixels are typically arranged in a matrix of N
    rows and M columns. Each of the N*M pixels can receive a set of possible values (gray levels),
    independent of all other pixels. Different pixel values are obtained by altering the local voltages
    applied to the liquid crystal (LC) layer. Typically the voltage is time-varying and alternating in
    sign (AC), in some cases at a rate faster than the LC response time, and the LC responds to the
30  effective average applied voltage as long as the average voltage is above a certain threshold.
            Embodiments of the present invention that are described herein provide novel electrically
    tunable optical devices that are able to achieve enhanced optical performance relative to devices
                                                     11

        WO 2015/136458                                                            PCT/IB2015/051766
    that are known in the art. The disclosed devices may be configured to operate as cylindrical
    lenses (with focusing along one axis, using an array of stripe electrodes) or to emulate spherical
    lenses, with dual-axis focusing. Both the focal power and the location of the optical axis, i.e., the
    effective central point or axis of the lens defined in this manner, can be changed freely and rapidly
  5 by application of appropriate control voltages.          The disclosed embodiments build on the
    principles set forth in the above-mentioned PCT/IB2013/058989, while adding novel and
    improved features.       Devices constructed in accordance with the present embodiments are
    advantageous particularly in ophthalmic lens systems but may alternatively be used in other
    applications.
 LO          Generally speaking, the disclosed devices (which are referred to herein as electrically
    tunable lenses) can be configured to apply any phase modulation profile that is separable. A two
    dimensional phase modulation profile e LO(xY) is separable if it can be decomposed into a product
    of two one-dimensional functions, eL0 (xY) = eior(x) - et0 yl       . In other words, the disclosed
    devices are able to apply any phase modulation profile that is defined as a function that is
 L5 separable into two component functions that vary along respective, mutually-orthogonal axes,
    and the phase modulation profile will then comprise a sum of the respective phase shifts due to
    the first and second component functions. As phase is a cyclical function, with period 27r, the
    term "sum" should be understood in this context as including modular summation, with modulo
    2nr, wherein n is an integer. In some embodiments, n may have different, respective values for
 !0 at least some different pairs of the first and second component functions.
             In some of the disclosed embodiments, an optical device comprises an electro-optical
    layer, meaning, as explained above, that the local effective index of refraction at any given
    location within the active area of the layer is determined by the voltage applied across the layer
    in the vicinity of the location. Typically, the electro-optical layer comprises a liquid crystal (LC),
25  possibly a polarization-independent liquid crystal layer (such as a cholesteric LC layer), although
    other types of electro-optical materials may alternatively be used.          A common electrode is
    positioned over the active area on one side of the electro-optical layer. An array of excitation
    electrodes, made from a conductive material and having mutually-parallel axes, extends over the
    active area on the opposite side of the electro-optical layer.
30           To drive and modify the phase modulation profile of the electro-optical layer, control
    circuitry applies respective control voltages to the excitation electrodes.          Typically, each
    excitation electrode is individually connected to and controlled by the control circuitry, so that
    the voltage waveforms applied to several or even all of the excitation electrodes can be modified
                                                      12

        WO 2015/136458                                                            PCT/IB2015/051766
    concurrently.     This configuration provides an optical element of arbitrary, tunable one
    dimensional profile (such as a cylindrical lens), with a resolution limited only by the distance
    between the electrodes and the thickness of the electro-optical layer. The phase modulation
    properties of the device can be modified at a rate limited only by the speed of the control circuitry
  5 and the response time of the electro-optical layer.
            In some embodiments, two devices of this type are superimposed at right angles, with the
    excitation electrodes in one device oriented in a direction orthogonal to those in the other device,
    in order to provide apparatus capable of emulating a spherical lens under the paraxial
    approximation.
 LO         In other embodiments, an optical device comprises an electro-optical layer with first and
    second arrays of excitation electrodes on opposite sides of the layer, with the second array
    oriented in a direction orthogonal to the first array. Control circuitry applies respective control
    voltage waveforms to the excitation electrodes in both arrays and is capable of modifying the
    control voltages applied to multiple excitation electrodes (and possibly all of the excitation
 L5 electrodes) on both of the sides of the electro-optical layer.           The control circuitry may
    concurrently modify the respective control voltage waveforms applied to the excitation electrodes
    in both the first and second arrays so as to generate a specified phase modulation profile in the
    electro-optical layer.
            In these latter embodiments, no time-division multiplexing scheme is required, and both
 !0 row and column voltage waveforms are data-dependent. The voltage waveforms are chosen to
    create a linear phase response in the electro-optical material. Formally stated, the term "linear
    phase response," used in connection with voltage waveforms applied to the electro-optical layer,
    means that when a set of voltages waveforms      {         iVx=(t)}
                                                                  is applied to a first set of electrodes,
    corresponding to a first predefined set of phase values   {0i } 1   , and a set of voltage waveforms
25  {Vyj(t)}m     is applied to a second set of electrodes, positioned orthogonally to the first set of
                                                                                     M
    electrodes, corresponding to a second predefined set of phase values      {0Y,7}>   , then for each i
    1..N and j    1. .M, the phase modulation profile TLc{V(t)} for light passing through the electro
    optical layer when the voltage waveform V(t) is applied to it will be TLc{VX,()           -  yj
    e i(0Xj+0Yj).
30          Thus, in distinction to LCD panels that are known in the art, both the X- and Y-axis
    electrodes are driven with data-dependent voltage waveforms, and all electrodes can be driven
                                                    13

       WO 2015/136458                                                           PCT/IB2015/051766
    concurrently and independently. The term "concurrently," as used in this context, means that the
    driving waveforms are applied to multiple pixels, in different rows and columns of the array
    defined by the electrodes, at the same time, without time-division multiplexing.            The term
    "independently" means that a different, data-dependent waveform may be applied to each
  5 electrode, along both X- and Y-axes. The control circuitry may apply the respective voltages to
    different ones of the electrodes at different amplitudes and/or with temporal waveforms, typically
    having different duty cycles. (The term "duty cycle," as used in the present description and in
    the claims, refers to the fraction of the time during each period of a given waveform in which the
    voltage of the waveform is non-zero.)
 LO         Some of the embodiments that are described herein are directed at achieving smooth,
    continuous phase modulation, by reducing sharp phase transitions and diffraction effects that can
    occur due to the pixelated structure imposed by the electrodes in the device. In addition or
    alternatively, some of the present embodiments are directed to avoiding ghost images caused by
    light scattering from periodic structures, such as the pixels of an electronically-tunable lens, by
 L5 avoiding the use of structures with distinct periods. For example, instead of the uniform stripe
    electrodes used in devices that are known in the art, in some embodiments of the present
    invention, the excitation electrodes have different, respective widths (when measured in the
    transverse direction, perpendicular to the long axes of the electrodes). Different electrodes may
    have different widths or, in some cases, the widths of at least some of the electrodes vary along
 !0 the respective axes of the electrodes themselves. Additionally or alternatively, when the phase
    modulation profile of the device is meant to include abrupt transitions, as in a Fresnel lens profile,
    these transitions may be made to occur at electrodes with narrow widths, relative to the other
    electrodes, in order to give sharper, more precise transitions.
            Abrupt phase transitions also arise at undesired locations in pixelated lens devices due to
25  the gaps between adjacent electrodes.        In some embodiments of the present invention, this
    problem is addressed by narrowing the gap width, typically to less than the layer thickness of the
    electro-optical layer, and possibly to less than half the layer thickness.           Additionally or
    alternatively, a buffer layer, comprising a transparent dielectric material, is interposed between
    the excitation electrodes and the electro-optical layer and thus smooths the phase transitions in
30  the areas of the electro-optical layer that are adjacent to the gaps between the electrodes.
                                           SYSTEM DESCRIPTION
            Fig. 1 is schematic side view of an optical system 20, in accordance with an embodiment
    of the present invention. In the pictured embodiment, system 20 is configured to function as an
                                                     14

       WO 2015/136458                                                           PCT/IB2015/051766
    ophthalmic lens, which provides dynamic correction for the vision of an eye 22 of a user. This
    embodiment is just one non-limiting example, however, of possible applications of the principles
    of the present invention.
             System 20 comprises "static" lenses 24, 26 and 28, with a "dynamic" lens 34 embedded
  5 in lens 26. Although three static lenses are shown here for the sake of completeness, in many
    applications only one or two static lenses are required, and it will often be sufficient to use a
    single static lens, such as lens 26, in which the dynamic lens is embedded. Dynamic lens 34
    comprises one or more electrically-tunable optical devices, which may be of any of the suitable
    forms that are described herein. Lenses 24, 26 and 28 are "static" in the sense that their refractive
 LO powers are fixed. Lens 34 is dynamic in that it has a variable phase modulation profile, which
    modifies the refractive power of optical system 20. Lenses 24, 26 and 28 provide the baseline
    refractive power of system 20, which is dynamically adjusted by operation of lens 34.
             A control unit (not shown) controls dynamic lens 34 so as to tune its optical power and
    alignment. For example, the optical power may be increased or decreased to accommodate the
 L5 distance at which eye 22 is attempting to focus. Lens 34 may be set to emulate a spherical lens,
    possibly with the addition of aspheric components. Additionally or alternatively, lens 34 may
    function as an astigmatic lens.
             As another example, which is illustrated in Fig. 1, the optical center line of dynamic lens
    34 may be shifted transversely, so that the optical axis of system 20 shifts from a baseline axis
 !0 30 to a deviated axis 32. This sort of axis shift can be applied, possibly in conjunction with
    tracking of the eye, to dynamically align the optical axis of the system with the user's gaze angle.
             More generally speaking, lens 34 can be controlled, by application of appropriate control
    voltages, to implement substantially any desired phase profile that is separable into horizontal
    and vertical components, as long as the range of phase shifts in the profile is achievable by the
25  range of refractive index variation and the thickness of the electro-optical layer (or layers) in
    dynamic lens 34. To reduce the required range of phase shifts, the control voltages may be chosen
    so that lens 34 operates as a Fresnel lens.
             Figs. 2A and 2B schematically show details of electrically-tunable dynamic lens 34, in
    accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. Fig. 2A is a sectional view, while Fig.
30  2B is a frontal view of excitation electrodes 44 used in the lens 34. In this example, excitation
    electrodes 44 are formed on only one side of an electro-optical layer 48 in lens 34, with a common
    electrode 46 on the other side, so that the pictured components of lens 34 will function as a
    dynamic cylindrical lens. In such a case, lens 34 will typically comprise two such cylindrical
                                                    15

        WO 2015/136458                                                           PCT/IB2015/051766
    lenses, with their axes oriented at right angles to one another in order to emulate a two
    dimensional lens. Alternatively, lens 34 may comprise two arrays of excitation electrodes on
    opposing sides the electro-optical layer, as is shown and described in greater detail hereinbelow.
             A pair of cylindrical lenses in series may be arranged to emulate a two-dimensional lens
  5 in a number of different ways: When the electro-optical layer is polarization-dependent (i.e.,
    modulates light only in a certain polarization), the two cylindrical lenses may be configured and
    mounted so that their respective polarization axes are mutually parallel, even though the optical
    cylinder axes are orthogonal. Alternatively, when the first and second cylindrical lenses have
    non-parallel axes of polarization (for example, with the polarization axes parallel to the respective
 LO cylinder axes), an additional optical element is positioned between the two cylindrical lenses in
    order to rotate the light polarization from the first to the second polarization.        This sort of
    arrangement is shown below in Fig. 20. Of course, if the electro-optical layer is polarization
    independent, then no special measures are required in this regard.
             Electro-optical layer 48, such as a liquid-crystal (LC) layer, is typically contained by
 L5 suitable encapsulation, as is known in the art. The encapsulation may include sealing of the sides
    of the active area, to prevent leakage of the active material. Additionally or alternatively, the
    encapsulation may include alignment layers on the top and bottom substrates to ensure correct
    alignment of the molecules of the liquid crystal in the active area. For example, the alignment
    layer can comprise a thin layer of polyimide with rubbing defining the molecule alignment axis.
  M          Layer 48 has a local effective index of refraction at any given location within its active
    area (for example, within the area of layer 48 that actually contains the liquid crystal) that is
    determined by the voltage applied across the layer at that location. The liquid crystal in layer 48
    may be birefringent, in which case lens 34 or system 20 may comprise a polarizer, as is known
    in the art (omitted from the figures for simplicity), in order to select the polarization of the light
25  that is to be passed and refracted by layer 48. Alternatively, to avoid the need for a polarizer, two
    such lenses can be concatenated with perpendicular axes of birefringence, so that each operates
    on a different, orthogonal polarization; or a polarization-independent liquid crystal layer, such as
    a layer of cholesteric liquid crystal material, may be used.
             Transparent substrates 40 and 42, such as glass blanks, are positioned on opposing sides
30  of layer 48, and electrodes 44 and 46 are disposed on the substrates. The electrodes typically
    comprise a transparent, conductive material, such as indium tin oxide (ITO), as is known in the
    art. Alternatively, non-transparent electrodes may be used, as long as they are thin enough so
    that they do not cause disturbing optical effects.      Common electrode 46 on substrate 42 is
                                                     16

       WO 2015/136458                                                            PCT/IB2015/051766
    positioned over the active area of layer 48 on one side. An array of excitation electrodes 44,
    comprising stripes of the transparent conductive material on substrate 40 with mutually-parallel
    axes 49, extends over the active area on the opposite side of layer 48. (Axes 49 of the electrodes
    run along the long dimension of the electrodes, and "parallel" in this context may include, as
  5 well, electrodes that deviate in angle by several degrees.)
             The electrode patterns shown in these and the other figures may be formed, for example,
    by lithography on substrates 40 and 42, after which the substrates are glued together at a
    predefined distance, typically a few microns, by using glues or etched spacers as are known in
    the art. Layer 48 is then inserted and sealed in the gap between the substrates. Although for the
 LO sake of visual clarity, only a few electrodes 44 are shown in Fig. 2B, in practice, for good optical
    quality, lens 34 will typically comprise at least 100 stripe electrodes for excitation, and possibly
    even 400 or more.
             Control circuitry 38 is coupled to apply respective control voltages to excitation
    electrodes 44, relative to the common voltage level of electrode 46. Control circuitry 38 typically
 L5 comprises amplifiers and/or switches, as are known in the art, which control either the amplitude
    or the duty cycle, or both, of the voltage that is applied to each electrode 44. The pattern of
    amplitudes and/or duty cycles applied to the electrodes determines the phase modulation profile
    of layer 48. The circuit components in circuitry 38 are typically fabricated as a silicon chip,
    which is then glued onto substrate 40. Alternatively, some or all of the components of circuitry
 !0 38 may be formed on a separate chip and connected to substrate 40 by suitable bonding wires or
    other connections. In either case, the control circuitry can be located at the side of the array of
    electrodes, as shown in Fig. 2B, and there is no need for any parts of the control circuitry to be
    located over the active area of layer 48.
             Circuitry 38 is able to modify the control voltages applied to each of a set of the excitation
25  electrodes 44 (which may include all of the electrodes) concurrently and independently. For
    example, circuitry 38 may update the control voltages applied to all the odd electrodes in the
    array alternately with all the even electrodes.      This sort of approach scales readily to large
    electrode counts, and can thus be used to create electrically-tunable optical systems with high
    pixel counts and fine resolution.
30           Electrodes 44 create an array of pixels whose pitch is defined by the center-to-center
    distance p between the electrodes, as shown in Fig. 2B. The width w of the conductive electrodes
    themselves defines the size of the pixels, while the gap g between the electrodes influences the
    separation between the pixels and affects inter-pixel phase deviations.           These dimensional
                                                     17

       WO 2015/136458                                                            PCT/IB2015/051766
    parameters of the electrode array are compared to the layer thickness d of electro-optical layer
    48, shown in Fig. 2A.
            In contrast to most liquid-crystal devices that are known in the art, the inter-electrode
    distance p of lens 34 is less than four times the thickness d of layer 48, and may be less than twice
  5 the thickness. Additionally or alternatively, the gap g between the electrodes may be less than
    the thickness of layer 48 or possibly even less than half this thickness. In some implementations,
    even the pitch p may be less than d. This choice of dimensions permits a high effective fill factor
    of pixels. Furthermore, the relatively thick layer 48 enables lens 34 to generate a large range of
    different phase shifts, while the small inter-electrode distance supports modulation of the
 LO refractive index, and hence the phase shift, with high resolution. The crosstalk between adjacent
    pixels that results from this choice of dimensions is actually beneficial in smoothing the phase
    modulation profile of the device, and thus more closely approximating the quadratic profile of a
    conventional lens. These features are analyzed further hereinbelow.
            Figs. 3A-3C schematically illustrate compound lens 26, which contains a static
 L5 component 50 and an electrically-tunable component, in the form of lens 34, in accordance with
    an embodiment of the present invention. Fig. 3A is a frontal view of lens 26, while Figs. 3B and
    3C are schematic sectional views of static component 50 and of the electrically-tunable
    component, respectively, taken along the line 111-111 that is shown in Fig. 3A.
            Static component 50 is configured as a lens, comprising a transparent material having a
 !0 curved exterior surface with a specified refractive power. The interior surface of component 50
    contains at least two overlapping indentations 56 and 58, of respective depths hl and h2, as well
    as a groove 59, in order to accommodate the elements of lens 34. Specifically, the sizes and
    shapes of indentations 56 and 58 are chosen so that substrates 42 and 40 fit respectively into these
    indentations. Depth hi corresponds to the combined thickness of substrate 42 and layer 48, which
25  is enclosed at its sides by sealing 54. Depth h2 is sufficient to contain substrate 40, possibly with
    an overlying encapsulation layer (not shown). Electrical connections 52 of control circuitry 38
    are disposed at the edge of substrate 40 and fit into groove 59. A socket or connecting pads inside
    groove 59 link connections 52 to a small flexible printed circuit board 53 or other link to external
    power and input/output circuits (not shown).           Alternatively, dynamic lens 34 may have
30  connectors on more than one side, with corresponding grooves 59 formed in both sides of
    component 50.
            The cruciform shape of dynamic lens 34, as defined by substrates 40 and 42, is convenient
    for mounting in static lens, but other shapes may alternatively be used. For example, in some
                                                     18

       WO 2015/136458                                                            PCT/IB2015/051766
    cases, one of the substrates may be smaller in both dimensions than the other substrate. As
    another example, at least one side of at least one of the substrates may be rounded, possible fitting
    the rounded shape of the static lens. Additionally or alternatively, multiple dynamic lenses may
    be stacked and encapsulated within the same static lens, such as two cylindrical dynamic lenses
  5 with perpendicular cylinder axes.
                              ELECTRODES OF NON-UNIFORM WIDTH
             Figs. 4A-4C schematically illustrate an electrically-tunable lens 66, in accordance with
    an embodiment of the present invention.         Figs. 4A and 4B are schematic frontal views of
    electrodes 64 formed on opposing sides 60 and 62 of the lens. Fig. 4C is a schematic frontal view
 LO of lens 66, showing a superposition of electrodes 64 on the opposing sides of the lens. The
    intersection of the horizontal electrodes on side 60 with the vertical electrodes on side 62 defines
    an array of pixels 68.
             When small pixels of uniform size are used in a lens, for example for vision correction,
    the regular pitch of the pixels causes substantial diffraction, which can create disturbing ghost
 L5 images on the retina of the subject. Lens 66 overcomes this problem by using electrodes 64
    having different, respective widths in the transverse direction, i.e., the direction perpendicular to
    their axes. The widths of the successive electrodes are randomized with a predefined standard
    deviation around a given mean. The inventors have found that when the widths of the electrodes
    differ from one another with a standard variation that is at least 10% of the mean width taken
 !0 over all the electrodes, diffraction effects are suppressed sufficiently to make the ghost images
    nearly imperceptible. When the standard deviation of the width is 20% or greater, the ghost
    images disappear almost entirely.        Although lens 66 comprises two arrays of mutually
    perpendicular electrodes 64, the principles of this embodiment (as well as the embodiments that
    follow) are equally applicable, mutatis mutandis, to electrically-tunable lenses that comprise only
25  a single electrode array.
             Figs. 5A-5D are plots that schematically show the point spread functions (PSF) of retinal
    images formed using lens 66 (as shown in Figs. 4A-4C) for different levels of pixel size variation,
    in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. To compute the PSF, the eye is
    assumed to be a perfect lens, with a focal length of 17 mm and a pupil size of 4 mm, while lens
30  66 has an average pixel pitch of 10 pm and is driven to operate as a Fresnel lens with a focal
    length of 1 m. The optical axis of the eye is assumed to be displaced by 5 mm relative to the
    center of lens 66, which tends to exacerbate the diffraction effects.
                                                     19

       WO 2015/136458                                                              PCT/IB2015/051766
             Each of Figs. 5A-5D shows the amplitudes of the diffraction orders in the scheme defined
    above for different standard deviations, a, expressed in microns, of the electrode widths. Figs.
    5A-5D are scaled to emphasize high diffraction orders, and the zero-order peak value, which is
    not seen in the figures, is 0.02. For c = 1 pm, meaning a standard deviation of 10%, as shown in
  5 Fig. 5A, the first diffraction orders are reduced to less than 0.3% of the zero order and are thus
    barely perceptible, if at all. For higher standard deviations, the first diffraction orders are reduced
    further still.   The total scattered light is not reduced and may even increase slightly with
    increasing standard deviation, but this scatter does not disturb the subject's vision in any way.
             Figs. 6A-6C schematically illustrate an electrically-tunable lens 76, in accordance with
 LO an alternative embodiment of the present invention. Figs. 6A and 6B are schematic frontal views
    of electrodes 74 formed on opposing sides 70 and 72 of the lens. Fig. 6C is a schematic frontal
    view of lens 76, showing a superposition of electrodes 74 on the opposing sides of the lens. The
    intersection of the horizontal electrodes on side 70 with the vertical electrodes on side 72 defines
    an array of pixels 78.
 L5          As can be seen in Figs. 6A and 6B, the widths of electrodes 74 not only differ from one
    another, but also vary along the axes of the electrodes. (The axes of electrodes 74 are taken to be
    the centroidal axes along the long dimensions of the electrodes, which are parallel to within a
    small deviation.) Consequently both the sizes and shapes of pixels 78 vary over the area of lens
    76, and diffraction effects are negligible. Although the size variations in Fig. 6C are substantial,
 !0 for clarity of illustration, in practical implementations the variations will typically be smaller to
    enable accurate generation of the desired phase modulation profile.            The width variations of
    electrodes 74 may alternatively be smooth, rather than periodic with random amplitude as shown
    in the present figures.
             Figs. 7A-7C schematically illustrate an electrically-tunable lens 77, in accordance with
25  an alternative embodiment of the present invention. Figs. 7A and 7B are schematic frontal views
    of electrodes 75 formed on opposing sides 71 and 73 of the lens. Fig. 7C is a schematic frontal
    view of lens 77, showing a superposition of electrodes 75 on the opposing sides of the lens. The
    intersection of the horizontal electrodes on side 71 with the vertical electrodes on side 73 defines
    an array of pixels 79.
30           As can be seen in Figs. 7A and 7B, the widths of electrodes 75 are roughly constant, but
    their center points are displaced transversely by an amount that varies along the respective axes
    of the electrodes, which are again taken to be the centroidal axes along the long dimensions of
    the electrodes. In this example, the transverse displacement of all the electrodes is the same for
                                                     20

       WO 2015/136458                                                             PCT/IB2015/051766
    any given distance measured along the axes from the edge of side 71 or 73, so that constant
    electrode width is maintained, but alternatively, the widths and displacements of the electrodes
    may vary. The varying transverse displacement of the electrodes introduces a corresponding
    variation in the pitch of pixels 79 in the spatial Fourier transform of lens 77, thus mitigating the
  5 diffraction peaks and ghost images that would otherwise be produced.
             Although Figs. 6A-6C and 7A-7C show lenses 76 and 77 with arrays of electrodes 74 or
    75 extending across both sides, the principles of these embodiments may similarly be
    implemented in cylindrical lenses, in which the electrodes of non-uniform width and/or
    displacement extend over only one side of the electro-optical layers. A pair of such cylindrical
 LO lenses, with the electrode axes of the two lenses perpendicular to one another, can be used to
    achieve substantially the same focusing effect as in lens 74 or 75.
             To maintain smoothness in the area between electrodes, the waveforms that are applied
    by control circuitry 38 to drive adjacent electrodes should generally be of the same polarity. An
    exception to this rule occurs when there are abrupt transitions in the phase modulation profile,
 L5 such as in Fresnel lenses: In this case, the control circuitry may apply the respective control
    voltage waveforms with opposite polarities to pairs of mutually-adjacent excitation electrodes in
    the vicinity of the abrupt phase transitions, in order to achieve a steeper change in the phase
    modulation profile.
             Additionally or alternatively, abrupt transitions in the phase modulation profile of the
 !0 electro-optical layer can be sharpened by driving the electrodes at either side of the transition
    with voltages that overshoot or undershoot the nominal voltage for the given phase modulation
    amplitude. When wide electrodes are used, however, as described above, the overshoot and
    undershoot over the correspondingly wide areas in the electro-optical layer may have a negative
    impact on the focal quality of the lens. This problem can also be addressed by using electrodes
25  having different, respective widths, as illustrated in the figures that follow. The features of these
    embodiments may be combined with those of the preceding embodiments, and may be
    implemented in devices that include either a single array of excitation electrodes on one side of
    the electro-optical layer or two, mutually-perpendicular arrays on opposing sides.
             Fig. 8 is a schematic frontal view of electrodes 82, 84 in an electrically-tunable lens 80,
30  in accordance with such an embodiment of the present invention.               The design of lens 80
    incorporates narrow electrodes 84 interspersed with main modulation electrodes 82. Typically,
    the width of electrodes 84 is no more than half the width of electrodes 82, and may be still less.
    In fact, the width of electrodes 84 may be no greater than four times the widths of the gaps
                                                    21

       WO 2015/136458                                                            PCT/IB2015/051766
    between the electrodes, or possibly even equal to or less than the gap width. This electrode width
    may be less than the thickness of the electro-optical layer itself.
            The control voltage waveforms applied by the control circuitry are adjusted so that the
    abrupt transitions in the phase modulation profile will occur in the vicinity of narrow electrodes
  5 84. The narrow electrodes are driven with overshoot or undershoot voltages, as appropriate, in
    order to sharpen these transitions. Because of the narrow stripe width, however, the overshoot or
    undershoot is limited to a narrow spatial band at the phase transition border, while the remainder
    of the profile that is generated by main electrodes 82 remains smooth and well formed.
            In some embodiments of the present invention, when a phase modulation function with
 LO abrupt phase transitions, such as a Fresnel lens, is implemented in a structure such as that shown
    in Fig. 8, the range of phase modulation values supported by the electro-optical layer is increased
    in proportion to a relation between the density of narrow electrodes 84 relative to the spacing
    between the abrupt transitions in the phase modulation function.         A high density of narrow
    electrodes results in a smaller increase of the required range of phase modulation values. For
 L5 example, a Fresnel prism, with abrupt phase transitions of 27r that are spaced a distance X apart,
    can be implemented using an electro-optical layer supporting phase modulation values of 0 to 27r
    as long as the electrode structure supports abrupt transitions from 27r to 0 that are spaced X apart.
    In practical cases, however, in which the abrupt transitions are limited to the locations of narrow
    electrodes 84, and there is not a complete overlap between the locations of the narrow electrodes
 !0 and the abrupt transitions of the phase modulation function, the electro-optical layer should
    support a modulation range greater than 27r. For instance, if the distance between narrow
    electrodes is 0.3X, some of the abrupt transitions will have to be spaced 1.2X apart in order to
    match the narrow electrode locations (and in other places 0.9X apart). In such cases, the phase
    modulation range of the electro-optical layer should be 20% larger, covering the range of 0 to
25  2.47r. If the narrow electrodes are spaced 2X apart, abrupt transitions will also be 2X apart, and
    the active layer should then support a phase modulation range of 0 to 47r.
            Fig. 9 is a schematic frontal view of electrodes 82, 84 in an electrically-tunable lens 86,
    in accordance with an alternative embodiment of the present invention. This embodiment is
    similar to that of Fig. 8, except that in lens 86, narrow electrodes 84 are paired in order to enable
30  more precise local control of the applied waveforms and phase modulation profile. In this case,
    one of the narrow electrodes in the pair may be driven with an overvoltage, while the other
    receives an undervoltage.
                                                      22

       WO 2015/136458                                                            PCT/IB2015/051766
            Fig. 10 is a plot that schematically shows variation in phase modulation in two
    electrically-tunable lenses, in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. A solid
    curve 90 shows a transition of 27r in the phase modulation profile of a lens with electrodes of
    uniform width, while a dashed curve 92 shows the sharper transition that is achieved using narrow
  5 electrodes 84, as in the device of Fig. 8. The gap between the electrodes in both cases is g = 2
    pm, and electrodes 84 are 2 tm wide. The electrodes are driven with a pulse-width modulated
    (PWM) signal of amplitude 3.3 V. The low-phase electrodes, on the left side of Fig. 10, have a
    5% duty cycle (Vrms = 0.74 V), while the high-phase electrodes, on the right side, have a 20%
    duty cycle (Vrms = 1.47 V). To generate curve 92, electrode 84 at the high side of the transition
 LO is driven with an overshoot voltage, with 26% duty cycle (Vrms = 1.68 V). The 271 transition in
    the phase modulation function is visibly steeper when using narrow electrode 84 with voltage
    overshoot in this manner.
                             AVOIDING UNDESIRED PHASE VARIATIONS
            Referring back to Figs. 2A and 2B, the most fundamental parameter of a pixelated
 L5 electrically-tunable lens is the pitch p, which determines the spatial sampling rate of the
    modulation function. The pitch should be small enough to ensure that the phase modulation
    function does not change significantly between pixels.
            The gap width g between the electrodes is also important for achieving smooth,
    continuous modulation functions, and should not be much larger than the thickness d of the
  0 electro-optical layer. If g >> d, the electrical field applied to the electro-optical material under
    the gap between the electrodes is significantly smaller than that below the electrodes, resulting in
    significant discontinuities in the light modulation function. It is therefore desirable that the gap
    width g be less than the layer thickness d of the electro-optical layer, and even less than half the
    layer thickness if possible.
25          Fig. 11 is a plot that schematically shows variations in phase modulation between adjacent
    electrodes of an electrically-tunable lens for different gap widths between the electrodes, in
    accordance with an embodiment of the present invention.           The required phase modulation is
    constant at 4.7 radians, and therefore the same voltage is applied to the two electrodes on either
    side of the gap. The thickness of the liquid crystal layer is taken to be d = 5 tm. Curves 93, 94
30  and 95 show the phase change within the liquid crystal adjacent to the gap between the electrodes
    for gap widths g = 10 tm, g = 5 pm, and g = 2 pm, respectively.
                                                    23

       WO 2015/136458                                                             PCT/IB2015/051766
            Curves 93, 94 and 95 clearly illustrate the advantage of having a small gap width when a
    smooth, continuous phase modulation function is required. In curve 93, with gap width larger
    than the electro-optical layer thickness, the phase modulation drops from the required 4.7 to only
    0.9 radians between the electrodes. In curve 94, with the gap width equal to the layer thickness,
  5 the drop in phase modulation is less extreme, whereas in curve 95, for which the gap width is less
    than half the layer thickness, the phase modulation drops only to 4.5 radians. Thus, it is beneficial
    in most cases to use the smallest gap achievable under the given manufacturing limitations (such
    as the feature size of the photolithography process).
            Fig. 12 is a schematic sectional view of an electrically-tunable lens 96 comprising a buffer
 LO layer 98 between electrodes 44 and electro-optical layer 48 in the lens, in accordance with an
    alternative embodiment of the present invention.         Buffer layer 98 comprises a transparent
    dielectric material, such as glass or a suitable polymer, typically at least 0.2 pm thick, and in most
    cases at least 0.5 pm thick, which separates the excitation electrodes from the electro-optical
    layer. The interior surface of buffer layer 98 is adjacent to one side of electro-optical layer 48,
 L5 while electrodes 44 on substrate 40 extend across the exterior surface of the buffer layer. In the
    pictured embodiment, common electrode 46 on substrate 42 extends across the active area of
    electro-optical layer 48.    If an electrode pattern exists on substrate 42 as well, however, an
    additional buffer layer (not shown) can be positioned on top of the bottom substrate, similar to
    layer 98.
  0         The areas where the electric field in electro-optical layer 48 is most affected by the gaps
    between electrodes 44, resulting in the undesired modulation variations shown in Fig. 11, are
    adjacent to the gaps, near substrate 40. Buffer layer 98 distances the electro-optical material in
    layer 48 from these areas and for this purpose should have a thickness that is at least one-fourth
    of the gap width. Therefore, the electro-optical material experiences a smoother electrical field,
25  and the phase modulation is smoother.
            Fig. 13 is a plot that schematically shows variation in phase modulation between pixels
    in lens 96 and in a comparable lens without a buffer layer, in accordance with an embodiment of
    the present invention. In this example, the thickness of electro-optical layer 48 is d = 5 tm, while
    electrodes 44 have width w = 9 pm and are separated by gaps of width g = 3 tm. A curve 100
30  shows the phase variations in layer 48 without a buffer layer, while a curve 102 shows the phase
    variations with the addition of a buffer layer 98 of thickness b = 1 tm. The buffer layer smooths
    the light modulation function and achieves more continuous modulation.
                                                      24

       WO 2015/136458                                                             PCT/IB2015/051766
            On the other hand, the buffer layer will also smooth the 2nt abrupt phase transitions in
    Fresnel-type profiles, thus increasing the modulation errors in these areas. These errors can be
    reduced by positioning additional narrow electrodes on the side of buffer layer 98 that is directly
    adjacent to electro-optical layer 48 (the lower side in Fig. 12). These latter electrodes may be
  5 used in implementing steep modulation changes in the manner described above with reference to
    Figs. 7-9.
             DRIVING WAVEFORMS FOR SEPARABLE MODULATION FUNCTIONS
            Figs. 14A-14C schematically illustrate an electrically-tunable lens 112, which is used in
    generating phase modulation profiles that are separable in the X- and Y-directions, in accordance
 LO with an embodiment of the present invention. Figs. 14A and 14B are schematic frontal views of
    electrodes 110 formed on opposing sides 106 and 108, respectively, of the electro-optical medium
    in lens 112 (not shown in these figures). Fig. 14C is a schematic frontal view of lens 112, showing
    a matrix of pixels 114 defined by the superposition of electrodes 110 on the opposing sides of the
    device.
                                                                                                       0
 L5         As noted earlier, lens 112 can be driven to implement phase modulation profiles e i (X-Y)
    that are separable, meaning that they can be decomposed into a product of two one-dimensional
    functions, eL(x'y) = e iox(x) eLoy(y). In other words, the separable phase modulation function is
    decomposed into two one-dimensional phase modulation functions:           #(x, y) = Ox(x) +      #y(y).
    The one-dimensional functions can be quantized to N quantization levels of the phase angle 0,
 !0 for example Ok      Omax, k = 0.. N - 1. Thus, in some embodiments of the present invention,
    respective voltage waveforms Vx,k (t) and Vy,k (t) for the X- and Y-axis electrodes 110, on sides
    106 and 108 of lens 112, are defined corresponding to these quantization levels, such that for
    every pair of levels (ki,k 2), applying Vx,k, (t) to a vertical electrode and Vy,k 2 (t) to a horizontal
    electrode will result in a phase modulation of 0 = 00 + O,               Ok2 in the pixel 114 at the
25  intersection of the electrodes. In this expression, 00 is a constant phase common to all pixels,
    which does not affect the light propagation through lens 112.
            For example, Table I below shows the phase modulation of a pixel as a function of the
    applied voltage waveforms on the vertical and horizontal electrodes defining the pixel, assuming
    quantization to four phase modulation levels, 0k =         , k = 0.3:
                                                      25

        WO 2015/136458                                                                           PCT/IB2015/051766
                                                        TABLE I
                        X \Y            Vy'o(t)          Vy,1(t)           Vy,2(t)                 Vy,3(t)
                       Vxo(t)              00          00 + 7/2            00 +               000 + 37/2
                       V1, 1 (t)      0 + 7/2            00 +         000 + 37/2                  00 + 2w
                       Vx, 2 (t)        00 +        000 + 37/2            00 + 2w              00 + 5w/2
                       Vx, 3 (t)     0 0 + 31/2         0 0 + 2w       00 + 5w/2                  0 0 + 3w
    In another embodiment of the present invention, the voltage waveforms VX,k (t) and Vy,k () are
  5 defined in a way that enables more efficient modulation by reducing the dynamic range of the
    phase modulation. Specifically, the voltage waveforms VX,k (t) and Vy,k (t) are defined such that
    for any (ki,k 2), applying VX,k, (t) on a vertical electrode and Vy,k 2 (t) on a horizontal electrode
                                                                                2
    will result in a phase modulation of Okl,k 2           0 -+ O+, -   Ok2  -    wlk 1 ,k 2 , wherein 1k1 ,k2 is a non
    negative integer. A simple example of this sort of function is modular phase addition, as given
 LO by 0 k1 ,k2     (00 + O ,     Ok  2 ) mod 2nw. As noted earlier, the value of the integer n need not be
    constant and may vary for different pairs of component waveforms.
               As a result of this approach, thinner electro-optical layers can be used, enabling steeper
    phase transitions when abrupt changes are required. Alternatively, this sort of approach can be
    used to decrease the number of phase discontinuities in the modulation function.
 L5            Table II illustrates this approach for four quantization levels (as in Table I), with n = 1,
    i.e., 0
            k1 ,k 2   (00 + O ,     Ok2   ) mod 2w:
                                                       TABLE II
                        X \Y            Vy'o(t)          Vy, 1(t)          Vy,2(t)                 Vy,3(t)
                       Vxo(t)               O          00 + 7/2            00 +                000 + 37/2
                       V1, 1 (t)      0 + 7/2            00 +          000 + 37/2                      0
                       Vx, 2 (t)        00 +         000 + 3w/2              00                  00 + 7/2
                       Vx, 3 (t)     0 + 3w/2                O           00 + 7/2                  00 + 7
20  When the voltage waveforms are defined according to Table II, the electro-optical layer is
    required to support a dynamic phase modulation range of 37/2, as compared to 3w in the example
    of Table I, thus enabling a thinner active layer and steeper transitions when phase discontinuities
    are required.
                                                           26

       WO 2015/136458                                                            PCT/IB2015/051766
             Alternatively, for a given electro-optical layer thickness, the above approach can be used
    to reduce the number of phase discontinuities. In this case, the driving scheme is similar to that
    shown in Table II, but each axis is modulated by values ranging from 0 to 47r (instead of the
    27r limit of Table II), and the phase summation over the vertical and horizontal electrodes is
  5 modulo 47r (rather than 27r in Table II). When using the scheme of Table I, a phase discontinuity
    occurs every time the required modulation crosses 27, either in the X- or in the Y-axis, even if
    the electro-optical layer supports a dynamic modulation range of 4w or more. On the other hand,
    when a scheme similar to that shown in Table II is used, but with n = 2 (modulo 4w), a phase
    discontinuity occurs every time the required modulation crosses 4w, with cylindrical symmetry.
 LO          Fig. 15 is a schematic representation of a phase modulation profile 116 generated by lens
    112 when driven as described above, in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention.
    Profile 116 emulates a Fresnel lens, with an amplitude scale 118 of phase shift ranging from 0 to
    4w. Profile 116 includes a central lobe 120 and peripheral orders 122, separated by abrupt phase
    transitions of amplitude 4w.        This scheme significantly decreases the number of phase
 L5 discontinuities, relative to a Fresnel profile with transitions at every 2w change of amplitude, and
    accordingly reduces the areas that these abrupt transitions occupy within the phase modulator,
    thus improving the accuracy of the phase modulation function.
             Fig. 16 is a plot that schematically illustrates a phase modulation curve as a function of
    the voltage applied across electrodes 110 in lens 112, in accordance with an embodiment of the
  0 present invention. As shown in Fig. 16, phase modulations of 00, 00 + 7/2, 00 + 7 and 00 +
    3 7/2 are obtained by applying root mean square (RMS) voltages of 1.02 V, 1.14 V, 1.29 V and
    1.46 V, respectively, across the pixels.
             Figs. 17A-17D and 18A-18D are plots that schematically illustrate component voltage
    waveforms applied to electrodes 110 in a duty cycle modulation scheme of this sort, in accordance
25  with an embodiment of the present invention. Figs. 17A-17D show four different waveforms,
    with different duty cycles, that are applied to the X-electrodes, on side 106 of lens 112, while
    Figs. 18A-18D show the voltage waveforms, likewise with differing duty cycles, that are applied
    to the Y-electrodes, on side 108. The voltage waveforms in this example are limited to three
    values: 0 and 2.5 V, and provide phase modulations of 00, 00 + w/2, 00 + I and 00 + 3 w/2
30  as required for the modulation scheme of Table II. Alternatively, other sets of waveforms and
    modulation schemes can be constructed, with the same or larger numbers of quantization levels.
    For example, analog driving can be used, in which each electrode can receive one of four or more
    voltage values in each time slot.
                                                     27

        WO 2015/136458                                                          PCT/IB2015/051766
             In the example shown in Figs. 17A-17D and 18A-18D, the voltage applied on the electro
    optical layer is of alternating polarity (AC), at a frequency larger than the response time of the
    electro-optical media (for example, larger than 100 Hz for liquid crystal media). The waveforms
    shown in Figs. 17A-17D and 18A-18D are of half a cycle. In practice, these waveforms are
  5 duplicated with alternating polarity at a large enough rate so that the response of the electro
    optical layer will depend only on the RMS value of the applied voltage.
             Figs. 19A-19G are plots that schematically illustrate voltage waveforms generated across
    the electro-optical layer in lens 112 as a result of applying different combinations of the
    waveforms of Figs. 17A-17D and Figs. 18A-18D to electrodes 110 on opposing sides 106 and
 LO 108 of the lens. For the sake of brevity and simplicity, only a subset of the sixteen combined
    waveforms is shown. The titles of the plots includes the RMS voltage values of the waveforms,
    which match the RMS values shown in Fig. 16 and correspond to the phase shift values in Table
    II.
             The voltage differences between the X- and Y-electrodes in this example are limited to
 L5 the values 0, 2.5 V, and 5 V. Using a larger number of voltage values can add more degrees
    of freedom to the waveforms, which can be used to eliminate the short pulses that appear in some
    of the waveforms.
                   ELECTRICALLY-TUNABLE CYLINDRICAL LENSES IN SERIES
             Fig. 20 is a schematic side view of an optical system 130, in accordance with another
 !0 embodiment of the invention. As described earlier, system 130 comprises two electrically
    tunable cylindrical lenses 132 and 134 arranged in series, with mutually-perpendicular cylinder
    axes. (For example, the cylinder axis of lens 132 may be vertical in the plane of the figure sheet,
    while that of lens 134 points into the sheet.) In this manner, lenses 132 and 134 can be controlled
    together in order to emulate a spherical or aspheric lens with a two-dimensional modulation
25  profile, as the superposition of the respective modulation profiles of lenses 132 and 134.
             For ease of manufacturing, it is convenient that lenses 132 and 134 have the same
    structure, for example as shown in Figs. 2A and 2B.          Assuming electro-optical layer 48 to
    comprise a polarization-dependent medium, such as a polarization-dependent liquid crystal, the
    polarization axes of lenses 132 and 134 will then be mutually-perpendicular, as well.
30  Consequently, in the absence of correction, lenses 132 and 134 will operate on different
    polarizations (and thus will be ineffective as a two-dimensional lens). In order to overcome this
    limitation, system 130 comprises a polarization rotator 136, such as a quarter-wave plate. Thus,
    assuming the light entering system 130 to be vertically polarized, in alignment with the
                                                    28

      WO 2015/136458                                                           PCT/IB2015/051766
   polarization axis of lens 132, rotator 136 will rotate the polarization axis by 900 so that the axis
   is aligned with the polarization axis of lens 134 when the light is incident on lens 134.
           Although the above description and the corresponding figures relate separately, for the
   sake of clarity, to various different features of electrically-tunable lenses, these features should
 5 by no means be considered to be mutually exclusive. On the contrary, those skilled in the art will
   understand, after reading the above description, that these features may be combined in order to
   achieve still further enhancement of device performance. It will thus be appreciated that the
   embodiments described above are cited by way of example, and that the present invention is not
   limited to what has been particularly shown and described hereinabove. Rather, the scope of the
LO present invention includes both combinations and subcombinations of the various features
   described hereinabove, as well as variations and modifications thereof which would occur to
   persons skilled in the art upon reading the foregoing description and which are not disclosed in
   the prior art.
                                                   29

    1002003833
                                                   CLAIMS
    1.       Optical apparatus, comprising:
             a static lens, comprising a transparent material having a curved exterior surface with a
    specified refractive power and an interior surface containing at least first and second
  5 overlapping indentations; and
             a dynamic lens, which is contained in the static lens and has a variable phase modulation
    profile, which modifies the refractive power of the static lens, and which comprises:
                      an electro-optical layer, having opposing first and second sides and having an
             effective local index of refraction at any given location within an active area of the
 [0          electro-optical layer that is determined by a voltage applied across the electro-optical
             layer at the location;
                      first and second transparent substrates, which are disposed respectively on the
             first and second sides of the electro-optical layer and are sized and shaped to fit
             respectively into the first and second indentations in the static lens, and which comprise
 [5          electrodes configured to apply voltages across the electro-optical layer; and
                      control circuitry, which is coupled to apply the voltages to the electrodes so as to
             generate the modulation profile in the electro-optical layer.
    2.       The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the control circuitry comprises electrical
    connections disposed at an edge of the first transparent substrate, and wherein the interior
 W0 surface of the static lens contains a groove into which the electrical connections fit.
    3.       The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the electro-optical layer comprises a liquid
    crystal.
    4.       The apparatus according to any of claims 1-3, wherein the electrodes comprise a first
    array of first excitation electrodes, extending in a first direction across the first side of the
25  electro-optical layer, and a second array of second excitation electrodes, which extend in a
    second direction, perpendicular to the first direction, across the second side of the electro
    optical layer
    5.       The apparatus according to any of claims 1-3, wherein the electrodes comprise a first
    array of first excitation electrodes, extending in a first direction across the first side of the
30  electro-optical layer, and a common electrode, positioned over the active area on the second
    side of the electro-optical layer.
    6.       A method for producing an optical device, the method comprising:
                                                       30

    1002003833
             providing a static lens, comprising a transparent material having a curved exterior
    surface with a specified refractive power and an interior surface containing at least first and
    second overlapping indentations; and
             embedding a dynamic lens in the static lens, the dynamic lens having a variable phase
  5 modulation profile, which modifies the refractive power of the static lens, and comprising:
                     an electro-optical layer, having opposing first and second sides and having an
             effective local index of refraction at any given location within an active area of the
             electro-optical layer that is determined by a voltage applied across the electro-optical
             layer at the location;
 [0                  first and second transparent substrates, which are disposed respectively on the
             first and second sides of the electro-optical layer and are sized and shaped to fit
             respectively into the first and second indentations in the static lens, and which comprise
             electrodes configured to apply voltages across the electro-optical layer; and
                     control circuitry, which is coupled to apply the voltages to the electrodes so as to
 [5          generate the modulation profile in the electro-optical layer.
    7.       The method according to claim 6, wherein the control circuitry comprises electrical
    connections disposed at an edge of the first transparent substrate, and wherein the interior
    surface of the static lens contains a groove into which the electrical connections fit.
    8.       The method according to claim 6, wherein the electro-optical layer comprises a liquid
 !0 crystal.
    9.       The method according to any of claims 6-8, wherein the electrodes comprise a first
    array of first excitation electrodes, extending in a first direction across the first side of the
    electro-optical layer, and a second array of second excitation electrodes, which extend in a
    second direction, perpendicular to the first direction, across the second side of the electro
25  optical layer
    10.      The method according to any of claims 6-8, wherein the electrodes comprise a first
    array of first excitation electrodes, extending in a first direction across the first side of the
    electro-optical layer, and a common electrode, positioned over the active area on the second
    side of the electro-optical layer.
30  11.      Optical apparatus, comprising:
             first and second optical devices, which have respective first and second polarization
    axes and first and second cylinder axes and are arranged in series such that the first and second
                                                      31

    1002003833
    polarization axes are mutually non-parallel and the first and second cylinder axes are mutually
    non-parallel, each of the optical devices comprising:
                     a polarization-dependent electro-optical layer, having an effective local index of
             refraction, for light that is polarized along the respective polarization axis and is incident
  5          at any given location within an active area of the electro-optical layer, that is determined
             by a voltage applied across the electro-optical layer at the location; and
                     conductive electrodes extending over opposing first and second sides of the
             electro-optical layer, the electrodes comprising an array of excitation electrodes, which
             is configured to apply respective voltages across the excitation electrodes so as to
 [0          generate in the electro-optical layer a cylindrical phase modulation profile oriented
             along the respective cylinder axis; and
             a polarization rotator positioned between the first and second optical devices so as to
    rotate a polarization of light that has passed through the first optical device and is parallel to the
    first polarization axis, in order to align the polarization of the light with the second polarization
 [5 axis.
    12.      The apparatus according to claim 11, wherein the array of excitation electrodes
    comprises an array of parallel stripes of a transparent, conductive material extending across the
    first side of the electro-optical layer in a direction parallel to the respective cylinder axis, and
    wherein the conductive electrodes comprise a common electrode, positioned over the active
 !0 area on the second side of the electro-optical layer.
    13.      The apparatus according to claim 11 or 12, wherein the first and second polarization
    axes are mutually perpendicular and the first and second cylinder axes are mutually
    perpendicular.
    14.      A method for producing an optical device, the method comprising:
25           arranging first and second optical devices, which have respective first and second
    polarization axes and first and second cylinder axes, in series such that the first and second
    polarization axes are mutually non-parallel and the first and second cylinder axes are mutually
    non-parallel, each of the optical devices comprising:
                     a polarization-dependent electro-optical layer, having an effective local index of
30           refraction, for light that is polarized along the respective polarization axis and is incident
             at any given location within an active area of the electro-optical layer, that is determined
             by a voltage applied across the electro-optical layer at the location; and
                                                        32

   1002003833
                    conductive electrodes extending over opposing first and second sides of the
            electro-optical layer, the electrodes comprising an array of excitation electrodes, which
            is configured to apply respective voltages across the excitation electrodes so as to
            generate in the electro-optical layer a cylindrical phase modulation profile oriented
 5          along the respective cylinder axis; and
            positioning a polarization rotator between the first and second optical devices so as to
   rotate a polarization of light that has passed through the first optical device and is parallel to the
   first polarization axis, in order to align the polarization of the light with the second polarization
   axis.
[0 15.      The method according to claim 14, wherein the array of excitation electrodes comprises
   an array of parallel stripes of a transparent, conductive material extending across the first side
   of the electro-optical layer in a direction parallel to the respective cylinder axis, and wherein the
   conductive electrodes comprise a common electrode, positioned over the active area on the
   second side of the electro-optical layer.
[5 16.      The method according to claim 14 or 15, wherein the first and second polarization axes
   are mutually perpendicular and the first and second cylinder axes are mutually perpendicular.
                                                      33

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
