                                                   30
RADIO COMMUNICATION SYSTEM, BASE STATION APPARATUS,
AND RADIO TERMINAL
ABSTRACT
        A radio communication system includes a radio access network (1) and a radio terminal
(2). The radio access network (1) includes a first base station (11) that manages a first cell (110)
and a second base station (12) that manages a second cell (120). The radio terminal (2) supports
dual connectivity involving a bearer split in which a network bearer between the radio terminal
(2) and a core network (3) is split over the first base station (11) and the second base station (12).
The radio access network (1) is configured to transmit, to the radio terminal (2), first control
information that relates to an access stratum and is necessary for the dual connectivity involving
the bearer split. It is thus possible to provide, for example, a control procedure or signalling
necessary for starting dual connectivity involving a bearer split.

                                                   1
RADIO COMMUNICATION SYSTEM, BASE STATION APPARATUS,
AND RADIO TERMINAL
[0001] This application is a divisional application of Australian Patent Application No.
2014343147 filed 9 May 2014 the disclosure of which is incorporated by reference in its entirety.
Field
[0002] This application relates to a radio communication system in which base stations
communicate with the same radio terminal in their respective cells.
Background
[0003] To improve deterioration in communication quality due to the recent rapid increase in
mobile traffic and to achieve higher-speed communication, 3GPP Long Term Evolution (LTE)
specifies a carrier aggregation (CA) function to allow a radio base station (eNode B (eNB)) and a
radio terminal (User Equipment (UE)) to communicate with each other using a plurality of cells.
The cells which can be used by the UE in the CA are limited to cells of one eNB (i.e., cells that
are served or managed by the eNB). The cells used by the UE in the CA are classified into a
primary cell (PCell) that is already used as a serving cell when the CA is started and a secondary
cell(s) (SCell(s)) that is used additionally or subordinately. In the PCell, Non Access Stratum
(NAS) mobility information (NAS mobility information) and security information (security
input) is sent and received during radio connection (re)-establishment (RRC Connection
Establishment, RRC Connection Re-establishment) (see Section 7.5 in Non-Patent Literature 1).
[0004] In the CA, SCell configuration information transmitted from the eNB to the UE includes
SCell radio resource configuration information common to UEs
(RadioResourceConfigCommonSCell) and SCell radio resource configuration information
dedicated to a specific UE (RadioResourceConfigDedicatedSCell). The latter information
mainly indicates a dedicated configuration (PhysicalConfigDedicated) for a physical layer.
When cells (carriers) having different transmission timings (Timing Advance: TA) are
aggregated in an uplink, configuration information (MAC-MainConfigSCell) about a Medium
Access Control (MAC) sublayer is also transmitted from the eNB to the UE. However, the
configuration information about the MAC sublayer includes only an STAG-Id, which is an index

                                                    2
of TA Group (TAG) representing a set of cells included in the same TA (see Section 5.3.10.4 in
Non-Patent Literature 2). The other configurations for the MAC sublayer in the SCell are the
same as those in the PCell.
[0005] One of the ongoing study items in the LTE standardization related mainly to a
Heterogeneous Network (HetNet) environment is dual connectivity in which the UE performs
communication using a plurality of cells of a plurality of eNBs (see Non Patent-Literature 3).
Dual connectivity is a process to allow an UE to perform communication simultaneously using
both radio resources (i.e., cells or carriers) provided (or managed) by a main base station (master
base station, Master eNB (MeNB)) and a sub base station (secondary base station, Secondary
eNB (SeNB)). Dual connectivity enables inter-eNB CA in which the UE aggregates a plurality
of cells managed by different eNBs. Since the UE aggregates radio resources managed by
different nodes, dual connectivity is also called "inter-node radio resource aggregation". The
MeNB is connected to the SeNB through an inter-base-station interface called Xn. The MeNB
maintains, for the UE in dual connectivity, the connection (S l-MME) to a mobility management
apparatus (Mobility Management Entity (MME)) in a core network (Evolved Packet Core
(EPC)). Accordingly, the MeNB can be called a mobility management point (or mobility
anchor) of the UE. For example, the MeNB is a Macro eNB, and the SeNB is a Pico eNB or
Low Power Node (LPN).
[0006] Further, in dual connectivity, a bearer split for splitting a network bearer (EPS bearer)
over the MeNB and the SeNB has been studied. The term "network bearer (EPS Bearer)" used
in this specification means a virtual connection that is configured between a UE and an endpoint
(i.e., Packet Data Network Gateway (P-GW)) in a core network (EPC) for each service provided
to the UE. In an alternative of the bearer split, for example, both a radio bearer (RB) in a cell of
the MeNB and a radio bearer in a cell of the SeNB are mapped to one network bearer. The radio
bearer (RB) described herein refers mainly to a data radio bearer (DRB). The bearer split will
contribute to a further improvement in user throughput.
[0007] Citation List
[0008] Non Patent Literature

                                                   3
[0009] [Non-Patent Literature 1] 3GPP TS 36.300 VI 1.5.0 (2013-03), "3rd Generation
Partnership Project; Technical Specification Group Radio Access Network; Evolved Universal
Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA) and Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network
(E-UTRAN); Overall description; Stage 2 (Release 11)", March, 2013
[00010] [Non-Patent Literature 2] 3GPP TS 36.331 VI 1.4.0 (2013-06), "3rd Generation
Partnership Project; Technical Specification Group Radio Access Network; Evolved Universal
Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA); Radio Resource Control (RRC); Protocol specification
(Release 11)", June, 2013
[0010] [Non-Patent Literature 3] 3GPP TR 36.842 VO.2.0 (2013-05), "3rd Generation
Partnership Project; Technical Specification Group Radio Access Network; Evolved Universal
Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA); Study on Small Cell Enhancements for E-UTRA and E
UTRAN - Higher layer aspects (Release 12)", May, 2013
Summary of Invention
[0011] An adequate control procedure for starting dual connectivity involving a bearer split has
not been established. Accordingly, an object to be achieved by embodiments disclosed in the
specification is to provide a control procedure or signalling necessary for starting dual
connectivity involving a bearer split. Other objects and novel features will become apparent
from the following description and the accompanying drawings.
[0012] In an embodiment, a radio communication system includes a radio access network and a
radio terminal. The radio access network includes a first base station that manages a first cell
and a second base station that manages a second cell. The radio terminal supports dual
connectivity involving a bearer split in which a network bearer between the radio terminal and a
core network is split over the first base station and the second base station. The radio access
network is configured to transmit, to the radio terminal, first control information relates to an
access stratum and is necessary for the dual connectivity involving the bearer split.
[0013] In an embodiment, a base station apparatus includes a communication control unit
configured to control dual connectivity involving a bearer split in which a network bearer
between a radio terminal and a core network is split over the base station apparatus and a

                                                    4
neighbor base station. The communication control unit is configured to transmit, to the radio
terminal, first control information that relates to an access stratum and is necessary for the dual
connectivity involving the bearer split.
[0014] In an embodiment, a radio terminal includes a communication control unit configured to
control dual connectivity involving a bearer split in which a network bearer between the radio
terminal and a core network is split over first and second base stations. The communication
control unit is configured to receive, from the first or second base station, first control
information that relates to an access stratum and is necessary for the dual connectivity involving
the bearer split, determine whether the bearer split is required based on the first control
information, and control communication employing the dual connectivity in accordance with the
first control information.
[0015] In an embodiment, a control method includes transmitting, from a first base station to a
radio terminal, first control information that relates to an access stratum and is necessary for dual
connectivity involving a bearer split in which a network bearer between the radio terminal and a
core network is split over the first base station and a second base station.
[0016] In an embodiment, a control method that is performed by a radio terminal includes: (a)
receiving, from a first or second base station, first control information that relates to an access
stratum and is necessary for dual connectivity involving a bearer split in which a network bearer
between the radio terminal and a core network is split over the first and second base stations; and
(b) determining whether the bearer split is required based on the first control information, and
controlling communication employing the dual connectivity in accordance with the first control
information.
[0017] In an embodiment, a program includes instructions (software codes) for causing a
computer to perform the above-described control method when the program is loaded into the
computer.
[0018] Advantageous Effects of Invention
[0019] According to the embodiments described above, it is possible to provide a control
procedure or signalling necessary for starting dual connectivity involving a bearer split.

                                                 5
Brief Description of the Drawings
[0020] Fig. 1A is a diagram showing an example of a user plane protocol stack of LTE Layer-2
related to dual connectivity involving a bearer split;
[0021] Fig. 1B is a diagram showing another example of the user plane protocol stack of LTE
Layer-2 related to dual connectivity involving a bearer split;
[0022] Fig. 2 is a diagram showing a configuration example of a radio communication system
according to first to third embodiments;
[0023] Fig. 3 is a sequence diagram showing an example of a control procedure for starting dual
connectivity involving a bearer split according to the first embodiment;
[0024] Fig. 4 is a sequence diagram showing another example of the control procedure for
starting dual connectivity involving a bearer split according to the first embodiment;
[0025] Fig. 5 is a sequence diagram showing an example of the control procedure for starting
dual connectivity involving a bearer split according to the second embodiment;
[0026] Fig. 6 is a sequence diagram showing an example of the control procedure for starting
dual connectivity involving a bearer split according to the third embodiment;
[0027] Fig. 7 is a block diagram showing a configuration example of an MeNB according to the
first to third embodiments;
[0028] Fig. 8 is a block diagram showing a configuration example of an SeNB according to the
first to third embodiments; and
[0029] Fig. 9 is a block diagram showing a configuration example of a UE according to the first
to third embodiments.
Description of Embodiments

                                                 6
[0030] Specific embodiments will hereinafter be described in detail with reference to the
drawings. The same or corresponding elements are denoted by the same reference symbols
throughout the drawings, and repeated descriptions thereof are omitted as appropriate for clarity
of the explanation.
[0031] A plurality of embodiments below will mainly be described with reference to an Evolved
Packet System (EPS). However, these embodiments are not limited to the EPS, and can be
applied to other mobile communication networks or systems, such as a 3GPP Universal Mobile
Telecommunications System (UMTS), a 3GPP2 CDMA2000 system (1xRTT, High Rate Packet
Data (HRPD)), a global system for mobile communications (GSM)/General packet radio service
(GPRS) system, and a WiMAX system.
[0032] First Embodiment
[0033] First, with regard to some embodiments including this exemplary embodiment, several
examples of dual connectivity involving a bearer split are described. Figs. 1A and 1B show two
alternatives of a user plane protocol stack of LTE Layer-2 related to dual connectivity (e.g.,
inter-node radio resource aggregation) involving a bearer split. In the bearer split, a network
bearer (EPS bearer) configured between a UE and an endpoint (i.e., P-GW) of a core network
(EPC) is split over an MeNB 11 and an SeNB 12. In the alternatives shown in Figs. 1A and 1B,
an EPS bearer #2 is split over the MeNB 11 and the SeNB 12. An EPS bearer #1 shown in Figs.
1A and 1B is a normal bearer which is not subjected to a bearer split. Accordingly, the EPS
bearer #1 is mapped in a one-to-one correspondence to the radio bearer in a cell of the MeNB 11.
[0034] In the alternatives shown in Figs. 1A and 1B, one data radio bearer (DRB), which has a
one-to-one association with the EPS bearer #2 is split over the MeNB 11 and the SeNB 12 in a
Packet Data Convergence Protocol (PDCP) sublayer, a Radio Link Control (RLC) sublayer, or a
MAC sublayer of Layer-2. Specifically, in the alternative shown in Fig. 1A, a PDCP entity of
the MeNB 11 terminates the S1-U of the EPS bearer #2. In other words, one S1 bearer and one
data radio bearer (DRB) which are mapped to the EPS bearer #2 are terminated at the PDCP
sublayer of the MeNB 11. Further, in the alternative shown in Fig. 1A, the MeNB 11 and the
SeNB 12 have independent RLC entities for bearer split, and one DRB (or PDCP bearer)
terminated at the MeNB 11 is split over the RLC bearer of the MeNB 11 and the RLC bearer of
the SeNB 12. Note that, the term "PDCP bearer" means a connection terminated at the PDCP

                                                     7
sublayers of the eNB and the UE. The PDCP bearer can also be called a PDCP Protocol Data
Unit (PDCP PDU). In the example shown in Fig. 1A, there is one PDCP bearer related to the
EPS bearer #2 to be split, and this PDCP bearer is terminated at the MeNB 11 and the UE 2. On
the other hand, the term "RLC bearer" means a connection terminated at the RLC sublayers of
the eNB and the UE. The RLC bearer can also be called an RLC PDU or a logical channel. In
the example shown in Fig. 1, there are two independent RLC bearers associated with the EPS
bearer #2. One of the two RLC bearers is terminated at the MeNB 11 and the UE 2, and the
other one is terminated at the SeNB 12 and the UE 2. Accordingly, in the architecture shown in
Fig. 1A, the UE 2 is required to have two independent RLC entities associated with the EPS
bearer #2 to be split.
[0035] Like in the alternative shown in Fig. 1A, in the alternative shown in Fig. 1B, a PDCP
entity of the MeNB 11 terminates the SI-U of the EPS bearer #2. Further, as for the EPS bearer
#2 to be split, the MeNB 11 has a master RLC entity and the SeNB 12 has a slave RLC entity.
In the alternative shown in Fig. IB, the UE 2 is required to have only one RLC entity associated
with the EPS bearer #2 to be split. In the downlink, the slave RLC entity of the SeNB 12
receives, from the master RLC entity of the MeNB 11, RLC PDUs that has already been
generated by the master RLC entity and allocated to the slave RLC for transmission.
[0036] The following description is based on an assumption that a cell of the MeNB 11 can be
called a PCell and a cell of the SeNB 12 can be called an SCell from the viewpoint of the
conventional Carrier Aggregation (CA). However, the scope of this embodiment is not limited
to this. For example, when the radio terminal (UE) performs the CA (Intra-SeNB CA) on a
plurality of cells of the SeNB 12 (i.e., at least a plurality of downlink Component Carriers (CCs))
during dual connectivity, one of the cells of the SeNB 12 subjected to the CA may be defined as
a PCell or a pseudo PCell which functions similarly to a PCell. The pseudo PCell can also be
called an Anchor cell, a Master cell, a Control cell, or the like. In the CA of the cells of the
SeNB 12, the former cell (the PCell of the SeNB 12) has a role similar to that of the PCell in the
conventional CA. In the PCell of the SeNB 12, for example, the eNB (SeNB) carries out SCell
configuration or SCell activation/deactivation for the CA, and the UE carries out Radio Link
Monitoring (RLM)/Radio Link Failure (RLF) detection. Further, the UE may perform, for
example, transmission of L1/L2 control information (e.g., CQI, CSI, HARQ feedback,
Scheduling Request) in an uplink control channel (PUCCH), transmission of (a preamble of) a

                                                  8
Contention-based Random Access Channel (RACH), and reception of a response (Random
Access Response (RAR)) to the RACH Preamble. The latter cell (the Pseudo PCell of the SeNB
12) has a role as a cell having a PCell function regarding the control of a User Plane (UP) in the
conventional CA. In the Pseudo PCell of the SeNB 12, the UE may perform, for example,
transmission of L1/L2 control information in the uplink control channel (PUCCH), transmission
of (a preamble of) a Contention-based RACH, and reception of a response (RAR) to the RACH
Preamble. Furthermore, in the UE, the cells of the MeNB 11 and the cells of the SeNB 12 need
not necessarily have a hierarchical relationship (PCell and SCell) or a master-slave relationship.
[0037] The user plane protocol stack for dual connectivity involving a bearer split is not limited
to the alternatives shown in Figs. 1A and 1B. In the bearer split, for example, two radio bearers
may be mapped to one network bearer (EPS bearer). When the terms in Figs. 1A and 1B are
used, it can be expressed that the EPS bearer #2 is mapped to both the radio bearer (RB) in the
cell (PCell) of the MeNB 11 and the radio bearer in the cell (SCell) of the SeNB 12. For
convenience of explanation, the radio bearer in the cell (PCell) of the MeNB 11 is defined herein
as a Primary RB (P-RB) and the radio bearer (RB) in the cell (SCell) of the SeNB is defined
herein as a Secondary RB (S-RB). Since the bearer split is mainly applied to data radio bearers
(DRBs), the P-RB and the S-RB can also be called P-DRB and S-DRB, respectively. For
example, the MeNB 11 may terminate the SI-U of the EPS bearer #2, and the MeNB 11 and the
SeNB 12 may have independent PDCP entities. Further, in a new layer higher than the PDCP
entity of the MeNB 11, a downlink SI-U packet stream of the EPS bearer #2 may be split over
the PDCP entity of the MeNB 11 and the PDCP entity of the SeNB 12. In this case, there are
two independent PDCP bearers related to the EPS bearer #2. One of the two PDCP bearers is
terminated at the MeNB 11 and the UE 2, and the other one is terminated at the SeNB 12 and the
UE 2.
[0038] Fig. 2 shows a configuration example of a radio communication system according to
some embodiments including this embodiment. The radio communication system includes a
radio access network (RAN) 1, a radio terminal (UE) 2, and a core network 3. In the EPS, the
RAN 1 is an Evolved UMTS Terrestrial Radio Access Network (E-UTRAN), and the core
network 3 is an Evolved Packet Core (EPC). The E-UTRAN 1 includes base stations (evolved
NodeBs (eNBs)) 11 and 12. The eNB 11 manages a cell 110, and the eNB 12 manages a cell
120. The UE 2 is connected to the eNBs 11 and 12 by means of a radio access technology. The

                                                    9
EPC 3 is accessed from the UE 2 through the E-UTRAN 1, and provides the UE 2 with a
connection service (e.g., Internet Protocol (IP) connection service) for connecting to an external
network (Packet Data Network (PDN)). In addition, Fig. 2 shows a HetNet environment.
Specifically, the cell 110 shown in Fig. 2 has a coverage area larger than that of the cell 120.
Fig. 2 also shows a hierarchical cell configuration in which the cell 120 is located within the cell
110. However, the cell configuration shown in Fig. 2 is merely an example. For example, the
cells 110 and 120 may have the same degree of coverage. In other words, the radio
communication system according to this embodiment may be applied to a homogeneous network
environment.
[0039] The E-UTRAN 1 and the UE 2 according to this embodiment support dual connectivity
involving a bearer split. Specifically, while using the cell 110 of the eNB (i.e., MeNB) 11 as a
primary cell (PCell), the UE 2 can use the cell 120 of the eNB (i.e., SeNB) 12 as a secondary cell
(SCell). The UE 2 can receive and/or transmit data of one EPS bearer subjected to a bearer split
through the PCell 110 and the SCell 120.
[0040] To start dual connectivity involving a bearer split, the E-UTRAN 1 and the UE 2
according to this embodiment carry out a control procedure or signalling as described below.
The E-UTRAN 1 is configured to transmit, to the UE 2, first control information that relates to
an access stratum and is necessary for dual connectivity involving a bearer split. The UE 2 is
configured to receive the first control information from the E-UTRAN 1, determine whether the
bearer split is required based on the first control information (i.e., based on the decoding result of
the first control information), and control communication employing the dual connectivity
involving the bearer split in accordance with the first control information. In order to determine
whether the bearer split is required based on the first control information, the UE 2 may
consider, for example, whether configuration information related to the bearer split is included or
not, whether an explicit indication (e.g., a flag) to instruct performing the bearer split is included
or not, or whether radio resource control information necessary for execution of the bearer split
is included or not. The first control information relating to the access stratum to be transmitted
from the E-UTRAN 1 to the UE 2 may include at least one of the following information items
(1) to (5):
         (1) Radio bearer (RB) configuration information about P-RB and S-RB;
         (2) Control information about Scheduling Request (SR);

                                                 10
        (3) Control information about uplink (UL) transmission power control;
        (4) Control information about generation of uplink (UL) MAC PDUs; and
        (5) Control information about a terminal measurement report (UE measurement report).
[0041] (1) RB configuration information about P-RB and S-RB
        The information items (1) to (5) will be sequentially described below. The RB
configuration information about the P-RB and the S-RB indicates mapping of the two RBs (i.e.,
P-RB and S-RB) in the PCell 110 and the SCell 120 to one EPS bearer. This RB configuration
information is effective in the architecture in which one EPS bearer is mapped to both the P-RB
in the PCell 110 and the S-RB in the SCell 120. The RB configuration information about the P
RB and the S-RB may indicate that an EPS bearer identity in common with the P-RB is also set
to the S-RB. For example, the RB configuration information may indicate that the EPS bearer
identity associated with the EPS Radio Bearer identity (or DRB-identity) of the P-RB is also
associated with the EPS Radio Bearer identity (or DRB-identity) of the S-RB. Alternatively, the
RB configuration information may indicate that the EPS bearer identity and the EPS Radio
Bearer identity (or DRB-identity) which are the same as those of the P-RB are set to the S-RB.
[0042] The differences between the RB configuration information about the P-RB and the S-RB
and the SCell configuration information in the normal CA (intra-eNB CA) will now be
described. In the normal CA (intra-eNB CA), the eNB transmits the SCell configuration to the
UE through the PCell, and the UE executes the SCell configuration. The SCell configuration in
the normal CA includes dedicated (per-UE) radio resource configuration information for SCell
(RadioResourceConfigDedicatedSCell). The configuration information in the normal CA
includes SCell physical channel configuration information, but does not include any information
about the radio bearer (RB). This is because the unique functions necessary for the SCell in the
normal CA are only the functions of a PHY layer and a MAC sublayer (i.e., the RLC sublayer
and the PDCP sublayer of the SCell are in common with those of the PCell), and accordingly, the
radio bearer configuration of the SCell (i.e., mapping between the EPS bearer and the radio
bearer) is unnecessary.
[0043] On the other hand, the architecture in which one EPS bearer is mapped to both the P-RB
in the PCell 110 and the S-RB in the SCell 120 requires information indicating that one EPS
bearer is mapped to radio bearers of different eNBs (MeNB 11 and SeNB 12). In other words,
since the SCell configuration method employed in the normal CA (intra-eNB CA) lacks a radio

                                                    11
bearer configuration procedure for the SCell, it is difficult to apply the SCell configuration
method in the normal CA to the SCell configuration in the architecture in which one EPS bearer
is mapped to both the P-RB in the PCell 110 and the S-RB in the SCell 120. Accordingly, as
described herein, new RB configuration information different from that of the normal CA is
required. Note that, the new RB configuration information is configuration information
especially about the S-RB and thus can also be called S-RB configuration information.
[0044] (2) Control information about SR
        When there is data to be transmitted to the UE 2, a Scheduling Request (SR) is
transmitted from the UE to an eNB to request allocation of an uplink radio resource. The UE
transmits the SR in a Physical Uplink Control Channel (PUCCH), or by using a Random Access
Procedure using a Random Access Channel (RACH). When data for transmission of the EPS
Bearer subjected to a bearer split is available in the UE 2, control information about the SR
indicates either a cell (e.g., the PCell 110) of the MeNB 11 or a cell (e.g., the SCell 120) of the
SeNB 12 to which the SR is to be transmitted. For example, the control information about the
SR may explicitly indicate one of the MeNB 11 (PCell 110) and the SeNB 12 (SCell 120) to
which the SR (or an RACH for transmitting the SR) is to be transmitted. Alternatively, the
control information about the SR may indicate that the UE 2 is allowed to select the destination
of the SR (or an RACH for transmitting the SR). Specifically, the control information about the
SR may specify signalling which enables selection of the destination of the SR (or an RACH for
transmitting the SR), or may instruct the UE 2 to select the destination of the SR. Through this
control, the UE 2 can appropriately determine the destination of the SR even during execution of
the bearer split.
[0045] (3) Control information about UL transmission power control
        During execution of the bearer split, an upper limit of total transmission power for uplink
transmission in a cell (e.g., the PCell 110) of the MeNB 11 and a cell (e.g., the SCell 120) of the
SeNB 12 may be specified. The control information about UL transmission power control may
be applied to the procedure for controlling uplink transmission power in the UE 2 when the UE 2
is scheduled for uplink transmission in the PCell 110 and uplink transmission in the SCell 120 in
the same subframe (LTE subframe) (i.e., when the UE 2 receives UL grants for both the PCell
110 and the SCell 120). Alternatively, the control information about UL transmission power
control may be applied to the procedure for controlling uplink transmission power in the UE 2

                                                 12
when data or control information to be transmitted in the uplink is available in both the PCell
110 and the SCell 120. The control information may indicate, for example, maximum
transmission power applied to the total transmission power for uplink transmission in the PCell
110 and the SCell 120. The UE 2 may first determine the transmission power in the PCell 110
and then determine the transmission power in the SCell 120. In other words, the UE 2 may
perform uplink transmission in the SCell 120 by using surplus transmission power that is not
used for uplink transmission in the PCell 110. Alternatively, the UE 2 may perform uplink
transmission in the PCell 110 by using surplus transmission power that is not used for uplink
transmission in the SCell 120. Through this control, the UE 2 can appropriately perform the UL
transmission power control even during execution of the bearer split.
[0046] Alternatively, during execution of the bearer split, an upper limit of transmission power
may be specified for each of uplink transmission in the PCell 110 and uplink transmission in the
SCell 120. In this case, the control information about UL transmission power control may
indicate first and second maximum transmission power applied to uplink transmission in the
PCell 110 and uplink transmission in the SCell 120, respectively. The control information may
indicate a configuration value of the first maximum transmission power, and an offset value (a
positive or negative value) for obtaining the second maximum transmission power. A value
obtained by adding the offset value to the configuration value of the first maximum transmission
power may be used as the second maximum transmission power applied to uplink transmission
in the SCell 120. Through this control, the UE 2 can appropriately perform the UL transmission
power control even during execution of the bearer split.
[0047] (4) Control information about generation of UL MAC PDUs
        Even during execution of the bearer split, the UE 2 should generate MAC PDUs in
consideration of an EPS bearer QoS (QoS class identifier (QCI), a guaranteed bit rate (GBR), an
aggregate maximum bit rate (AMBR), etc.) for each of all EPS bearers including bearers which
are subjected to a bearer split and bearers which are not subjected to a bearer split. One MAC
PDU can also be called a transport block. Accordingly, the control information about generation
of UL MAC PDUs is applied to the procedure for generating a first MAC PDU for uplink
transmission in the PCell 110 and a second MAC PDU for uplink transmission in the SCell 120
in the UE 2, when the UE 2 is scheduled for uplink transmission in the cell (e.g., the PCell 110)

                                                   13
of the MeNB 11 and uplink transmission in the cell (e.g., the SCell 120) of the SeNB 12 in the
same subframe (LTE subframe).
[0048] The control information about generation of UL MAC PDUs may indicate, for example,
a first Prioritized Bit Rate (PBR) applied to generation of the first MAC PDU and a second PBR
applied to generation of the second MAC PDU for one logical cannel of the EPS bearer
subjected to the bearer split. In other words, the information may specify two PBRs, i.e., the first
PBR for transmission in the PCell 110 and the second PBR for transmission in the SCell 120, for
one logical channel of the EPS bearer subjected to the bearer split. In this case, the first and
second PBRs may be configured so that the total (arithmetic sum) of the first and second PBRs
becomes a PBR appropriate for one logical channel of the EPS bearer subjected to the bearer
split. This control can prevent transmission of an excessive amount of uplink data of the EPS
bearer subjected to the bearer split (i.e., prevent an excessive amount of uplink data of the EPS
bearer subjected to the bearer split from being included in the MAC PDU), as compared with the
uplink data of EPS bearers which are not subjected to the bearer split.
[0049] The control information about the generation of the UL MAC PDU may indicate either
the first MAC PDU or the second MAC PDU for which the Prioritized Bit Rate (PBR) applied to
the logical channel of the EPS bearer subjected to the bearer split is should be preferentially
secured. It may be desirable for the UE 2 to preferentially use the uplink resources allowed in
the PCell 110 for transmission of EPS bearers which are not subjected to the bearer split. This is
because uplink transmission of the EPS bearer subjected to the bearer split can use the uplink
resources allowed in the SCell 120. Accordingly, the control information about generation of
UL MAC PDUs may indicate that the PBR applied to the logical channel of the EPS bearer
subjected to the bearer split should be preferentially secured for the second MAC PDU. This
control can suppress transmission of an excessive amount of uplink data of the EPS bearer
subjected to the bearer split, as compared with uplink data of EPS bearers which are not
subjected to the bearer split.
[0050] The control information about generation of UL MAC PDUs may include a configuration
value (weighting factor) used for weighting a PBR applied to the PCell 110 (first MAC PDU)
and a PBR applied to the SCell 120 (second MAC PDU) during execution of the bearer split.
Further, the control information may include a configuration value (weighting factor) for
weighting a PBR applied to the logical channel of the EPS bearer subjected to the bearer split

                                                  14
and a PBR applied to a logical channel of an EPS bearer which is not subjected to the bearer
split.
[0051] (5) Control information about a terminal measurement report (UE measurement report)
          LTE specifies the following events that trigger a terminal measurement report (UE
Measurement Report).
[0052] - Event Al (Serving becomes better than threshold)
[0053] - Event A2 (Serving becomes worse than threshold)
[0054] - Event A3 (Neighbour becomes offset better than PCell)
[0055] - Event A4 (Neighbour becomes better than threshold)
[0056] - Event A5 (PCell becomes worse than threshold and neighbour becomes better than
threshold2)
[0057] - Event A6 (Neighbour becomes offset better than SCell)
[0058] The term "Serving (cell)" represents each cell configured and activated by a network (i.e.,
eNB) so that the UE 2 can use the cell for data communication. For example, when the UE 2
uses two cells in the conventional CA, each of the two cells is a serving cell, and the cell of
interest (i.e., the serving cell to be compared) may be determined depending on the cell in which
the measurement report configuration is performed. That is, the cell to which the configuration
is transmitted (the cell in which the UE 2 receives the configuration) may be considered as the
serving cell. On the other hand, the term "neighbour (cell)" is basically a cell other than the
serving cell. However, in Events A3 and A5, a serving cell other than the serving cell of interest
(i.e., a comparison reference) may also be considered as one of the neighbor cells.
[0059] The control information about the terminal measurement report may indicate any one or
more of the above-mentioned events, or may indicate an event newly defined for the bearer split.
When the control information indicates any one or more of the above-mentioned events, the
PCell may be the cell 110 of the MeNB 11 or the cell 120 of the SeNB 12. Further, the SCell(s)

                                                   15
may be a cell(s) other than the cell 110 of the MeNB 11 (if the cell(s) is configured), the cell 120
of the SeNB 12, or a cell(s) other than the cell 120 of the SeNB 12 (if the cell(s) is configured).
Examples of the new event may include the following events A7-A10 (the numbers assigned to
the events are only illustrative and are not limited thereto):
[0060] - Event A7 (Neighbour becomes offset better than Pseudo PCell);
[0061] - Event A8 (Pseudo PCell becomes worse than thresholdI and neighbour becomes better
than threshold2);
[0062] - Event A9 (Neighbour of SeNB becomes better than threshold); and
[0063] - Event A1O (Neighbour of SeNB becomes offset better than SCell).
[0064] Next, several examples of the control procedure for starting dual connectivity (e.g., inter
node radio resource aggregation) involving a bearer split are described. Fig. 3 is a sequence
diagram showing an example of the control procedure for starting dual connectivity involving a
bearer split. In the example shown in Fig. 3, dual connectivity involving a bearer split is
configured during a procedure in which the UE 2 transitions from an RRCIDLE state to an
RRCCONNECTED state to start a service (e.g., FTP download). Upon determining that a
bearer split is necessary (or effective) for the UE 2, the E-UTRAN 1 initiates configuration of the
bearer split. Further, in the example shown in Fig. 3, one EPS Bearer is mapped to both the
Primary RB (P-RB) in the PCell 110 and the Secondary RB (S-RB) in the SCell 120. In the
example shown in Fig. 3, the UE 2 first establishes the P-RB in the PCell 110, and then
establishes the S-RB in the SCell 120.
[0065] In step Sl l, the UE 2 executes a Connection Establishment procedure with the E
UTRAN 1. In the Connection Establishment procedure of step Sl l, an RRC connection is first
established between the MeNB 11 and the UE 2 (step 1), and then initial security activation and
establishment of a DRB (i.e., P-RB) are carried out (step 2). Step 1 includes transmission of an
RRC Connection Request message from the UE 2 to the MeNB 11, transmission of an RRC
Connection Setup message from the MeNB 11 to the UE 2, and transmission of an RRC
Connection Setup Complete message from the UE 2 to the MeNB 11. Step 2 includes
transmission of an RRC Connection Reconfiguration message from the MeNB 11 to the UE 2,

                                                  16
and transmission of an RRC Connection Reconfiguration Complete message from the UE 2 to
the MeNB 11. The configuration information about the P-RB is included in the RRC
Connection Reconfiguration message in step 2.
[0066] In step S12, the E-UTRAN 1 transmits an S-RB configuration (Bearer Split
Configuration) to the UE 2. The S-RB configuration may be transmitted by the MeNB 11, or by
a combination of the MeNB 11 and the SeNB 12. In other words, a part of the S-RB
configuration may be transmitted from the MeNB 11 to the UE 2, and the rest of the S-RB
configuration may be transmitted from the SeNB 12 to the UE 2. The S-RB configuration may
be transmitted using an RRC Connection Reconfiguration message as shown in Fig. 3.
[0067] In step S13, the UE 2 reports completion of the S-RB configuration to the E-UTRAN 1.
The UE 2 may report the completion of the S-RB configuration to the MeNB 11 or the SeNB 12,
or to both of them. The completion of the S-RB configuration may be transmitted using an RRC
Connection Reconfiguration Complete message as shown in Fig. 3.
[0068] In step S14, the E-UTRAN 1 notifies the UE 2 about the start of using the S-RB (Bearer
Split Activation). The notification of the start of using the S-RB may be transmitted from the
MeNB 11 or the SeNB 12. Note that step S14 may be omitted. In this case, the use of the S-RB
may be started upon completion of step S13.
[0069] The S-RB configuration (Bearer Split Configuration) transmitted from the E-UTRAN 1
to the UE 2 in step S12 of Fig. 3 corresponds to the first control information relating to an access
stratum described above. The S-RB configuration (Bearer Split Configuration) is a generic term
(logical term) for configuration elements included in the following four messages:
[0070] - DRB-ToAddModSbearer;
[0071] - RadioResourceConfigCommonSbearer;
[0072] - RadioResourceConfigDedicatedSbearer; and
[0073] - BearerSplitResourceConfig.

                                                  17
[0074] These configuration elements may be transmitted to the UE 2 as one information element
(IE) or as a plurality of information elements (IEs).
[0075] DRB-ToAddModSbearer indicates the S-RB configuration (e.g., eps-Bearerldentity,
drb-Identity, pdcp-Config, and rlc-Config). As described above, eps-Bearerldentity and drb
Identity of the S-RB may be the same as eps-Bearerldentity and drb-Identity of the P-RB.
However, drb-Identity of the P-RB may be different from that of the P-RB.
[0076] RadioResourceConfigCommonSbearer indicates a resource configuration (e.g., prach
Config, pdsch-ConfigCommon, pusch-ConfigCommon, pucch-ConfigCommon,
uplinkPowerControlCommon, and tdd-Config, dl-Bandwidth) of the S-RB. In other words,
RadioResourceConfigCommonSbearer includes common radio resource information about the
cell in which the S-RB is configured (established).
[0077] RadioResourceConfigDedicatedSbearer indicates a resource configuration (e.g.,
physicalConfigDedicated and mac-MainConfig) of the S-RB. In other words,
RadioResourceConfigDedicatedSbearer includes dedicated radio resource information about
the cell in which the S-RB is configured (established). The above-mentioned DRB
ToAddModSbearer may be transmitted as one element contained in this IE.
[0078] BearerSplitResourceConfig indicates specific configurations of the bearer split. The
specific configuration of the bearer split includes control parameters related to functions used
during execution of the bearer split. These control parameters can be used for configuring
functions that require a configuration for the bearer split different from that when no bearer split
is executed, or for configuring a new (special) function that is used only during execution of the
bearer split. As described above, these control parameters may include at least one of: (a)
control information about a scheduling request (SR) and a random access channel (RACH); (b)
control information about UL transmission power control (UL power control); and (c) control
information about generation of UL MAC PDUs (e.g., control information about logical channel
prioritization (LCP)).
[0079] Fig. 4 is a sequence diagram showing another example of the control procedure for
starting dual connectivity involving a bearer split. The example shown in Fig. 4 is different from
the example shown in Fig. 3 in that the P-RB and the S-RB are simultaneously configured during

                                                 18
the procedure in which the UE 2 transitions from the RRCIDLE state to the
RRCCONNECTED state.
[0080] In steps S21 to S25, the UE 2 executes a Connection Establishment procedure with the E
UTRAN 1. That is, steps S21 to S25 correspond to step Si 1 shown in Fig. 3. Steps S21 to S23
correspond to an RRC connection establishment procedure (step 1), and steps S24 and S25
correspond to a DRB establishment procedure (step 2).
[0081] In step S21, the UE 2 transmits an RRC Connection Request message to the E-UTRAN
1. In step S22, the E-UTRAN 1 transmits an RRC Connection Setup message to the UE 2. This
RRC Connection Setup message contains both a configuration of the PCell 110 and a
configuration of the SCell 120. In step S23, the UE 2 transmits an RRC Connection Setup
Complete message to the E-UTRAN 1. This RRC Connection Setup Complete message
indicates the completion of the configuration of the PCell 110 and the SCell 120.
[0082] In step S24, the E-UTRAN 1 transmits an RRC Connection Reconfiguration message to
the UE 2 to establish DRBs (i.e., both the P-RB and the S-RB). This RRC Connection
Reconfiguration message contains both a configuration of the P-RB and a configuration of the S
RB. In step S25, the UE 2 transmits an RRC Connection Reconfiguration Complete message to
the E-UTRAN 1. This RRC Connection Reconfiguration Complete message indicates the
completion of the configuration of the P-RB and the S-RB.
[0083] In step S25, the E-UTRAN 1 notifies the UE 2 about the start of using the S-RB (Bearer
Split Activation). Similar to step S14 shown in Fig. 3, step S25 may be omitted.
[0084] In the procedure shown in Fig. 4, a part (e.g., BearerSplitResourceConfig) of the SCell
configuration may be transmitted in step S24 instead of step S22.
[0085] The processing by the E-UTRAN 1 in the procedure shown in Fig. 4 may be performed
by the MeNB 11, or may be performed by a combination of the MeNB 11 and the SeNB 12.
[0086] Figs. 3 and 4 show examples of the control or signalling for starting dual connectivity
involving a bearer split is carried out when the UE 2 transitions from the RRCIDLE state to the
RRCCONNECTED state. However, the control or signalling for starting dual connectivity

                                                   19
involving a bearer split may be carried out when the UE 2 is already in the RRCCONNECTED
state in the PCell 110 and is in the ECM-CONNECTED state with the EPC 3 and when the UE 2
is receiving a service from the EPC 3 through the PCell 110 (i.e., when the EPS Bearer is already
configured).
[0087] As can be understood from the above description, according to this embodiment, it is
possible to provide a control procedure or signalling necessary for starting dual connectivity
involving a bearer split.
[0088] Second Embodiment
[0089] In this embodiment, a modification of the first embodiment is described. A configuration
example of a radio communication system according to this embodiment is similar to that shown
in Fig. 2. In this embodiment, the MeNB 11 exchanges signalling messages with the SeNB 12
through an inter-base-station interface (e.g., Xn interface), and applies a configuration of dual
connectivity (e.g., inter-node radio resource aggregation) involving a bearer split to the SeNB 12.
For example, the MeNB 11 may send, to the SeNB 12, second control information necessary for
starting dual connectivity involving a bearer split (i.e., configuration information of the bearer
split). At this time, the SeNB 12 may determine whether the second control information (bearer
split configuration information) received from the MeNB 11 is acceptable. If the second control
information is not acceptable, the SeNB 12 may notify the MeNB 11 that the second control
information is not acceptable, or may suggest an acceptable alternative configuration to the
MeNB 11. At least a part of the content of the second control information (configuration
information of the bearer split) may be the same as a part of the content of the first control
information described above. The MeNB 11 and the SeNB 12 may exchange signalling
messages through an X2 interface or an SI interface, instead of using the Xn interface.
[0090] Fig. 5 is a sequence diagram showing an example of the control procedure for starting
dual connectivity involving a bearer split in this embodiment. Like in the example shown in Fig.
3, in the example shown in Fig. 5, dual connectivity involving a bearer split is configured during
the procedure in which the UE 2 transitions from the RRCIDLE state to the
RRCCONNECTED state to start a service (e.g., FTP download). Upon determining that a
bearer split is necessary (or effective) for the UE 2, the MeNB 11 initiates configuration of the
bearer split. Like in the example shown in Fig. 3, in the example shown in Fig. 5, one EPS

                                                  20
Bearer is mapped to both the Primary RB (P-RB) in the PCell 110 and the secondary RB (S-RB)
in the SCell 120. Like in the example shown in Fig. 3, in the example shown in Fig. 5, the UE 2
first establishes the P-RB in the PCell 110, and then establishes the S-RB in the SCell 120.
[0091] The processing of step S31 may be performed between the MeNB 11 and the UE 2 in the
same manner as the processing of step SlI shown in Fig. 3. In step S32 of Fig. 5, the MeNB 11
sends a request for (execution or configuration of) a bearer split to the SeNB 12. In step S33, the
SeNB 12 sends, to the MeNB 11, a response as to whether the (execution or configuration of)
bearer split is accepted or not. If the (execution or configuration of) bearer split is accepted in
the SeNB 12, the processing of steps S34 to S36 is carried out. The processing of steps S34 to
S36 may be performed between the MeNB 11 and the UE 2 in the same manner as the
processing of steps S12 to S14 shown in Fig. 3.
[0092] The configuration information of the bearer split may also be sent when the request for
the bearer split is sent from the MeNB 11 to the SeNB 12 in step S32 shown in Fig. 5. The
configuration information of the bearer split indicates, for example, mapping between the S-RB
and the EPS bearer subjected to the bearer split. The configuration information of the bearer
split may include the EPS bearer identity of the EPS bearer subjected to the bearer split and the
Radio Bearer identity (DRB-identity) of the S-RB. Alternatively, the configuration information
of the bearer split may include the EPS bearer identity of the EPS bearer, and may not include
the Radio Bearer identity (DRB-identity) of the S-RB. In this case, the SeNB 12 may determine
the Radio Bearer identity (DRB-identity) of the S-RB, and may notify the MeNB 11 of the
determined Radio Bearer identity (DRB-identity) of the S-RB in step S33.
[0093] The configuration information of the bearer split, which is sent from the MeNB 11 to the
SeNB 12 in step S32 shown in Fig. 5, may include at least one of the following information
items, which are transmitted in step S12 shown in Fig. 3 (and step S34 shown in Fig. 5):
[0094] - DRB-ToAddModSbearer;
[0095] - Identification information about a cell of the SeNB subjected to a bearer split (e.g.,
ECGI and/or PCI);
[0096] - RadioResourceConfigCommonSbearer;

                                                 21
[0097] - RadioResourceConfigDedicatedSbearer; and
[0098] - BearerSplitResourceConfig.
[0099] In addition to or in place of these information items, the configuration information of the
bearer split may include at least one of:
[0100] - Identification information of the UE 2 (e.g., C-RNTI and/or TMSI);
[0101] Specific embodiments will hereinafter be described in detail with reference to the
drawings. The same or corresponding elements are denoted by the same reference symbols
throughout the drawings, and repeated descriptions thereof are omitted as appropriate for clarity
of the explanation.
[0102] A plurality of embodiments below will mainly be described with reference to an Evolved
Packet System (EPS). However, these embodiments are not limited to the EPS, and can be
applied to other mobile communication networks or systems, such as a 3GPP Universal Mobile
Telecommunications System (UMTS), a 3GPP2 CDMA2000 system (1xRTT, High Rate Packet
Data (HRPD)), a global system for mobile communications (GSM)/General packet radio service
(GPRS) system, and a WiMAX system.
[0103] First Embodiment
[0104] First, with regard to some embodiments including this exemplary embodiment, several
examples of dual connectivity involving a bearer split are described. Figs. 1A and 1B show two
alternatives of a user plane protocol stack of LTE Layer-2 related to dual connectivity (e.g.,
inter-node radio resource aggregation) involving a bearer split. In the bearer split, a network
bearer (EPS bearer) configured between a UE and an endpoint (i.e., P-GW) of a core network
(EPC) is split over an MeNB 11 and an SeNB 12. In the alternatives shown in Figs. 1A and 1B,
an EPS bearer #2 is split over the MeNB 11 and the SeNB 12. An EPS bearer #1 shown in Figs.
1A and 1B is a normal bearer which is not subjected to a bearer split. Accordingly, the EPS
bearer #1 is mapped in a one-to-one correspondence to the radio bearer in a cell of the MeNB 11.

                                                22
[0105] In the alternatives shown in Figs. 1A and 1B, one data radio bearer (DRB), which has a
one-to-one association with the EPS bearer #2 is split over the MeNB 11 and the SeNB 12 in a
Packet Data Convergence Protocol (PDCP) sublayer, a Radio Link Control (RLC) sublayer, or a
MAC sublayer of Layer-2. Specifically, in the alternative shown in Fig. 1A, a PDCP entity of
the MeNB 11 terminates the SI-U of the EPS bearer #2. In other words, one SI bearer and one
data radio bearer (DRB) which are mapped to the EPS bearer #2 are terminated at the PDCP
sublayer of the MeNB 11. Further, in the alternative shown in Fig. 1A, the MeNB 11 and the
SeNB 12 have independent RLC entities for bearer split, and one DRB (or PDCP bearer)
terminated at the MeNB 11 is split over the RLC bearer of the MeNB 11 and the RLC bearer of
the SeNB 12. Note that, the term "PDCP bearer" means a connection terminated at the PDCP
sublayers of the eNB and the UE. The PDCP bearer can also be called a PDCP Protocol Data
Unit (PDCP PDU). In the example shown in Fig. 1A, there is one PDCP bearer related to the
EPS bearer #2 to be split, and this PDCP bearer is terminated at the MeNB 11 and the UE 2. On
the other hand, the term "RLC bearer" means a connection terminated at the RLC sublayers of
the eNB and the UE. The RLC bearer can also be called an RLC PDU or a logical channel. In
the example shown in Fig. 1, there are two independent RLC bearers associated with the EPS
bearer #2. One of the two RLC bearers is terminated at the MeNB 11 and the UE 2, and the
other one is terminated at the SeNB 12 and the UE 2. Accordingly, in the architecture shown in
Fig. 1A, the UE 2 is required to have two independent RLC entities associated with the EPS
bearer #2 to be split.
[0106] Like in the alternative shown in Fig. 1A, in the alternative shown in Fig. IB, a PDCP
entity of the MeNB 11 terminates the SI-U of the EPS bearer #2. Further, as for the EPS bearer
#2 to be split, the MeNB 11 has a master RLC entity and the SeNB 12 has a slave RLC entity.
In the alternative shown in Fig. IB, the UE 2 is required to have only one RLC entity associated
with the EPS bearer #2 to be split. In the downlink, the slave RLC entity of the SeNB 12
receives, from the master RLC entity of the MeNB 11, RLC PDUs that has already been
generated by the master RLC entity and allocated to the slave RLC for transmission.
[0107] The following description is based on an assumption that a cell of the MeNB II can be
called a PCell and a cell of the SeNB 12 can be called an SCell from the viewpoint of the
conventional Carrier Aggregation (CA). However, the scope of this embodiment is not limited
to this. For example, when the radio terminal (UE) performs the CA (Intra-SeNB CA) on a

                                                    23
plurality of cells of the SeNB 12 (i.e., at least a plurality of downlink Component Carriers (CCs))
during dual connectivity, one of the cells of the SeNB 12 subjected to the CA may be defined as
a PCell or a pseudo PCell which functions similarly to a PCell. The pseudo PCell can also be
called an Anchor cell, a Master cell, a Control cell, or the like. In the CA of the cells of the
SeNB 12, the former cell (the PCell of the SeNB 12) has a role similar to that of the PCell in the
conventional CA. In the PCell of the SeNB 12, for example, the eNB (SeNB) carries out SCell
configuration or SCell activation/deactivation for the CA, and the UE carries out Radio Link
Monitoring (RLM)/Radio Link Failure (RLF) detection. Further, the UE may perform, for
example, transmission of L1/L2 control information (e.g., CQI, CSI, HARQ feedback,
Scheduling Request) in an uplink control channel (PUCCH), transmission of (a preamble of) a
Contention-based Random Access Channel (RACH), and reception of a response (Random
Access Response (RAR)) to the RACH Preamble. The latter cell (the Pseudo PCell of the SeNB
12) has a role as a cell having a PCell function regarding the control of a User Plane (UP) in the
conventional CA. In the Pseudo PCell of the SeNB 12, the UE may perform, for example,
transmission of L1/L2 control information in the uplink control channel (PUCCH), transmission
of (a preamble of) a Contention-based RACH, and reception of a response (RAR) to the RACH
Preamble. Furthermore, in the UE, the cells of the MeNB 11 and the cells of the SeNB 12 need
not necessarily have a hierarchical relationship (PCell and SCell) or a master-slave relationship.
[0108] The user plane protocol stack for dual connectivity involving a bearer split is not limited
to the alternatives shown in Figs. 1A and 1B. In the bearer split, for example, two radio bearers
may be mapped to one network bearer (EPS bearer). When the terms in Figs. 1A and 1B are
used, it can be expressed that the EPS bearer #2 is mapped to both the radio bearer (RB) in the
cell (PCell) of the MeNB 11 and the radio bearer in the cell (SCell) of the SeNB 12. For
convenience of explanation, the radio bearer in the cell (PCell) of the MeNB 11 is defined herein
as a Primary RB (P-RB) and the radio bearer (RB) in the cell (SCell) of the SeNB is defined
herein as a Secondary RB (S-RB). Since the bearer split is mainly applied to data radio bearers
(DRBs), the P-RB and the S-RB can also be called P-DRB and S-DRB, respectively. For
example, the MeNB 11 may terminate the SI-U of the EPS bearer #2, and the MeNB 11 and the
SeNB 12 may have independent PDCP entities. Further, in a new layer higher than the PDCP
entity of the MeNB 11, a downlink SI-U packet stream of the EPS bearer #2 may be split over
the PDCP entity of the MeNB 11 and the PDCP entity of the SeNB 12. In this case, there are
two independent PDCP bearers related to the EPS bearer #2. One of the two PDCP bearers is

                                                   24
terminated at the MeNB 11 and the UE 2, and the other one is terminated at the SeNB 12 and the
UE 2.
[0109] Fig. 2 shows a configuration example of a radio communication system according to
some embodiments including this embodiment. The radio communication system includes a
radio access network (RAN) 1, a radio terminal (UE) 2, and a core network 3. In the EPS, the
RAN 1 is an Evolved UMTS Terrestrial Radio Access Network (E-UTRAN), and the core
network 3 is an Evolved Packet Core (EPC). The E-UTRAN 1 includes base stations (evolved
NodeBs (eNBs)) 11 and 12. The eNB 11 manages a cell 110, and the eNB 12 manages a cell
120. The UE 2 is connected to the eNBs 11 and 12 by means of a radio access technology. The
EPC 3 is accessed from the UE 2 through the E-UTRAN 1, and provides the UE 2 with a
connection service (e.g., Internet Protocol (IP) connection service) for connecting to an external
network (Packet Data Network (PDN)). In addition, Fig. 2 shows a HetNet environment.
Specifically, the cell 110 shown in Fig. 2 has a coverage area larger than that of the cell 120.
Fig. 2 also shows a hierarchical cell configuration in which the cell 120 is located within the cell
110. However, the cell configuration shown in Fig. 2 is merely an example. For example, the
cells 110 and 120 may have the same degree of coverage. In other words, the radio
communication system according to this embodiment may be applied to a homogeneous network
environment.
[0110] The E-UTRAN 1 and the UE 2 according to this embodiment support dual connectivity
involving a bearer split. Specifically, while using the cell 110 of the eNB (i.e., MeNB) 11 as a
primary cell (PCell), the UE 2 can use the cell 120 of the eNB (i.e., SeNB) 12 as a secondary cell
(SCell). The UE 2 can receive and/or transmit data of one EPS bearer subjected to a bearer split
through the PCell 110 and the SCell 120.
[0111] To start dual connectivity involving a bearer split, the E-UTRAN 1 and the UE 2
according to this embodiment carry out a control procedure or signalling as described below.
The E-UTRAN 1 is configured to transmit, to the UE 2, first control information that relates to
an access stratum and is necessary for dual connectivity involving a bearer split. The UE 2 is
configured to receive the first control information from the E-UTRAN 1, determine whether the
bearer split is required based on the first control information (i.e., based on the decoding result of
the first control information), and control communication employing the dual connectivity
involving the bearer split in accordance with the first control information. In order to determine

                                                   25
whether the bearer split is required based on the first control information, the UE 2 may
consider, for example, whether configuration information related to the bearer split is included or
not, whether an explicit indication (e.g., a flag) to instruct performing the bearer split is included
or not, or whether radio resource control information necessary for execution of the bearer split
is included or not. The first control information relating to the access stratum to be transmitted
from the E-UTRAN 1 to the UE 2 may include at least one of the following information items
(1) to (5):
[0112] (1) Radio bearer (RB) configuration information about P-RB and S-RB;
[0113] (2) Control information about Scheduling Request (SR);
[0114] (3) Control information about uplink (UL) transmission power control;
[0115] (4) Control information about generation of uplink (UL) MAC PDUs; and
[0116] (5) Control information about a terminal measurement report (UE measurement report).
[0117] [0026]
[0118] Oal Processor (DSP)) to execute a program. Specifically, one or more programs
including instructions for causing the computer system to perform algorithms described above
with reference to sequence diagrams and the like may be created, and the program(s) may be
supplied to a computer.
[0119] The program(s) can be stored and provided to a computer using any type of non
transitory computer readable media. Non-transitory computer readable media include any type
of tangible storage media. Examples of non-transitory computer readable media include
magnetic storage media (such as flexible disks, magnetic tapes, hard disk drives, etc.), optical
magnetic storage media (e.g. magneto-optical disks), Compact Disc Read Only Memory (CD
ROM), CD-R, CD-R/W, and semiconductor memories (such as mask ROM, Programmable
ROM (PROM), Erasable PROM (EPROM), flash ROM, Random Access Memory (RAM), etc.).
The program(s) may be provided to a computer using any type of transitory computer readable
media. Examples of transitory computer readable media include electric signals, optical signals,

                                                 26
and electromagnetic waves. Transitory computer readable media can provide the program to a
computer via a wired communication line, such as electric wires and optical fibers, or a wireless
communication line.
[0120] In the first to third embodiments, the LTE system is mainly described. However, as
described above, these embodiments may be applied to radio communication systems other than
the LTE system, such as a 3GPP UMTS, a 3GPP2 CDMA2000 system (1xRTT, HRPD), a
GSM/GPRS system, or a WiMAX system.
[0121] The above embodiments are only illustrative of the application of the technical idea
obtained by the present inventor. That is, the technical idea is not limited only to the above
embodiments and can be modified in various ways as a matter of course.
[0122] This application is based upon and claims the benefit of priority from Japanese patent
application No. 2013-227472, filed on October 31, 2013, the disclosure of which is incorporated
herein in its entirety by reference.
[0123] Reference Signs List
[0124] 1        EVOLVED UTRAN (E-UTRAN)
[0125] 2        USER EQUIPMENT (UE)
[0126] 3        EVOLVED PACKET CORE (EPC)
[0127] 11       MASTER eNodeB (MeNB)
[0128] 12        SECONDARY eNodeB (SeNB)
[0129] 25       COMMUNICATION CONTROL UNIT
[0130] 110      PRIMARY CELL (PCell)
[0131] 120       SECONDARY CELL (SCell)

                               27
[0132] 115 COMMUNICATION CONTROL UNIT
[0133] 125 COMMUNICATION CONTROL UNIT

                                                   28
CLAIMS
1.       A first base station configured to manage a first cell and perform dual connectivity using
the first cell and a second cell managed by a second base station, the first base station
comprising:
         a processor configured to support a split bearer that is a bearer split over the first base
station and the second base station for using resources of the first base station and the second
base station;
         a transmitter configured to transmit, in the first cell, a Radio Resource Control (RRC)
Connection Reconfiguration message, the RRC Connection Reconfiguration message including
first Data Radio Bearer (DRB) configuration information for the first cell and second DRB
configuration information for the second cell, wherein
         the first DRB configuration information includes a first DRB Identity allocated to a first
part of the split bearer in the first cell,
         the second DRB configuration information includes a second DRB Identity allocated to a
second part of the split bearer in the second cell, and
         the first DRB Identity is set to the same identity as the second DRB Identity.
2.       The first base station according to claim 1, wherein the first DRB Identity and the second
DRB Identity that are set to the same identity are used by the radio terminal to consider that a
bearer used for the dual connectivity is the split bearer
3.       A radio terminal configured to perform dual connectivity using a first cell managed by a
first base station and a second cell managed by a second base station, the radio terminal
comprising:
         a processor configured to support a split bearer that is a bearer split over the first base
station and the second base station for using resources of the first base station and the second
base station;
         a receiver configured to receive, in the first cell, a Radio Resource Control (RRC)
Connection Reconfiguration message, the RRC Connection Reconfiguration message including
first Data Radio Bearer (DRB) configuration information for the first cell and second DRB
configuration information for the second cell, wherein
         the first DRB configuration information includes a first DRB Identity allocated to first
part of the split bearer in the first cell,

                                                  29
        the second DRB configuration information includes a second DRB Identity allocated to
the second part of the split bearer in the second cell, and
        the first DRB Identity is set to the same identity as the second DRB Identity.
4.      The radio terminal according to claim 3, wherein the processor is further configured to
consider that a bearer used for the dual connectivity is the split bearer on the basis of the first
DRB Identity and the second DRB Identity that are set to the same identity.
                                          NEC Corporation
                     Patent Attorneys for the Applicant/Nominated Person
                                     SPRUSON & FERGUSON

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
