                                        ABSTRACT
The present invention provides nucleic acids, expression systems, and vaccine strains
which provide efficient expression and secretion of antigens of interest into the cytosol of
host cells, and elicit effective CD4 and CD8 T cell responses by functionally linking
Listerialor other bacterial signal peptides/secretion chaperones as N-terminal fusion
partners in translational reading frame with selected recombinant encoded protein
antigens. These N-terminal fusion partners are deleted (either by actual deletion, by
mutation, or by a combination of these approaches) for any PEST sequences native to the
sequence, and/or for certain hydrophobic residues.

       SIGNAL PEPTIDE FUSION PARTNERS FACILITATING LISTERIAL
         EXPRESSION OF ANTIGENIC SEQUENCES AND METHODS OF
                           PREPARATION AND USE THEREOF
[0001]       This is a divisional application of Australian Patent Application 2013370210,
which is the Australian National Phase of International Patent Application
PCT/US2013/078119, which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application
61/746,237, filed December 27, 2012, and to U.S. Provisional Patent Application
61/780,744, filed March 13, 2013, each of which is hereby incorporated by reference in its
entirety including all tables, figures and claims
                            BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
[0002]       The following discussion of the background of the invention is merely
provided to aid the reader in understanding the invention and is not admitted to describe
or constitute prior art to the present invention.
[0003]       Listeriamonocytogenes (Lm) is a facultative intracellular bacterium
characterized by its ability to induce a profound innate immune response that leads to
robust and highly functional CD4 and CD8 T cell immunity specific for vaccine-encoded
Ags. Lm is a food-bome bacterium with increased pathogenicity among immune
compromised individuals, including patients with cancer or other viral-induced immune
deficiencies, pregnant women, the elderly and infants.
[0004]       Recombinantly modified Lm vaccine platforms engineered to encode a
designated antigen(s) relevant to a selected targeted pathogenic agent or malignancy have
formed the basis for several human clinical trials. As Listeria can be a pathogenic
organism, and particularly in the immunocompromised, it is preferred that the
administration step comprises administering an attenuated Listeria that encodes an
expressible, immunologically active portion of an antigen of interest. "Attenuation" refers
to a process by which a bacterium is modified to lessen or eliminate its pathogenicity, but
retains its ability to act as a prophylactic or therapeutic for the disease of interest. By way
of example, genetically defined live-attenuated Lm AactAAinlB, which is deleted of two
virulence genes and is attenuated >3 logs in the mouse listeriosis model, retains its
immunologic potency and has been shown to induce robust CD4 and CD8 T cell
immunity in both mouse models of human disease as well as in humans, and has been
shown to be safe and well-tolerated in clinical settings among patients with various solid
tumor malignancies.
                                                 1

[0005]      Listeria strains have been most commonly engineered to secrete a tumor
antigen as a fusion with all or a portion of a secreted Listerialprotein, such as listeriolysin
o (LLO) or ActA. It has been suggested that a possible reason for the efficacy of such
vaccine constructs may be the presence of aminio acid sequences within LLO and ActA
called "PEST"'motifs PEST regions (P, proline; E, glutainic acid; S, serine; T, threonine)
are hydrophilic amino acid sequences that reside near the NH2 or COOH termini of
certain proteins. They are thought to target proteins for rapid degradation by the cellular
proteasome. To be recognized by T lymphocytes, protein antigens must be converted into
short peptides bound to MHC molecules, which are displayed on the surface of antigen
presenting cells. And, indeed, the PEST region of LLO has been suggested to be crucial
to the success of Listerialvaccines, as the supply of peptides available for presentation by
MHC class I molecules can be increased by shortening the cellular half-life of a protein.
                         BRIEF SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
[0006]      The present invention provides nucleic acids, expression systems, and vaccine
strains which pr-ovide efficient expression and secretion of antigens of interest into the
cytosol of host cells, and elicit effective CD4 and CD8 T cell responses by functionally
linking Listerialor other bacterial signal peptides/secretion chaperones as N-terminal
fusion partners in translational reading frame with selected recombinant encoded protein
antigens. These bacterial N-terminal signal peptide/secretion chaperone fusion partners
direct the secretion of the synthesized fusion protein from the recombinant bacterium in
the infected host mammalian cells. As described hereinafter, these N-terminal fusion
partners are deleted (either by actual deletion, by mutation, or by a combination of these
approaches) for any PEST sequences native to the sequence.
[0007]      The bacterial N-teiminal signal peptide/secretion chaperone fusion partners
are modified, relative to a native polypeptide sequence, in terms of the modification of
PEST sequences, and also optionally in terms of length and/or the existence of
hydrophobic motifs outside the signal sequence. By way of example, ActA may be
truncated to delete the C-terminal membrane-binding domain, and in certain
embodiments even further to decrease the number of non-antigenic residues in the fusion
protein. In addition, one or more hydrophobic residues in these N-terminal fusion partners
-whichare not part of the signal sequence and which form a hydrophobic motif in the
polypeptide sequence are also deleted (again, either by actual deletion, by mutation, or by
                                               2

a combination of these approaches). The resulting fusion proteins are expressed at high
levels and generate a roiust immunologic response to the-antigen(s) of interest which are
contained in the fusion protein.
[0008]       In a first aspect, the present invention relates to polynucleotides comprising:
(a) a promoter; and
(b) a-nucleic acid operably linked to the promoter, wherein the nucleic acid encodes a
fusion protein comprising:
          a polypeptide derived by recombinant modification of a secreted Listerialprotein
         sequence the secreted Listerialprotein sequence in its unmodified form
         comprising a signal sequence and one or niore PEST motifs, the modification
         comprising removal of each of the PEST motifs by deletion or substitution by one
         or more residues such that the polypeptide lacks any PEST motif; and
         a non-Listerialantigen.
[0009]       In certain embodiments, the N-terminal signal peptide/secretion chaperone
fusion partner is derived from ActA or LLO. One or more P, E, S, and T residues, and
preferably each P, E, S, and T residue, in the PEST motif of an ActA or LLO polypeptide
sequence may be substituted with a residue other than P, E, S, and T. As described
hefeinafter, even removal of a single residue can render this motif less "PEST-like."
Alternatively, one or more P, E, S, and T residues, and preferably each P, E, S, and T
residue, in the PEST motif of an ActA or LLO polypeptide sequence may simply be
deleted. By way of example, each P, E, S, and T reside in the-PEST motif may be
substituted with K or R. The derived polypeptide most preferably retains the signal
sequence of the secreted Listerialpotein sequence (e.g., ActA or LLO) in unmodified
for-m.
[00]         In the case where the secreted Listerial protein sequence is an ActA sequence,
at least 75% of the PEST motif KTEEQPSEVNTGP is preferably deleted. In certain
preferred embodiments, the sequence KTEEQPSEVNTGP or KTEEQPSEVNTGPR is
deleted. In the case where the secreted Listerial protein sequence is an LLO sequence, at
least 75% of the the PEST motif KENSISSMAPPASPPASPK is preferably deleted. In
                                                 3

certain preferred embodiments, the sequence KENSISSMAPPASPPASPK or
NSISSMAPPASPPASPKTPIEKKHAD is preferably deleted.
[0011]      Optionally, a sequence which forms a hydrophobic motif may be substituted
with one or more amino acids which are not hydrophobic. Thus, modification of the N
terminal signal peptide/secretion chaperone fusion partner may further comprise removal
of one or more hydrophobic domains which are not part of the signal sequence of the
secreted Listerial protein sequence; and/or substitution of one or more residues within one
or more hydrophobic domains which are not part of the signal sequence of the secreted
Listerial protein sequence with amino acids which are not hydrophobic.By way of
example described below, the sequence LIAML in ActA may be replaced with the
sequence QDNKR.
[0012]      As described herein, the N-terminal signal peptide/secretion chaperone fusion
partneris optionally truncated relative to the native length of the parent protein (e.g.,
ActA or LLO). By way of example, ActA may be truncated to delete the C-terminal
membrane-binding domain, andin certain embodiments even further, to decrease the
number of non-aniigenic residues in the fusion protein. Similarly, LLO may be truncated
prior to about residue 484 in order to abrogate cholesterol binding, and in certain
embodiments even further, to again decrease the number of non-antigenic residues in the
fusion protein.
[0013]      In preferred embodiments, the the secreted Listerial protein sequence is drived
from an ActA sequence and the polypeptide comprises at least the first 95 residues of one
of the sequences referred to as dIPEST and dlPEST qdnkr in Fig. 2.
[0014]    - In preferred embodiments, the the secreted Listerial protein sequence is drived
from an LLO sequence and the polypeptide comprises at least the first 95 residues of one
of the sequences referred to as LLO dlPEST and LLO d126 in Fig. 2.
[0015]      In certain embodiments, the promoter provides regulatory sequences which
induce expression of the fusion protein in a host c-ell upon introduction of the bacterium
into a host organism. By way of example only, the promoter is a Listeria monocytogenes
promoter which is PrfA-dependent. PrTA-dependent promoters may be selected from the
group consisting of the inlA promoter, the inl1B promoter, the iniCpromoter, the hpt
promoter, the hly promoter, the picA promoter, the mpl promoter, and the actA promoter.
                                      -       4         -

[0016]      The non-Listerialantigen portion of the fusion protein of the present invention
comprises one or more sequences selected to induce a desired immune response specific
for encoded heterologous antigen(s), i.e., to cause a decrease, prevention, or amelioration
of the symptoms of the condition being treated. In certain embodiments, the non-Listerial
antigen coinprises one or more sequences encoding a cancer cell, tumor, or infectious
agent antigen.
[0017]      In a related aspect, the polynucleotide of the invention is provided as a
component of a plasmid, vector, or the like.
[001S]      In another related aspect, the invention provides a recombinant Lisieria
bacterium modified to comprise the polynucleotide of the invention. In various
embodiments, the polynucleotide may be provided episomally, or may be integrated into
the bacterial genome. The recombinant Listeria bacterium may be further modified so as
to be attenuated, for example by a functional deletion of the bacterium's genomic actA
and/or inlB genes. In certain embodiments, the polynucleotide of the invention is inserted
into the bacterium's genomic actA or inlB gene The bacterium of the present invention
may be utilized as an expression platform for expressing one or more genes which are
heterologous to the bacterium, for example for purposes of generating an immune
response to the heterologous proteins expressed from those genes. Thus, this aspect can
provide a vaccine comprising the recombinant Listeria bacterium and a
pharmacologically acceptable excipient.
f0019]      In still another related aspect, the invention provides a method for stimulating
an inmnune response to a non-Listerialantigen in a mammal comprising administering an
effective amount of the Listeria bacterium described herein to the mammal, wherein the
non-Listerialantigen is expressed in one or more cells of the mammal.
                         BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE FIGITRES
[0020]      Fig. 1 depicts certain functional attributes of ActAin schematic form.
[0021]      Fig. 2 depicts various modifications to the sequences of ActA and LLO.
[0022]      Fig. 3 depicts the location of a PEST motif in the LLO sequence, scored using
the epestfind algorithm.
                                                5

[0023]      Fig. 4 depicts four PEST motifs in the ActA sequence, scored using the
epestfind algorithm.
[0024]      Fig. 5 depicts the results of a B3Z T-cell activation assay following
immunization with Listeria monocytogenes expressing fusion constructs having various
modified ActA and LLO fusion partners.
[0025]      Fig. 6 depicts responses from certain LL0441 (A) and ActAN100 (B) vaccine
strains.
[0026]      Fig. 7 depicts several substitutions and deletions for use in deleting the PEST
motif, using ActA as a model system.
[0027]      Fig. 8. depicts the result of modifying the hydrophobic motif LIAML on the a
hydropathy plot of ActANIOO.
[0028]      Fig. 9 depicts percent survival of animals immunized with Listeria
monocytogenes expressing fusion constructs having a modified ActAN100 sequence
fused to human mdsothelih residues 35-621 following a challenge with CT-26 tumor cells.
[0029]      Fig. 10 depicts EGFRvIII 20.4NY-ESO-l i-1s fusion constructs of the present
invention depicted schematically, and expression of the fusion constructs by western blot.
[0030]      Fig. II depicts EGFR-specific T cell responses determined by intracellular
cytokine staining, as (A) percent IFN- 7 positive EGFRvIII-specific CD8+ T cells; and (B)
absolute number of IFN-y positive EGFRvIlI-specific CD8+ T cells per spleen, following
immunization with Listeria monocytogenes expressing fusion constructs having a
modified ActAN 100 sequence fused to EGFRVII20-dNY-ESO-1 Is.
[0031]      Fig. 12 depicts NY-ESO-l-specific CD8+ T cell responses following
immunization with LIsteria mnonocytogenes expressing fusion constructs having a
modified ActAN100 sequence fused to EGFRvIII 2c0/NY-ESO-I 1165.
                    DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
[0032]      The present invention relates to compositions and methods for preparing
antigenic fusion proteins for expression in Listerial bacteria. The present invention can
provide attenuated bacterial vaccine strains with advantageous safety profiles for use
           -                                   6-

treatment or prevention of diseases having a risk-benefit profile not appropriate for live
attenuated vaccines. While described hereinafter in detail with regardto Listeria
 monocytogenes, the skilled artisan will understand that the methods and compositions
describedherein are generally applicable to Listerialspecies.
[0033]      Listeria monocytogenes (Lm) is a facultative intracellular bacterium
characterized by its ability to induce a profound innate immune response that leads to
robust and highly functional CD4 and CD8 T cell immunity specific for vaccine-encoded
Ags. Lm is a food-borne bacterium with increased pathogenicity among immune
compromised individuals, including patients with cancer or other viral-induced immune
deficiencies, pregnant women, the elderly and infants. To prime a desired CD8 T cell
response, Lm- based vaccines must retain the ability to escape from the vacuole of
infected dendritic cells (DCs) in a process mediated by expression of a pore-forming
cytolysin known as listeriolysin 0 (LLO), and desired antigens are engineered to be
expressed and secreted from bacteria in the cytoplasm, where they are subsequently
processed and presented on MHC class I molecules.
[0034]      There is a certain dichotomy apparent in the development of Lm vaccine
strains between antigen expression levels and the requirement for antigen processing.
While the immunologic potency of Lm-based vaccines is related directly to the level of
antigen expression and secretion in the host cell, efficient MHC class I and class II
priming and induction of antigen-specific immune responses has been suggested to
depend upon rapid turnover of the antigen by proteolytic machinery of the cell.
[0035]      Antigen expression cassettes are provided herein which result in efficient
expression and secretion of encoded antigens into the cytosol of host cells, and elicit
effective CD4 and CD8 T cell responses by functionally linking Listerialor other
bacterial signal peptides/secretion chaperones as N-terminal fusion partners in
translational reading frame with selected recombinant encoded protein antigens. These
bacterial N-terminal signal peptide/secretion chaperone fusion partners direct the
secretion of the synthesized fusion protein from the recombinant bacterium in the infected
host mammalian cells. As described hereinafter, these N-terminal fusion partners are
deleted (either by actual deletion, by mutation, or by a combination of these approaches)
for any PEST sequences native to the sequence. Optionally, hydrophobic resides in these
N-terminal fusion partners which are not-part of the signal sequence are also deleted
                                               7

(again, either by actual deletion, by mutation, or by a combination of these approaches).
The resulting fusion proteins are expressed at high levels and generate a robust
immunologic response to the antige-n(s) of interest which are contained in the fusion
protein.
10036]      In a preferred embodiment, the said fusion protein is functionally linked to an
Lm PrfA-inducible promoter. Preferred non-limiting examples are the hly promoter,
which drives the expression of the listeriolysin 0 (LLO) protein, and the aatA promoter,
which drives the ex-pression of the ActA protein, respectively, in wild-type Listeria
monocytogenes. PrIA-dependent promoters are induced within infected -mammalian host
cells and functionally linked proteins are synthesized at high levels. The temporally
regulated high-level expression of encoded fusion proteins comprising selected antigens
functionally linked to PrfA-dependent promoters in the host cells facilitates antigen
processing and presentation, resulting in an optimal Lm vaccine-induced immune
response.
[0037]      As described hereinafter, preferred non-limiting examples of N-terminal signal
peptide/secretion chaperone fusion partners are modified LLO or-ActA proteins, derived
from Listeria monocytagenes. The LLO and ActA N-terminal signal peptide/secretion
chaperone fusion partners can be functionally linked to a ListerialPrfA-dependent
promoter (e.g., the hly promoter or the actA promoter). In a preferred embodiment, ActA
and LLO N-terminal signal peptide/secretion chaperone fusion partners which lack any
PEST-like sequence motifs fof fusion in frame with any selected antigen sequences are
provided. Such PEST-minus N-terminal fusion partners are referred to herein as PEST
minus (PEST) ActA and PEST LLO.
[0038]      Fig. 1 depicts in schematic form certain functional attributes of ActA.
Underlined regions depict the location of PEST sequences in the native ActA sequence.
In certain embodimenfs, the N-terminal signal peptide/secretion chaperone is derived
from ActA in that it comprises the signal sequence of ActA and is truncated at about
residue 389 amino acids of ActA in order to delete the C-terminal domain which
comprises a transmembrane region. The term "about" as used herein in this context refers
to +/- 25 amino acid residues.
                                              8

[0039]      The term "derived" as used herein with regard to modification of secreted
Listerialproteins to provide signal peptides/secretion chaperones for use of N-terminal
fusion partners, refers to removal of PEST sequences native to the Listerialprotein, and
also optionally truncation relative to the native length and/or modification of one or more
hydrophobic motifs outside the signal sequence. By way of example, ActA may be
truncated to delete the C-terminal membrane-binding domain, and in certain
embodiments even further, to decrease the number of non-antigenic residues in the fusion
protein. In addition, one or more hydrophobic residues in these N-terminal fusion partners
which are not part of the signal sequence and which form a hydrophobic motif in the
polypeptide sequence are also deleted (again, either by actual deletion, by mutation, or by
a combination of these approaches). As described hereinafter, the resulting fusion
proteins are expressed at high levels and generate a robust immunologic response to the
antigen(s) of interest which are contained in the fusion protein.
[0040]      Similarly, native LLO contains 529 residues and comprises a 25 residue signal
sequence followed by four structural domains. Domain 4 is roughly from residues 415
529 and contains a cholesterol binding region. Domain 1 contains a single PEST
sequence. In certain embodiments, the N-terminal signal peptide/secretion chaperone is
derived from LLO in that it comprises the signal seqence df LLO and is truncated prior
to about residue 484 in order to abrogate cholesterol binding. The term "derived" as used
herein in this context refers to being modified, relative to the native LLO sequence, in
terms of length, the existence of PEST sequences, and the existence of hydrophobic
motifs outside the signal sequence. Preferably, the modified ActA is truncated at about
residue 441.
[0041]      As demonstrated hereinafter, the PEST sequences and hydrophobic domains
may be functionally deleted, either by their removal, or by noon-conservative substitution
of residues, or by a combination of these approaches. By way of example only, the
following examples demonstrate the replacement of a LIAML hydrophobic motif in ActA
with the sequence QDNKR; and the actual deletion of all or a portion of the ActA PEST
sequence.
[0042]      It is to be understood that the invention is not limited in its application to the
details of construction and to the arrangements of the components set forth in the
following description or illustrated in the drawings. The invention is capable of
                                               9

embodiments in addition to those described and of being practiced and carried out in
various ways. Also, it is to be understood that the phraseology and terminology
employed herein, as well as the abstract, are for thd purpose of description and should not
be regarded as limiting.
[0043]           As such, those skilled in the art will appreciate that the conception upon
which this disclosure is based may readily be utilized as a basis for the designing of other
structures, methods and systems for carrying out the several purposes of the present
invention. It is important, therefore, that the claims be regarded as including-such
equivalent constructions insofar as they do not depart from the spirit and scope of the
present invention.
[00441       1. Definitions
[0045]       Abbreviations used to indicate a mutation in a gene, or a mutation in a
bacterium comprising the gene, are as follows. By way of example, the abbreviation "L.
monocytogenes AacIA" means that part, or all, of the actA gene -was deleted. The delta
symbol (A) means deletion. An abbreviation including a superscripted minus sign
(Listeria ActA) means that the actA gene was mutated, e.g., by way of a deletion, point
mutation, or frameshift mutation, but not limited to these types of mutations.
[0046]       "Administration" as it applies to a human, mammal, mammalian subject,
animal, veterinary subject, placebo subject, research subject, experimental subject, cell,
tissue, organ, or biological fluid, refers without limitation to contact of an exogenous
ligand, reagent, placebo, small molecule, pharmaceutical agent, therapeutic agent,
diagnostic agent, or composition to the subject, cell, tissue, organ, orbiological fluid, and
the like. "Administration" can refer, e.g., to therapeutic, pharmacokinetic, diagnostic,
research, placebo, and experimental methods. Treatment-of a cell encompasses contact of
a reagent to the cell, as well as contact of a reagent to a fluid, where the fluid is in contact
with the cell. "Administration" also encompasses in vitro and ex vivo treatments, e.g., of
a cell, by a reagent, diagnostic, binding composition, or by another cell.
[0047]       An "agonist," as it relates to a ligand and receptor, comprises a molecule,
combination of molecules, a complex, or a combination of reagents, that stimulates the
receptor. For example, an agonist of granulocyte-macrophage colony stimulating factor
(GM-CSF) can encompass GM-CSF, a mutein or derivative of GM-CSF, a peptide
                                                 10

mimetic of GM-CSF, a small molecule that mimics the biological function of GM-CSF,
or an antibody that stimulates GM-CSF receptor.
[0048]      An "antagonist," as it relates to a-ligand and receptor, comprises a molecule,
combination of molecules, or a complex, that inhibits, counteracts, downregulates, and/or
desensitizes the receptor. "Antagonist" encompasses any reagent that inhibits a
constitutive activity of the receptor. A constitutive activity is one that is manifest in the
absence of a ligand/receptor interaction. "Antagonist" also encompasses any reagent that
inhibits or prevents a stimulated (or regulated) activity of a receptor. By way of example,
an antagonist of GM-CSF receptor includes, without implying any limitation, an antibody
that binds to the ligand (GM-CSF) and prevents it from binding to the receptor, or an
antibody that binds to the receptor and prevents the ligand flm binding to-the receptor, or
where the antibody locks the receptor in an inactive conformation.
[0049]      As used herein, an "analog" or "derivative" with reference to a peptide,
polypeptide or protein refers to another peptide, polypeptide or protein thaf possesses a
simiIar or identical function as the originaf peptide, pol-ypeptide-or protein, but does not
necessarily comprise a similar or identical amino acid sequence or structure of the
original peptide, polypeptide or protein. An analog preferably satisfies at least one of the
following: (a) a proteinaceous agent having an amino acid sequence that is at least 30%,
at least 35%, at least 40%, at least 45%, at least 50%, at least 55%, at least 60%, at least
65%, at least 70%, at least 75%, at least 80%, at least 85%, at least 90%, at least 95% or
at least 99% identical to the original amino acid sequence (b) a proteinaceous agent
encoded by a nucleotide sequence that hybridizes under stringent conditions to a
nucleotide sequence encoding the original amino acid sequence; and (c) a proteinaceous
agent encoded by a nucleotide sequence that is at least 3%, at least 35%, at least 40%, at
least 45%, at least 50%, at least 55%, at least 60%, at least 65%, at least 70%, at least
75%, at least 80%, at least 85%, at least 90%, at least 95% or at least 99% identical to the
nucleotide sequence encoding the original amino acid sequence.
[0050]      "Antigen presenting cells" (APCs) are cells of the immune system used for
presenting antigen to-T cells. APCs include dendritic cells, monocytes, macrophages,
marginal zone Kupffer cells, microglia, Langerhans cells, T cells, and B cells. Dendritic
cells occur in at least two lineages. The first lineage encompasses pre-DC1, myeloid
DCl, and mature DC 1. The second lineage encompasses CD34*CD45RA early
                                               II

progenitor multipotent cells, CD34*CD45RA* cells, CD34*CD45RA*CD4* IL-3Ra* pm
DC2 cells, CD4*CD1 leplasmacytoid pre-DC2 cells, lymphoid human DC2
plasmacytoid-derived DC2s, and maluie DC2s.
10051]      "Attenuation" and "attenuated" encompasses a bacterium, virus, parasite,
infectious organism, prion, tumor cell, gene in the infectious organism, and the like, that
is modified to reduce toxicity to a host. The host can be a human or animal host, or an
organ, tissue, or cell. The bacterium, to give a non-limiting example, can be attenuated to
reduce binding to a host cell, to reduce spread from one host cell to another host cell, to
reduce extracellular growth, or to reduce intracellular growth in a host cell. Attenuation
can be assessed by nieasuring, e.g., an indicum or indidia of toxicity, the LDoo, the rate of
clearance from an organ, or the competitive index (see, e.g., Auerbnch, et at (2001)
Infect. Imunity 69:5953-5957). G-enerally, an attenuation results an increase in the
LDso and/or an increase in the rate of clearance by at least 25%; more generally by at
least 50%; most generally by at least 100% (2-fold); normally by at least 5-fold; more
normally by at least 10-fold; most normally by at least 50-fold; often by at least 100-fold;
more often by at least 500-fold; and most often by at least 1000-fold; usually by at least
5000-fold; more usually by at least 10,000-fold; and most usually by at least 50,000-fold;
and most often by at least 100,000-fold.
[0052]      "Attenuated gene" encompasses a gene that mediates toxicity, pathology, or
virulence, to a host, growth within the host, or survival within the host, where the gene is
mutated in a way that mitigates, reduces, or eliminates the toxicity, pathology, or
virulence. The reduction or elimination can be assessed by comparing the virulence or
toxicity mediated by the mutated gene with that mediated by the non-mutated (or parent)
gene. "Mutated gene" encompasses deletions, point mutations, and frameshift mutations
in regulatory regions of the gene, coding regions of the gene, non-coding regions of the
gene or an combination thereof.
[0053]      'Conservatively modified variants" applies to both amino acid and nucleic
acid sequences. With respect to particular nucleic acid sequences, a conservatively
modified variant refers to nucleic acids encoding identical-amino acid sequences, or
amino acid sequences that have one or more conservative substitutions. An example of a
conservative substitution is the exchange of an amino acid in one of the following-groups
for another amino acid of the same group (U.S. Pat. No. 5,767,063 issued to Lee,-et al.
                                              12

Kyle and Doolittle (1982) J. Mol. Biol. 157:105-132). Conversely, a non-conservative
substitution is the exchange of an amino acid in one of the following groups for another
amino acid of a different group.
(1) Hydrophobic: Norleucine, Ile, Val, Len, Phe, Cys, Met;
(2) Neutral hydrophilic: Cys, Set, Thr;
(3) Acidic: Asp, Glu;
(4) Basic: Asn, Gln, His, Lys, Arg;
(5) Residues that influence chain orientation: Gly, Pro;
(6) Aromatic: Trp, Tyr, Phe; and
(7) Small amino acids: Gly, Ala, Set.
[0054]      "Effective amount" encompasses, without limitation, an amount that can
ameliorate, reverse, mitigate, prevent, or diagnose a symptom or sign of a medical
condition or disorder. Unless dictated otherwise, explicitly or by context, an "effective
amount" is not limited to a minimal amount sufficieilt to ameliorate a condition.
[0055T -- An "eifTarelluIa--fuid"-en--om-passe-- eg-, senini-pasma, blood-iiterstitial
fluid, cerebrospinal fluid, secreted fluids, lymph, bile, sweat, fecal matter, and urine. An
"extracelluar fluid" can comprise a colloid or a suspension, e.g., whole blood or
coagulated blood.
[0056]      The term "fragments" in the context of polypeptides include a peptide or
polypeptide comprising an amino acid sequence of at least 5 contiguous amino acid
residues, at least-10 contiguous amino acid residues, at least 15 contiguous amino acid
residues, at least 20 contiguous amino acid residues, at least 25 contiguous amino acid
residues, at least 40 contiguous amino acid residues, at least 50 contiguous amino acid
residues, at least 60 contiguous amino residues, at least 70 contiguous amino acid
residues, at least 80 contiguous amino acid residues, at least 90 contiguous amino acid
residues, at least 100 contiguous amino acid residues, at least 125 contiguous amino acid
residues, at least 150 contiguous amino acid residues, at least 175 contiguous amino acid
                                               13

residues, at least 200 contiguous amino acid residues, or at least 250 contiguous amino
acid residues of the amino acid sequence of a larger polypeptide.
[0057]      "Gene" refers to a nucleic acid sequence encoding an oligopeptide or
polypeptide. The oligopeptide or polypeptide can be biologically active, antigenically
active, biologically inactive, or antigenically inactive, and the like. The term gene
encompasses, e.g., the sum of the open reading frames (ORFs) encoding a specific
oligopeptide or polypeptide; the sui of the ORFs plus the nucleic acids encoding introns;
the sumof the ORFsI and the operably linked pronioter(s); the sum of the ORFS and the
operably linked promoter(s) aid any introns; the sum of the ORFS and the operably
linked promoter(s), intron(s), and promoter(s), and other regulatory elements, such as
enhancer(s). In certain embodiments, "gene" encompasses any sequences required in cis
for regulating expression of the gene. The term geuie can also refer to a nucIeic acid that
encodes a peptide encompassing an antigen or an antigenically active fragment of a
peptide, oligopeptide, polypeptide, or protein. The term gene does not necessarily imply
that the encoded peptide or protein has any biological activity, or even that the peptide or
protein is antigenically active. A nucleic acid sequence encoding a non-expressable
sequence is generally considered a pseudogene. The term gene also enconipasses nucleic
acid sequences encoding a ribonucleic acid such as rRNA, tRNA, or a riboiyme.
[0058] -    "Growth" of a bacterium such as Listeria encompasses, without limitation,
functions of bacterial physiology and genes relating to colonization, replication, increase
in protein content, and/or increase in lipid content. Unless specified otherwise explicitly
or by context, growth of a Listeria encompasses growth of the bacterium outside a host
cell, and also growth inside a host cell. Growth related genes include, without implying
any limitation those that mediate energy production (e.g., glycolysis, Krebs cycle
cytochromes), anabolism and/or catabolism of amino acids, sugars, lipids, minerals,
purines, and pyrinidines, nutrient transport, transcription, translation, and/or replication.
In some embodiments, "growth" of a Listeriabacterium refers to intracellular growth of
the Listeria bacterium, that is, growth inside a host cell such as a mammalian cell While
intracellular growth of a Listeria bacterium can be measured by light microscopy or
colony forming unit (CFU) assays, growth is not to be limited by any technique of
measurement. Biochemical parameters such as the quantity of a Listerial antigen,
Listerial nucleic acid sequence, or lipid specific to the Listeria bacterium, can be used to
                                          - - 14

assess growth. In some embodiments, a gene that mediates growth is one that specifically
mediates intracellular growth. In some embodiments, a gene that specifically niediates
intracellular growth encompasses, but is not limited to, a gene where inactivation of the
gene reduces the rate of intracellular growth but does not detectably, substantially, or
appreciably, reduce the rate of extracellular growth (e.g., growth in broth), or a gene
wliere inactivation of the gene reduces the rate of intracellular growth to a greater extent
than it reduces the rate of extracellular growth. To provide a non-limiting example, in
some embodiments, a gene where inactivation reduces the rate of intracellular growth to a
greater extent than extracellular growth encompasses the situation where inactivation
reduces intracellular growth to less than 50% the normal or maximal value, but reduces
extracellular growth to only 1-5%, 5-10%, or 10-15% the maximal value. The invention,
in certain aspects, encompasses a Listeria attenuated in intracellular growth but not
attenuated in extracellular growth, a Listeria not attenuated in intracellular growth and not
attenuated in extracellular growth, as well as a Listeria not attenuated in intracellular
growth but attenuated in extracellular growth.
[0059]      A composition that is "labeled" is detectable, either directly or indirectly, by
spectroscopic, photochemical, biochemical, immunochemical, isotopic, or chemical
methods. For example, useful labels include    32P, 13P, 35S,
                                                              '4C, 'H, 1I, stable isotopes,
epitope tags, fluorescent dyes, electron-dense reagents, substrates, or enzymes, e.g., as
usedin enzyme-linked immunoassays, or fluorettes (see, e.g., Rozinov and Nolan (1998)
Chem. Biol. 5:713-728).
[0060]      "Hydrophobic motif! as used herein refers to a set of contuinguous amino acid
residues which, in the context of the entire protein of which they are a part, exhibit a
hydrophobic character by hydropathy analysis. A "hydropathy analysis" refers to the
analysis of a polypeptide sequence by the method of Kyte and Doolittle: "A Simple
Method for Displaying the Hydropathic Character of a Protein". L Mol. Biol.
 157(1982)105-132. In this method, each amino acid is given a hydrophobicity score
between 4.6 and -4,6. A score of 4.6 is the most hydrophobic and a score of -4.6 is the
most hydrophilic. Then a window size is set. A window size is the number of amino acids
whose hydrophobicity scores will be averaged and assigned to the first amino acid in the
window. The calculation starts with the first window of amino acids and calculates the
average of all the hydrophobicity scores in that window. Then the window moves down
                                              15

one amino acid and calculates the average of all the hydrophobicity scores in the second
window. This pattern continues to the end of the protein, computing the average score for
each window and assigning it to the first amino acid in the window. The averages are
then plotted on a graph. The y axis represents the hydrophobicity scores and the x axis
represents the windo-w number. The following hydrophobicity scores are used for the 20
common amino acids.
Arg:         -4.5     Ser:       -0.8    Lys:   -3.9
Thr:         -0.7     Asn:       -3.5    Gly:   -0.4
Asp:         -3.5     Ala:       1.8     Gin:   -3.5
Met:          1.9     Glu:       -3.5    Cys:   2.5
His:         -3.2     Phe:       2.8     Pro:   -1.6
Leu:         3.8      Tyr:       -1.3    Val:   4.2
Trp:         -0.9     Ie:        4.5
[0061]       "Ligand" refers to a small molecule, peptide, polypeptide, or membrane
associated or niembrane-bound molecule which is an agonist or antagonist of a receptor.
"Ligand" also encompasses a binding agent that is not an agonist or antagonist, and has
no agonist or antagonist properties. By convention, where a ligand is membrane-bound
on a first cell, the receptor usually occurs on a second cell. The second cell may have the
same identity (the same name), or it may have a different identity (a different name), as
the first cell. A ligand or receptor may be entirely intracellular, that is, it may reside in
the cytosol, nucleus, or in sonie other intracellular compartment. The ligand or receptor
may change its location. e.g., from an intracellular compartment to the outer face of the
plasma membrane. The complex of a ligand and receptor is termed a "ligand receptor
complex." Where a ligand and receptor are involved in a signaling pathway, the ligand
occurs at an upstream position and the receptor occurs at a downstream position of the
signaling pathway.
[0062]     - "Nucleic acid" refers to deoxyribonucleotides or ribonucleotides and polymers
thereof in either single stranded, double-stranded form, or multi-stranded form.
Non-limiting examples of a nucleic acid are a, e.g., cDNA, mRNA, oligonucleotide, and
polynucleotide. A particular nucleic acid sequence can also implicitly encompasses
"allelic variants" aid "splice variants."
                                               16

[0063]      "Operably linked" in the context of a promoter and a nucleic acid encoding a
mRNA means-that the promoter can be used to initiate transcription of that nucleic acid.
[0064]      The terms "percent sequence identity" and "% sequence identity" refer to the
percentage of sequence similarity found by a comparison or alignment of two or more
amino acid or nucleic acid sequences. Percent identity can be determined by a direct
comparison of the sequence information between two molecules by aligning the
sequences, counting the exact number of matches between the two aligned sequences,
dividing by the length of the shorter sequence, and multiplying the result by 100. An
algorithm for calculating percent identity is the Smith-Waterman homology search
algorithm (see, e.g., Kann and Goldstein (2002) Proteins 48:367-376; Arslan, et at. (2001)
Bioinformatics 17:327-337).
[0065]      By "purified" and "isolated" is meant, when referring to a polypeptide, that the
polypeptide is present in the substantial absence of the other biological macromolecules
-with-which it is associated in nature. The term "purified" as used herein means that an
identified polypeptide often accounts for at least 50%, more often accounts for at least
60%, typically accounts for at least 70%, more typically accounts for at least 75%, most
typically accounts for at least 80%, usually accounts for at least 85%, more usually
accounts for at least 90%, most usually accounts for at least 95%, and conventionally
accounts for at least 98% by weight, or greater, of the polypeptides present. The weights
of water, buffers, salts, detergents, reductants, protease inhibitors, stabilizers (including
an added protein such as albumin), and excipients, and molecules having a molecular
weight of less than 1000, are generally not used in the determination of polypeptide
purity. See, e.g., discussion of purity in U.S. Pat No. 6,090,611 issued to Covacci, et aL
[0066]      "Peptide" refers to a short sequence of amino acids, where the amino acids are
connected to each other by peptide bonds. A peptide may occur free or bound to another
moiety, such as a macroniolecule, lipid, oligo- or polysaccharide, and/or a polypeptide.
Where a peptide is incorporated into a polypeptide chain, the term "peptide" may still be
used to refer specifically to the short sequence of amino acids. A "peptide" may be
connected to another moiety by way of a peptide bond or some other type of linkage. A
peptide is at least two amino acids in length and generally less than about 25 amino acids
in length, where the maximal length is a function of custom or context. The terms
"peptide" and "oligopeptide" mat be used interchangeably.
                                               17

[0067]       "PEST motifs" are defined herein as hydrophilic stretches of at least 12 amino
acids length with a high local concentration of P, E, S and T amino acids, and which score
as a valid PEST motif according to the epestflnd algorithm. Negatively charged amino
acids are clustered within these motifs while positively charged anino acids arginine (R),
histidine (H) and lysine (K) are generally forbidden. The epestfind algorithm defines the
last criterion even more stringently in that PEST motifs are required to be flanked by
positively charged amino acids. All amino acids between the positively charged flanks are
counted and only those motifs are considered further, which contain a number of amino
acids equal to or higher than the window-size parameter. Additionally, all'valid' PEST
regions are required to contain at least one proline (P), one aspartate (D) or glutamate (E)
and at least one serine (S) or threonine(T). Sequences that do not meet the above criteria
are classified as 'invalid' PEST motifs.
[0068]       "Valid" PEST motifs are refined by means of a scoring parameter based on the
local enrichment of critical amino acids as well as the motifs hydrophobicity. Enrichment
of D, E, P, S and T is expressed in mass percent (w/w) and corrected for one equivalent of
D or E, one of P and one of S or T. Calculation of hydrophobicity follows in principle the
method of J. Kyte and R.F. Doolittle. For simplified calculations, Kyte-Doolfttle
hydropathy indices, which originally ranged from -4.5 for arginine to +4.5 for isoleucine,
were converted to positive integers. This was achieved by the following linear
transformation, which yielded values from 0 for arginine to 90 for isoleucine.
               Hydropathy index    =  10 * Kyte-Doolittle hydropathy index + 45
[0069]       The motifs hydrophobicity is calculated as the sum over the products of mole
percent and hydrophobicity index for each amino acid species. The desired PEST score is
obtained as combination of local enrichment term and hydrophobicity term as expressed
by the following equation:
                 PEST score = 0.55     * DEPST - 0.5 * hydrophobicity index.
[0070]       In addition, the epestfind algorithm includes a correction for the hydropathy
index of tyrosine, introduced by Robert H. Stellwagen from the University of Southern
California. However, PEST scores can range from -45 for poly-isoleucine to about +50
for poly-aspartate plus one proline and one-serine. 'Valid' PEST motifs are those above
the threshold score of 5.0 and are considered of real biological interest.
                                                18

[0071]       "Protein" generally refers to the sequence of amino acids comprising a
polypeptide chain. Protein may also refer to a-three dimensional structure of the
polypeptide. "Denatured protein" refers to a partially denatured polypeptide, having
-someresidual three dimensional structure or,-alternatively, to an essentially random three
dimensional structure, i.e., totally denatured. The invention encompasses reagents of, and
methods using, polypeptide variants, e.g., involving glycosylation, phosphorylation,
sulfation, disulfide bond formation, deamidation, isomerization, cleavage points in signal
or leader sequence processing, covalent and non-covalently bound cofactors, oxidized
variants, and the like. The formation of disulfide linked proteins is described (see, e.g.,
Woycechowsky and Raines (2000) Curr. Opin. Chem. Biol. 4:533-539; Creighton, et al.
(1995) Trends Biotechnol. 13:18-23).
[0072]       "Recombinant" when used with reference, e.g., to a nucleic acid, cell, animal,
virus, plasmid, vector, or the like, indicates modification by the introduction of an
exogenous, non-native nucleic acid, alteration of a native nucleic acid, or by derivation in
whole or in part from a recombinant nucleic acid, cell, virus, plasmid, or vector.
Recombinant protein refers to a protein derived, e.g., from a recombinant nucleic acid,
virus, plasmid, vector, or the like. "Recombinant bacterium" encompasses a bacterium
where-the genome is engineered by recombinant methods, e.g., by way of a mutation,
deletion, insertion, and/or a rearrangement. "Recombinant bacterium" also encompasses
a bacterium modified to include a recombinant extra-genomic nucleic acid, e.g., a plasmid
or a second chromosome, or a bacterium where an existing extra-genomic nucleic acid is
altered.
[00731       "Sample" refers to a sample from a human, animal, placebo, or research
sample, e.g., a cell, tissue, organ, fluid, gas, aerosol, slurry, colloid, or coagulated
material. The "sample" may be tested in vivo, e.g., without removal from the human or
animal, or it may be tested in vitro. The sample inay be tested after processing, e.g., by
histological methods. "Sample" also refers, e.g., to a cell comprising a fluid or tissue
sample or a cell separated from a fluid or tissue sample. "Sanple" may also refer to a
cell, tissue, organ, or fluid that is freshly taken from a human or animal, or to a cell,
tissue, organ, or fluid that is processed or stored.
[0074]       A "selectable marker" encompasses a nucleic acid that allows one to select for
or against a cell that contains the selectable marker. Examples of selectable markers
                                                 19

include, without limitation, e.g.: (1) A nucleic acid encoding a product providing
resistance to an otherwise toxic compound (e.g., an antibiotic), or encoding susceptibility
to an otherwise harmless compound (e.g., sucrose); (2) A nucleic acid encoding product
that is otherwise lacking in the recipient cell (e.g., tRNA genes, auxotrophic markers);
(3) A nucleic acid encoding a product that suppresses an activity of a gene product; (4) A
nucleic acid that encodes a product that can b-ereadily identified (e.g., phenotypic
markers such as beta-galactosidase, green fluorescent protein (GFP), cell surface proteins,
an epitope tag, a FLAG tag); (5) A nucleic acid that can be identified by hybridization
techniques, for example, PCR or molecular beacons.
[0075]      "Specifically" or "selectively" binds, when referring to a ligand/receptor,
nucleic acid/complementary nucleic acid, antibodylantigen, or other binding pair (e.g., a
cytokine to a cytdkine receptor) indicates a binding reaction which is determinative of the
presence of the protein in a heterogeneous population of proteins and other biologics.
Thus, under designated conditions, a specified ligand binds to a particular receptor and
does not bind in a significant amount to other proteins present in the sample. Specific
binding can also mean, e.g., that the binding compound, nucleic acid ligand, antibody, or
binding composition derived from the antigen-biiding site of an antibody, of the
contemplated method binds to its target with an affinity that is often at least 25% greater,
more often at least 50% greater, most often at least 100% (2-fold) greater, normally at
least ten times greater, more normally at least 20-times greater, and most normally at least
100-times greater than the affinity with any other binding compound.
[0076]      In a typical embodiment an antibody will have an affinity that is greater than
about 109 liters/mol, as determined, e.g., by Scatchard analysis (Munsen, et a. (1980)
Analyt. Biochem. 107:220-239). It is recognized by the skilled artisan that some binding
compounds can specifically bind to more than one target, e.g., an antibody specifically
binds to its antigen, to lectins by way of the antibody's oligdsaccharide, and/or to an
Fc receptor by vay of the antibody' Fe region.
[0077] -    "Spread" of a bacterium encompasses "cell to cell spread," that is,
transmission of the bacterium from a first host cell to a second host cell, as mediated, for
example, by a vesicle. Functions relating to spread include, but are not limited to, e.g.,
formation of an actin tail, formation of a pseudopod-like extension, and formation of a
double-membraned vacuole.
                                               20

[0078]      The term "subject" as used herein refers to a human or non-human organism.
Thus, the methods and compositions described herein are applicable to both human and
veterinary disease. In certain embodiments, subjects are "patients," i.e., living humans
that are receiving medical care for a disease or condition. This includes persons with no
defined illness who are being investigated for signs of pathology.
[0079]      The "target site" of a recombinase is the nucleic acid sequence or region that is
recognized, bound, and/or acted upon by the recombinase (see, e.g. U.S. Pat. No.
6,379,943 issued to Graham, et al-; Smith and Thorpe (2002) MoL Microbiol. 44:299
307; Groth and Calos (2004) J. Mol Biol. 335:667-678; Nunes-Duby, et al. (1998)
Nucleic Acids Res. 26:391-406).
[0080]      'Therapeutically effective amount" is defined as an amount of a reagent or
pharmaceutical composition that is sufficient to induce a desired immune response
specific for encoded heterologous antigens, show a patient benefit, i.e., to cause a
decrease, prevention, or amelioration of the symptoms of the condition being treated.
When the-agent or pharmaceutical composition comprises a diagnostic agent, a
"diagnostically effective amount" is defined as an amount that is sufficient to produce a
signal, image, or other diagnostic parameter. Effective amounts of the pharmaceutical
formulation will vary according to factors such as the degree of susceptibility of the
individual, the age, gender, and weight of the individual, and idiosyncratic responses of
the individual (see, e.g., U.S. Pat. No. 5,888,530 issued to Netti, et al.).
[0081]      "Treatment" or "treating" (with respect to a condition or a disease) is an
approach for obtaining beneficial or desired results including and preferably clinical
results. For purposes of this invention, beneficial or desired results with respect to a
disease include, but are not limited to, one or more of the following: improving a
condition associated with a disease, curing a disease, lessening severity of a disease,
delaying progression of a disease, alleviating one or more syniptoms associated with a
disease, increasing the quality of life of one suffering from a disease, and/or prolonging
survival. Likewise, for purposes of this invention, beneficial or desired results with
respect to a condition include, but are not limited to, one or more of the following:
improving a condition, curing a condition, lessening severity of a condition, delaying
progression of a condition, alleviating one or more symptoms associated with a condition,
                                               21

increasing the quality of life of one suffering from a condition, and/or prolonging
survival.
[0082]       "Vaccine" encompasses preventative vaccines. Vaccine also encompasses
therapeutic vaccines, e.g., a vaccine administered to a mammal that comprises a condition
or disorder associated with the antigen or epitope provided by the vaccine. A number of
bacterial species have been developed for use as vaccines and can be used in the present
invention,-including, but not limited to, Shigellaflexneri, Escherichiacoli, Listeria
monocvtogenes, Yersinia enterocolitica,Salnonella typhinurium, SaInonella typhi or
mycobacterium species. This list is not meant to be limiting. See, e.g., W004/00-6837;
W007/103225; and WOO7/117371, each of which is hereby incorporated by reference in
its entirety, including all tables, figures, and claims. The bacterial vector used in the
vaccine composition may be a facultative, intracellular bacterial vector. The bacterium
may be used to deliver a polypeptide described herein to antigen-presenting cells in the
host organism. As described herein, L monocytogenes provides a preferred vaccine
platform for expression of the antigens of the present invention.
Antigenic constructs
[0083]       Target antigens
[0084]       A preferred feature of the fusion proteins described herein is the ability to
initiate both the innate immune response as well as an antigen-specific T cell response
against the antigens) when recombinantly expressed in a host by a L. monocytogenes
vaccine platform. For example, L. monocytogenes expressing the antigen(s) as described
herein can induce Type I interferon (IFN- a/D) and a cascade of co-regulated chemokine
and cytosine protein which shape the nature of the vaccine-induce immune response. In
response to this immune stimulation, NK cells and antigen presenting cells (APCs) are
recruited to the liver following intravenous vaccination routes, or, alternatively to the
vaccination site following other routes of vaccination, for example, by intramuscular,
subcutaneous, or intradermal immunization routes. In certain embodiments, the vaccine
platform of the present invention induces an increase at 24 hours following delivery of the
vaccine platform to the subject in the serum concentration of one or more, and preferably
all, cytokines and chemokines selected from the group consisting of IL-12p70, IFN-y, IL
6, TNF a, and MCP-1; and induces a CD4+ and/or CD8+ antigen-specificT cell response
                                                22

against one or more antigens expressed by the vaccine platform. In other embodiments,
the vaccine platform of the present invention also induces the maturation of resident
immature liver NK cells as demonstrated by the upregulation of activation markers such
as DX5, CD11b, and CD43 in a mouse model system, or by NK cell-mediated cytolytic
activity measured using "Cr-labeled YAC-1 cells that were used as target cells.
[00851       The ability of L monocytogenes to serve as a vaccine vector has been
reviewed in Wesikirdh, et al, Imunliol Rev. 158:159-169 (1997). A number of desirable
features of the natural biology of L monocytogenes make it an attractive platform for
application to a therapeutic vaccine. The central rationale is that the intracellular lifecycle
of-L monocytogenes-enables effective stimulation of CD4+ and CD8+ T cell immunity.
Multiple pathogen associated molecular pattern (PAMP) receptors including TLRs
(TLR2, TLR5, TLR9) nucleotide-binding oligomerization domains (NOD), and
Stimulator of Interferon Genes (STING) are triggered in response to interaction with L.
monocytogenes macromolecules upon infection, resulting in the pan-activation of innate
immune effectors and release of Th-1 polarizing cytoidnes, exerting a profound impact on
the development of a CD4+ and CD8+ T cell response against the expressed antigens.
[0086]      -Strains of L monocytogenes have recently been developed as effective
intracellular delivery vehicles of heterologous proteins providing delivery of antigens to
the immune system to induce an immune response to clinical conditions that do not
permit injection of the disease-causing agent, such as cancer and HIV. See, e.g., U.S. Pat.
No. 6,051,237; Gunn et al, J. Inmmunol, 167:6471-6479 (2001); Liau, et al, Cancer
Research, 62:2287-2293 (2002); U.S. Pat. No. 6,099,848; WO 99/25376; WO 96/14087;
and U.S. Pat. No. 5,830,702), each of which is hereby incorporated by reference in its
entirety, including all tables, figures, and claims. A recombinant L monocytogenes
vaccine expressing an lymphocytic choriomeningitis virus (LCMV) antigen has also been
shown to induce protective cellnmediated immunity to the antigen (Shen et al., Proc. Nat.
Acad. Sci. USA, 92: 3987-3991 (1995).
[0087]       In certain embodiments, the L monocytogenes used in the vaccine
compositions of the present invention comprises an attenuating mutation in actA and/or
iniB, and preferably a deletion of all or a portion of actA and iniB (referred to herein as
"Lin AactA/AinlB"), and contains recombinant DNA encoding for the expression of the
one or more antigen(s) of interest. The antigen(s) are preferably under the control of
                                                23

bacterial expression sequences and are stably integrated into the L monocytogenes
genome.      -
[0088]       The invention also contemplates a Listeria attenuated in at least one regulatory
factor, e.g., a promoter or a transcription factor. The following concerns promoters.
ActA expression is regulated by two different promoters (Vazwuez-Boland, et al. (1992)
Infect. Immune. 60:219-230). Together, InlA and InIB expression is regulated by five
promoters (Lingnau, et al. (1995) Infect. Immun. 63:3896-3903). The transcription factor
-prfAis required for transcription of a number of L. monocytogenes genes, e.g., hly, plcA,
ActA, mpprA, and iap. lrfA's regulatory properties are mediated by, e.g., the PrfA
dependent promoter (PinlC) and the PrfA-box. The present invention, in certain
embodiments, provides a nucleic acid encoding inactivated, mutated, or deleted in at least
one of ActA promoter, inlB promoter, PrfA, PihIC,PrfA box, and the like (see, e.g., Lalic
Mullthaler, et al. (2001) Mol. Microbiol. 42:111-120; Shetron-Rama, et al. (2003) Mol.
Microbiol. 48:1537-1551; Luo, et al. (2004) Mol. Microbiol. 52:39-52). PrfA can he
made constitutively active by a Glyl45Ser mutation, Glyl55Ser mutation, or Glu77Lys
mutation (see, e.g., Mueller and Freitag (2005) Infect. Immun. 73:1917-1926; Wong and
Freitag (2004) J Bacteriol. 186:6265-6276; Ripio, et al. (1997) L Bacteriol. 179:1533
1540).
[0089]       Examples of target antigens that may find use in the invention are listed in the
following table. The target antigen may also be a fragment or fusion polypeptide
comprising an immunologically active portion of the antigens listed in the table. This list
is not meant to be limiting.
     Table 1. Antigens.
     Antigen                                                    Reference
                                              Tumor antigens
 Mesothelin                  GenBank Acc. No. NM_005823; U40434; NM 013404; BC003512
                             (see also, e.g., Hassan, et al. (2004) Clin. Cancer Res. 10:3937-3942;
                             Muminova, et al. (2004) BMC Cancer 4:19; Iacobuzio-Donahue, et
                             al. (2003) Cancer Res. 63:8614-8622).
                                               24

Wilms' tumor-I           WT-1    isoform A (GenBank    Acc. Nos. NM   000378; NP_000369).
associated protein       WT-1    isoform B (GenBank   Acc.  Nos. NM   024424; NP 077742).
(Wt-1), including        WT-1    isoform C (GenBank   Acc.  Nos. NM   024425; NP_077743).
isoforn A; isoform B;    WT-1    isoform D (GenBank    Ace. Nos. NM   024426; NP 077744).
isoforn C; isoform D.
Stratum corneum          GenBank Acc. No. NM_005046; NM_139277; AF332583. See also,
chymotryptic enzyme      e.g., Bondurant, et at (2005) Clin. Cancer Res. 11:3446-3454; Santin,
(SCCE), and variants     et at.(2004) Gynecol. Oncol. 94:283-288; Shigemasa, et at. (2001)
thereof.                 Int. J. Gynecol. Cancer 11:454-461; Sepehr, et a. (2001) Oncogene
                         20:7368-7374.
MHC class I              See, e.g., Goh, et al (2005) Proc. Nat. Acad. Sci. USA 102:6461
chain-related protein A  6466; GenBank Ace. Nos. NM_000247; BC 016929; AY750850;
(MICA); MHC class I      NM_005931.
chain-related protein A
(MICB).
Gastrin and peptides     Harris, et al (2004) Cancer Res. 64:5624-5631; Gilliam, et al.(2004)
derived from gastrin;    Eur. J. Surg. Oncol. 30:536-543; Lahern and Jaffee (2005) Nature
gastrin/CCK-2 receptor   Reviews Cancer 5:459-467.
(also known as
CCK-B).
Glypican-3 (an antigen   GenBank Acc. No. NM 004484. Nakatsura, el al (2003) Biochem.
of, e.g., hepatocellular Biophys. Res. Commun. 306:16-25; Capurro, et al (2003)
carcinoma and            Gasteroenterol. 125:89-97; Nakatsura, et al. (2004) Clin. Cancer Res.
melanoma).               10:6612-6621).
Coactosin-like protein.  Nakatsura, et al.(2002) Eur. J. Immunol. 32:826-836; Laheru and
                         Jaffee (2005) Nature Reviews Cancer 5:459-467.
Prostate stem cell       GenBank Acc. No. AF043498; AR026974; AR302232 (see also, e.g.,
antigen (PSCA).          Argani, et a. (2001) Cancer Res. 61:4320-4324; Christiansen, et al.
                         (2003) Prostate 55:9-19; Fuessel, et al. (2003) 23:221-228).
Prostate acid            Small, et al.(2000) J. Clin. Oncol. 18:3894-3903; Altwein and
phosphatase (PAP);       Luboldt (1999) Urol. Int. 63:62-71; Chan, et al. (1999) Prostate 41:99
prostate-specific        109; Ito, et al.(2005) Cancer 103:242-250; Schmittgen, et aL (2003)
antigen (PSA); PSM;      Int. J. Cancer 107:323-329; Millon, et al.(1999) Eur. Urol. 36:278
PSMA.                    285.
Six-transmembrane        See, e.g., Machlenkin, et al.(2005) Cancer Res. 65:6435-6442;
epithelial antigen of    GenBank Acc. No. NM_018234; NM 001008410; NM_182915;
prostate (STEAP).        NM 024636; NM 012449; BC011802.
Prostate carcinoma       See, e.g., Machlenkin, et al. (2005) Cancer Res. 65:6435-6442;
tumor antigen-1          GenBank Acc. No. L78132.
(PCTA-1).
Prostate                 See, e.g., Machlenkin, et a. (2005) Cancer Res. 65:6435-6442).
tumor-inducing gene-I
(PTI-1).
Prostate-specific gene   See, e.g., Machlenkin, et a. (2005) Cancer Res. 65:6435-6442).
with homology to
G protein-coupled
receptor.
                                           25

Prostase (an antrogen   See, e.g., Machlenkin, et al.(2005) CancerRes. 65:6435-6442;
regulated serine        GenBank Ace. No. BC096178; BC096176; BC096175.
protease).
Proteinase 3.           GenBank Ace. No. X55668.
Cancer-testis antigens, GenBank Ace. No. NM_001327 (NY-ESO-1) (see also, e.g., Li, et al.
e.g., NY-ESO-1; SCP-    (2005) Clin. Cancer Res. 11:1809-1814; Chen, et al (2004) Proc.
1; SSX-1; SSX-2; SSX-   Nati. Acad. Sci. US A. 101(25):9363-9368; Kubuschok, et al. (2004)
4; GAGE, CT7; CT8;      Int. J. Cancer. 109:568-575; Scanlan, et al (2004) Cancer Immun.
CTIO; MAGE-1;           4:1; Scanlan, et aL (2002) Cancer Res. 62:4041-4047; Scanan, et al.
MACE-2; MAGE-3;         (2000) Cancer Lett. 150:155-164; Dalerba, et al (2001) It. I. Cancer
MAGE-4; MAGE-6;         93:85-90; Ries, et al.(2005) Int. J. Oncol. 26:817-824.
LAGE-1.
MAGE-Al,                Otte, et a. (2001) Cancer Res. 61:6682-6687; Lee, et al. (2003) Proc.
MAGE-A2;                Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 100:2651-2656; Sarcevic, et al (2003)
MAGE-A3;                Oncology 64:443-449; Lin, et a. (2004) Clin. Cancer Res. 10:5708
MAGE-A4;                5716.
MAGE-A6;
MAGE-A9;
MAGE-A1O;
MAGE-A12;
GAGE-3/6;
NT-SAR-35; BAGE;
CA125.
GAGE-1; GAGE-2;         De Backer, et al.(1999) Cancer Res. 59:3157-3165; Scarcella, et al.
GAGE-3; GAGE-4;         (1999) Clin. Cancer Res. 5:335-341.
GAGE-5; GAGE-6;
GAGE-7; GAGE-8;
GAGE-65; GAGE-11;
GAGE-13; GAGE-7B.
HIPIR; LMNA;            Scanlan, et aL (2002) Cancer Res. 62:4041-4047.
KIAA1416; Seb4D;
KNSL6; TRIP4;
MBD2; HCAC5;
MAGEA3.
DAM family of genes,    Fleishhauer, et al. (1998) Cancer Res. 58:2969-2972.
e.g., DAM-1; DAM-6.
RCAS1.                  Enjoji, e al. (2004) Dig. Dis. Sci. 49:1654-1656.
RU2.                    Van Den Eynde, et a. (1999) 1. Exp. Med. 190:1793-1800.
CAMEL.                  Slager, et al.(2004) J. Immunol. 172:5095-5102; Siager, et al.(2004)
                        Cancer Gene Ther. 11:227-236.
Colon cancer associated Scanlan, et aL (2002) Cancer Res. 62:4041-4047.
antigens, e.g.,
NY-CO-8; NY-CO-9;
NY-CO-13;
NY-CO-16;
NY-CO-20;
NY-CO-38;

NY-CO-45;
NY-CO-9/HDAC5;
NY-CO-41/MBD2;
NY-CO-42/TRIP4;
NY-CO-95/KIAA1416;
KNSL6; seb4D.
N-Acetylglucosaminyl-     Dosaka-Akita, eta. (2004) Clin. Cancer Res. 10:1773-1779.
tranferase V (GnT-V).
Elongation factor 2           Renkvist, et a. (2001) Cancer Immunol Innunother. 50:3-15.
mutated (ELF2M).
HOM-MEL-40/SSX2           Neumann, et al.(2004) Int. J. Cancer 112:661-668; Scanlan, et al.
                          (2000) Cancer Lett. 150:155-164.
BRDT.                     Scanlan, et at (2000) Cancer Lett. 150:155-164.
SAGE; HAGE.               Sasaki, et al. (2003) Eur. J. Surg. Oncol. 29:900-903.
RAGE.                     See, e.g., Li, et al.(2004) Am. J. Pathol. 164:1389-1397; Shirasawa,
                          et al.(2004) Genes to Cells 9:165-174.
MUM-1 (melanoma           Gueguen, et at (1998) 1 Immunol. 160:6188-6194; Hirose, et al.
ubiquitous mutated);      (2005) Int. J. Hematol. 81:48-57; Baurain, et al.(2000) . Imunol.
MUM-2; MUM-2 Arg-         164:6057-6066; Chiari, et al. (1999) Cancer Res. 59:5785-5792.
Gly mutation; MUM-3.
LDLR/FUT fusion           Wang, et a. (1999) . Exp. Med. 189:1659-1667.
protein antigen of
melanoma.
NY-REN series of renal    Scanlan, et at (2002) Cancer Res. 62:4041-4047; Scanlan, et a.
cancer antigens.          (1999) Cancer Res. 83:456-464.
NY-BR series of breast    Scanlan, et al. (2002) Cancer Res. 62:4041-4047; Scanlan, et al.
cancer antigens, e.g.,    (2001) Cancer Immunity 1:4.
NY-BR-62; NY
BR-75; NY-BR-85;
NY-BR-62; NY-BR-85.
BRCA-1; BRCA-2.           Stolier, et a. (2004) Breast 1. 10:475-480; Nicoletto, et al. (2001)
                          Cancer Treat Rev. 27:295-304.
DEK/CAN fusion            Von Lindern, et al.(1992) Mol. Cell. Bio. 12:1687-1697.
protein.
Ras, e.g., wild type ras, GenBank Acc. Nos. P01112; P01116; M54969; M54968; P01111;
ras with mutations at     P01112; K00654. See also, e.g., GenBank Acc. Nos. M26261;
codon 12,13,59, or6l,     M34904; K01519; K01520; BC006499; NM 006270; NM_002890;
e.g., mutations G12C;     NM_004985; NM_033360; NM_176795; NM_005343.
G12D; G12R; G12S;
G12V; G13D; A59T;
Q6111. K-RAS;
H-RAS; N-RAS.
                                             2/

BRAF (an isoform of     Tannapfel, et al.(2005) Am. J. Clin. Pathol. 123:256-2601; Tsao and
RAF).                   Sober (2005) Dermatol. Clm. 23:323-333.
Melanoma antigens,      GenBank Ace. No. NM 206956; NM 206955; NM_206954;
including HST-2         NM_206953; NM 006115; NM_005367; NM 004988; AY148486;
melanoma cell           U10340; U10339; M77481. See, e g., Suzuki, et al (1999) J.
antigens.               Immunol. 163:2783-2791.
Survivin                GenBank Ace. No. AB028869; U75285 (see also, e.g., Tsumma, et al.
                        (2004) J. Translational Med. 2:19 (11 pages); Pisarev, et al.(2003)
                        Clin. Cancer Res. 9:6523-6533; Siegel, et al. (2003) Br. J. Haematol.
                        122:911-914; Andersen, et at (2002) pistol. Histopathol. 17:669
                        675).
MDM-2                   NM 002392; NM 006878 (see also, e.g., Mayo, eta. (1997) Cancer
                        Res. 57:5013-5016; Demidenko and Blagosklonny (2004) Cancer
                        Res. 64:3653-3660).
Methyl-CpG-binding      Muller, et al.(2003) Br. J. Cancer 89:1934-1939; Fang, et al.(2004)
proteins (MeCP2;        World J. Gastreenterol. 10:3394-3398.
MBD2).
NA88-A.                 Moreau-Aubry, et al.(2000) J. Exp. Med. 191:1617-1624.
Histone deacetylases    Waltregny, et a. (2004) Eur. I. Histochem. 48:273-290; Scanlan, et
(HDAC), e.g., HDAC5.    al. (2002) Cancer Res. 62:4041-4047.
Cyclophilin B (Cyp-B).  Tamura, et al.(2001) Jpn. J. Cancer Res. 92:762-767.
CA 15-3; CA 27.29.      Clinton, et al. (2003) Biomed. Sci. Instrum. 39:408-414.
Heat shock protein      Faure, et al.(2004) Int. J. Cancer 108:863-870.
Hsp70.
GAGE/PAGE family,       Brinkmann, et al. (1999) Cancer Res. 59:1445-1448.
e.g., PAGE-1; PAGE-2;
PAGE-3; PAGE-4;
XAGE-1; XAGE-2;
XAGE-3.
MAGE-A, B, C, and D     Lucas, et al.(2000) Int. I. Cancer 87:55-60; Scanlan, et al.(200 1)
families. MAGE-B5;      Cancer Immun. 1:4.
MAGE-B6;
MAGE-C2;
MAGE-C3; MAGE-3;
MAGE-6.
Kinesin 2; TATA         Scanlan, et aL (2001) Cancer Immun. 30:1-4.
element modulatory
factor 1; tumor protein
D53; NY
                                          28

Alpha-fetoprotein          Grimm, et aL (2000) Gastrmenterol. 119:1104-1112.
(AFP)
SARTI; SART2;              Kumamum, et a. (2004) Int. I. Cancer 108:686-695; Sasatomi, et a.
SART3; ART4.               (2002) Cancer 94:1636-1641; Matsumoto, el al. (1998) Jpn. J. Cancer
                           Res. 89:1292-1295; Tanaka, et a. (2000) Jpn. J. Cancer Res. 91:1177
                           1184.
Preferentially expressed   Matsushita, et al.(2003) Leuk Lymphoma 44:439-444; Oberthuer, et
antigen of melanoma        al (2004) Clin. Cancer Res. 10:4307-4313.
(PRAME).
Carcinoembryonic           GenBank Acc. No. M29540; E03352; X9831 1; M17303 (see also,
antigen (CEA),             e.g., Zaremba (1997) Cancer Res. 57:4570-4577; Sarobe, et al. (2004)
CAPI-6D enhancer           Curr. Cancer Drug Targets 4:443-454; Tsang, et al. (1997) Clin.
agonist peptide.           Cancer Res. 3:2439-2449; Fong, et al.(2001) Proc. Nat]. Acad. Sci.
                           USA 98:8809-8814).
HER-2/neu.                 Disis, et al. (2004) J. Clm. inmunol. 24:571-578; Disis and Cheever
                           (1997) Adv. Cancer Res. 71:343-371.
                6
Cdk4; cdk6; pl             Ghazizadeh, et a. (2005) Respiration 72:68-73; Ericson, et aL (2003)
(INK4); Rb protein.        Mol. Cancer Res 1:654-664.
TEL; AML1;                 Staims, et at (2005) Clin. Cancer Res. 11:2974-2980.
TEL/AMLI.                I
Telomerase (TERT).         Nair, et a. (2000) Nat. Med. 6:1011-1017.
707-AP.                    Takahashi, et aL (1997) Clin. Cancer Res. 3:1363-1370.
Annexin, e.g.,             Zimmerman, et al.(2004) Virchows Arch. 445:368-374.
Annexin IL
BCR/ABL; BCR/ABL           Cobaldda, et al. (2000) Blood 95:1007-1013; Hakansson, et al.(2004)
p210; BCR/ABL p190;        Leukemia 18:538-547; Schwartz, et al. (2003) Semin. Hematol.
CML-66; CML-28.            40:87-96; Lin, et al. (1999) Im. J. Mol. Med. 4:665-667.
BCL2; BLC6;                Iqbal, et al.(2004) Am. I. Pathol. 165:159-166.
CD10protein.
CDC27 (this is a           Wang, et a. (1999) Science 284:1351-1354.
melanoma antigen).
Sperm protein 17           Arora, et al (2005) Mol. Carcinog. 42:97-108.
(SP17); 14-3-3-zeta;
MEMD; KIAA0471;
TC21.
Tyrosinase-related         GenBank Ace. No. NM_001922. (see also, e.g., Bronte, metal. (2000)
proteins 1 and 2 (TRP-1    Cancer Res. 60:253-258).
and TRP-2).
Gp1OO/pmel-17.             GenBank Ace. Nos. AH003567; U31798; U31799;U31807; U31799
                           (see also, e.g., Bronte, et al.(2000) Cancer Res. 60:253-258).
TARP.                      See, e.g., Clifton, et at. (2004) Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 101:10166
                           10171; Virok, et at. (2005) Infection Immunity 73:1939-1946.
Tyrosinase-related         GenBank Acc. No. NM_001922. (see also, e.g., Bronte, et al.(2000)
proteins I and 2 (TRP-1    Cancer Res. 60:253-258).
and TRP-2).
Melanocortin I receptor    Salazar-Onfray, et al. (1997) Cancer Res. 57:4348-4355; Reynolds, et
(MCIR); MAGE-3;            al. (1998) J. Imnunol. 161:6970-6976; Chang, et al. (2002) Clin.
gplOO; tyrosinase;         Cancer Res. 8:1021-1032.
                                             29

dopachrome
tautomerase (TRP-2);
MART-1.
MUC-1; MUC-2.           See, e.g., Davies, et aL (1994) Cancer Lett. 82:179-184; Gambus, et
                        al (1995) fin. J. Cancer 60:146-148; McCool, et aL (1999) Biochem.
                        J. 341:593-600.
Spas-1.                      U.S. Published Pat. Apple. No. 20020150588 of Allison, et aL
CASP-8; FLICE;                   Mandruzzato, eta. (1997) J. Exp. Med. 186:785-793.
MACH.
CEACAM6; CAP-1.         Duxbury, et al (2004) Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 317:837
                        843; Morse, et al. (1999) Clin. Cancer Res. 5:1331-1338.
 IMGBI (a DNA                      Brezniceanu, et al. (2003) FASEB J. 17:1295-1297.
binding protein and
cytokine).
ETV6/AML1.              Codrington, et a. (2000) Br. J. Haematol. 111:1071-1079.
Mutant and wild type    Clements, et al.(2003) Clin. Colorectal Cancer 3:113-120; Gulmann,
forms of adenomatous    et al.(2003) Appl. Immunohistochem. Mol. Morphol. 11:230-237;
polyposis coli (APC);   Jungek, et al. (2004) Int J. Colorectal. Dis. 19:438-445; Wang, et al.
beta-catenin; c-met;    (2004) J. Surg. Res. 120:242-248; Abutaily, et at (2003) . Pathol.
p5 3 ; E-cadherin;      201:355-362; Liang, et a. (2004) Br. J. Surg. 91:355-361; Shirakawa,
cyclooxygenase-2        et al.(2004) Clin. Cancer Res. 10:4342-4348.
(COX-2).
Renal cell carcinoma    Mulders, etal (2003) Urol. Clin. North Am. 30:455-465; Steffens, et
antigen bound by mAB    al (1999) Anticancer Res. 19:1197-1200.
G250.
EphA2                   See, e.g., U.S. Patent Publication No. 2005/0281783 Al; Genbank
                        Accession No. NM_004431 (human); Genbank Accession No.
                        NM_010139 (Mouse); Genbank Accession No. AB038986 (Chicken,
                        partial sequence); GenBank Accession Nos. NP_004422, AAH37166,
                        and AAA53375 (human); GenBank Accession Nos. NP_034269
                        (mouse), AAH06954 (mouse), XP 345597 (rat), and BAB63910
                        (chicken).
EGFRYII                 See, e.g., WO/2012/068360
Francisellatalarensisan igens
Francisellatularensis   Complete genome of subspecies Schu S4 (GenBank Ace. No.
A and B.                AJ749949); of subspecies Schu 4 (GenBank Ace. No. NC_006570).
                        Outer membrane protein (43 kDa) Bevanger, et a. (1988) J. Clin.
                        Microbiol. 27:922-926; Porsch-Ozeurumez, et al.(2004) Clin.
                        Diagnostic. Lab. Immunol. 11:1008-1015). Antigenic components of
                        F. tularensisinclude, e.g., 80 antigens, including 10 kDa and 60 kDa
                        chaperonins (Havlasova, et al.(2002) Proteomics 2:857-86),
                        nucleoside diphosphate kinase, isocitrate dehydrogenase,
                        RNA-binding protein Hfq, the chaperone ClpB (Havlasova, et al.
                        (2005) Proteomics 5:2090-2103). See also, e.g., Oyston and Quarry
                        (2005) Antonie Van Leeuwenhoek 87:277-28 1; Isherwood, et al.
                        (2005) Adv. Drug Deliv. Rev. 57:1403-1414; Biagini, et al.(2005)
                        Anal. Bioanal. Chem. 382:1027-1034.
                                          30

Malarial antigens
Circumsporozoite         See, e.g., Haddad, et a/. (2004) Infection Immunity 72:1594-1602;
protein (CSP); SSP2;     Hoffman, et al. (1997) Vaccine 15:842-845; Oliveira-Ferreira and
IIEP17; Exp-1            Daniel-Ribeiro (2001) Mem. Inst. Oswaldo Cruz, Rio de Janeiro
orthologs found in       96:221-227. CSP (see, e.g., GenBank Ac. No. AB121024). SSP2
P. falciparm; and        (see, e.g., GenBank Acc. No. AF249739). LSA-I (see, e.g., GenBank
LSA-1.                   Ace. No. Z30319).
Ring-infected                 See, e.g., Stirnadel, et al. (2000) Int. J. Epidemiol. 29:579-586;
erythrocyte survace       Krzych, et a!. (1995) J. Immunol. 155:4072-4077. See also, Good, et
protein (RESA);          al. (2004) Inmunol. Rev. 201:254-267; Good, et al. (2004) Ann. Rev.
merozoite surface           Immunol. 23:69-99. MSP2 (see, e.g., GenBank Acc. No. X96399;
protein 2 (MSP2);         X96397). MSP1 (see, e.g., GenBank Ace. No. X03371). RESA (see,
Spf66; merozoite                         e.g., GenBank Acc. No. X05181; X05182).
surface
protein 1(MSPI);
 195A; BVp42.
Apical membrane          See, e.g. , Gupta, et al. (2005) Protein Expr. Purif. 41:186-198. AMAl
antigen 1 (AMA1).        (see, e.g., GenBankAcc. No. A'13; AJ494905; AJ490565).
Viruses and viral antigens
Hepatitis A              GenBank Acc. Nos., e.g., NC_001489; AY644670; X83302; K02990;
                         M14707.
Hepatitis B              Complete genome (see, e.g., GenBank Ace. Nos. AB214516;
                         NC_003977; AB205192; AB205191; AB205190; AJ748098;
                         AB198079; AB198078; AB198076; AB074756).
Hepatitis C              Complete genome (see, e.g., GenBank Ace. Nos. NC_004102;
                         AJ238800; AJ238799; AJ132997; AJ132996; AJ000009; D84263).
Hepatitis D              GenBank Acc. Nos, e.g. NC 001653; ABI 18847; AY261457.
Human papillomavirus, See, e.g., Trimble, et al (2003) Vaccine 21:4036-4042; Kim, et al.
including all 200+       (2004) Gene Ther. 11:1011-1018; Simon, el al. (2003) Eur. J. Obstet.
subtypes (classed in     Gynecol. Reprod. Biol. 109:219-223; Jung, et al. (2004) J. Microbiol.
 16 groups), such as the 42:255-266; Damasus-Awatai and Freeman-Wang (2003) Curr. Opin.
high risk subtypes 16,   Obstet. Gynecol. 15:473-477; Jansen and Shaw (2004) Annu. Rev.
18, 30,31,33,45.         Med. 55:319-331; Roden and Wu (2003) Expert Rev. Vaccines 2:495
                         516; de Villiers, et al. (2004) Virology 324:17-24; Hussain and
                         Paterson (2005) Cancer Immunol. Immunother. 54:577-586; Molijn,
                         et al. (2005) J. Clin. Virol. 32 (Suppl. 1) S43-S51. GenBank Acc.
                         Nos. AY686584; AY686583; AY686582; NC_006169; NC_006168;
                         NC 006164; NC 001355; NC 001349; NC 005351; NC_001596).
Human T-cell             See, e.g., Capdepont, et al. (2005) AIDS Res. Hum. Retrovirus 21:28
lymphotropic virus       42; Bhigjee, et al. (1999) AIDS Res. Hum. Restrovirus 15:1229-1233;
(HTLV) types I and II,   Vandamme, et al.(1998) J. Virol. 72:4327-4340; Vallejo, et at (1996)
including the            J. Acquire. Immune Defic. Syndr. Hum. Retrovirol. 13:384-391.
HTLV type I subtypes     HTLV type I (see, e.g., GenBank Acc. Nos. AY563954; AY563953.
Cosmopolitan. Central    HTLV type II (see, e.g., GenBank Acc. Nos. L03561; Y13051;
African, and             AF139382).
Austro-Melanesian, and
the HTLV type I
                                             31

subtypes ha, lib, lie,
and lid.
Coronaviridae,          See, e.g., Brian and Banc (2005) Curr. Top. Micobiol. Immunol.
including               287:1-30; Gonzalez, et al.(2003) Arch. Virol. 148:2207-2235; Smits,
Coronaviruses, such as  et al. (2003) J. Virol. 77:9567-9577; Jamieson, et at (1998) J. Infect.
SARS-coronavirus        Dis. 178:1263-1269 (GenBank Ace. Nos. AY348314; NC_004718;
(SARS-CoV), and         AY394850).
Toroviruses.
Rubella virus.          GenBank Acc. Nos. NC 001545; AF435866.
Mumps virus, including  See, e.g., Orvell, eta 1. (2002) J. Gen. Virol. 83:2489-2496. See, e.g.,
the genotypes A, C, D,  GenBank Acc. Nos. AY681495; NC_002200; AY685921; AF201473.
G, H, and L.
Coxsackie virus A       See, e.g., Brown, etaL (2003) J. Virol. 77:8973-8984. GenBank Ace.
including the serotypes Nos. AY421768; AY790926: X67706.
 1, 11, 13, 15, 17, 18,
19, 20, 21, 22, and 24
(also known as Human
enterovirus C; HEV-C).
Coxsackie virus B,      See, e.g., Ahn, et al (2005) J. Med. Virol. 75:290-294; Patel, et aL
including subtypes 1-6. (2004) J. Virol. Methods 120:167-172; Rezig, et al. (2004) J. Med.
                        Virol. 72:268-274. GenBank Ace. No. X05690.
Human enteroviruses     See, e.g., Oberste, eta. (2004) 1. Virol. 78:855-867. Human
including, e.g., human  enterovimus A (GenBank Ace. Nos. NC_001612); human
enterovirus A (HEV-A,   enterovirus B (NC_001472); human enterovirus C (NC 001428);
CAV2 to CAV8,           human enterovirus D (NC_00 1430). Simian enterovirus A (GenBank
CAV10, CAV12,           Ace. No. NC_003988).
CAV14, CAV16, and
EV71) and also
including HEV-B
(CAV9, CBVI to
CBV6, El to E7, E9,
Eli to E21, E24 to
E27, E29 to E33, and
EV69 and E73), as well
as HEV.
Polioviruses including  See, e.g., He, et al.(2003) J. Virol. 77:4827-4835; Hahsido, et al.
PV1, PV2, and PV3.      (1999) Microbiol. Immunol. 43:73-77. GenBank Ace. No. AJ132961
                        (type 1); AY278550 (type 2); X04468 (type 3).
Viral encephalitides    See, e.g., Hoke (2005) Mi. Med. 170:92-105; Estrada-Franco, et al.
viruses, including      (2004) Emerg. Infect Dis. 10:2113-2121; Das, et a. (2004) Antiviral
equine encephalitis,    Res. 64:85-92; Aguilar, et al.(2004) Emerg. Infect. Dis. 10:880-888;
Venezuelan equine       Weaver, et al. (2004) Arch. Virol. Supply. 18:43-64; Weaver, et al.
encephalitis (VEE)      (2004) Annu. Rev. Entomol. 49:141-174. Eastern equine encephalitis
(including subtypes IA, (GenBank Acc. No. NC_003899; AY722102); Western equine
IB,IC, ID,IIIC, IID),   encephalitis (NC_003908).
Eastern equine
encephalitis (EEE),
Western equine
encephalitis (WEE),
                                          32

St. Louis encephalitis,
Murray Valley
(Australian)
encephalitis, Japanese
encephalitis, and
tick-born encephalitis.
Human herpesviruses,       See, e.g., Studahl, et al.(2000) Scand. J. Infect. Dis. 32:237-248;
including                  Padilla,et al. (2003) J. Med. Virol. 70 (Suppl. 1) S103-S110;
cytomegalovirus            Jainlittivong and Langlais (1998) Oral Surg. Oral Med. 85:399-403.
(CMV), Epstein-Barr        GenBank Nos. NC_001806 (herpesvirus 1); NC 001798
virus (EBV), human         (herpesvirus 2); X04370 and NC_001348 (herpesvirus 3);
herpesvirus-1 (HHV-1),     NC_001345 (herpesvirus 4); NC 001347 (herpesvirus 5); X83413
HHV-2, HHV-3,              and NC_000898 (herpesvirus 6); NC 001716 (herpesvirus 7).
HHV-4, HHV-5,              Human herpesviruses types 6 and 7 (HHV-6; HHV-7) are disclosed
HHV-6, HHV-7,              by, e.g., Padilla, et al.(2003) . Med. Virol. 70 (Suppl. 1)S103-Si 10.
HHV-8, herpes B virus,     Human herpesvirus 8 (IHV-8), including subtypes A-E, are disclosed
herpes simplex virus       in, e.g., Treurnicht, et al.(2002) J. Med. Virul. 66:235-240.
types 1 and 2 (HSV-1,
HSV-2), and varicella
zoster virus (VZV).
HIV-1 including group      See, e.g., Smith, et al.(1998) J. Med. Virol. 56:264-268. See also,
M (including subtypes      e.g., GenBank Ace. Nos. DQ054367; NC_001802; AY968312;
A to J) and group O        DQO1180; DQ011179; DQ011178; DQ011177; AY588971;
(including any             AY588970; AY781127; AY781126; AY970950; AY970949;
distinguishable            AY970948; X61240; AJ006287; AJ508597; and AJ508596.
subtypes) (HIV-2,
including subtypes
A-E.
Epstein-Ban virus          See, e.g., Peh, et al.(2002) Pathology 34:446-450. Epstein-Barr virus
(EBV), including           strain B95-8 (GenBank Acc. No. V01555).
subtypes A and B.
Reovirus, including        See, e.g., Barthold, et a. (1993) Lab. Anim. Sci. 43:425-430; Roner,
serotypes and strains 1,   et al.(1995) Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 92:12362-12366; Kedl, et a.
2, and 3, type I Lang,     (1995) J. Virol. 69:552-559. GenBank Acc. No. K02739 (sigma-3
type 2 Jones, and type 3   gene surface protein).
Dearing.
Cytomegalovirus            See, e.g., Chern, et a. (1998) J. Infect. Dis. 178:1149-1153; Vilas
(CMV) subtypes             Boas, et a. (2003) J. Med. Virol. 71:404-407; Trincado, et aL (2000)
include CMV subtypes       J. Med. Virol. 61:481-487. GenBank Acc. No. X17403.
I-VIL.                   I
Rhinovirus, including             Human rhinovirus 2 (GenBank Acc. No. X02316); Human
all serotypes.              rhinovirus B (GenBank Ace. No. NC_001490); Human rhinovirus 89
                             (GenBank Acc. No. NC_001617); Human rhinovirus 39 (GenBank
                                                      Ace. No. AY751783).
Adenovirus, including      AY803294; NC_004001; AC 000019; AC 000018; AC_000017;
all serotypes.             AC_000015; AC 000008; AC_000007; AC 000006; AC_000005;
                           AY737798; AY737797;NC 003266; NC_002067; AY594256;
                           AY594254; AY875648; AJ854486; AY163756; AY594255;
                           AY594253; NC 001460; NC 001405; AY598970; AY458656;
                                             33

                         AY487947; NC_001454; AF534906; AY45969; AY128640; L19443;
                         AY339865; AF532578.
Filoviruses, including   See, e.g., Geisbert and Jahrling (1995) Virus Res. 39:129-150;
Marburg virus and        Hutchinson, el al.(2001) J. Med. Virol. 65:561-566. Marburg virus
Ebola virus, and strains (see, e.g., GenBank Acc. No. NC_001608). Ebola virus (see, e.g.,
such as Ebola-Sudan      GenBank Ace. Nos. NC_006432; AY769362; NC_002549;
(EBO-S), Ebola-Zaire     AF272001; AF086833).
(EBO-Z), and
Ebola-Reston (EBO-R).
Arenaviruses, including  Junin virus, segment S (GenBank Ace. No. NC_005081); Junin virus,
lymphocytic              segment L (GenBank Acc. No. NC_005080).
choriomeningitis
(LCM) virus, Lassa
virus, Junin virus, and
Machupo virus.
Rabies virus.            See, e.g., GenBank Acc. Nos. NC_001542; AY956319; AY705373;
                         AF499686; AB128149; AB085828; ABOO9663.
Arboviruses, including   Dengue virus type 1 (see, e.g., GenBank Ace. Nos. AB195673;
West Nile virus,         AY762084). Dengue virus type 2 (see, e.g., GenBank Ace. Nos.
Dengue viruses I to 4,   NC_001474; AY702040; AY702039; AY702037). Dengue virus type
Colorado tick fever      3 (see, e.g., GenBank Ace. Nos. AY923865; AT858043). Dengue
virus, Sindbis virus,    virus type 4 (see, e.g., GenBank Ace. Nos. AY947539; AY947539;
Togaviraidae,            AF326573). Sindbis virus (see, e.g., GenBank Ace. Nos. NC 001547;
Flaviviridae,            AF429428; J02363; AF103728). West Nile virus (see, e.g., GenBank
Bunyaviridae,            Ace. Nos. NC_001563; AY603654).
Reoviridae,
Rhabdoviridae,
Orthomyxoviridae, and
the like.
Poxvirus including       Viriola virus (see, e.g., GenBank Ace. Nos. NC_001611; Y16780;
orthopoxvirus (variola   X72086; X69198).
virus, monkeypox
virus, vaccinia virus,
cowpox virus),
yatapoxvirus (tanapox
virus, Yaba monkey
tumor virus),
parapoxvirus, and
molluscipoxvirus.
Yellow fever.            See, e.g., GenBank Acc. No. NC_002031; AY640589; X03700.
Hantaviruses, including  See, e.g., Elgh, et al. (1997) J. Clin. Microbiol. 35:1122-1130;
serotypes Hantaan        Sjolander, et al.(2002) Epidemiol. Infect. 128:99-103; Zeier, et al.
(HTN), Seoul (SEO),      (2005) Virus Genes 30:157-180. GenBank Ace. No. NC_005222 and
Dobrava (DOB), Sin       NC_005219 (Hantavirus). See also, e.g., GenBank Acc. Nos.
Nombre (SN), Puumala     NC_005218; NC 005222; NC_005219.
(PUU), and
Dobrava-like Saaremaa
(SAAV).
Flaviviruses, including  See, e.g., Mukhopadhyay, et at. (2005) Nature Rev. Microbiol. 3:13
                                           34

Dengue virus, Japanese   22. GenBank Ace. Nos NC_001474 and AY702040 (Dengue).
encephalitis virus, West GenBank Ace. Nos. NC 001563 and AY603654.
Nile virus, and yellow
fever virus.
Measles virus.           See, e.g., GenBank Ace. Nos. AB040874 and AY486084.
Human                    Human parainfluenza virus 2 (see, e.g., GenBank Ace. Nos.
parainfluenzaviruses     AB176531; NC003443). Human parainfluenza virus 3 (see, e.g.,
(HPV), including HPV     GenBank Ace. No. NC_001796).
types 1-56.
Influenza virus,            Influenza nucleocapsid (see, e.g., GenBank Ace. No. AY626145).
including influenza        Influenza hemagglutinin (see, e.g., GenBank Ace. Nos. AY627885;
virus types A, B, and C.  AY555153). Influenza neuraminidase (see, e.g., GenBank Ace. Nos.
                               AY555151; AY577316). Influenza matrix protein 2 (see, e.g.,
                          GenBank Ace. Nos. AY626144(. Influenza basic protein 1 (see, e.g.,
                            GenBank Ace. No. AY627897). Influenza polymerase acid protein
                            (see, e.g., GenBank Ace. No. AY627896). Influenza nucleoprotein
                                         (see, e.g., GenBank Ace. Nno. AY627895).
Influenza A virus          Hemagglutinin of 11 NI (GenBank Ace. No. S67220). Influenza A
subtypes, e.g., swine     virus matrix protein (GenBank Ace. No. AY700216). Influenza virus
viruses (SIV): HiNt           A H5111 nucleoprotein (GenBank Acc. No. AY646426). HINt
influenzaA and swine        haemagglutinin (GenBank Ace. No. D00837). See also, GenBank
influenza virus.               Ace. Nos. BD006058; BD006055; BD006052. See also, e.g.,
                          Wentworth, et al.(1994) J. Virol. 68:2051-2058; Wells, et al. (1991)
                                                     J.A.M.A. 265:478-481.
Respiratory syncytial    Respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) (see, e.g., GenBank Ace. Nos.
virus (RSV), including   AY353550; NC_001803; NCO01781).
subgroup A and
subgroup B.
Rotaviruses, including   Human rotavirus C segment 8 (GenBank Ace. No. AJ549087);
human rotaviruses A to   Human rotavirus G9 strain outer capsid protein (see, e.g., GenBank
E, bovine rotavirus,     Ace. No. DQ056300); Human rotavirus B strain non-structural protein
rhesus monkey            4 (see, e.g., GenBank Ace. No. AY548957); human rotavirus A strain
rotavirus, and           major inner capsid protein (see, e.g., GenBank Ace. No. AY601554).
human-RVV
reassortments.
Polyomavirus,            See, e.g., Engels, et at (2004) J. Infect. Dis. 190:2065-2069; Vilchez
including simian         and Butel (2004) Clin. Microbiol. Rev. 17:495-508; Shivapurkar, et
virus 40 (SV40), JC      al. (2004) Cancer Res. 64:3757-3760; Carbone, et aL (2003)
virus (JCV) and BK       Oncogene 2:5173-5180; Barbanti-Brodano, el al. (2004) Virology
virus (BKV).             318:1-9) (SV40 complete genome in, e.g., GenBank Ace. Nos.
                         NC_001669; AF168994; AY271817; AY271816; AY120890;
                         AF345344; AF332562).
Coltiviruses, including  Attoui, et al.(1998) J. Gen. Virol. 79:2481-2489. Segments of Eyach
Colorado tick fever      virus (see, e.g., GenBank Acc. Nos. AF282475; AF282472;
virus, Eyach virus.      AF282473; AF282478; AF282476; NC 003707; NC 003702;
                          NC 003703; NC 003704; NC 003705; NC 003696; NC 003697;
                         NC 003698; NC 003699; NC 003701; NC 003706; NC 003700;
                         AF282471; AF282477).
Calciviruses, including      Snow Mountain virus (see, e.g., GenBank Ace. No. AY134748).
the genogroups
                                            35

 Norwalk, Snow
 Mountain group
  (SMA), and Saaporo.
 Parvoviridae, including     See, e.g., Brown (2004) Dev. Biol. (Basel) 118:71-77; Alvarez
 dependovirus,               Lafuente, et a. (2005) Ann. Rheum. Dis. 64:780-782; Ziyaeyan, et al.
 parvovirus (including       (2005) Jpm. . Infect. Dis. 58:95-97; Kaufman, et a. (2005) Virology
 parvovirus B19), and        332:189-198.
 erythrovirus.
Other organisms ior which suitable antigens are known in the art include, but are not
limited to, Chlamydia trachomatis,Streptococcuspyogenes (Group A Strep),
Streptococcus agaiactia(Group B Strep), Streptococcuspneumonia, Staph-ylococcus
aureus, Escherichiacoli, Haemophilus influenzae, Neisseria meningitidis,Neisseria
gonorrheae, Vibrio cholerae,Salmonella species (including typhi, typhimurium), enterica
(including HelicobactorpyloriShigellaflexneri and other Group D shigella species),
Burkholderia mallei, Burkholderiapseudomallei, Klebsiella pneumonia, Clostridium
species (including C. difficile), Vibrioparahaemolyticusand V vulnificus. This list is not
meant to be limiting.
[0090]      As described herein antigen sequence(s) are preferably expressed as a single
polypeptide fused to a modified amino-terminal portion of the L monocytogenes ActA or
LLO protein in frame with the ActA or LLO secretary signal sequence. The ActA signal
sequence is MGLNRFMRAMMVVFITANCITINPDIIFA; the LLO signal sequence is
MKKIMLVFIT LILVSLPIAQ QTE. Preferably, the native signal sequence used is not
modified in the construct.
[0091]      In some embodiments, the modified ActA comprises a modified form of about
the first 100 amino acids of ActA, referred to herein as ActA-Nl00. ActA-NIOO has the
following sequence:
VGLNRFMRAM MVVFITANCI TINPDHFAA TDSEDSSLNT DEWEEEKTEE50
QPSEVNTGPR YETAREVSSR DIEELEKSNK VKNTNKADLI AMLKAKAEKG
             10
[0092]      In this sequence, the first residue is depicted as a valine; the polypeptide is
synthesized by Listeria with a methionine in this position. Thus, ActA-N100 may also
have the following sequence:
                                               36

MGLNRFMRAM MVVFITANCI TINPDIIFAA TDSEDSSLNT DEWEEEKTEE
            50
QPSEVNTGPR YETAREVSSR DIEELEKSNK VKNTNKADLI AMLKAKAEKG
            100
[0093]      The constructs of the present invention may also comprise one or more
additional, non-ActA, residues lying between the C-terminal residue of the modified
ActA and the antigen sequence. In the following sequences, ActA-NlOO is extended by
two residues added by inclusion of a BamHI site:
VGLNRFMRAM MVVFlTANCI TINPDIIFAA TDSEDSSLNT DEWEEEKTEE50
QPSEVNTGPR YETAREVSSR DIEELEKSNK VKNTNKADLI AMLKAKAEKG
            100
GS
which when synthesized with a first residue methionine has the sequence:
MGLNRFMRAM MVVFITANCI TINPDIIFAA TDSEDSSLNT DEWEEEKTEE
            50
QPSEVNTGPR YETAREVSSR DIEELEKSNK VKNTNKADLI AMLKAKAEKG
            100
GS.
[0094]      These sequences may then serve as the basis for modification by deletion
(actual or functionalJ of the PEST motif and any existing hydrophobic motifs. Thus, a
modified ActA of the invention may comprise or consist of the following sequence
(dashes indicate deletions and bold text indicates substitutions):
VGLNRFMRAM MVVFITANCI TINPDIFAA TDSEDSSLNT DEWEEE---
            50
 -------- YETAREVSSR DIEELEKSNK VKNTNKADQDNKRKAKAEKG                                    100
[0095]      In this sequence, the first residue is depicted as a valine; the polypeptide is
synthesized by Listeia with a methionine in this position. Thus, a modified may also
comprise or consist of the following sequence (SEQ ID NO:4):
MGLNRFMRAM MVVITANCI TfNPDIIFAA TDSEDSSLNT DEWEEE----                                  50
                                               37

 --------- YETAREVSSR DIEELEKSNK VKNTNKADQDNKRKAKAEKG                                100
[0096]       In these cases, the substitution with QDNKR is optionally included with the
deletion of the PEST motif, and as above, these constructs of the present invention may
also comprise one or more additional, non-ActA, residues lying between the C-terminal
residue of the modified ActA and the antigen sequence.
[0097]       Alternatively, antigen sequence(s) are preferably expressed as a single
polypeptide fused to a modified amino-terminal portion of the L monocytogenes LLO
protein which permits expression and secretion of a fusion protein from the bacterium
-withinthe vaccinated host. In these embodiments, the antig-enic construct may be a
polynucleotide comprising a promoter operably linked to a nucleic acid sequence
encoding a fusion protein, wherein the fusion protein comprises (a) modified LLO and (b)
one or more antigenic epitopes to be expressed as a fusion protein following the modified
LLO sequence. The LLO signal sequence is MKKIMLVFIT LILVSLPIAQ QTEAK. In
some enibodiments, the promoter is-hly promoter.
[0098]       In some embodiments, the modified LLO comprises a modified form of about
the first 441 amino acids of LLO, referred to herein as LLO-N441. LLO-N441 has the
following sequence:
             10              20              30             40           50              60
MEKIMLVFIT LILVSLPIAQ QTEAKDASAF NKENSISSMA PPASPPASPK TPIEKKHADE
             70              80              90           100           110             120
IDKYIQGLDY NKNNVLVYfG DAVTNVPPRK GYKDGNEYIV VEKKKKSINQ NNADIQVVNA
            130            140              150           160           170             180
ISSLTYPGAL VKANSELVEN            QPDVLPVKRD SLTLSIDLPG MTNQDNKIVV             KNATKSNVNN
            190            200              210           220           230             240
AVNTLVERWN EKYAQAYPNV SAKIDYDDEM AYSESOLIAK FGTAFKAVNN SLNVNFGAIS
           250             260              270           280           290             300
EGKMQEEVIS FKQIYYNVNV NEPTRPSRFF GKAVTKEQLQ ALGVNAENPP AYISSVAYGR
           310             320              330           340           350             360
QVYLKLSTNS       HSTKVKAAFD AAVSGKSVSG           DVELTNIIKN    SSFKAVIYGG SAKDEVQIID
           370             380              39D           40D           410             420
GNLGDLRDIL KKGATFNRET PGVPIAYTTN FLKDNELAVI KNNSEYIETT SKAYTDGKIN
            430            440
IDHSGGYVAQ       FNISWDEVNY D
                                                38

[0099]      In this sequence, the PEST motif is represented by KENSISSMA
PPASPPASPK. This-may be functionally deletedby replacement with the following
sequence (dashes indicate deletions and bold text indicates substitutions):
KE---------- - or by its complete deletion. This is intended to be exemplary only.
[00100]     As sequences encoded by one organism are not necessarily codon optimized
for optimal expression in a chosen vaccine platform bacterial strain, the present invention
also provides nucleic acids that are altered by codon optimized for expressing by a
bacterium such as L. monocytogenes.
[00101]     In various embodiments, at least one percent of any non-optimal codons are
changed to provide optimal codons, more normally at least five percent are changed, most
normally atleast ten percent are changed, often at least 20% are-changed, more often at
least 30% are changed, most often at least 40%, usually at least 50% are changed, more
usually at least 60% are changed, most usually at least 70% are changed, optimally at
least 80% are changed, more optimally at least 90% are changed, most optimally at least
95% are changed, and conventionally 100% of any non-optimal codons re codon
optimized for Listeria expression (Table 2).
  - Table 2. Optimal codons for expression in Listeria.
    Amino              A       R       N       D      C      Q        E      G       I       I
    Acid
    Optimal           GCA    CGU     AAU     GAU    UGU    CAA     GAA      GGU     CAU     AUU
    Listeria codon
    Amino Acid         L       K       M       F      P      S        T      W       Y       V
    Optimal           UUA    AAA     AUG     UUU    CCA    AGU     ACA      UGG     UAU     GUU
    Listeria codon
                                              39

[00102]     The invention supplies a number of Listeria species and strains for making or
engineering a bacterium of the present invention. The Listeria of the present invention is
not to be limited by the species-and strains disclosed in Table 3.
 Table 3. Strains of Listeria suitable for use in the present invention, e.g., as a vaccine or as a
 source of nucleic acids.
 L nonocytogenes 10403S wild type.                     Bishop and Hinrichs (1987) J. Immunol.
                                                       139:2005-2009; Lauer, et at. (2002) J. Bact.
                                                       184:4177-4186.
 L. monocytogenes DP-L4056 (phage cured).              Lauer, et al. (2002) J. Bact. 184:4177-4186.
 The prophage-cured 10403S strain is designated
 DP-L4056.
 L. monocytogenes DP-L4027, which is                   Lauer, et al. (2002) J. Bact. 184:4177-4186;
 DP-L2161, phage cured, deleted in bly gene.           Jones and Portnoy (1994) Infect. Immunity
                                                       65:5608-5613.
 L. monocytogenes DP-L4029, which is DP-               Lauer, et al. (2002) J. Bact. 184:4177-4186;
 L3078, phage cured, deleted in ActA.                  Skoble, et al. (2000) J. Cell Biol. 150:527
                                                       538.
 L. monocytogenes DP-L4042 (delta PEST)                Brockstedt, et al. (2004) Proc. Natl. Acad.
                                                       Sci. USA 101:13832-13837; supporting
                                                       information.
 L monocytogenes DP-L4097 (LLO-S44A).                  Brockstedt, et al. (2004) Proc. Nal. Acad.
                                                       Sci. USA 101:13832-13837; supporting
                                                       information.
 L. monocytogenes DP-L4364 (delta IplA;                Brockstedt, et al. (2004) Proc. Natl. Acad.
 lipoate protein ligase).                              Sci. USA 101:13832-13837; supporting
                                                       information.
 L. monocytogenes DP-L4405 (delta inlA).               Brockstedt, et al. (2004) Proc. Natl. Acad.
                                                       Sci. USA 101:13832-13837; supporting
                                                       information.
 L. monocytogenes DP-L4406 (delta inlB).               Brockstedt, et al. (2004) Proc. Nail. Acad.
                                                       Sci. USA 101:13832-13837; supporting
                                                       information.
 L. monocytogenes CS-L0001 (delta ActA-delta           Brockstedt, etal. (2004) Proc. Nal. Acad.
 inlB).                                                Sci. USA 101:13832-13837; supporting
                                                       information.
 L. monocytogenes CS-L0002 (delta ActA-delta           Brockstedt, et al. (2004) Proc. Nail. Acad.
 IplA).                                                Sci. USA 101:13832-13837; supporting
                                                       information.
 L. monocytogenes CS-L0003 (L461T-delta                Brockstedt, et al. (2004) Proc. Natl. Acad.
 Ip1A).                                                Sci. USA 101:13832-13837; supporting
                                                       information.
 L. monocytogenes DP-L4038 (delta AetA-LLO             Brockstedt, et al. (2004) Proc. Natl. Acad.
 L461T).                                               Sci. USA 101:13832-13837; supporting
                                                       information.
 L monocytogenes DP-L4384 (S44A-LLO                    Brockstedt, et al. (2004) Proc. Nail. Acad.
                                              40

L461T).                                        Sci. USA 101:13832-13837; supporting
                                               information.
L. monocytogenes. Mutation in lipoate protein  O'Riordan, et al. (2003) Science 302:462
ligase (LplA1).                                464.
L. monocytogenes DP-L4017 (10403S              U.S. Provisional Pat. Apple. Ser. No.
hly (L461T) point mutation in hemolysin gene.  60/490,089 filed July 24, 2003.
L. monocytogenes EGD.                          GenBank Ace. No. AL591824.
L. monocytogenes EGD-e.                        GenBank Ace. No. NC_003210. ATCC
                                               Ace. No. BAA-679.
L monocytogenes strain EGD, complete           GenBank Ace. No. AL591975
genome, segment 3/12
L. monocytogenes.                              ATCC Nos. 13932; 15313; 19111-19120;
                                               43248-43251; 51772-51782.
L. monocytogenes DP-L4029 deleted in uvrAB.    U.S. Provisional Pat. Apple. Ser. No.
                                               60/541,515 filed February 2, 2004; U.S.
                                               Provisional Pat. Apple. Ser. No. 60/490,080
                                               filed July 24, 2003.
L. monocytogenes DP-1A029 deleted in uvrAB     U.S. Provisional Pat. Apple. Ser. No.
treated with a psoralen.                       60/541,515 filed February 2, 2004.
L. monocytogenes delta actA delta in/B delta   Brockstedt (2005) Nature Medicine and
uvrAB                                          KBMA patent
L. nonocytogenes delta actA delta in/B delta   Brockstedt (2005) Nature Medicine and
uvrAB treated with psoralen                    KBMA patent
L. inonocytogenes delta actA delta inlB delta  Lauer et al, (2008) Infect. Immnun. And WO
uvrAB prfA(G155S)                              2009/143085
L. monocytogenes delta actA delta in/B delta   Lauer et al, (2008) Infect. Immune. And WO
uvrAB prfA(GI55S) treated with psoralen        2009/143085
L monocytogenes ActA-/inIB- double mutant.     Deposited with ATCC on October 3, 2003.
                                               Ace. No. PTA-5562.
L. monocytogenes IplA mutant or hly mutant.    U.S. Pat. Applic. No. 20040013690 of
                                               Portnoy, et al.
L monocytogenes DAL/DAT double mutant.         U.S. Pat. Applic. No. 20050048081 of
                                               Frankel and Portnoy.
L. monocytogenes str. 4b F2365.                GenBank Ace. No. NC 002973.
Listeria ivanovii                              ATCC No. 49954
Listeria innocua Clip 11262.                   GenBank Ace. No. NC_003212; AL592022.
Listeria innocua, a naturally occurring        Johnson, et al. (2004) Appl. Environ.
hemolytic strain containing the PrfA-regulated Microbiol. 70:4256-4266.
virulence gene cluster.
Listeria seeligeri.                            Howard, et al. (1992) Appl. Eviron.
                                               Microbiol. 58:709-712.
                                            41

 Listeria innocua with L. mnonocytogenes                Johnson , et aL (2004) Appl. Environ.
 pathogenicity island genes.                            Microbiol. 70:4256-4266.
 Listeria innocua with L. mnocytogenes                  See, e.g., Lingnau, et aL. (1995) Infection
 internalin A gene, e.g., as a plasmid or as a          Immunity 63:3896-3903; Gaillard, et al.
 genomic nucleic acid.                                  (1991) Cell 65:1127-1141).
 The present invention encompasses reagents and methods that comprise the above Listerial
 strains, as well as these strains that are modified, e.g., by a plasmid andlor by genomic
 integration, to contain a nucleic acid encoding one of, or any combination of, the following
 genes: hiy (LLO; listeriolysin); iap (p6 0); inlA; in1B; iniC; dal (alanine racemase); daaA (dat;
 D-amino acid aminotransferase); plcA; plcB; ActA; or any nucleic acid that mediates growth,
 spread, breakdown of a single walled vesicle, breakdown of a double walled vesicle, binding to a
 host cell, uptake by a host cell. The present invention is not to be limited by the particular
 strains disclosed above.
[00103]     Therapeutie compositions.
[00104]     The bacterial compositions described herein can be administered to a host,
either alone or in combination with a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient, in an amount
sufficient to induce an appropriate immune response. The immune response can
comprise, without limitation- specific immune response, non-specific immune response,
both specific and non-specific response, innate response, primary immune response,
adaptive immunity, secondary immune response, memory immune response, immune cell
activation, immune cell proliferation, immune cell differentiation, and cytokine
expression. The vaccines of the present invention can be stored, e.g., frozen, lyophilized,
as a suspension, as a cell paste, or complexed with a solid matrix or gel matrix.
[00105]     In certain embodiments, after the subject has been administered an effective
dose of a first vaccine to prime the immune response, a second vaccine is administered.
This is referred to in the art as a "prime-boost"-egimen. In such a regimen, the
compositions and methods of the present invention may be used as the "prime" delivery,
as the "boost" delivery, or as both a "prime" and a "boost." Any number of "boost"
immunizations can be delivered in order to maintain the magnitude or effectiveness of a
vaccine-induced immune response.
[00106]     As an example, a-first vaccine comprised of killed but metabolically active
Listeria that encodes and expresses the antigen polypeptide(s) may be delivered as the
                                               42

"prime," and a second vaccine comprised of attenuated (live or killed but metabolically
a-tive) Listeria that encodes the antigen polypeptide(s) may be delivered as the "boost." It
should be understood, however, that each of the prime and boost need not utilize the
methods and compositions of the present invention. Rather, the present invention
contemplates the use of other vaccine modalities together with the bacterial vaccine
methods and compositions of the present invention. The following are examples of
suitable mixed prime-boost regimens: a DNA (e.g., plasmid) vaccine prime/bacterial
vaccine boost; a viral vaccine prime/bacterial vaccine boost; a protein vaccine
prime/bacterial vaccine boost; a DNA prime/bacterial vaccine boost plus protein vaccine
boost; a bacterial vaccine prime/DNA vaccine boost; a bacterial vaccine prime/viral
vaccine boost; a bacterial vaccine prime/protein vaccine boost; a bacterial vaccine
prime/bacterial vaccine boost plus protein vaccine boost; etc. This list is not meant to be
limiting
[00107]      The prime vaccine and boost vaccine may be administered by the same route
orby different routes. The term "different routes" encompasses, but is not limited to,
different sites on the body, for example, a site that is oral, non-oral, enteral, parenteral,
rectal, intranode (lymph node), intravenous, arterial, subcutaneous, intraderi-al,
intramuscular, intratuinor, peritumor, infusion, mucosal, nasal, in the cerebrospinal space
or cerebrospinal fluid, and so on, as well as by different modes, for example, oral,
intravenous, and intramuscular.
[00108]      An effective amount of a prime or boost vaccine may be given in one dose, but
is not restricted to one dose. Thus, the administration can be two, three, four, five, six,
seven, eight, nine, ten, eleven, twelve, thirteen, fourteen, fifteen, sixteen, seventeen,
eighteen, nineteen, twenty, or more, administrations of the vaccine. Where there is more
than one administration of a vaccine or vaccines in the present methods, the
administrations can be spaced by time intervals of one minute, two minutes, three, four,
five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten, or more minutes, by intervals of about one hour, two
hours, three, four, live, six, seven, eight, nine, ten, 11, 12, 13,14, 15,16,17, 18,19, 20,
21, 22, 23, 24 hours, and so on. In the context of hours, the term "about" means plus or
minus any time interval within 30 minutes. The administrations can also be spaced by
time intervals of one day, two days, three days, four days, five days, six days, seven days,
eight days, nine days, ten days, 11 days, 12 days, 13 days, 14 days, 15 days, 16 days, 17
                                                43

days, 18 days, 19 days, 20 days, 21 days, and combinations thereof. The invention is not
limited to dosing intervals that are spaced equally in time, but encompass doses at
non-equal intervals, such as a priming schedule consisting of administration at I day,
4 days, 7 days, and 25 days, ju-st to provide a non-limiting example.
[001091      In certain embodiments-administration of the boost vaccination can be
initiated at about 5 days after the prime vaccination is initiated; about 10 days after the
prime vaccination is initiated; about 15 days; about 20 days; about 25 days; about
30 days; about 35 days; about 40 days; about 45 days; about 50 days; about 55 days;
about 60 days; about 65 days; about 70 days; about 75 days; about 80 days, about 6
months, and about 1 year after administration of the prime vaccination is initiated.
Preferably one or both of the prime and boost vaccination comprises delivery of a
composition of the present invention.
[00110]      A "pharmaceutically acceptable excipient" or "diagnostically acceptable
excipient" includes but is not limited to, sterile distilled water saline, phosphate buffered
solutions, amino acid based buffers, or bicarbonate buffered solutions? An excipient
selected and the amount of excipient used will depend upon the mode of administration.
Administration may be oral, intravenous, subcutaneous, dermal, intradermal,
intramuscular, mucosal, parenteral, intraorgan, intralesional, intranasal, inhalation.
intraocular, intramuscular, intravascular, intranodal, by scarification, rectal,
intraperitoneal, or any one or combination of a variety of well-known routes of
administration. The administration can comprise an injection, infusion, or a combination
thereof.
[0[TI]       Administration of the vaccine of the present invention by a non-oral route can
avoid tolerance. Methods are known in the art for administration intravenously,
subcutaneously, intradermally, intramuscularly, intraperitoneally, orally, mucosally, by
way of the urinary tract, by way of a genital tract, by-way of the gastrointestinal tract, or
by inhalation.
[00112]      An effective amount for a particular patient may vary depending on factors
such as the condition being treated, the overall health of the patient, the rute and dose of
administration and the severity of side effects. Guidance for methods of treatment and
diagnosis is available (see, e.g., Maynard, et al. (1996) A Handbook of SOPs for Good
                                               44

Clinical Practice, Interpharm Press, Boca Raton, FL; Dent (2001) Good Laboratory and
Good Clinical Practice, Urch Publ., London, UK).
[0100]       The vaccines of the present invention can be administered in a dose, or
dosages, where each dose comprises at least 100 bacterial cells/kg body weight or more;
in certain embodiments 1000 bacterial cells/kg body weight or more; normally at least
10,000 cells; more normally at least 100,000 cells; most normally at least I million cells;
often at least 10 million cells; more often at least 100 million cells; typically at least I
billion cells; usually at least 10 billion cells; conventionally at least 100 billion cells; and
sometimes at least 1 trillion cells/kg body weight. The present invention provides the
above doses where the units of bacterial administration is colony forming units (CFU),
the equivalent of CFU prior to psoralen treatment, or where the units are number of
bacterial cells.
[010TT -     The vaccines of the present invention can be administered in a dose, or
dosages, where each dose comprises between 10' and 108 bacteria per 70 kg body weight
(or per 1.7 square meters surface area; or per 1.5 kg liver weight); 2 x 107 and 2 x 10
bacteria per 70 kg body weight (or per 1.7 square meters surface area; or per 1.5 kg liver
weight); 5 x 107 and 5 x 108 bacteria per 70 kg body weight (or per 1.7 square meters
surface area; or per 1.5 kg liver weight); 10 and 109 bacteria per 70 kg body weight (or
per 1.7 square meters surface area; or per 1.5 kg liver weight); between 2.0 x 10' and 2.0
x 109 bacteria per 70 kg (or per 1.7 square meters surface area, or per 1.5 kg liver weight);
between 5.0 x 10' to 5.0 x 1     9 bacteria per 70 kg (or per 1.7 square meters surface area, or
per 1.5 kg liver weight); between 10' and 100 bacteria per 70 kg (or per 1.7 square
meters surface area, or per 1.5 kg liver weight); between 2 x 10' and 2 x 101 bacteria per
70 kg (or per 1.7 square meters surface area, or per 1.5 kg liver weight); between 5 x 109
and 5 x 1010 bacteria per 70 kg (or per 1.7 square meters surface area, or per 1.5 kg liver
weight); between 10" and 102 bacteria per 70 kg (or per 1.7 square meters surface area,
or per 1.5 kg liver weight); between 2 x 10" and 2 x 10" bacteria per 70 kg (or per 1.7
square meters surface area, or per 1.5 kg liver weight); between 5 x 10 " and 5 x 1012
bacteria per 70 kg (or per 1.7 square meters surface area, or per 1.5 kg liver weight);
between 1012 and 10" bacteria per 70 kg (or per 1.7 square meters surface area); between
2 x 10" and 2 x 10" bacteria per 70 kg (or per 1.7 square meters surface area, or per 1.5
kg liver weight); between 5 x 10" and 5 x 10        bacteria per 70 kg (or per 1.7 square
                                                 45

meters surface area,or per 1.5 kg liver weight); between 10' and 10 4 bacteria per 70 kg
(or per 1.7 square meters surface area, or per 1.5 kg liver weight); between 2 x I013 and 2
x 10 bacteria per 70 kg (or per 1.7 square meters surface area, or per 1.5 kg liver
weight); 5 x 10     and 5 x 10'4 bacteria per 70 kg (or per 1.7 square meters surface area, or
per 1.5 kg liver weight); between 10" and 10 5 bacteria per 70 kg (or per 1.7 square
meters surface area,or per 1.5 kg liver weight); between 2 x 10" and 2 x 10" bacteria per
70 kg (or per 1.7 square meters surface area,or per 1.5 kg liver weight); and so on, wet
weight.
[0102]        Also provided is one or more of the above doses, where the dose is
administered by way of one injection every day, one injection every two days, one
injection every three days, one injection every four days, one injection every five days,
one injection every six days, or one injection every seven days, where the injection
schedule is maintained for, e.g., one day only, two days, three days, four days, five days,
six days, seven days, two weeks, three weeks, four weeks, five weeks, or longer. The
invention also embraces combinations of the above doses and schedules, e.g., a relatively
large initial bacterial dose, followed by relatively small subsequent doses, or a relatively
small initial dose followed by a large dose.
[0103]       A dosing schedule of, for example, once/week, twice/week, three times/week,
four times/week, five times/week, six times/week, seven times/week, once every two
weeks, once every three weeks, once every four weeks, once every five weeks, and the
like, is available for the invention. The dosing schedules encompass dosing for a total
period of time of, for example, one week, two weeks, three weeks, four weeks, five
weeks, six weeks, two months, three months, four months, five months, six months, seven
months, eight months, nine months, ten months, eleven months, and twelve months.
[0104]       Provided are cycles of the above dosing schedules. The cycle can be repeated
about, e.g., every seven days; every 14 days; every 21 days; every 28 days; every 35 days;
42 days; every 49 days; every 56 days; every 63 days; every 70 days; and the like. An
interval of non dosing can occur between a cycle, where the interval can be about, e.g.,
seven days; 14 days; 21 days; 28 days; 35 days; 42 days; 49 days; 56 days; 63 days; 70
days; and the like. In this context, the term "about" means plus or minus one day, plus or
minus two days, plus or minus three days, plus or minus fonr days, plus or minus live
days, plus or min-us six days, or plus or minus seven days.
                                               46

[0105]      The present invention encompasses a method of administering Listeria that is
oral. Also provided is a method of administering Listeria that is intravenous. Moreover,
what is provided is a method of administering Listeria that is oral, intramuscular,
intravenous, intradermal and/or subcutaneous. The invention supplies a Listeria
bacterium, or culture or suspension of Listeria bacteria, prepared by growing in a medium
that is meat based, or that contains polypeptides derived from a meat or animal product.
Also supplied by the present invention is a Listeria bacterium, or culture or suspension of
Listeria bacteria, prepared by growing in a medium that does not contain meat or animal
products, prepared by growing on a medium that contains vegetable polypeptides,
prepared by growing on a medium that is not based on yeast products, or prepared by
growing on a medium that contains yeast polypeptides.
[0106]      Methods for co-administration with an additional therapeutic agent are well
known in the art (Hardman, et al (eds.) (2001) Goodman and Gilnan's The
Pharmacological Basis of Therapeutics, 10th ed., McGraw-Hill, New York, NY; Poole
and Peterson (eds.) (2001) Phamnacotherapeutics for Advanced Practice:A Practical
Approach, Lippincott, Williams & Wilkins, Phila., PA; Chabner and Longo (eds.) (2001)
Cancer Chemotherapy and Biotherapy, Lippincott, Williams & Wilkins, Phila., PA).
[0107]      Addition-al agents which-are beneficial to raising a cytolytic T cell response
may be used as well. Such agents are termed herein carriers. These include, without
limitation, B7 costimulatory molecule, interleukin-2, interferon-y, GM-CSF, CTLA-4
antagonists, OX-40/OX-40 ligand, CD40/CD40 ligand, sargramostim, levainisol, vaccinia
virus, Bacille Calmette-Guerin (BCG), liposomes, alum, Freund's complete or incomplete
adjuvant, detoxified endotoxins, mineral oils, surface active substances such as
lipolecithin, pluronic polyols, polyanions, peptides, and oil or hydrocarbon emulsions.
Carriers for inducing a T cell immune response which preferentially stimulate a cytolytic
T cell response verses an antibody response are preferred, although those that stimulate
both types of response can be used as -well.In cases where the agent is a polypeptide, the
polypeptide itself or a polynucleotide encoding the polypeptide can be administered. The
carrier can be a cell, such as an antigen presenting cell (APC) or a dendritic cell. Antigen
presenting cells include such cell types as macrophages, dendritic cells and B cells. Other
professional antigen-presenting cells include monocytes, marginal zone Kupffer cells,
microglia, Langerhans' cells, interdigitating dendritic cells, follicular dendritic cells, and
                                              47

T cells. Facultative antigen-presenting cells can also be used. Examples of facultative
antigen-presenting cells include astrocytes, follicular cells, endothelium and fibroblasts.
The carrier can be a bacterial cell that is transformed to express the polypeptide or to
deliver a polynucleoteide which is subsequently expressed in cells of the vaccinated
individual. Adjuvants, such as aluminum hydroxide or aluminum phosphate, can be added
to increase the ability of the vaccine to trigger, enhance, or prolong an immune response.
Additional materials, such as cytokines, chemokines, and bacterial nucleic acid
sequences, like CpG, a toll-like receptor (TLR) 9 agonist as well as additional agonists for
TLR 2, TIR 4, TLR 5, TLR 7, TLR 8, TLR9, including lipoprotein, LPS,
monophosphoryl lipid A, lipoteichoic acid, imiquimod, resiquimod, and other like
immune modulators such as cyclic dinucleotide STING agonists including c-di-GMP, c
di-AMP, c-di-IMP, and c-AMP-GMP, used separately or in combination with the
described compositions are also potential adjuvants. Other representative examples of
adjuvants include the synthetic adjuvant QS-21 comprising a-homogeneous sap-onin
purified from the bark of Quillaja saponaria and Corynebacterium parvum (McCune et
ad., Cancer, 1979; 43:1619). It will b-e understood that the adjuvant-is subject to
optimization. In other words, the skilled artisan can engage in routine experimentation to
determine the best adjuvant to use.
[0108]      An effective amount of a therapeutic agent is one that will decrease or
ameliorate the symptoms normally by at least 10%, more normally by at least 20%, most
normally by at least 30%, typically by at least 40%, more typically by at least 50%, most
typically by at least 60%, often by at least 70%, more often by at least 80%, and most
often by at least 90%, conventionally by at least 95%, more conventionally by at least
99%, and most conventionally by at least 99.9%.
[0109]      The reagents and methods of the present invention provide a vaccine
comprising only one vaccination; or comprising a first vaccination; or comprising at least
one booster vaccination; at least two booster vaccinations; or at least three booster
vaccinations. Guidance in parameters for booster vaccinations is available. See, e.g.,
Marth (1997) Biologicals 25:199-203; Ramsay, et al. (1997) Immunol. Cell Biol. 75:382
388; Gherardi, et al. (2001) Histol. Histopathol. 16:655-667; Leroux-Roels, et al. (2001)
ActA Clin. Belg. 56:209-219; Greiner, et al. (2002) CancerRes. 62:6944-6951; Smith, et
                                                48

a. (2003) . Med. Virol. 70:Suppl.I:S38-S41; Sepulveda-Amor, et at (2002) Vaccine
20:2790-2795).
[0110]       Formulations of therapeutic agents may be prepared for storage by mixing
with physiologically acceptable carriers, excipients, or stabilizers in the form of, e.g.,
lyophilized powders, slurries, aqueous solutions or suspensions (see, e.g., Hardman, et al.
(2001) Goodman and Gilman's The Pharmacological Basis of Therapeutics, McGraw
Hill, New York, NY; Gennaro (2000) Remington: The Science and Practice of Pharmacy,
Lippincott, Williams, and Wilkins, New York, NY; Avis, et al. (eds.) (1993)
Pliarmaceutical Dosage Forms: Parenteral Medications, Marcel Dekker, NY; Lieberman,
et al. (eds.) (1990) Pharmaceutical Dosage Forms: Tablets, Marcel Dekker, NY;
Lieberman, et al. (eds.) (1990) Pharmaceutical Dosage Forms: Disperse Systems, Marcel
Dekker, NY; Weiner and Kotkoskie (2000) Excipient Toxicity and Safety, Marcel
Dekker, Inc., New York, NY).
[0111]       Examples
[0112]       The following examples serve to illustrate the present invention. These
examples are in no way intended to limit the scope of the invention.
[0113]       Example 1.
[0114]       Fig. 2 depicts various modifications to the sequences of ActA and LLO tested
in the following examples.
[0115]       With regard to the modifiedActA sequence, the parent ActA sequence was
truncated at residue 100, and was extended by tvo residues added by inclusion of a
BamHl site, shown in the FIG as residues G101 and S102. Modifications to the PEST
sequence involved the deletions shown in the figure, and an optional substitution of the
hydrophobic motif LLIAML to QDNKR is also depicted. With-regard to the modified LLO
sequence, the parent LLO sequence was truncated at residue 441. Modifications to the
PEST sequence involved the deletions shown in the figure. In each case, the depicted
signal peptide/secretion chaperone elements are functionally linked in-frame to selected
antigen sequences.
[0116]       Example 2.
                                               49

[0117]      Fig. 3 depicts the location of a PEST motif in the LLO sequence, scored using
the epestfind algorithm. A single motif having a score of +4.72 was modified as noted
above in Example 1. Also shown in the top of the figure is the hydropathy plot. A number
of hydrophiobi- motifs are shown (peaks rising above the sequence schematic) which
may be modified as described herein.
[0118]      Similarly, Fig. 4 depicts four PEST motifs in the ActA sequence, scored using
the epestfind algorithm. The first of these motifs has a score of +10.27, and was modified
as noted above in Example 1. The remaining PEST motifs were deleted by truncating the
ActA sequence at residue 100. Also shown in the top of the figure is the hydropathy plot.
The hydrophobic motif LIAML is apparent as the peak rising above the sequence
schematic in ActAN100.
[0119]      Example 3.
[0120]      Fig. 5 shows the results of a B3Z T-cell activation assay following
immunization with the constructs noted in the figure. In each antigenic construct, HIVgag
was expreseed fused to SIINFEKL ("SL8") epitope tag and inserted into the genome of
the host Lm AactA AinIB vaccine strain. DC2.4 cells were infected with the selected
strains, and incubated with the OVA2 m7 2m-specific T cell hybridoma, B3Z. Presentation
of SIINFEKL epitope on H-2 Kb class I molecules was assessed by measuring       D
galactosidase expression using a chromogenic substrate. As noted in the figure, deletion
of the PEST sequence had a positive or neutral effect on the assay results.
[0121]      Example 4.
[0122]      Fig. 6 shows responses from the LL0441 (A) and AcLANIOO vaccine strains.
BALB/c mice were vaccinated once intravenously with 5 x 106 colony fonning units (cfu)
with indicated vaccine strain containing an N-terminal fusion partner that contained a
PEST motif or were deleted of the PEST motif, in order to directly compare the
immunogenicity of these isogenic strains that differed only in the composition of the N
terminal LLO or ActA fusion partner. At the peak of the Lm vaccine response at 7 days
post vaccination, the spleens of mice were harvested and the HIV-Gag CD8 T cell
responses specific for the H2 Kd-restricted HIV Gago97 2 05 epitope AMQMLKETI by
IFN-y ELISpot assay performed with lymphocytes isolated from whole mouse blood
using Lympholyte-Mimmal (Cedarlane Labs, Burlington, NC) and a murine IFN-y
                                              50

ELISpot pair (BD Biosciences, San Jose, CA). At the termination of the experiments,
ELISpot assays were performed on splenocytes. 2x10 5 cells/well were incubated with the
appropriate peptide overnight at 37*C in anti-murine IFN-y coated ELISpot plate
(Milli-pore, Billerica, MA). Cells were incubated with no peptide as a negative control.
Marine   ELISpots were developed using alkaline phosphatase detection reagents
(Invitrogen, Carlsbad, CA) and scanned and quantified using Immunospot plate reader
and software (CTL Ltd, Cleveland, OH).
[0123]       Mice vaccinated with Lm vaccine strains containing PEST LLOt N-terminal
secretion/chaperone elements generated IHV Gag-specific CD8 T cell responses that were
higher than niice vaccinated with isogenic Lin vaccine strains containing LLOa N
terminal secretion/chaperone elements with PEST motifs. Mice vaccinated with Lm
vaccine strains containing PEST- ActANIOO N-terminal secretion/chaperone elements
generated HIV Gag-specific CD8 T cell responses that were at least equivalent to mice
vaccinated with isogenic Lm vaccine strains containing ActANIO0 N-terminal
secretion/chaperone elements with PEST mot
[0124]       Example 5.
[0125]       Fig. depicts several alternative substitutions and deletions for use in deleting
the PEST motif, using ActA as a model system. Substitution of any of five P, E, S and T
amino acids (E50, P52, S53, E54, T57) in the ActAN1O0 sequence to a positively charged
residue (R, K, or H) was sufficient to abrogate a positive score using the pestfinder
algorithm.
[0126]       Fig. 8. depicts in more detail the result of modifying the hydrophobic motif
LIAML on the resulting hydropathy plot. Nonconservative substitution to QDNKR was
sufficient to remove the hydrophobic nature of this sequence.
[0127]       Example 6.
[0128]       ActA-N100 (MGLNRFMRAM MVVFITANCI TINPDIIFAA TDSEDSSLNT
DEWEEEKTE QPSEVNTGPR YETAREVSSR DIEELEKSNK VKNTNKADLI
AMLKAKAEKG gs) and a modified form thereof in which the PEST motif has been
deleted and containing the nonconservative QDNKR substitution (MGLNRFMRAM
MVVFITANCI TINPDIFAA TDSEDSSLNT DEWEEEYETA REVSSRDIEE
                                                51

LEKSNKVKNT NKADQDNKRK AKAEKgl; referred to herein as ActA-Nl00*) were
used to prepare a fusion construct with human mesothelin residues 35-621 (the lowercase
residues above were included between the ActA sequence and the mesothlin sequence as
a result of the restriction site used to prepare the in-frame fusion). The constmict was
integrated at the chromosomal tRNA             locus of Listeria monocytogenes AactAAinIlB.
Balb/c mice were challenged with 2x10 CT-26 tumor cells that express human
mesothelin on Day 0. Mice were therapeutically vaccinated on day 4 and day 17 with
Listeria vaccine strains. The results of this experiment are depicted in Fig. 9 as percent
survival of the vaccinated animals. As shown, here was no difference in efficacy between
ActA-N1O0 vs ActA-N100* based vaccines.
[0129]          Example 7.
[0130]          Similar Listeriamonocytogenes AactAAinlB to those of Example 6 were
prepared in which the mesothelin antigenic sequence was replaced by 5 copies of an
EGFRII 20 4 0 sequence and NY-ESO-1            iIa    The DNA and rotein sequences used in the
antigenic construct are as follows (lowercase, not underlined: actA promoter; lowercase,
underlined: restriction sites; uppercase, bold: ActAN100* sequence; uppercase
underlined: EGFRvIII20-40x5; uppercase, italic: NY-ESO-l (1-165) (each EGFRvlII2o
repeat is double underlined in the-peptide sequence, and the leading Val codon is used to
encode Met):
ggtaccgggaagcagttgggqttaactgattaacaaatgttagagaaaaattaattctcc
aagtgatattcttaaaataattcatgaatattttttcttatattagctaattaagaagat
aattaactgctaatccaatttttaacggaataaattagtqaaaatgaaqgccgaattttc
cttgttctaaaaaggttgtattagcgtatcacgaggagggagtataaGTGGGATTAAATA
GATT TATGCGTGCGATCATGGTAGT TTTCAT TACTGCCAACTGCAT TACGATTAACCCCG
ACATAATATTTGCAGCGACAGATAGCGAAGATTCCAGTCTAAACACAGATGAATGGGAAG
AAGAATACGAAACTGCACGTGAAGTAAGTTCACGTGATAT                            TGAGAACTAGAAAAATCGA
ATAAAGTGAAAAATACAACARAAGCAGACCAAGATAATAAACGTAAAGCAAAAGCAGAGA
AAGGTggatccGCAAGCAAAGTAT TGCCAGCTAGT CGTGCATTAGAGGAGAAAAAGGGGA
ATTACUii       (t, i (,AC(,(,iAI G;Al('(iti~ u   I ,(A      L(,,LAO    AAA(       (  t(,(G
A1rbibbLLLLIbLAILALGAGAL1AAGA(                          AAAAAAGbAAALIAlbllIGILALLGAIL
ATGGTAGCTGCGGAGATGGTT CAAT TAAAT TATCAAAAGT CTTACCAGCATCTAGAGCTT
                               ~UG~CAT~tIAA~A                    UGAAUTI     G iU(AUULAAGIG

TTAAAGCG TC CAAAC TACCTC CAGC T TCT C C GCATTAGAAGAAAAGAAAGGCAA T TATG
CTTCTCGTGCGCTAGAAGAGAAGAAAGGAAATTACGTAGTTACAGACCACGGCTCTTGCG
CGGATGGTTCCGTTAAAcaattqATGCAAGCTGAAGGAAGAGGAACTGGGGGTAGTACAG
GAGATGCAGATGGCCCTGGCGGACCGGGTA                TTCCTGATGGACCAGGGGGTAATGCGGGTG
GGCCAGGCGA CGGTCTACAGGCGGTAGAGGCCACGAGGGGCAGGA GCAGCGAGAG
CTTCTGGACCAGGTGGTGGCGCTCCACGCGGTCCGCATGGTGGTGCAGCGTCCGGCTTAA
ACGGTTGCTGTCGCTGTGGAGCTAGAGGACCAGAATCACGTCTTTTAGAGTTCTATTTGG
CCATGCCGTTTGCTACGCCTATGGAAGCAGAACTAGCACGTCGTAGCTTAGCGCAAGATG
CACCTCCATTACCAGTTCCAGGCGTGTTGTTAAAGGAGTTCACGGTCAGTGGTAACATAT
TGACAATTCGCCTTACTGCGGCTGACCACCGTCAATTACAGCTTAGCATTTCATCTTGTT
TACAACAACTTTCGTTACTTATGTGGATCACCCAATGCTAAcigcoggccg
MLNRFMRA14MVVFITANCITINPDIIFAATDSEDSSLNTDEWEEEYETAREVSSRDIEE
LEKSNKVKNTNKADQDNKRKAKAEKGqsASKVLPASRALE                      EKKGNYVVT D HGS CAD GSVK
TSASKVAPASRALBEKKGNYVVTDHGuCuTlKaBSVFAXAELI*1Tha                                 vviHTbL
ADGSVKASKVAPASRALEEKKGNYVVTDHGSCGDGSIKLSKVLPASRALEEKKGNYVVTD
HGSCADGSVKQlMQAEGRGTGGSTGDADGPGGPGIPDGPGGNAGGPGEAGATGGRGPRGA
GAARASGPGGGAPRGPRGGAASGLNGCCRCGARGPESRLLEFYLAMPFA TPMEAELARRS
LAQDAPPLPVPGVLLKEFTVSGNILTIRLTAADHRQLQLSISSCLQQLSLLMWITQC
[0131]      The fusion construct is depicted schematically in Fig. 10, left panel. The
mouse dendritic cell line DC2.4 was infected with Lm AactA/AinlB (Fig. 10, right panel,
lane 1), BH3763 (EGFRvIII2o4/NY-ESO-1            ), or BH3816 (clinical strain with
EGFRvI20-4/NY-ESO-1li          in which selection markers have been deleted). Seven
hours later, cells were washed, lysed, run on SDS-PAGE, and transferred to nitrocellulose.
The Western blot was probed with a rabbit polyclonal antibody raised to the amino
terminus of the ActA protein and expression level was normalized to the Listeria P60
protein, which correlates with bacterial counts in infected cells. High levels of the fusion
construct were expressed by both the research and clinical strains.
                                             53

[0132]      Female B10.Br mice (n=5 per group) were vaccinated intravenously with
varying doses of BH3816 (Lm AactAAinlB EGFRvIII - NY-ESO-1). EGFR-specific T cell
responses were determined by intracellular cytokine staining, and are depicted in Fig. 11
as (A) percent IFN-y positive EGFRvIII-specific CD8+ T cells; and (B) absolute number
of IFN-y positive EGFRvIII-specific CD8+ T cells per spleen. Robust EGFR T cell
responses were observed. As depicted in Fig. 12, NY-ESO-l-specific CD8+ T cell
responses were also observed, as determined by intracellular cytokine staining 7 days
after prime vaccination using the defined H-2d restricted epitope ARGPESRLL.
[0133]      One skilled in the art readily appreciates that the present invention is well
adapted to carry out the "embodiments" and obtain the ends and advantages mentioned, as
well as those inherent therein. The examples provided herein are representative of
preferred embodiments, are exemplary, and are not intended as limitations on the scope of
the invention.
[0134]      It will be readily apparent to a person skilled in the art that varying
substitutions and modifications may be made to the invention disclosed herein without
departing from the scope and spirit of the invention.
[0135]      All patents and publications mentioned in the specification are indicative of
the levels of those of ordinary skill in the art to which the invention pertains. All patents
and publications are herein incorporated by reference to the same extent as if each
individual publication was specifically and individually indicated to be incorporated by
reference.
[0136]      The invention illustratively described herein suitably may be practiced in the
absence of any element or elements, limitation or limitations which is not specifically
disclosed herein. Thus, for example, in each instance herein any of the terms
"'comprising", "consisting essentially of' and "consisting of' may be replaced with either
of the other two terms. The terms and expressions which have been employed are used as
terms of description and not of limitation, and there is no intention that in the use of such
terms and expressions of excluding any equivalents of the features shown and described
or portions thereof, but it is recognized that various modifications are possible within the
scope of the invention claimed. Thus, it should be understood that although the present
invention has been specifically disclosed by preferred embodiments and optional features,
                                                54

modification and variation of the concepts herein disclosed may be resorted to by those
skilled in the art, and that such modifications and variations are considered to be within
the scope of this invention as defined by the appended claims.
[0137]-      Other embodiments are set forth within the following claims.
                                              55

THE CLAIMS DEFINING THE INVENTION ARE AS FOLLOWS:
1.      A polynucleotide comprising:
(a) a promoter; and
(b) a nucleic acid operably linked to the promoter, wherein the nucleic acid encodes a
fusion protein comprising:
         a polypeptide derived by recombinant modification of a secreted Listerialprotein
        sequence, the secreted Listerialprotein sequence in its unmodified form
        comprising a signal sequence and one or more PEST motifs, the modification
        comprising removal of each of the PEST motifs by deletion or substitution by one
        or more residues such that the polypeptide lacks any PEST motif; and
        a non-Listerialantigen.
2.      The polynucleotide of claim 1, wherein the secreted Listerialprotein sequence is
ActA or LLO.
3.      The polynucleotide of claim 1 or 2, wherein the modification further comprises
truncation of the secreted Listerialprotein sequence at about residue 100.
4.      The polynucleotide of one of claims 1-3, wherein the polypeptide retains the
signal sequence of the secreted Listerialprotein sequence in unmodified form.
5.      The polynucleotide of one of claims 1-4, wherein the modification further
comprises:
 removal of one or more hydrophobic domains which are not part of the signal sequence
of the secreted Listerialprotein sequence; and/or
substitution of one or more residues within one or more hydrophobic domains which are
not part of the signal sequence of the secreted Listerialprotein sequence with amino acids
which are not hydrophobic.
6.      The polynucleotide of one of claims 1-5, wherein the secreted Listerialprotein
sequence is an ActA sequence and wherein at least 75% of the sequence
KTEEQPSEVNTGP is deleted.
                                              56

7.      The polynucleotide of one of claims 1-5, wherein the sequence
KTEEQPSEVNTGP or KTEEQPSEVNTGPR is deleted.
8.      The polynucleotide of one of claims 1-5, wherein the secreted Listerialprotein
sequence is an ActA sequence and wherein one or more P, E, S, and T residues in the
sequence KTEEQPSEVNTGPR is substituted with a residue other than P, E, S, and T.
9.      The polynucleotide of claim 8, wherein each P, E, S, and T residue in the sequence
KTEEQPSEVNTGPR is substituted with K or R.
10.     The polynucleotide of one of claims 1-9, wherein the secreted Listerialprotein
sequence is an ActA sequence and wherein one or more hydrophobic residues within the
sequence LIAML are substituted with amino acids which are not hydrophobic.
11.     The polynucleotide of claim 10, wherein the sequence LIAML is replaced with the
sequence QDNKR.
12.     The polynucleotide of one of claims 1-5, wherein the polypeptide comprises at
least the first 95 residues of one of the sequences referred to as dlPEST and dlPEST
qdnkr.
13.     The polynucleotide of one of claims 1-5, wherein the secreted Listerialprotein
sequence is an LLO sequence and wherein at least 75% of the sequence
SISSMAPPASPPASPKTPIE is deleted.
14.     The polynucleotide of one of claims 1-5, wherein the sequence
KENSISSMAPPASPPASPK or NSISSMAPPASPPASPKTPIEKKHAD is deleted.
15.     The polynucleotide of one of claims 1-5, wherein the secreted Listerialprotein
sequence is an LLO sequence and wherein one or more P, E, S, and T residues in the
sequence SISSMAPPASPPASPKTPIEKKHAD is substituted with a residue other than P,
E, S, and T.
16.     The polynucleotide of claim 15, wherein each P, E, S, and T residue in the
sequence SISSMAPPASPPASPKTPIEKKHAD is substituted with K or R.
17.     The polynucleotide of one of claims 1-5, wherein the polypeptide comprises at
least the first 95 residues of one of the sequences referred to as LLO dlPEST and LLO
d126.
                                               57

18.     The polynucleotide of one of claims 1-17, wherein the promoter is an actA or hly
promoter.
19.     The polynucleotide of one of claims 1-17, wherein the non-Listerialantigen is a
cancer cell, tumor, or infectious agent antigen.
20.     A plasmid comprising the polynucleotide of one of claims 1-19.
21.     A Listeria bacterium comprising the polynucleotide of one of claims 1-19.
22.     The Listeria bacterium of claim 21, which is Listeria monocytogenes.
23.     The Listeria bacterium of one of claims 21 or 22 which is attenuated by a
functional deletion of the bacterium's genomic actA gene.
24.     The Listeria bacterium of one of claims 21-23, wherein the polynucleotide of one
of claims 1-21 is inserted into the bacterium's genomic actA or in/B gene.
25.     A method for stimulating an immune response to a non-Listerialantigen in a
mammal comprising administering an effective amount of the Listeriabacterium of one of
claims 21-24 to the mammal, wherein the non-Listerialantigen is expressed in one or
more cells of the mammal.
26.     A vaccine comprising the Listeriabacterium of one of claims 21-24 and a
pharmacologically acceptable excipient.
27.     A method of producing a Listeria bacterium for use in a vaccine, comprising:
        integrating a polynucleotide one of claims 1-19 into the genome of the Listeria
bacterium.
28.     The method of claim 22, wherein the polynucleotide of one of claims 1-19 is
inserted into the bacterium's genomic actA or in/B gene.
                                              58

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
                                                         ANZ9000PCT_SL. t x t
<removed-date>
                                                        SEQUENCE LI STI NG
              <110> ADURO BI OTECH, I NC.
              <120> SI GNAL PEPTI DE FUSI ON PARTNERS FACI LI TATI NG LI STERI AL EXPRESSI ON
                    OF ANTI GENI C SEQUENCES AND METHODS OF PREPARATI ON AND USE THEREOF
              <130> ANZ- 9000- PCT
              <140> PCT/ US2013/ 078119
              <141> 2013- 12- 27
              <150> 61/ 780, 744
<removed-apn>
              <151> 2013- 03- 13
              <150> 61/ 746, 237
              <151> 2012- 12- 27
              <160> 51
              <170> Pat ent I n v er s i on 3. 5
              <210>   1
              <211>   13
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223> Des c r i pt i on of Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e: Sy nt het i c
                    pept i de
              <400> 1
              Ly s Thr Gl u Gl u Gl n Pr o Ser Gl u Val As n Thr Gl y Pr o
              1                  5                      10
              <210>   2
              <211>   14
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223> Des c r i pt i on of Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e: Sy nt het i c
                    pept i de
              <400> 2
              Ly s Thr Gl u Gl u Gl n Pr o Ser Gl u Val As n Thr Gl y Pr o Ar g
              1                  5                      10
              <210>   3
              <211>   28
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223> Des c r i pt i on of Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e: Sy nt het i c
                    pept i de
              <400> 3
              Ly s Al a Ser Val Thr As p Thr Ser Gl u Gl y As p Leu As p Ser Ser Met
              1                 5                     10                     15
              Gl n Ser Al a As p Gl u Ser Thr Pr o Gl n Pr o Leu Ly s
                            20                     25
                                                                Page 1

                                                        ANZ9000PCT_SL. t x t
<removed-date>
              <210>   4
              <211>   20
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223> Des c r i pt i on of Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e: Sy nt het i c
                    pept i de
              <400> 4
              Ly s As n Gl u Gl u Val As n Al a Ser As p Phe Pr o Pr o Pr o Pr o Thr As p
              1                   5                      10                      15
<removed-apn>
              Gl u Gl u Leu Ar g
                            20
              <210>   5
              <211>   34
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223> Des c r i pt i on of Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e: Sy nt het i c
                    pol y pept i de
              <400> 5
              Ar g Gl y Gl y I l e Pr o Thr Ser Gl u Gl u Phe Ser Ser Leu As n Ser Gl y
              1                    5                      10                   15
              As p Phe Thr As p As p Gl u As n Ser Gl u Thr Thr Gl u Gl u Gl u Gl u I l e
                           20                      25                     30
              As p Ar g
              <210>   6
              <211>   19
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223> Des c r i pt i on of Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e: Sy nt het i c
                    pept i de
              <400> 6
              Ly s Gl u As n Ser I l e Ser Ser Met Al a Pr o Pr o Al a Ser Pr o Pr o Al a
              1                  5                      10                      15
              Ser Pr o Ly s
              <210>   7
              <211>   26
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223> Des c r i pt i on of Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e: Sy nt het i c
                    pept i de
              <400> 7
                                                                Page 2

                                                   ANZ9000PCT_SL. t x t
<removed-date>
              As n Ser I l e Ser Ser Met Al a Pr o Pr o Al a Ser Pr o Pr o Al a Ser Pr o
              1                  5                      10                      15
              Ly s Thr Pr o I l e Gl u Ly s Ly s Hi s Al a As p
                            20                        25
              <210>   8
              <211>   5
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
<removed-apn>
              <220>
              <223> Des c r i pt i on of Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e: Sy nt het i c
                    pept i de
              <400> 8
              Leu I l e Al a Met Leu
              1                  5
              <210>   9
              <211>   5
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223> Des c r i pt i on of Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e: Sy nt het i c
                    pept i de
              <400> 9
              Gl n As p As n Ly s Ar g
              1                   5
              <210>   10
              <211>   29
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223> Des c r i pt i on of Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e: Sy nt het i c
                    pept i de
              <400> 10
              Met Gl y Leu As n Ar g Phe Met Ar g Al a Met Met Val Val Phe I l e Thr
              1                 5                      10                  15
              Al a As n Cy s I l e Thr I l e As n Pr o As p I l e I l e Phe Al a
                             20                        25
              <210>   11
              <211>   23
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223> Des c r i pt i on of Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e: Sy nt het i c
                    pept i de
              <400> 11
              Met Ly s Ly s I l e Met Leu Val Phe I l e Thr Leu I l e Leu Val Ser Leu
              1                   5                     10                    15
                                                                Page 3

                                                        ANZ9000PCT_SL. t x t
<removed-date>
              Pr o I l e Al a Gl n Gl n Thr Gl u
                              20
              <210>   12
              <211>   100
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223> Des c r i pt i on of Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e: Sy nt het i c
                    pol y pept i de
<removed-apn>
              <400> 12
              Val Gl y Leu As n Ar g Phe Met Ar g Al a Met Met Val Val Phe I l e Thr
              1                 5                      10                  15
              Al a As n Cy s I l e Thr I l e As n Pr o As p I l e I l e Phe Al a Al a Thr As p
                             20                        25                        30
              Ser Gl u As p Ser Ser Leu As n Thr As p Gl u Tr p Gl u Gl u Gl u Ly s Thr
                       35                    40                      45
              Gl u Gl u Gl n Pr o Ser Gl u Val As n Thr Gl y Pr o Ar g Ty r Gl u Thr Al a
                   50                      55                     60
              Ar g Gl u Val Ser Ser Ar g As p I l e Gl u Gl u Leu Gl u Ly s Ser As n Ly s
              65                    70                        75                     80
              Val Ly s As n Thr As n Ly s Al a As p Leu I l e Al a Met Leu Ly s Al a Ly s
                                85                      90                      95
              Al a Gl u Ly s Gl y
                             100
              <210>   13
              <211>   100
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223> Des c r i pt i on of Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e: Sy nt het i c
                    pol y pept i de
              <400> 13
              Met Gl y Leu As n Ar g Phe Met Ar g Al a Met Met Val Val Phe I l e Thr
              1                 5                      10                  15
              Al a As n Cy s I l e Thr I l e As n Pr o As p I l e I l e Phe Al a Al a Thr As p
                             20                        25                        30
              Ser Gl u As p Ser Ser Leu As n Thr As p Gl u Tr p Gl u Gl u Gl u Ly s Thr
                       35                    40                      45
              Gl u Gl u Gl n Pr o Ser Gl u Val As n Thr Gl y Pr o Ar g Ty r Gl u Thr Al a
                   50                      55                     60
                                                                Page 4

                                                    ANZ9000PCT_SL. t x t
<removed-date>
              Ar g Gl u Val Ser Ser Ar g As p I l e Gl u Gl u Leu Gl u Ly s Ser As n Ly s
              65                    70                        75                     80
              Val Ly s As n Thr As n Ly s Al a As p Leu I l e Al a Met Leu Ly s Al a Ly s
                                85                      90                      95
              Al a Gl u Ly s Gl y
                             100
              <210>   14
<removed-apn>
              <211>   102
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223> Des c r i pt i on of Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e: Sy nt het i c
                    pol y pept i de
              <400> 14
              Val Gl y Leu As n Ar g Phe Met Ar g Al a Met Met Val Val Phe I l e Thr
              1                 5                      10                  15
              Al a As n Cy s I l e Thr I l e As n Pr o As p I l e I l e Phe Al a Al a Thr As p
                             20                        25                        30
              Ser Gl u As p Ser Ser Leu As n Thr As p Gl u Tr p Gl u Gl u Gl u Ly s Thr
                       35                    40                      45
              Gl u Gl u Gl n Pr o Ser Gl u Val As n Thr Gl y Pr o Ar g Ty r Gl u Thr Al a
                   50                      55                     60
              Ar g Gl u Val Ser Ser Ar g As p I l e Gl u Gl u Leu Gl u Ly s Ser As n Ly s
              65                    70                        75                     80
              Val Ly s As n Thr As n Ly s Al a As p Leu I l e Al a Met Leu Ly s Al a Ly s
                                85                      90                      95
              Al a Gl u Ly s Gl y Gl y Ser
                             100
              <210>   15
              <211>   102
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223> Des c r i pt i on of Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e: Sy nt het i c
                    pol y pept i de
              <400> 15
              Met Gl y Leu As n Ar g Phe Met Ar g Al a Met Met Val Val Phe I l e Thr
              1                 5                      10                  15
              Al a As n Cy s I l e Thr I l e As n Pr o As p I l e I l e Phe Al a Al a Thr As p
                             20                        25                        30
                                                                Page 5

                                                 ANZ9000PCT_SL. t x t
<removed-date>
              Ser Gl u As p Ser Ser Leu As n Thr As p Gl u Tr p Gl u Gl u Gl u Ly s Thr
                       35                    40                      45
              Gl u Gl u Gl n Pr o Ser Gl u Val As n Thr Gl y Pr o Ar g Ty r Gl u Thr Al a
                   50                      55                     60
              Ar g Gl u Val Ser Ser Ar g As p I l e Gl u Gl u Leu Gl u Ly s Ser As n Ly s
              65                    70                        75                     80
              Val Ly s As n Thr As n Ly s Al a As p Leu I l e Al a Met Leu Ly s Al a Ly s
<removed-apn>
                                85                      90                      95
              Al a Gl u Ly s Gl y Gl y Ser
                             100
              <210>   16
              <211>   86
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223> Des c r i pt i on of Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e: Sy nt het i c
                    pol y pept i de
              <400> 16
              Val Gl y Leu As n Ar g Phe Met Ar g Al a Met Met Val Val Phe I l e Thr
              1                 5                      10                  15
              Al a As n Cy s I l e Thr I l e As n Pr o As p I l e I l e Phe Al a Al a Thr As p
                             20                        25                        30
              Ser Gl u As p Ser Ser Leu As n Thr As p Gl u Tr p Gl u Gl u Gl u Ty r Gl u
                       35                    40                      45
              Thr Al a Ar g Gl u Val Ser Ser Ar g As p I l e Gl u Gl u Leu Gl u Ly s Ser
                  50                     55                       60
              As n Ly s Val Ly s As n Thr As n Ly s Al a As p Gl n As p As n Ly s Ar g Ly s
              65                      70                      75                       80
              Al a Ly s Al a Gl u Ly s Gl y
                                  85
              <210>   17
              <211>   86
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223> Des c r i pt i on of Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e: Sy nt het i c
                    pol y pept i de
              <400> 17
              Met Gl y Leu As n Ar g Phe Met Ar g Al a Met Met Val Val Phe I l e Thr
              1                 5                      10                  15
                                                                Page 6

                                                       ANZ9000PCT_SL. t x t
<removed-date>
              Al a As n Cy s I l e Thr I l e As n Pr o As p I l e I l e Phe Al a Al a Thr As p
                             20                        25                        30
              Ser Gl u As p Ser Ser Leu As n Thr As p Gl u Tr p Gl u Gl u Gl u Ty r Gl u
                       35                    40                      45
              Thr Al a Ar g Gl u Val Ser Ser Ar g As p I l e Gl u Gl u Leu Gl u Ly s Ser
                  50                     55                       60
              As n Ly s Val Ly s As n Thr As n Ly s Al a As p Gl n As p As n Ly s Ar g Ly s
<removed-apn>
              65                      70                      75                       80
              Al a Ly s Al a Gl u Ly s Gl y
                                  85
              <210>   18
              <211>   25
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223> Des c r i pt i on of Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e: Sy nt het i c
                    pept i de
              <400> 18
              Met Ly s Ly s I l e Met Leu Val Phe I l e Thr Leu I l e Leu Val Ser Leu
              1                   5                     10                    15
              Pr o I l e Al a Gl n Gl n Thr Gl u Al a Ly s
                              20                      25
              <210>   19
              <211>   441
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223> Des c r i pt i on of Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e: Sy nt het i c
                    pol y pept i de
              <400> 19
              Met Ly s Ly s I l e Met Leu Val Phe I l e Thr Leu I l e Leu Val Ser Leu
              1                   5                     10                    15
              Pr o I l e Al a Gl n Gl n Thr Gl u Al a Ly s As p Al a Ser Al a Phe As n Ly s
                              20                      25                      30
              Gl u As n Ser I l e Ser Ser Met Al a Pr o Pr o Al a Ser Pr o Pr o Al a Ser
                        35                    40                      45
              Pr o Ly s Thr Pr o I l e Gl u Ly s Ly s Hi s Al a As p Gl u I l e As p Ly s Ty r
                   50                       55                       60
              I l e Gl n Gl y Leu As p Ty r As n Ly s As n As n Val Leu Val Ty r Hi s Gl y
              65                       70                       75                    80
                                                                Page 7

                                                   ANZ9000PCT_SL. t x t
<removed-date>
              As p Al a Val Thr As n Val Pr o Pr o Ar g Ly s Gl y Ty r Ly s As p Gl y As n
                                85                      90                       95
              Gl u Ty r I l e Val Val Gl u Ly s Ly s Ly s Ly s Ser I l e As n Gl n As n As n
                              100                    105                      110
              Al a As p I l e Gl n Val Val As n Al a I l e Ser Ser Leu Thr Ty r Pr o Gl y
                        115                     120                    125
              Al a Leu Val Ly s Al a As n Ser Gl u Leu Val Gl u As n Gl n Pr o As p Val
<removed-apn>
                   130                    135                   140
              Leu Pr o Val Ly s Ar g As p Ser Leu Thr Leu Ser I l e As p Leu Pr o Gl y
              145                    150                  155                     160
              Met Thr As n Gl n As p As n Ly s I l e Val Val Ly s As n Al a Thr Ly s Ser
                                165                      170                    175
              As n Val As n As n Al a Val As n Thr Leu Val Gl u Ar g Tr p As n Gl u Ly s
                            180                    185                    190
              Ty r Al a Gl n Al a Ty r Pr o As n Val Ser Al a Ly s I l e As p Ty r As p As p
                        195                      200                     205
              Gl u Met Al a Ty r Ser Gl u Ser Gl n Leu I l e Al a Ly s Phe Gl y Thr Al a
                   210                    215                     220
              Phe Ly s Al a Val As n As n Ser Leu As n Val As n Phe Gl y Al a I l e Ser
              225                    230                   235                      240
              Gl u Gl y Ly s Met Gl n Gl u Gl u Val I l e Ser Phe Ly s Gl n I l e Ty r Ty r
                                 245                      250                     255
              As n Val As n Val As n Gl u Pr o Thr Ar g Pr o Ser Ar g Phe Phe Gl y Ly s
                            260                    265                    270
              Al a Val Thr Ly s Gl u Gl n Leu Gl n Al a Leu Gl y Val As n Al a Gl u As n
                       275                    280                    285
              Pr o Pr o Al a Ty r I l e Ser Ser Val Al a Ty r Gl y Ar g Gl n Val Ty r Leu
                   290                      295                    300
              Ly s Leu Ser Thr As n Ser Hi s Ser Thr Ly s Val Ly s Al a Al a Phe As p
              305                   310                   315                    320
              Al a Al a Val Ser Gl y Ly s Ser Val Ser Gl y As p Val Gl u Leu Thr As n
                                325                   330                    335
              I l e I l e Ly s As n Ser Ser Phe Ly s Al a Val I l e Ty r Gl y Gl y Ser Al a
                               340                   345                      350
                                                            Page 8

                                                       ANZ9000PCT_SL. t x t
<removed-date>
              Ly s As p Gl u Val Gl n I l e I l e As p Gl y As n Leu Gl y As p Leu Ar g As p
                        355                       360                      365
              I l e Leu Ly s Ly s Gl y Al a Thr Phe As n Ar g Gl u Thr Pr o Gl y Val Pr o
                    370                     375                    380
              I l e Al a Ty r Thr Thr As n Phe Leu Ly s As p As n Gl u Leu Al a Val I l e
              385                     390                    395                    400
              Ly s As n As n Ser Gl u Ty r I l e Gl u Thr Thr Ser Ly s Al a Ty r Thr As p
<removed-apn>
                                 405                      410                    415
              Gl y Ly s I l e As n I l e As p Hi s Ser Gl y Gl y Ty r Val Al a Gl n Phe As n
                              420                      425                     430
              I l e Ser Tr p As p Gl u Val As n Ty r As p
                        435                     440
              <210>   20
              <211>   8
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223> Des c r i pt i on of Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e: Sy nt het i c
                    pept i de
              <400> 20
              Ser I l e I l e As n Phe Gl u Ly s Leu
              1                    5
              <210>   21
              <211>   9
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223> Des c r i pt i on of Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e: Sy nt het i c
                    pept i de
              <400> 21
              Al a Met Gl n Met Leu Ly s Gl u Thr I l e
              1                 5
              <210>   22
              <211>   101
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223> Des c r i pt i on of Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e: Sy nt het i c
                    pol y pept i de
              <400> 22
              Met Gl y Leu As n Ar g Phe Met Ar g Al a Met Met Val Val Phe I l e Thr
              1                 5                      10                  15
              Al a As n Cy s I l e Thr I l e As n Pr o As p I l e I l e Phe Al a Al a Thr As p
                             20                        25                        30
                                                              Page 9

                                                        ANZ9000PCT_SL. t x t
<removed-date>
              Ser Gl u As p Ser Ser Leu As n Thr As p Gl u Tr p Gl u Gl u Gl u Ly s Thr
                       35                    40                      45
              Gl u Gl n Pr o Ser Gl u Val As n Thr Gl y Pr o Ar g Ty r Gl u Thr Al a Ar g
                   50                     55                      60
              Gl u Val Ser Ser Ar g As p I l e Gl u Gl u Leu Gl u Ly s Ser As n Ly s Val
              65                    70                       75                      80
<removed-apn>
              Ly s As n Thr As n Ly s Al a As p Leu I l e Al a Met Leu Ly s Al a Ly s Al a
                                 85                       90                     95
              Gl u Ly s Gl y Gl y Ser
                             100
              <210>   23
              <211>   87
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223> Des c r i pt i on of Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e: Sy nt het i c
                    pol y pept i de
              <400> 23
              Met Gl y Leu As n Ar g Phe Met Ar g Al a Met Met Val Val Phe I l e Thr
              1                 5                      10                  15
              Al a As n Cy s I l e Thr I l e As n Pr o As p I l e I l e Phe Al a Al a Thr As p
                             20                        25                        30
              Ser Gl u As p Ser Ser Leu As n Thr As p Gl u Tr p Gl u Gl u Gl u Ty r Gl u
                       35                    40                      45
              Thr Al a Ar g Gl u Val Ser Ser Ar g As p I l e Gl u Gl u Leu Gl u Ly s Ser
                  50                     55                       60
              As n Ly s Val Ly s As n Thr As n Ly s Al a As p Gl n As p As n Ly s Ar g Ly s
              65                      70                      75                       80
              Al a Ly s Al a Gl u Ly s Gl y Leu
                                  85
              <210>   24
              <211>   1490
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223> Des c r i pt i on of Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e: Sy nt het i c
                    pol y nuc l eot i de
              <400> 24
              ggt ac c ggga agc agt t ggg gt t aac t gat t aac aaat gt t agagaaaaa t t aat t c t c c   60
                                                               Page 10

                                                          ANZ9000PCT_SL. t x t
<removed-date>
              aagt gat at t c t t aaaat aa t t c at gaat a t t t t t t c t t a t at t agc t aa t t aagaagat          120
              aat t aac t gc t aat c c aat t t t t aac ggaa t aaat t agt g aaaat gaagg c c gaat t t t c              180
              c t t gt t c t aa aaaggt t gt a t t agc gt at c ac gaggaggg agt at aagt g ggat t aaat a                240
              gat t t at gc g t gc gat gat g gt agt t t t c a t t ac t gc c aa c t gc at t ac g at t aac c c c g     300
              ac at aat at t t gc agc gac a gat agc gaag at t c c agt c t aaac ac agat gaat gggaag                   360
              aagaat ac ga aac t gc ac gt gaagt aagt t c ac gt gat at t gaggaac t a gaaaaat c ga                     420
              at aaagt gaa aaat ac gaac aaagc agac c aagat aat aa ac gt aaagc a aaagc agaga                          480
<removed-apn>
              aaggt ggat c c gc aagc aaa gt at t gc c ag c t agt c gt gc at t agaggag aaaaagggga                     540
              at t ac gt ggt gac ggat c at ggat c gt gt g c c gat ggc t c agt aaagac t agt gc gagc a                 600
              aagt ggc c c c t gc at c ac ga gc ac t t gaag agaaaaaagg aaac t at gt t gt gac c gat c                 660
              at ggt agc t g c ggagat ggt t c aat t aaat t at c aaaagt c t t ac c agc a t c t agagc t t              720
              t agaggaaaa gaagggt aac t at gt c gt aa c agat c at gg aagt t gt gc t gac ggaagt g                     780
              t t aaagc gt c gaaagt agc t c c agc t t c t c gc gc at t aga agaaaagaaa ggc aat t at g                 840
              t t gt aac aga c c at ggt agt t gt ggt gat g gc t c gat c aa at t gt c aaaa gt t c t ac c gg           900
              c t t c t c gt gc gc t agaagag aagaaaggaa at t ac gt agt t ac agac c ac ggc t c t t gc g               960
              c ggat ggt t c c gt t aaac aa t t gat gc aag c t gaaggaag aggaac t ggg ggt agt ac ag                  1020
              gagat gc aga t ggc c c t ggc ggac c gggt a t t c c t gat gg ac c agggggt aat gc gggt g                1080
              ggc c aggc ga agc aggt gc t ac aggc ggt a gagggc c ac g aggggc agga gc agc gagag                      1140
              c t t c t ggac c aggt ggt ggc gc t c c ac gc g gt c c gc at gg t ggt gc agc g t c c ggc t t aa        1200
              ac ggt t gc t g t c gc t gt gga gc t agaggac c agaat c ac g t c t t t t agag t t c t at t t gg        1260
              c c at gc c gt t t gc t ac gc c t at ggaagc ag aac t agc ac g t c gt agc t t a gc gc aagat g          1320
              c ac c t c c at t ac c agt t c c a ggc gt gt t gt t aaaggagt t c ac ggt c agt ggt aac at at           1380
              t gac aat t c g c c t t ac t gc g gc t gac c ac c gt c aat t ac a gc t t agc at t t c at c t t gt t   1440
              t ac aac aac t t t c gt t ac t t at gt ggat c a c c c aat gc t a aggc ggc c gc                        1490
              <210>    25
              <211>    417
              <212>    PRT
              <213>    Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223> Des c r i pt i on of Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e: Sy nt het i c
                    pol y pept i de
              <400> 25
              Met Gl y Leu As n Ar g Phe Met Ar g Al a Met Met Val Val Phe I l e Thr
              1                 5                      10                  15
              Al a As n Cy s I l e Thr I l e As n Pr o As p I l e I l e Phe Al a Al a Thr As p
                             20                        25                        30
              Ser Gl u As p Ser Ser Leu As n Thr As p Gl u Tr p Gl u Gl u Gl u Ty r Gl u
                                                       Page 11

                                                      ANZ9000PCT_SL. t x t
<removed-date>
                        35                       40                       45
              Thr Al a Ar g Gl u Val Ser Ser Ar g As p I l e Gl u Gl u Leu Gl u Ly s Ser
                  50                     55                       60
              As n Ly s Val Ly s As n Thr As n Ly s Al a As p Gl n As p As n Ly s Ar g Ly s
              65                      70                      75                       80
              Al a Ly s Al a Gl u Ly s Gl y Gl y Ser Al a Ser Ly s Val Leu Pr o Al a Ser
                                  85                      90                    95
<removed-apn>
              Ar g Al a Leu Gl u Gl u Ly s Ly s Gl y As n Ty r Val Val Thr As p Hi s Gl y
                            100                      105                   110
              Ser Cy s Al a As p Gl y Ser Val Ly s Thr Ser Al a Ser Ly s Val Al a Pr o
                       115                    120                   125
              Al a Ser Ar g Al a Leu Gl u Gl u Ly s Ly s Gl y As n Ty r Val Val Thr As p
                   130                    135                      140
              Hi s Gl y Ser Cy s Gl y As p Gl y Ser I l e Ly s Leu Ser Ly s Val Leu Pr o
              145                     150                      155                  160
              Al a Ser Ar g Al a Leu Gl u Gl u Ly s Ly s Gl y As n Ty r Val Val Thr As p
                                 165                     170                    175
              Hi s Gl y Ser Cy s Al a As p Gl y Ser Val Ly s Al a Ser Ly s Val Al a Pr o
                            180                     185                    190
              Al a Ser Ar g Al a Leu Gl u Gl u Ly s Ly s Gl y As n Ty r Val Val Thr As p
                       195                     200                      205
              Hi s Gl y Ser Cy s Gl y As p Gl y Ser I l e Ly s Leu Ser Ly s Val Leu Pr o
                   210                     215                     220
              Al a Ser Ar g Al a Leu Gl u Gl u Ly s Ly s Gl y As n Ty r Val Val Thr As p
              225                    230                      235                   240
              Hi s Gl y Ser Cy s Al a As p Gl y Ser Val Ly s Gl n Leu Met Gl n Al a Gl u
                                 245                    250                    255
              Gl y Ar g Gl y Thr Gl y Gl y Ser Thr Gl y As p Al a As p Gl y Pr o Gl y Gl y
                             260                   265                      270
              Pr o Gl y I l e Pr o As p Gl y Pr o Gl y Gl y As n Al a Gl y Gl y Pr o Gl y Gl u
                        275                       280                      285
              Al a Gl y Al a Thr Gl y Gl y Ar g Gl y Pr o Ar g Gl y Al a Gl y Al a Al a Ar g
                   290                     295                      300
              Al a Ser Gl y Pr o Gl y Gl y Gl y Al a Pr o Ar g Gl y Pr o Hi s Gl y Gl y Al a
                                                           Page 12

                                                        ANZ9000PCT_SL. t x t
<removed-date>
              305                        310                    315                    320
              Al a Ser Gl y Leu As n Gl y Cy s Cy s Ar g Cy s Gl y Al a Ar g Gl y Pr o Gl u
                                325                      330                      335
              Ser Ar g Leu Leu Gl u Phe Ty r Leu Al a Met Pr o Phe Al a Thr Pr o Met
                           340                   345                    350
              Gl u Al a Gl u Leu Al a Ar g Ar g Ser Leu Al a Gl n As p Al a Pr o Pr o Leu
                        355                     360                    365
<removed-apn>
              Pr o Val Pr o Gl y Val Leu Leu Ly s Gl u Phe Thr Val Ser Gl y As n I l e
                   370                   375                   380
              Leu Thr I l e Ar g Leu Thr Al a Al a As p Hi s Ar g Gl n Leu Gl n Leu Ser
              385                    390                     395                    400
              I l e Ser Ser Cy s Leu Gl n Gl n Leu Ser Leu Leu Met Tr p I l e Thr Gl n
                                 405                   410                    415
              Cy s
              <210>   26
              <211>   9
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223> Des c r i pt i on of Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e: Sy nt het i c
                    pept i de
              <400> 26
              Al a Ar g Gl y Pr o Gl u Ser Ar g Leu Leu
              1                   5
              <210>   27
              <211>   20
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223> Des c r i pt i on of Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e: Sy nt het i c
                    pept i de
              <400> 27
              Ser I l e Ser Ser Met Al a Pr o Pr o Al a Ser Pr o Pr o Al a Ser Pr o Ly s
              1                 5                       10                     15
              Thr Pr o I l e Gl u
                             20
              <210>   28
              <211>   25
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
                                                               Page 13

                                                           ANZ9000PCT_SL. t x t
<removed-date>
              <220>
              <223> Des c r i pt i on of Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e: Sy nt het i c
                    pept i de
              <400> 28
              Ser I l e Ser Ser Met Al a Pr o Pr o Al a Ser Pr o Pr o Al a Ser Pr o Ly s
              1                 5                       10                     15
              Thr Pr o I l e Gl u Ly s Ly s Hi s Al a As p
                             20                       25
<removed-apn>
              <210>   29
              <211>   102
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Li s t er i a monoc y t ogenes
              <400> 29
              Val Gl y Leu As n Ar g Phe Met Ar g Al a Met Met Val Val Phe I l e Thr
              1                 5                      10                  15
              Al a As n Cy s I l e Thr I l e As n Pr o As p I l e I l e Phe Al a Al a Thr As p
                             20                        25                        30
              Ser Gl u As p Ser Ser Leu As n Thr As p Gl u Tr p Gl u Gl u Gl u Ly s Thr
                       35                    40                      45
              Gl u Gl u Gl n Pr o Ser Gl u Val As n Thr Gl y Pr o Ar g Ty r Gl u Thr Al a
                   50                      55                     60
              Ar g Gl u Val Ser Ser Ar g As p I l e Gl u Gl u Leu Gl u Ly s Ser As n Ly s
              65                    70                        75                     80
              Val Ly s As n Thr As n Ly s Al a As p Leu I l e Al a Met Leu Ly s Al a Ly s
                                85                      90                      95
              Al a Gl u Ly s Gl y Gl y Ser
                             100
              <210>   30
              <211>   89
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223> Des c r i pt i on of Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e: Sy nt het i c
                    pol y pept i de
              <400> 30
              Val Gl y Leu As n Ar g Phe Met Ar g Al a Met Met Val Val Phe I l e Thr
              1                 5                      10                  15
              Al a As n Cy s I l e Thr I l e As n Pr o As p I l e I l e Phe Al a Al a Thr As p
                             20                        25                        30
              Ser Gl u As p Ser Ser Leu As n Thr As p Gl u Tr p Gl u Gl u Gl u Ar g Ty r
                       35                    40                      45
                                                               Page 14

                                                        ANZ9000PCT_SL. t x t
<removed-date>
              Gl u Thr Al a Ar g Gl u Val Ser Ser Ar g As p I l e Gl u Gl u Leu Gl u Ly s
                   50                     55                      60
              Ser As n Ly s Val Ly s As n Thr As n Ly s Al a As p Leu I l e Al a Met Leu
              65                     70                      75                      80
              Ly s Al a Ly s Al a Gl u Ly s Gl y Gl y Ser
                                  85
<removed-apn>
              <210>   31
              <211>   88
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223> Des c r i pt i on of Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e: Sy nt het i c
                    pol y pept i de
              <400> 31
              Val Gl y Leu As n Ar g Phe Met Ar g Al a Met Met Val Val Phe I l e Thr
              1                 5                      10                  15
              Al a As n Cy s I l e Thr I l e As n Pr o As p I l e I l e Phe Al a Al a Thr As p
                             20                        25                        30
              Ser Gl u As p Ser Ser Leu As n Thr As p Gl u Tr p Gl u Gl u Gl u Ty r Gl u
                       35                    40                      45
              Thr Al a Ar g Gl u Val Ser Ser Ar g As p I l e Gl u Gl u Leu Gl u Ly s Ser
                  50                     55                       60
              As n Ly s Val Ly s As n Thr As n Ly s Al a As p Gl n As p As n Ly s Ar g Ly s
              65                      70                      75                       80
              Al a Ly s Al a Gl u Ly s Gl y Gl y Ser
                                  85
              <210>   32
              <211>   102
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223> Des c r i pt i on of Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e: Sy nt het i c
                    pol y pept i de
              <400> 32
              Val Gl y Leu As n Ar g Phe Met Ar g Al a Met Met Val Val Phe I l e Thr
              1                 5                      10                  15
              Al a As n Cy s I l e Thr I l e As n Pr o As p I l e I l e Phe Al a Al a Thr As p
                             20                        25                        30
              Ser Gl u As p Ser Ser Leu As n Thr As p Gl u Tr p Gl u Gl u Gl u Ly s Thr
                       35                    40                      45
                                                               Page 15

                                                        ANZ9000PCT_SL. t x t
<removed-date>
              Gl u Gl u Gl n Pr o Ser Gl u Val As n Thr Gl y Pr o Ar g Ty r Gl u Thr Al a
                   50                      55                     60
              Ar g Gl u Val Ser Ser Ar g As p I l e Gl u Gl u Leu Gl u Ly s Ser As n Ly s
              65                    70                        75                     80
              Val Ly s As n Thr As n Ly s Al a As p Gl n As p As n Ly s Ar g Ly s Al a Ly s
                                85                       90                       95
<removed-apn>
              Al a Gl u Ly s Gl y Gl y Ser
                             100
              <210>   33
              <211>   102
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223> Des c r i pt i on of Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e: Sy nt het i c
                    pol y pept i de
              <400> 33
              Val Gl y Leu As n Ar g Phe Met Ar g Al a Met Met Val Val Phe I l e Thr
              1                 5                      10                  15
              Al a As n Cy s I l e Thr I l e As n Pr o As p I l e I l e Phe Al a Al a Thr As p
                             20                        25                        30
              Ser Gl u As p Ser Ser Leu As n Thr As p Gl u Tr p Gl u Gl u Gl u Ly s Thr
                       35                    40                      45
              Gl u Gl u Gl n Pr o Ser Gl u Val As n Thr Gl y Pr o Ar g Ty r Gl u Thr Al a
                   50                      55                     60
              Ar g Gl u Val Ser Ser Ar g As p I l e Gl u Gl u Leu Gl u Ly s Ser As n Ly s
              65                    70                        75                     80
              Val Ly s As n Thr As n Ly s Al a As p Leu I l e Al a Met Leu Ly s Al a Ly s
                                85                      90                      95
              Al a Gl u Ly s Gl y Gl y Ser
                             100
              <210>   34
              <211>   89
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223> Des c r i pt i on of Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e: Sy nt het i c
                    pol y pept i de
              <400> 34
              Val Gl y Leu As n Ar g Phe Met Ar g Al a Met Met Val Val Phe I l e Thr
              1                 5                      10                  15
                                                               Page 16

                                                        ANZ9000PCT_SL. t x t
<removed-date>
              Al a As n Cy s I l e Thr I l e As n Pr o As p I l e I l e Phe Al a Al a Thr As p
                             20                        25                        30
              Ser Gl u As p Ser Ser Leu As n Thr As p Gl u Tr p Gl u Gl u Gl u Ar g Ty r
                       35                    40                      45
              Gl u Thr Al a Ar g Gl u Val Ser Ser Ar g As p I l e Gl u Gl u Leu Gl u Ly s
                   50                     55                      60
<removed-apn>
              Ser As n Ly s Val Ly s As n Thr As n Ly s Al a As p Leu I l e Al a Met Leu
              65                     70                      75                      80
              Ly s Al a Ly s Al a Gl u Ly s Gl y Gl y Ser
                                  85
              <210>   35
              <211>   88
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223> Des c r i pt i on of Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e: Sy nt het i c
                    pol y pept i de
              <400> 35
              Val Gl y Leu As n Ar g Phe Met Ar g Al a Met Met Val Val Phe I l e Thr
              1                 5                      10                  15
              Al a As n Cy s I l e Thr I l e As n Pr o As p I l e I l e Phe Al a Al a Thr As p
                             20                        25                        30
              Ser Gl u As p Ser Ser Leu As n Thr As p Gl u Tr p Gl u Gl u Gl u Ty r Gl u
                       35                    40                      45
              Thr Al a Ar g Gl u Val Ser Ser Ar g As p I l e Gl u Gl u Leu Gl u Ly s Ser
                  50                     55                       60
              As n Ly s Val Ly s As n Thr As n Ly s Al a As p Gl n As p As n Ly s Ar g Ly s
              65                      70                      75                       80
              Al a Ly s Al a Gl u Ly s Gl y Gl y Ser
                                  85
              <210>   36
              <211>   102
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223> Des c r i pt i on of Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e: Sy nt het i c
                    pol y pept i de
              <400> 36
              Val Gl y Leu As n Ar g Phe Met Ar g Al a Met Met Val Val Phe I l e Thr
              1                 5                      10                  15
                                                               Page 17

                                                        ANZ9000PCT_SL. t x t
<removed-date>
              Al a As n Cy s I l e Thr I l e As n Pr o As p I l e I l e Phe Al a Al a Thr As p
                             20                        25                        30
              Ser Gl u As p Ser Ser Leu As n Thr As p Gl u Tr p Gl u Gl u Gl u Ly s Thr
                       35                    40                      45
              Gl u Gl u Gl n Pr o Ser Gl u Val As n Thr Gl y Pr o Ar g Ty r Gl u Thr Al a
                   50                      55                     60
<removed-apn>
              Ar g Gl u Val Ser Ser Ar g As p I l e Gl u Gl u Leu Gl u Ly s Ser As n Ly s
              65                    70                        75                     80
              Val Ly s As n Thr As n Ly s Al a As p Gl n As p As n Ly s Ar g Ly s Al a Ly s
                                85                       90                       95
              Al a Gl u Ly s Gl y Gl y Ser
                             100
              <210>   37
              <211>   100
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Li s t er i a monoc y t ogenes
              <400> 37
              Met Ly s Ly s I l e Met Leu Val Phe I l e Thr Leu I l e Leu Val Ser Leu
              1                   5                     10                    15
              Pr o I l e Al a Gl n Gl n Thr Gl u Al a Ly s As p Al a Ser Al a Phe As n Ly s
                              20                      25                      30
              Gl u As n Ser I l e Ser Ser Met Al a Pr o Pr o Al a Ser Pr o Pr o Al a Ser
                        35                    40                      45
              Pr o Ly s Thr Pr o I l e Gl u Ly s Ly s Hi s Al a As p Gl u I l e As p Ly s Ty r
                   50                       55                       60
              I l e Gl n Gl y Leu As p Ty r As n Ly s As n As n Val Leu Val Ty r Hi s Gl y
              65                       70                       75                    80
              As p Al a Val Thr As n Val Pr o Pr o Ar g Ly s Gl y Ty r Ly s As p Gl y As n
                                85                      90                       95
              Gl u Ty r I l e Val
                              100
              <210>   38
              <211>   74
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223> Des c r i pt i on of Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e: Sy nt het i c
                    pol y pept i de
                                                               Page 18

                                                  ANZ9000PCT_SL. t x t
<removed-date>
              <400> 38
              Met Ly s Ly s I l e Met Leu Val Phe I l e Thr Leu I l e Leu Val Ser Leu
              1                   5                     10                    15
              Pr o I l e Al a Gl n Gl n Thr Gl u Al a Ly s As p Al a Ser Al a Phe As n Ly s
                              20                      25                      30
              Gl u Gl u I l e As p Ly s Ty r I l e Gl n Gl y Leu As p Ty r As n Ly s As n As n
                        35                         40                      45
<removed-apn>
              Val Leu Val Ty r Hi s Gl y As p Al a Val Thr As n Val Pr o Pr o Ar g Ly s
                  50                     55                     60
              Gl y Ty r Ly s As p Gl y As n Gl u Ty r I l e Val
              65                       70
              <210>   39
              <211>   81
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223> Des c r i pt i on of Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e: Sy nt het i c
                    pol y pept i de
              <400> 39
              Met Ly s Ly s I l e Met Leu Val Phe I l e Thr Leu I l e Leu Val Ser Leu
              1                   5                     10                    15
              Pr o I l e Al a Gl n Gl n Thr Gl u Al a Ly s As p Al a Ser Al a Phe As n Thr
                              20                      25                      30
              Pr o I l e Gl u Ly s Ly s Hi s Al a As p Gl u I l e As p Ly s Ty r I l e Gl n Gl y
                         35                       40                        45
              Leu As p Ty r As n Ly s As n As n Val Leu Val Ty r Hi s Gl y As p Al a Val
                  50                       55                    60
              Thr As n Val Pr o Pr o Ar g Ly s Gl y Ty r Ly s As p Gl y As n Gl u Ty r I l e
              65                     70                       75                       80
              Val
              <210>   40
              <211>   100
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223> Des c r i pt i on of Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e: Sy nt het i c
                    pol y pept i de
              <400> 40
              Met Ly s Ly s I l e Met Leu Val Phe I l e Thr Leu I l e Leu Val Ser Leu
              1                   5                     10                    15
                                                               Page 19

                                                        ANZ9000PCT_SL. t x t
<removed-date>
              Pr o I l e Al a Gl n Gl n Thr Gl u Al a Ly s As p Al a Ser Al a Phe As n Ly s
                              20                      25                      30
              Gl u As n Ser I l e Ser Ser Met Al a Pr o Pr o Al a Ser Pr o Pr o Al a Ser
                        35                    40                      45
              Pr o Ly s Thr Pr o I l e Gl u Ly s Ly s Hi s Al a As p Gl u I l e As p Ly s Ty r
                   50                       55                       60
<removed-apn>
              I l e Gl n Gl y Leu As p Ty r As n Ly s As n As n Val Leu Val Ty r Hi s Gl y
              65                       70                       75                    80
              As p Al a Val Thr As n Val Pr o Pr o Ar g Ly s Gl y Ty r Ly s As p Gl y As n
                                85                      90                       95
              Gl u Ty r I l e Val
                              100
              <210>   41
              <211>   100
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223> Des c r i pt i on of Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e: Sy nt het i c
                    pol y pept i de
              <400> 41
              Met Ly s Ly s I l e Met Leu Val Phe I l e Thr Leu I l e Leu Val Ser Leu
              1                   5                     10                    15
              Pr o I l e Al a Gl n Gl n Thr Gl u Al a Ly s As p Al a Ser Al a Phe As n Ly s
                              20                      25                      30
              Gl u As n Ser I l e Ser Ser Met Al a Pr o Pr o Al a Ser Pr o Pr o Al a Ser
                        35                    40                      45
              Pr o Ly s Thr Pr o I l e Gl u Ly s Ly s Hi s Al a As p Gl u I l e As p Ly s Ty r
                   50                       55                       60
              I l e Gl n Gl y Leu As p Ty r As n Ly s As n As n Val Leu Val Ty r Hi s Gl y
              65                       70                       75                    80
              As p Al a Val Thr As n Val Pr o Pr o Ar g Ly s Gl y Ty r Ly s As p Gl y As n
                                85                      90                       95
              Gl u Ty r I l e Val
                              100
              <210>   42
              <211>   74
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
                                                               Page 20

                                                           ANZ9000PCT_SL. t x t
<removed-date>
              <220>
              <223> Des c r i pt i on of Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e: Sy nt het i c
                    pol y pept i de
              <400> 42
              Met Ly s Ly s I l e Met Leu Val Phe I l e Thr Leu I l e Leu Val Ser Leu
              1                   5                     10                    15
              Pr o I l e Al a Gl n Gl n Thr Gl u Al a Ly s As p Al a Ser Al a Phe As n Ly s
                              20                      25                      30
<removed-apn>
              Gl u Gl u I l e As p Ly s Ty r I l e Gl n Gl y Leu As p Ty r As n Ly s As n As n
                        35                         40                      45
              Val Leu Val Ty r Hi s Gl y As p Al a Val Thr As n Val Pr o Pr o Ar g Ly s
                  50                     55                     60
              Gl y Ty r Ly s As p Gl y As n Gl u Ty r I l e Val
              65                       70
              <210>   43
              <211>   81
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223> Des c r i pt i on of Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e: Sy nt het i c
                    pol y pept i de
              <400> 43
              Met Ly s Ly s I l e Met Leu Val Phe I l e Thr Leu I l e Leu Val Ser Leu
              1                   5                     10                    15
              Pr o I l e Al a Gl n Gl n Thr Gl u Al a Ly s As p Al a Ser Al a Phe As n Thr
                              20                      25                      30
              Pr o I l e Gl u Ly s Ly s Hi s Al a As p Gl u I l e As p Ly s Ty r I l e Gl n Gl y
                         35                       40                        45
              Leu As p Ty r As n Ly s As n As n Val Leu Val Ty r Hi s Gl y As p Al a Val
                  50                       55                    60
              Thr As n Val Pr o Pr o Ar g Ly s Gl y Ty r Ly s As p Gl y As n Gl u Ty r I l e
              65                     70                       75                       80
              Val
              <210>   44
              <211>   100
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223> Des c r i pt i on of Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e: Sy nt het i c
                    pol y pept i de
                                                               Page 21

                                                  ANZ9000PCT_SL. t x t
<removed-date>
              <400> 44
              Met Ly s Ly s I l e Met Leu Val Phe I l e Thr Leu I l e Leu Val Ser Leu
              1                   5                     10                    15
              Pr o I l e Al a Gl n Gl n Thr Gl u Al a Ly s As p Al a Ser Al a Phe As n Ly s
                              20                      25                      30
              Gl u As n Ser I l e Ser Ser Met Al a Pr o Pr o Al a Ser Pr o Pr o Al a Ser
                        35                    40                      45
<removed-apn>
              Pr o Ly s Thr Pr o I l e Gl u Ly s Ly s Hi s Al a As p Gl u I l e As p Ly s Ty r
                   50                       55                       60
              I l e Gl n Gl y Leu As p Ty r As n Ly s As n As n Val Leu Val Ty r Hi s Gl y
              65                       70                       75                    80
              As p Al a Val Thr As n Val Pr o Pr o Ar g Ly s Gl y Ty r Ly s As p Gl y As n
                                85                      90                       95
              Gl u Ty r I l e Val
                              100
              <210>   45
              <211>   11
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223> Des c r i pt i on of Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e: Sy nt het i c
                    pept i de
              <400> 45
              Gl u Gl u Gl u Ly s Thr Gl u Gl u Gl n Pr o Ser Gl u
              1                   5                       10
              <210>   46
              <211>   11
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223> Des c r i pt i on of Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e: Sy nt het i c
                    pept i de
              <400> 46
              Al a Al a Al a Al a Thr Al a Al a Gl n Pr o Ser Al a
              1                   5                       10
              <210>   47
              <211>   33
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223> Des c r i pt i on of Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e: Sy nt het i c
                    pol y pept i de
              <400> 47
              Leu As n Thr As p Gl u Tr p Gl u Gl u Gl u Ly s Thr Gl u Gl u Gl n Pr o Ser
                                                          Page 22

                                                        ANZ9000PCT_SL. t x t
<removed-date>
              1                     5                       10                        15
              Gl u Val As n Thr Gl y Pr o Ar g Ty r Gl u Thr Al a Ar g Gl u Val Ser Ser
                            20                      25                      30
              Ar g
              <210>   48
              <211>   33
<removed-apn>
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223> Des c r i pt i on of Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e: Sy nt het i c
                    pol y pept i de
              <400> 48
              Leu As n Thr As p Gl u Tr p Al a Al a Al a Al a Thr Al a Al a Gl n Pr o Ser
              1                 5                        10                      15
              Al a Val As n Thr Gl y Pr o Ar g Ty r Gl u Thr Al a Ar g Gl u Val Ser Ser
                            20                      25                      30
              Ar g
              <210>   49
              <211>   19
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223> Des c r i pt i on of Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e: Sy nt het i c
                    pept i de
              <400> 49
              Leu As n Thr As p Gl u Tr p Gl u Gl u Gl u Ty r Gl u Thr Al a Ar g Gl u Val
              1                 5                        10                      15
              Ser Ser Ar g
              <210>   50
              <211>   33
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223> Des c r i pt i on of Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e: Sy nt het i c
                    pol y pept i de
              <400> 50
              Leu As n Thr As p Gl u Tr p Gl u Gl u Gl u Ly s Ar g Ly s Ar g Gl n Ar g Ly s
              1                 5                        10                       15
              Ar g Val As n Ar g Gl y Ly s Ar g Ty r Gl u Thr Al a Ar g Gl u Val Ser Ser
                            20                       25                      30
                                                               Page 23

                                                        ANZ9000PCT_SL. t x t
<removed-date>
              Ar g
              <210>   51
              <211>   33
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223> Des c r i pt i on of Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e: Sy nt het i c
                    pol y pept i de
<removed-apn>
              <400> 51
              Leu As n Thr As p Gl u Tr p Gl u Gl u Gl u Ly s Ly s Ar g Ly s Gl n Ly s Ar g
              1                 5                        10                       15
              Ly s Val As n Ly s Gl y Ar g Ar g Ty r Gl u Thr Al a Ar g Gl u Val Ser Ser
                            20                       25                      30
              Ar g
                                                               Page 24

