                                        ABSTRACT
         A molecular separation device includes a chamber having an inlet and an outlet
through which flows an aqueous suspension and a porous separation membrane positioned
in the chamber substantially orthogonally to the flow of the aqueous suspension. An
electrical charging device connects to the separation membrane to apply a periodic electric
charge so as to collect components blocked by the porous separation membrane. Related
methods are also disclosed.

                         MOLECULAR SEPARATION DEVICE
                  CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
        The present application is a divisional application of Australian Application No.
2013235234, which is the Australian national phase application of PCT/US2013/033035
and is incorporated in its entirety herein by reference.
        This application claims priority of United States Provisional Application Serial No.
61/613,578 filed March 21, 2012, which is incorporated herein by reference.
                                     TECHNICAL FIELD
        This invention uses a perforated and selectively charged membrane to isolate
charged species.    In particular, the present invention utilizes the charged membrane to
isolate biologically active proteins from solution by means of molecular weight, size and
molecule resonant mode dynamics.           Specifically, the invention utilizes the charged
membrane to isolate compounds such as ions, polymer slurries and biologically active
proteins that are currently very difficult to remove from solution in effective percentage
yield, and require extensive energy usage.
                                    BACKGROUND ART
        Isolation and recovery of biologically active proteins is currently very difficult.
Current solutions rely on energy intensive methods such as evaporative/diffusive,
electrophoresis and porous tube adhesion. These methods are utilized to remove undesired
ions or compounds from solutions. One example of such a method is reverse osmosis. In
some instances, no methodologies exist to remove the undesired ion or compound.
        Current systems for recovering biologically active protein for treatment of
autoimmune deficiencies, AIDS, Hemophilia Lupus and the like are inadequate due to low
yield, the requirements for labor-intensive operations, and costs.       Specific examples of
these 20-50 nm length - 50,000 Dalton proteins are interferon, insulin, and clotting factor
VIII. Current methods such as porous tube adhesion use ultra-filtration to isolate and then
manually harvest the proteins.      Unfortunately, tube thickness impedes flow of solvent
plasmas and disrupts the protein's integrity resulting in low yield of the process.
        Most biologically active proteins are ionically charged at their extremities.     The
                                                1

proteins are moderately soluble in water and remain polar in that condition. Many disease
treating proteins are harvested from living tissue or in bulk in Vitro solutions.       These
include low animal plasma slurries including, but not limited to interferon (human and
selected hominid), insulin (bovine and synthetic hominid), and cascade clotting factor VIII
for hemophilia. Current methods rely on capillary action to "stall" the desired protein at a
specific location and invoke subsequent action (such as rinsing and/or diffusion), to
gradually recover the isolated protein of interest. The resulting protein removal frequently
traumatizes and de-natures the protein. Rinsing must "rip" the protein from the many
thousand nanometer deep porosity surface on which it is held.         Typical permeates (the
output of the harvester) must be further centrifuged to deliver pharmaceutical grade
reagents. Current sequestration membranes and porous tubes are believed to be quite thick
and therefore their thickness ratio is less flow efficient.
        Therefore, there is a need in the art for sequestration membranes, which are much
thinner but still allow for efficient collection of proteins. Moreover, there is a need in the
art for a device that separates proteins without damaging the protein during the collection
and removal process.
                             SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
        In light of the foregoing, it is a first aspect of the present invention to provide a
molecular separation device.
        It is another aspect of the present invention to provide a first embodiment of a
molecular separation device, comprising a chamber having an inlet and an outlet through
which flows an aqueous suspension, a porous separation membrane positioned in the
chamber substantially orthogonally to the flow of the aqueous suspension, and an electrical
charging device connected to the separation membrane to apply a periodic electric charge
so as to collect components blocked by the porous separation membrane.
        It is another aspect of the present invention for the above embodiment to provide a
pump to control the flow of the aqueous suspension through the chamber.
        It is yet another aspect of the present invention for the above embodiment to
provide a controller connected to the pump and the charging device, wherein the controller
synchronizes flow of the aqueous suspension through the chamber and application of the
periodic electric charge to the porous separation membrane.
                                                2

        It is still another aspect of the present invention for the above embodiment to
provide at least one collection well disposed on an outer periphery of the porous separation
membrane to collect components blocked by the porous separation membrane.
        It is a further aspect of the present invention for the above embodiment to provide a
conduit associated with each collection well to transfer collected components to a retention
vessel.
        It is an aspect of the first embodiment of the present invention to provide the
porous separation membrane is perforated graphene.
        It is another aspect of the first embodiment of the present invention to provide the
periodic electrical charge effecting migration of desired molecules so that it is tuned to
asymmetric normal modes of the desired components thereby causing their rectilinear
motion toward the separation membrane's outer periphery for sequestration.
        It is still another aspect of the first embodiment of the present invention to provide
the periodic charge effecting migration of desired molecules by controlling a standing
wave emanating from the membrane's inner diameter to the membrane's outer diameter,
and thereby causing their rectilinear motion toward the separation membrane's outer
periphery for sequestration.
        It is another aspect of the present invention to provide a method for separating
molecular components from an aqueous solution, comprising positioning a porous
separation membrane in a chamber, flowing an aqueous solution on to the separation
membrane, and applying an electrical charge to the separation membrane to migrate
components of the aqueous solution blocked by the separation membrane to an outer
periphery thereof.
        It is still another aspect of the present invention for the above embodiment to
provide for controlling the flow of the aqueous solution with a pump, and controlling
application of the electrical charge with a charging device.
        It is yet another aspect of the present invention for the above embodiment to
provide for controlling the flow and application of electrical charge simultaneously to
move the blocked components of aqueous solution, or to provide for applying the electrical
charge periodically in a tuned asymmetric normal mode of the blocked components
thereby causing their rectilinear motion toward the separation membrane's outer periphery,
or to provide for applying the electrical charge periodically to effect migration of the
blocked components in a standing wave emanating from the membrane's inner diameter to
                                                 3

the membrane's outer diameter, thereby causing rectilinear motion of the blocked
components toward the membrane's outer periphery for sequestration.
        In the alternative, the above embodiment could provide for collecting the migrated
components in at least one collection well disposed on the separation membrane's outer
periphery, or provide for utilizing perforated graphene as the porous separation membrane.
        In a further embodiment of the present invention, there is a system comprising: (i) a
separation membrane comprising perforated graphene; and (ii) an aqueous suspension in
contact with the separation membrane, the aqueous suspension comprising biological
components, wherein: the perforated graphene comprises apertures with a size that allows
passage of some biological components in the aqueous suspension while blocking passage
of other biological components in the aqueous suspension, and the apertures allow passage
of insulin across the membrane while blocking other biological components
                         BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
        These and other features and advantages of the present invention will become better
understood with regard to the following description, appended claims, and accompanying
drawings wherein:
        Fig. 1 is a schematic drawing of a molecular separation device according to the
concepts of the present invention;
        Fig. 2 is a schematic drawing of a chamber maintaining a separation membrane
according to the concepts of the present invention;
        Fig. 3 is schematic representation of a protein collected by the separation
membrane according to the concepts of the present invention; and
        Fig. 4 illustrates the "walking" or charged migration of the protein during operation
of the device according to the concepts of the present invention.
                  BEST MODE FOR CARRYING OUT THE INVENTION
        Referring now to Fig. 1, it can be seen that a molecular separation device according
to the concepts of the present invention is designated generally by the numeral 10. The
device 10 includes a chamber 12 which at one end has an inlet 14 for receiving an aqueous
suspension which contains the material or component which is to be removed. In the
present embodiment, proteins are to be separated from the suspension. The chamber 12
also provides for an outlet 16, opposite the inlet, in which the secondary products or the
"unfiltered" products are exhausted or drained from the chamber.
                                               4

         A separation membrane 18 is held by the chamber 12 so as to be orthogonal to the
flow of the aqueous suspension. In the present embodiment, the separation membrane is a
porous material such as a carbon membrane.            In yet another embodiment, a graphene
membrane is used, and in other embodiments multiple layers of graphene material may be
used.
         In the present embodiment, the separation membrane 18 is a graphene membrane as
described in U.S. Patent No. 8,361,321, which is incorporated herein by reference. The
graphene membrane is a single-atomic-layer-thick layer of carbon atoms, bound together to
define a sheet. The thickness of a single graphene membrane, which may be referred to as a
layer or a sheet, is approximately 0.2 to 0.3 nanometers (nm).             In some embodiments,
multiple graphene layers can be formed, having greater thickness and correspondingly
greater strength.    Multiple graphene sheets can be provided in multiple layers as the
membrane is grown or formed, and is commonly known as few layer graphene.                        Or
multiple graphene sheets can be achieved by layering or positioning one graphene layer on
top of another. For all the embodiments disclosed herein, a single layer of graphene or
multiple graphene layers may be used. Testing reveals that multiple layers of graphene
maintain their integrity and function, possibly as a result of self-adhesion. This improves
the strength of the membrane and in some cases flow performance.                   The perforated
graphene high-flux       throughput   material provides significantly         improved   filtration
properties, as opposed to polyamide or other polymeric material filtration materials. The
carbon atoms of the graphene layer define a repeating pattern of hexagonal ring structures
(benzene rings) constructed of six carbon atoms, which form a honeycomb lattice of carbon
atoms. An interstitial aperture is formed by each six carbon atom ring structure in the
sheet and this interstitial aperture is less than one nanometer across.            Indeed, skilled
artisans will appreciate that the interstitial aperture is believed to be about 0.23 nanometers
across at its longest dimension.      Accordingly, the dimension and configuration of the
interstitial aperture and the electron nature of the graphene precludes transport of any
molecule across the graphene's thickness unless there are perforations. This dimension is
much too small to allow the passage of either water or ions.
         In order to form the perforated graphene membrane, one or more perforations are
made. A representative generally or nominally round aperture or perforation 19 is defined
through the graphene membrane 18.           The generally round shape of the aperture 19 is
affected by the fact that the edges of the aperture are defined, in part, by the hexagonal carbon
ring structure of the graphene membrane 18. Aperture sizes may be selected depending
                                                 5

upon the constituents of the received aqueous suspension and the constituents or
components of the suspension that is desired to be blocked or filtered. Accordingly, the
apertures 19 may range in size from 0.5 nm to 1.2 nm in some embodiments, or from 1.0 to
 10 nm in other embodiments. And in other embodiments, the size of the apertures may
range from 10 nm to 100 nm. Some apertures may be about 20 nm in some embodiments
and about 50 nm in diameter in other embodiments.
        Apertures in the graphene membrane may be made by selective oxidation, by which is
meant exposure to an oxidizing agent for a selected period of time. It is believed that the
aperture 312 can also be laser-drilled.     As described in the publication Nano Lett. 2008,
Vol.8, no.7, pg 1965-1970, the most straightforward perforation strategy is to treat the
graphene film with dilute oxygen in argon at elevated temperature. As described therein,
through apertures or holes in the 20 to 180 nm range were etched in graphene using 350
mTorr of oxygen in 1 atmosphere (atm) argon at 500'C for 2 hours. The paper reasonably
suggests that the number of holes is related to defects in the graphene sheet and the size of the
holes is related to the residence time. This is believed to be the preferred method for making
the desired perforations in graphene structures.           The structures may be graphene
nanoplatelets and graphene nanoribbons.          Thus, apertures in the desired range can be
formed by shorter oxidation times. Another more involved method as described in Kim et
al. "Fabrication and Characterizationof Large Area, Semiconducting Nanoperforated
Graphene Materials," Nano Letters 2010 Vol. 10, No. 4, March 1, 2010, pp 1125-1131
utilizes a self assembling polymer that creates a mask suitable for patterning using reactive
ion etching. A P(S-blockMMA) block copolymer forms an array of PMMA columns that
form vias for the RIE upon redeveloping. The pattern of holes is very dense. The number
and size of holes is controlled by the molecular weight of the PMMA block and the weight
fraction of the PMMA in the P(S-MMA).              Either method has the potential to produce
perforated graphene sheets. Other methods of forming the apertures may be employed. In
the embodiments disclosed herein, it will be appreciated that the apertures are sized to
block selected components of the suspension and allow passage of other components.
Moreover, the edges of the apertures may be modified to assist in blocking or passing of
selected components.
        A charging device, designated generally by the numeral 20, is connected to the
separation membrane 18 so as to selectively apply an electrical charge to the material as
the aqueous suspension is flowing through the material.         Details of this process will be
described as the description proceeds.
                                                 6

        A pump 24 may be coupled to the inlet 14 so as to control the flow of the aqueous
suspension through the chamber 12.
        The charging device 20 includes a controller designated generally by the numeral
28. Skilled artisans will appreciate that the controller 28 includes the necessary hardware,
software, memory, and functionalities to control operation of the pump 24 and the
separation membrane 18 so as to operate the device in a manner to be described.
Connected to the controller 28 is an input/output device 30 such as a keyboard so as to
allow for a technician to operate the device 10.      This may be done by controlling the
operation of the pump so as to control the amount of suspension flowing through the
chamber and/or the operation of the charging device so as to control the amount of
electrical voltage and/or current applied to the separation membrane 18.       Generally, the
controller 28 sends an appropriate control signal through a digital/analog converter 32,
which generates a charge gradient that is applied to a driving circuit 34.       The driving
circuit 34 generates signals that are delivered along driving leads 36A and 36B to locations
on the separation membrane 18.         A ground connection 40 is provided to connect the
separation membrane to ground while a return lead 42 is also connected to the separation
membrane so as to provide a way of monitoring the status of the separation membrane
during operation.     In particular, the return lead 42 is connected to an analog/digital
converter 44 which delivers a digital signal back to the controller 28 for observation by a
technician.
        As best seen in Fig. 2, the chamber 12 orthogonally maintains the separation
membrane 18 so as to be fully exposed to the suspension flowing through the chamber.
Skilled artisans will appreciate that the membrane 18 is carried or supported by appropriate
ledges, ridges or any other support structure maintained within the chamber 12.            A
polymeric supporting layer with openings much larger than apertures 19 may also be
positioned underneath the membrane.        Positioned about the outer circumference of the
separation membrane are micro-capture wells 50 which allow for collection of the proteins
that are blocked or collected by the separation membrane. These wells 50 are coupled to
capture conduits 52 which deliver the desired protein material to a collection vessel 54.
The remaining uncaptured material exits the outlet 16.
        In operation, the separation membrane is a sterile, hydrophobic, selectively
perforated and charge bearing material. The size of the perforations or apertures 19 are
selected in accordance with the best known practice for size exclusion i.e. passing, of
unwanted material together with desired sequestration (capture) of the desired class of
                                               7

target proteins.   Skilled artisans will appreciate that the aqueous suspension is crudely
centrifuged or pre-filtered to remove the largest and ineffective protein sequastra i.e. the
undesired and potentially membrane clogging mixture or components.                     As noted
previously, the separation membrane is positioned orthogonally to the bulk mix flow of the
aqueous suspension. In some embodiments, the suspension could be a solvated plasma
that includes the desired protein of interest. Accordingly, the suspension flows past the
separation member and permits transport of unwanted smaller auxiliary proteins together
with a class of target proteins for harvest. This will result in a distribution of both target
and unwanted proteins against the separation membrane by convective pressure force. In
some embodiments, the suspension may be directed tangentially along the surface of the
membrane 18. Those components in the suspension smaller than the apertures 19 flow
through the membrane and are processed accordingly.
         The present invention utilizes the electro-mechanically           excited response of
biologically active proteins that are commonly used for static constant potential (voltage)
electrophoresis separation methods.      In the present embodiment, the driving circuit 34
excites the separation membrane 18 and generates a periodic electrical charge over time to
gradually migrate specific individual proteins of interest -- identified as protein 60 -- that
are held by the separation membrane to the outer circumference of the membrane as
schematically represented in Fig. 3. Indeed, application of a selected charge to the leads
36A,B at selective times allows for generation of the "walking" movements of the proteins.
For example, charges may intermittently be applied to each lead so as to initiate the
walking action of the protein. Accordingly, by using specific charge versus time excitation
of the anti-symmetric protein mode together with synchronized convective flow pressure
generated by the pump 24, which allows for normal force capturing of the charge protein at
each temporal step, the selected proteins of interest are driven to the external
circumference of separation membrane. In other words, application of a charge causes one
end of the protein to extend outwardly toward the periphery of the membrane. Removal of
the charge causes the end of the protein that did not move during the application of the
charge to migrate toward the end of the protein that did move. Application of a periodic
charge is believed to be suitable for proteins that are of a tubular or string-like shape.
         In another aspect of the present embodiment, the aforementioned charges
themselves may be generated in a standing wave pattern by the driving circuit 34 whose
net outward motion may be caused by appropriate control of the charge phasing. As a
result, the protein 16 effectively rides the wave as it moves outwardly to the periphery of
                                                8

the membrane 18. Application of a standing wave is believed to be suitable for proteins
that are of a spherical or globular shape. Once the proteins are driven to the circumference,
they flow into the U-shaped capture well 50 as they are driven by weak gravitation and
Van der Waals forces so as to capture and concentrate the selected protein.
         The controller 28 together with the driving circuit 34 provides for effectively
producing the desired charge in space and time needed to migrate these specific proteins
across the separation membrane to the capture wells 50. The material then migrates from
the wells through the conduits into the appropriate retention vessel 54. In other words,
periodic electrical charge effecting migration of desired molecules or proteins 60 is tuned
to asymmetric normal modes of the desired components, thereby causing their rectilinear
motion toward the separation membrane's outer periphery for sequestration. Or, in the
alternative, the periodic charge effecting migration of desired molecules or proteins 60 is
controlled by a standing wave emanating from the membrane's inner diameter to the
membrane's outer diameter, and thereby causing their rectilinear motion toward the
separation membrane's periphery for sequestration.
        In some embodiments the separation membrane is a monatomic carbon graphene
membrane with a selected hole diameter and spacing.           By application of subsequent
temporal electrical charges to the membrane, very specific and selective forcing of the
desired harvested molecules and/or proteins take place along the separation membrane
surface so that they migrate to an awaiting capture basin at the outer circumference. As
schematically represented in Fig. 4, one end of the protein 60, which is larger than the
aperture 19, extends toward the outer periphery of the membrane. The protein is moved by
the alternating charge generating a second harmonic mode that causes a temporary physical
change in the protein's shape. Eventually, the other end of the protein detaches with little
or no damage from the surface of the membrane and moves toward the first end of the
protein.   This process repeats until the protein is captured in the well 50.         This is
represented in Fig. 4 by the time sequence A through E, where A represents the initial
application of charge and E represents the last removal of charge as the protein reaches the
membrane's outer periphery.
        By controlling the hole diameter and the charge versus time profile, the device 10
obtains an accurate selectivity, purity and throughput not obtainable by prior art devices.
Applications of this device include but are not limited to pharamacologic, hydrocarbon
slurry refining and biomedical. Pharamacological applications allow for retrieval of high
value proteins from large amounts of water. The hydrocarbon slurry refining allows for
                                              9

stage filters based on hydrocarbon chain size in a micro-refinery fashion instead of
heat/energy intensive distillation processes. The biomedical process allows for use of the
device 10 in dialysis filters so as to filter impurities from the bloodstream.
        By reducing material thicknesses to one atom such as in a graphene separation
membrane, flow resistance and surface friction are significantly decreased compared to
current art membranes thereby lowering the required pump pressure and energy.             This
attribute, together with the membrane's unique large conductivity to support a time
dependent charge permits a high efficiency, selective, active retention/harvest membrane
system.      Additionally, with the combination of lower surface friction and high
conductivity, larger unwanted compounds can be quickly removed from the graphene
membrane material significantly reducing fouling of the filtration component.
         Skilled artisans will appreciated that the disclosed device provides for creating a
biological material filtration and isolation membrane that allows for unique, predictable
and efficient migration of selected and specified biologically active proteins into
sequestration upon demand.          The device is also capable of controlling the precise
molecular and electro-active nature of the required target molecules. It is further believed
that the disclosed device can operate at significantly improved rates and quantity efficiency
compared to current devices.
         Thus, it can be seen that the objects of the invention have been satisfied by the
structure and its method for use presented above. While in accordance with the Patent
Statutes, only the best mode and preferred embodiment has been presented and described
in detail, it is to be understood that the invention is not limited thereto or thereby.
Accordingly, for an appreciation of the true scope and breadth of the invention, reference
should be made to the following claims.
                                                 10

                                      CLAIMS
1.  A system comprising:
    (i)     a separation membrane comprising perforated graphene; and
    (ii)    an aqueous suspension in contact with the separation membrane, the
            aqueous suspension comprising biological components,
    wherein:
            the perforated graphene comprises apertures with a size that
                    allows passage of some biological components in the
                    aqueous suspension while blocking passage of other
                    biological components in the aqueous suspension,
                    and
            the apertures allow passage of insulin across the membrane
                    while blocking other biological components.
2.  The system of claim 1, wherein the apertures have a size of from 5 nm to 100 nm.
3.  The system of claim 1, wherein the apertures have a size of from 10 nm to 100 nm.
4.  The system of claim 1, wherein the apertures have a size of from 10 nm to 50 nm.
5.  The system of claim 1, wherein the membrane comprises one or more layers of
    perforated graphene.
6.  The system of claim 1, wherein the aqueous suspension is a bloodstream.
7.  A biomedical device comprising the separation membrane of claim 1.
8.  The biomedical device of claim 7, wherein the device further comprises a chamber,
    wherein the chamber is positioned to allow flow of the aqueous suspension into the
    chamber through the apertures in the separation membrane.
9.  The biomedical device of claim 7, further comprising a means of controlling flow
    of the aqueous suspension into the chamber.
10.  The biomedical device of claim 9, further comprising a pump adapted to control
    flow of the aqueous suspension into the chamber.
                                          11

11. A system comprising:
    (i) a separation membrane comprising perforated graphene; and
    (ii) an aqueous suspension configured to flow on to the separation
            membrane, the aqueous suspension comprising biological
            components,
    wherein:
    the perforated graphene comprises apertures with a size that allows
            passage of some biological components in the aqueous
            suspension while blocking passage of other biological
            components in the aqueous suspension, and
     the apertures allow passage of at least one protein across the membrane while
            blocking other biological components.
12. The system of claim 11, wherein the apertures have a size of from 5 nm to 100 nm.
13. The system of claim 11, wherein the apertures have a size of from 10 nm to 100
    nm.
14. The system of claim 11, wherein the apertures have a size of from about 10 nm to
    about 50 nm.
15. The system of claim 11, wherein the membrane comprises one or more layers of
    perforated graphene.
16. The system of claim 11, wherein the at least one protein comprises a biologically
    active protein.
17. The system of claim 11, wherein the aqueous suspension is a bloodstream.
18. A biomedical device comprising the separation membrane of claim 11.
19. The biomedical device of claim 18, wherein the device further comprises a
    chamber, wherein the chamber is positioned to allow flow of the aqueous
    suspension into the chamber through the apertures in the separation membrane.
20. The biomedical device of claim 19, further comprising a means of controlling flow
    of the aqueous suspension into the chamber.
                                          12

21. The biomedical device of claim 19, further comprising a pump adapted to control
    flow of the aqueous suspension into the chamber.
                                         13

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
