                                           ABSTRACT
         A device, including one or more processors that obtain a first code set and a second
code set, the first code set having at least one difference from the second code set, the at
least one difference relating to addition, removal, or modification of code of the first code set
in comparison to code of the second code set, and the first code set and the second code
set relating to input data from a source file and output data formed therefrom, identify two or
more first portions of the first code set each corresponding to one or more of extracting the
input data from the source file, transforming the input data to form the output data, or storing
the output data in a target file, and two or more second portions of the second code set each
corresponding to one or more of extracting the input data from the source file, transforming
the input data to form the output data, or storing the output data in a target file, each first
portion, of the two or more first portions, to be compared to a corresponding second portion
of the two or more second portions, concurrently compare each of two or more first portions
and each of two or more corresponding second portions to identify the at least one difference,
based on one or more of performing parallel processing with regard to comparing each of
the two or more first portions and each of the two or more corresponding second portions,
or concatenating each first portion, of the two or more first portions, to form the first code set,
and each second portion, of the plurality of second portions, to form the second code set,
generate comparison information identifying the at least one difference, and store or provide
the comparison information.

100                                  1/9
                    102                                       110
                    TT
               Code Version 1                            Code Version 2
    Source definition (Program1)              Source definition (Program1)
      Column name: SCoIA             104        Column name: SCoIA           -112
     Column datatype: Decimal                   Column datatype: Decimal
      Column precision: 3
    Target definition (Program1)              Target definition (Program1)
      Target d e      (Poga )                   Column name: TColA1
      Column name: TCoiA          -106          Column datatype: Decimal     -114
      Column datatype: Decimal                  Column nullable?: Yes
     Column nullable?: No
                                              Workflow (Program1)
    Workflow (Program 1)                        Transformation A
     Transformation A                           Transformation 2
     Transformation B                           Transformation C
     Transformation C              ~108         Transformation D                116
    Source definition (Program2)              Source definition (Program2)
                                   Program             Program2        -118
                                 Code Version 1     Code Version 1
                                 Code Version 2     Code Version 2
                   Client
                   Device
                                                                            Server
                                 FIG. 1A                                    Device

                                                1
              PROGRAM CODE COMPARISON AND REPORTING
CROSS REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATION
[0001]    This application is a Divisional Application of Australian Patent Application Number
<removed-apn> filed 16 January 2017, the content of which is also incorporated by reference
herein.
BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
[0002]    Software may be developed in multiple environments or lifecycle stages (e.g., a
development environment, a testing environment, a user acceptance environment, etc.). A
software developer may make changes (e.g., additions, deletions, and/or modifications to
code) at each stage of the software development lifecycle.          For example, the software
developer may modify the software based on feedback from a client, based on changing
requirements for the software, or the like.

                                                  2
SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
[0003]      In one aspect, the present invention provides a device, including one or more
processors that obtain a first code set and a second code set, the first code set having at
least one difference from the second code set, the at least one difference relating to addition,
removal, or modification of code of the first code set in comparison to code of the second
code set, and the first code set and the second code set relating to input data from a source
file and output data formed therefrom, identify two or more first portions of the first code set
each corresponding to one or more of extracting the input data from the source file,
transforming the input data to form the output data, or storing the output data in a target file,
and two or more second portions of the second code set, each corresponding to one or more
of extracting the input data from the source file, transforming the input data to form the output
data, or storing the output data in a target file, each first portion, of the two or more first
portions, to be compared to a corresponding second portion of the two or more second
portions, concurrently compare each of two or more first portions and each of two or more
corresponding second portions to identify the at least one difference, based on one or more
of performing parallel processing with regard to comparing each of the two or more first
portions and each of the two or more corresponding second portions, or concatenating each
first portion, of the two or more first portions, to form the first code set, and each second
portion, of the plurality of second portions, to form the second code set, generate comparison
information identifying the at least one difference, and store or provide the comparison
information.
[0004]      In another aspect, the present invention provides a non-transitory computer
readable medium storing instructions, the instructions including one or more instructions that,
when executed by one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to receive a
first code set and a second code set relating to input data from a source file and output data
formed therefrom, the first code set including one or more differences in comparison with the
second code set, the one or more differences relating to addition, removal, or modification
of code of the first code set in comparison to code of the second code set, identify two or
more first portions included in the first code set each corresponding to one or more of
extracting the input data from the source file, transforming the input data to form the output

                                                 3
data, or storing the output data in a target file, and two or more second portions included in
the second code set each corresponding to one or more of extracting the input data from the
source file, transforming the input data to form the output data, or storing the output data in
a target file, each first portion, of the two or more first portions, to be compared with a
corresponding second portion of the two or more second portions, concurrently compare
each of two or more first portions and each of two or more second portions to identify the
one or more differences, based on one or more of performing parallel processing with regard
to comparing each of the two or more first portions and each of the two or more
corresponding second portions, or concatenating each first portion, of the two or more first
portions, to form the first code set, and each second portion, of the plurality of second
portions, to form the second code set, generate comparison information identifying the one
or more differences, and store or provide the comparison information.
[0005]      In yet another aspect, the present invention provides a method, including
obtaining, by a device, a first code set and a second code set, the first code set including
one or more differences in comparison with the second code set, and the first code set and
the second code set relating to input data from a source file and output data formed
therefrom, identifying, by the device, two or more first portions included in the first code set
each corresponding to one or more of extracting the input data from the source file,
transforming the input data to form the output data, or storing the output data in a target file,
and two or more second portions included in the second code set each corresponding to one
or more of extracting the input data from the source file, transforming the input data to form
the output data or storing the output data in a target file, each first portion, of the two or more
first portions, to be compared with a corresponding second portion of the two or more second
portions, concurrently comparing, by the device, each of two or more first portions and each
of two or more second portions, based on one or more of performing parallel processing with
regard to comparing each of the two or more first portions and each of the two or more
corresponding second portions, or concatenating each first portion, of the two or more first
portions, to form the first code set, and each second portion, of the plurality of second
portions, to form the second code set identifying, by the device, the one or more differences
based on the concurrent comparing of the two or more first portions and the two or more

                                              4
second portions, generating, by the device, comparison information identifying the one or
more differences, and storing or providing, by the device, the comparison information.

                                               5
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0006]    Figs. 1A-1C are diagrams of an overview of an example implementation described
herein;
[0007]    Fig. 2 is a diagram of an example environment in which systems and/or methods,
described herein, may be implemented;
[0008]    Fig. 3 is a diagram of example components of one or more devices of Fig. 2;
[0009]    Fig. 4 is a flow chart of an example process for generating comparison information
based on comparing a first code set and a second code set; and
[0010]    Figs. 5A-5C are diagrams of an example implementation relating to the example
process shown in Fig. 4.

                                                   6
DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE EMBODIMENT(S) OF THE INVENTION
[0011]      The following detailed description of example implementations refers to the
accompanying drawings. The same reference numbers in different drawings may identify
the same or similar elements.
[0012]      A user (e.g., a computer programmer, a software developer, or the like) may
generate or develop program code based on a set of requirements. During development,
the user may modify the program code to better fit the set of requirements, or to fit a different
(e.g., changing) set of requirements. As one example, the program code may relate to data
management (e.g., data transformation, data processing, data analysis, etc.) using a
platform such as Informatica PowerCenter@. As another example, the program code may
relate to an Extract, Transform, and Load (ETL) process for extracting input data from a
source object (e.g., a source file, a source directory, a source data structure, etc.), performing
actions or transformations on the input data to form output data, and loading the output data
to a target object (e.g., a target file, a target directory, a target data structure, etc.). When
the set of requirements for the program code changes, the user may need to update multiple,
different portions of the program code, and/or may need to update other program code, to fit
the updated requirements. Also, the user may need to generate or provide documentation
of changes to the program code (e.g., to a client, an end-user, or the like).
[0013]      Implementations described herein may compare two sets of program code and
identify a difference (e.g., an addition, a deletion, and/or a modification of code) between the
two sets of program code. In some implementations, implementations described herein may
identify corresponding portions of program code in the code sets (e.g., source definition
portions, transformation portions, target definition portions, etc.), and may compare the
corresponding portions. Additionally, or alternatively, multiple portions of two sets of program
code may be received as input, and the multiple portions may be concurrently compared.
Additionally, or alternatively, multiple pairs of code sets may be received (e.g., corresponding
to multiple, different programs), and each of the multiple pairs may be compared (e.g., a first
code set and a second code set of a first pair may be compared, a first code set and a second
code set of a second pair may be compared, and so on).

                                               7
[0014]     Additionally, or alternatively, comparison information (e.g., a code comparison
report) may be prepared to identify the differences and/or information relating to the
differences. In some implementations, the comparison information may be used to perform
an action (e.g., inserting code comments in code to identify the differences, adding, moving,
or deleting parts of program code based on the differences, etc.).
[0015]     In this way, a quantity of errors in program code is reduced, thereby improving
performance of the program code and conserving processor resources. Additionally, by
receiving multiple portions of code as input and concurrently comparing the multiple portions,
processor resources are saved that would otherwise be used to individually or non
concurrently compare each of the multiple portions.       Further, processing resources are
conserved that would otherwise need to be used to generate and/or debug working code in
the event that these techniques are not applied. Still further, implementations described
herein may result in faster processing of code based on the code including fewer errors.
[0016]     While implementations described herein are primarily described in terms of code
relating to data processing and ETL processing, implementations described herein are not
limited to data processing and ETL processing. For example, implementations described
herein may be applied to code that can be used for any purpose (e.g., communications,
gaming, management, or the like).
[0017]     Figs. 1A-1C are diagrams of an overview of an example implementation 100
described herein. Fig 1A shows two example programs (e.g., Program1 and Program2).
Each program is associated with two code sets (e.g., code version 1 and code version 2)
that are to be compared to identify differences between the two code sets. For example,
code version 1 may be an original version of one of the programs, and code version 2 may
be a modified version of the one of the programs. As shown in Fig. 1A, and by reference
number 102, code version 1 of Program1 may include a source definition portion 104, which
may include code relating to a source of data to be processed based on the code set. For
example, source definition portion 104 may include a column name (e.g., SCoIA), a column
data type (e.g., Decimal) and a column precision (e.g., 3). As shown by reference number
106, code version 1 of Program1 may include a target definition portion 106, which may

                                                 8
include code relating to a target or destination for the data after the data is processed. For
example, target definition portion 106 may include a column name (e.g., TCoIA), a column
datatype (e.g., Decimal) and a column nullability indicator (e.g., "No," indicating that a
corresponding column is not permitted to include a null value).
[0018]     As shown by reference number 108, code version 1 of Program1 may include a
workflow portion, which may identify transformations to be applied to the data to process the
data. For example, workflow portion 108 may identify transformations of Transformation A,
Transformation B, and Transformation C.        Each transformation may be associated with a
corresponding rule or operation based on which the data is to be processed, as described in
more detail elsewhere herein.
[0019]     As further shown, code version 1 of Program2 may include a source definition
portion, which may include values similar to those identified above. Assume that the ellipsis
in Fig. 1A indicates that Program2 may include one or more other portions similar to those
included in Program1, such as a target definition portion, a workflow portion, one or more
transformations, or the like.
[0020]     As further shown in Fig. 1A, and by reference number 110, code version 2 of
Program may include a source definition portion 112 corresponding to source definition
portion 104 of code version 1.        As shown, source definition portion 112 includes a
modification of a value included in source definition portion 104 (e.g., the removal of the
"Column precision" value or object).
[0021]     As shown by reference number 114, code version 2 of Program1 includes a target
definition portion 114 corresponding to target definition portion 106 of code version 1. As
further shown in Fig. 1A, target definition portion 114 includes a modification of the values
included in target definition portion 106 (e.g., a modification of the column name value from
"TCoIA" to "TColA1," and a modification of the column nullability indicator from a value of
"No" to a value of "Yes"). As shown by reference number 116, code version 2 of Program1
includes a workflow portion corresponding to the workflow portion 108 of code version 1. As
further shown in Fig. 1A, workflow portion 116 of Program1 includes a modification of a value
included in workflow portion 108 (e.g., the addition of Transformation 2).

                                                9
[0022]      As further shown, code version 2 of Program2 may include a source definition
portion, which may include values similar to those identified above. Assume that the ellipsis
in Fig. 1A indicates that code version 2 of Program2 may include one or more other portions
similar to those included in code version 2 of Program1, such as a target definition portion,
a workflow portion, one or more transformations, or the like.
[0023]      As shown by reference number 118, a client device may provide the code sets of
the two programs to a server device to be compared. For example, the client device may
receive the two code sets (e.g., from another device, based on a user input, etc.), and may
provide the two code sets to the server device. In some implementations, the server device
may obtain the two code sets from storage, may receive the two code sets from another
device other than the client device, or the like. In some implementations, the server device
may provide the two code sets to the client device, and the client device may perform the
operations described in connection with Figs. 1B and 1C, which conserves processor
resources of the server device. In some implementations, the server device may combine
Program and Program2, and may concurrently compare Program1 and Program2, as
described in more detail elsewhere herein. For example, the server device may concatenate
Program and Program2, may concatenate corresponding portions of Program1 and
Program2 (e.g., may concatenate a source definition portion of Program1 and a source
definition portion of Program2), or the like.
[0024]      As shown in Fig. 1B, and by reference number 120, the server device may identify
the portions of code to be compared.        For example, the server device may identify the
portions of code based on metadata identifying the portions, based on user input identifying
the portions, based on functions included in the portions, or the like. As shown by reference
number 122, the server device may identify the source portions, the target definition portions,
the workflow portions, and the transformation portions.
[0025]      As shown by reference number 124, the server device may compare the portions
between code version 1 and code version 2 to identify the differences between code version
1 and code version 2. For example, the server device may concurrently identify differences
between code versions 1 and 2 of Program1, and between code versions 1 and 2 of

                                                10
Program2.     As shown by reference number 126, the server device may output a code
comparison report based on the comparison. The code comparison report is described in
more detail with regard to Fig. 1C and Figs. 5A-5C.
[0026]      As shown in Fig. 1C, the server device may provide the code comparison report
to the client device. Fig. 1C primarily shows the code comparison report corresponding to
code versions 1 and 2 of Program1.         Assume that a similar code comparison report is
generated for code versions 1 and 2 of Program2. As shown by reference number 128, the
client device may provide the code comparison report for display. As shown by reference
number 130, for each difference between the two code sets, the code comparison report
may identify a portion of code in which the different was found (e.g., source definition, target
definition, workflow, etc.), an action performed on the portion of code that resulted in the
difference (e.g., an addition, a removal, or a modification), a value associated with the action
(e.g., column precision, TColA1, nullability indicator, transformation, lookup table, etc.), and
an object type associated with the value (e.g., source definition, target definition,
transformation, lookup rule, variable, function, etc.).
[0027]      The code comparison report may include multiple entries or rows corresponding
to differences, as shown by reference numbers 132 through 142. As further shown, each
row may identify the portion of the code that includes the difference, an action associated
with the difference (e.g., removal, addition, or modification), a value that was modified, and
an object type associated with the value that was modified. As described herein, a value
may include a specific string, function, variable value, or the like. An object type may identify
a category or type associated with the value and/or an object included in the portion. For
example, the portion may include objects that define data types and/or operations to perform
with regard to variables, and the object type may identify categories or types associated with
the objects.
[0028]      As shown by reference number 132, the code comparison report identifies a
removal of a source definition value (e.g., Column Precision) from the source definition
portion of the code. As shown by reference number 134, the code comparison report
identifies a modification of a target definition value (e.g., to TColA1) in the target definition

                                                11
portion of the code. As shown, the "1"of TCoIA1 may be underlined based on the "1" being
an addition to the program code. As shown by reference number 136, the code comparison
report identifies a modification of a target definition value (e.g., a nullability indicator being
modified to a value of Yes) in the target definition portion of the code. As shown, the
nullability indicator may be underlined based on the nullability indicator being modified
between the first code set and the second code set. As shown by reference number 138,
the code comparison report identifies a modification of a transformation value (e.g., to
Transformation 2) in the workflow portion of the code. As shown, the transformation value
may be underlined based on the transformation value being modified between the first code
set and the second code set. As shown by reference number 140, the code comparison
report identifies an addition of a transformation (e.g., Transformation D) to the workflow
portion of the code. As shown by reference number 142, the code comparison report
identifies an addition of an operation (e.g., Look up (table)) to a transformation included in
the code. As shown by reference number 144, the code comparison report may include a
graphical user interface (GUI) element to cause the client device to provide, for display,
comparison information relating to Program2. Based on detecting an interaction (e.g., a user
interaction) with the element, the client device may provide, for display, the comparison
information relating to Program2.
[0029]      In this way, a quantity of errors in program code is reduced, thereby improving
performance of the program code and conserving processor resources. Additionally, by
receiving multiple portions of code as input and concurrently comparing the multiple portions,
processor resources are saved that would otherwise be used to individually or non
concurrently compare each of the multiple portions.         Further, processing resources are
conserved that would otherwise need to be used to generate and/or debug working code in
the event that these techniques are not applied. Still further, implementations described
herein may result in faster processing of code based on the code including fewer errors.
Even further, implementations described herein may concurrently compare program code
from multiple, different programs, thereby reducing user effort in understanding and
debugging differences between versions of the multiple, different programs.

                                               12
[0030]     As indicated above, Figs. 1A-1C are provided merely as an example.            Other
examples are possible and may differ from what was described with regard to Figs. 1A-1C.
[0031]     Fig. 2 is a diagram of an example environment 200 in which systems and/or
methods, described herein, may be implemented. As shown in Fig. 2, environment 200 may
include a client device 210, a server device 220, and a network 230. Devices of environment
200 may interconnect via wired connections, wireless connections, or a combination of wired
and wireless connections.
[0032]     Client device 210 includes one or more devices capable of receiving, generating,
storing, processing, and/or providing information and/or program code. For example, client
device 210 may include a communication and/or computing device, such as a mobile phone
(e.g., a smart phone, a radiotelephone, etc.), a laptop computer, a tablet computer, a desktop
computer, or a similar type of device.
[0033]     Server device 220 includes one or more devices capable of receiving, generating,
storing, processing, and/or providing information and/or program code. For example, server
device 220 may include a computing device, such as a server, a group of servers (e.g., in a
data center, in a cloud computing environment, etc.), or the like.
[0034]     Network 230 may include one or more wired and/or wireless networks.             For
example, network 230 may include a cellular network (e.g., a long-term evolution (LTE)
network, a 3G network, a code division multiple access (CDMA) network, etc.), a public land
mobile network (PLMN), a local area network (LAN), a wide area network (WAN), a
metropolitan area network (MAN), a telephone network (e.g., the Public Switched Telephone
Network (PSTN)), a private network, an ad hoc network, an intranet, the Internet, a fiber
optic-based network, a cloud computing network, or the like, and/or a combination of these
or other types of networks.
[0035]     The number and arrangement of devices and networks shown in Fig. 2 are
provided as an example. In practice, there may be additional devices and/or networks, fewer
devices and/or networks, different devices and/or networks, or differently arranged devices
and/or networks than those shown in Fig. 2. Furthermore, two or more devices shown in

                                               13
Fig. 2 may be implemented within a single device, or a single device shown in Fig. 2 may be
implemented as multiple, distributed devices. Additionally, or alternatively, a set of devices
(e.g., one or more devices) of environment 200 may perform one or more functions described
as being performed by another set of devices of environment 200.
[0036]      Fig. 3 is a diagram of example components of a device 300. Device 300 may
correspond to client device 210 and/or server device 220. In some implementations, client
device 210 and/or server device 220 may include one or more devices 300 and/or one or
more components of device 300. As shown in Fig. 3, device 300 may include a bus 310, a
processor 320, a memory 330, a storage component 340, an input component 350, an output
component 360, and a communication interface 370.
[0037]      Bus 310 includes a component that permits communication               among    the
components of device 300.       Processor 320 is implemented in hardware, firmware, or a
combination of hardware and software. Processor 320 includes a processor (e.g., a central
processing unit (CPU), a graphics processing unit (GPU), and/or an accelerated processing
unit (APU)), a microprocessor, a microcontroller, and/or any processing component (e.g., a
field-programmable gate array (FPGA) and/or an application-specific integrated circuit
(ASIC)) that interprets and/or executes instructions. In some implementations, processor
320 includes one or more processors capable of being programmed to perform a function.
Memory 330 includes a random access memory (RAM), a read only memory (ROM), and/or
another type of dynamic or static storage device (e.g., a flash memory, a magnetic memory,
and/or an optical memory) that stores information and/or instructions for use by processor
320.
[0038]      Storage component 340 stores information and/or software related to the
operation and use of device 300. For example, storage component 340 may include a hard
disk (e.g., a magnetic disk, an optical disk, a magneto-optic disk, and/or a solid state disk),
a compact disc (CD), a digital versatile disc (DVD), a floppy disk, a cartridge, a magnetic
tape, and/or another type of non-transitory computer-readable medium, along with a
corresponding drive.

                                                 14
[0039]      Input component 350 includes a component that permits device 300 to receive
information, such as via user input (e.g., a touch screen display, a keyboard, a keypad, a
mouse, a button, a switch, and/or a microphone).            Additionally, or alternatively, input
component 350 may include a sensor for sensing information (e.g., a global positioning
system (GPS) component, an accelerometer, a gyroscope, and/or an actuator).               Output
component 360 includes a component that provides output information from device 300 (e.g.,
a display, a speaker, and/or one or more light-emitting diodes (LEDs)).
[0040]     Communication interface 370 includes a transceiver-like component (e.g., a
transceiver and/or a separate receiver and transmitter) that enables device 300 to
communicate with other devices, such as via a wired connection, a wireless connection, or
a combination of wired and wireless connections. Communication interface 370 may permit
device 300 to receive information from another device and/or provide information to another
device. For example, communication interface 370 may include an Ethernet interface, an
optical interface, a coaxial interface, an infrared interface, a radio frequency (RF) interface,
a universal serial bus (USB) interface, a Wi-Fi interface, a cellular network interface, or the
like.
[0041]      Device 300 may perform one or more processes described herein. Device 300
may perform these processes in response to processor 320 executing software instructions
stored by a non-transitory computer-readable medium, such as memory 330 and/or storage
component 340. A computer-readable medium is defined herein as a non-transitory memory
device. A memory device includes memory space within a single physical storage device or
memory space spread across multiple physical storage devices.
[0042]     Software instructions may be read into memory 330 and/or storage component
340 from another computer-readable medium or from another device via communication
interface 370. When executed, software instructions stored in memory 330 and/or storage
component 340 may cause processor 320 to perform one or more processes described
herein.   Additionally, or alternatively, hardwired circuitry may be used in place of or in
combination with software instructions to perform one or more processes described herein.

                                               15
Thus, implementations described herein are not limited to any specific combination of
hardware circuitry and software.
[0043]     The number and arrangement of components shown in Fig. 3 are provided as an
example. In practice, device 300 may include additional components, fewer components,
different components, or differently arranged components than those shown in Fig. 3.
Additionally, or alternatively, a set of components (e.g., one or more components) of device
300 may perform one or more functions described as being performed by another set of
components of device 300.
[0044]     Fig. 4 is a flow chart of an example process 400 for generating comparison
information based on comparing a first code set and a second code set.                   In some
implementations, one or more process blocks of Fig. 4 may be performed by client device
210. In some implementations, one or more process blocks of Fig. 4 may be performed by
another device or a group of devices separate from or including client device 210, such as
server device 220.
[0045]     As shown in Fig. 4, process 400 may include receiving a first code set and a
second code set (block 410). For example, client device 210 may receive a first code set
and a second code set. In some implementations, client device 210 may receive the first
code set and the second code set based on user input, may obtain the first code set and the
second code set from storage, may receive the first code set and the second code set from
another device, or the like. In some implementations, the first code set and second code set
may be associated with the same programming language (e.g., Extensible Markup
Language (XML), Structured Query Language (SQL), C, C++, C#, Ada, a Unix-based
language, etc.). In some implementations, the first code set and the second code set may
relate to an ETL process. In such a case, the first code set and/or the second code set may
include one or more of a source definition portion, a target definition portion, a transformation
portion, or the like, as described in more detail elsewhere herein.
[0046]     The first code set and the second code set may have one or more differences
(e.g., additions of code, removals of code, or modifications to code).         For example, the
second code set may be a modified version of the first code set, or the first code set may be

                                                 16
a modified version of the second code set. As another example, the first code set and the
second code set may be generated by different users (e.g., based on the same set of
requirements). As yet another example, the first code set and the second code set may be
associated with different environments or stages in a software development life cycle. In
such a case, the first code set and the second code set may have different metadata (e.g.,
file names, labels, code comments, etc.) based on requirements associated with the different
environments or stages.
[0047]      In some implementations, a code set may include multiple, different portions of
code. A portion of code may include one or more lines of code that are associated with a
particular function or operation in an ETL process (e.g., a source data extraction process,
one or more transformation processes or operations, a target data placement process, etc.).
Additionally, or alternatively, a portion may include one or more lines of code that are
associated with a particular format. As an example, source definition, target definition,
workflow, and transformation portions of code are described in connection with Figs. 1A-1C.
[0048]     As other possible examples of portions of code, a code set relating to an ETL
process may include any one or more of a source definition portion, a target definition portion,
a transformation portion, a mapping portion, a session portion, a worklet portion, a mapplet
portion, a workflow portion, or the like. A source definition portion may identify a structure
and/or attributes of a source object from which data is to be extracted, underlying data types
of a source object, an object type of a source object, or the like. A transformation portion
may identify a manner in which source data is to be transformed, and/or may identify one or
more functions that are to be applied during the transformation process. For example, a
transformation portion may include one or more rules that define data flow and/or that identify
how data is to be loaded to one or more targets. A target definition portion may identify a
target data structure or file to which the data is to be loaded, and/or may describe
characteristics of a target data structure or file.
[0049]     A mapping portion may identify a set of source and target objects that are linked
together by one or more transformations (i.e., transformation portions). A session portion
may identify a time and/or manner (e.g., a bandwidth, a quantity of parallel processes, etc.)

                                                 17
based on which to move data from a source object to a target object. A mapplet portion may
include reusable mapping code, such as a script defining a mapping, a function defining a
mapping, a file defining a mapping, or the like. For example, a mapplet may include a
function handle that identifies a script or function corresponding to a particular mapping. A
workflow portion may include a set of instructions that identify a manner in which to execute
tasks (e.g., timers, decision blocks, wait instructions, etc.). A worklet portion may include
reusable workflow code, such as a script defining a workflow, a function defining a workflow,
a file defining a workflow, or the like. For example, a worklet may include a function handle
that identifies a script or function corresponding to a particular workflow.
[0050]      In some implementations, a pair of code sets (e.g., the first code set and the
second code set) may have one or more corresponding portions. For example, the first code
set and the second code set may both have a source definition portion, a transformation
portion, a target definition portion, or the like. In some implementations, client device 210
may receive the portions together (e.g., as a single input, from a single file, etc.). In some
implementations, client device 210 may receive the portions separately (e.g., as different
inputs, from different files, etc.) and may combine the portions to form the code sets. By
combining separate portions of program code for concurrent comparison, client device 210
may conserve processor resources that would otherwise be used to individually compare the
portions.
[0051]      As further shown in Fig. 4, process 400 may include identifying first portions of the
first code set and second portions, of the second code set, that correspond to the first
portions (block 420). For example, client device 210 may process the first code set and the
second code set to identify first portions of the first code set and second portions of the
second code set.       In some implementations, client device 210 may identify the portions
based on metadata included in the first code set and the second code set identifying the
portions, based on functions included in the portions (e.g., based on whether the portions
include functions related to extraction, related to transformation, or related to a loading
process), based on a user input identifying the portions, based on the portions being included
in particular files or types of files, based on comments included in the code sets (e.g., user
comments that identify the portions), based on absolute locations and/or relative locations of

                                                18
the portions within the code sets (e.g., a line number), based on named objects included in
the code sets (e.g., variable names, function names, class names, method names, etc.) or
the like.
[0052]      For example, assume that source portions of code sets generated by a particular
platform (e.g., Informatica PowerCenter@, etc.) are identified by first metadata of
"$sourcestart," that identifies a start of a source portion, and second metadata of
"$sourceend," that identifies an end of the source portion. In such a case, client device 210
may identify the first metadata in a first portion and a second portion, and may identify the
second metadata in the first portion and the second portion. Client device 210 may thereby
identify the portions of the code set to be compared (i.e., the portion identified by the first
metadata and the second metadata in the first code set, and the portion identified by the first
metadata and the second metadata in the second code set).
[0053]      As further shown in Fig. 4, process 400 may include concurrently comparing the
first portions and the second portions to identify one or more differences, such as additions,
removals, and/or modifications between the first portions and the second portions (block
430). For example, client device 210 may concurrently compare one or more first portions
and one or more corresponding second portions to identify one or more differences between
the one or more first portions and the one or more corresponding second portions (e.g.,
program code that has been added, removed, or modified). To concurrently compare the
first portions, client device 210 may compare each of the first portions to each of the
corresponding second portions based on performing parallel processing of the portions. In
some implementations, client device 210 may concurrently compare each of the first portions
to each of the corresponding second portions based on concatenating each of the first
portions to form the first code set and concatenating each of the second portions to form the
second code set.       For example, client device 210 may receive information specifying
particular portions to compare, may obtain the particular portions (e.g., from one or more
code sets or files that include the particular portions), and may concatenate the particular
portions to form the first code set and the second code set. Additionally, or alternatively,
client device 210 may receive sets of program code of two or more programs, and may
concurrently compare the sets of program code for each of the two or more programs (e.g.,

                                                19
based on combining the two or more programs, etc.). In this way, client device 210 may
reduce an amount of user interaction required to compare the code sets, thereby conserving
processor resources.
[0054]      A difference may relate to any property, characteristic, metadata, or value
associated with the first code set and/or the second code set. For example, a difference
may relate to a variable name, a column name, a data type, a data precision, a function
name, a called function, a script of a function that may be replaced with another script, a
lookup table, a source definition, a target definition, a column nullability indicator, a program
name, a transformation name, a transformation type, a value name, a value, an expression,
or the like.
[0055]      To identify the one or more differences, client device 210 may identify program
code that is different or that has been modified between the first code set and the second
code set, or that is present in only one of the first code set or the second code set. When
program code is present in the second code set and not in the first code set, client device
210 may identify an addition to the first code set. When program code is present in the first
code set and not in the second code set, client device 210 may identify a removal from the
first code set.
[0056]      Client device 210 may identify a modification when a value of the first code set has
been modified in the second code set, or when particular code is associated with a first state
or value in a first code set, and is associated with a second state or value in a second code
set. For example, client device 210 may identify a modification based on a variable in a
function call being modified.     As a second example, client device 210 may identify a
modification based on a name of a data source being changed. As a third example, client
device 210 may identify a modification based on a user changing one or more actions
included in a workflow or transformation.
[0057]      In some implementations, client device 210 may identify a difference based on a
particular portion being added to or removed from a code set. For example, when client
device 210 identifies a particular portion (e.g., a source definition portion, a target definition
portion, a transformation portion, etc.) in the second code set and not in the first code set,

                                                 20
client device 210 may determine that the particular portion has been added in the second
code set. When client device 210 identifies a particular portion (e.g., a source definition
portion, a target definition portion, a transformation portion, etc.) in the first code set and not
in the second code set, client device 210 may determine that the particular portion has been
removed from the first code set.
[0058]      In some implementations, client device 210 may compare each portion included
in the first code set to a corresponding portion of the second code set.                  In some
implementations, client device 210 may compare a subset of the portions included in the first
code set and the second code set. For example, client device 210 may receive information
identifying particular portions to be compared, and may compare the particular portions. In
some implementations, client device 210 may provide a graphical user interface that permits
a user to select the particular portions to be compared.          In this way, client device 210
conserves processor resources that would otherwise be used to compare each portion
included in the first code set and the second code set.
[0059]     As further shown in Fig. 4, process 400 may include generating comparison
information that identifies the one or more differences (block 440). For example, client device
210 may generate comparison information that identifies the one or more differences
between the first code set and the second code set.              In some implementations, the
comparison information may include a code comparison report, as described in greater detail
below with respect to Fig. 5A-5C.         Additionally, or alternatively, client device 210 may
generate a code comparison report based on the comparison information.                     In some
implementations, the comparison information may identify a location of the difference (e.g.,
a line number, a portion of the first code set or the second code set that includes the
difference, a file name, etc.).
[0060]      In some implementations, the comparison information may identify an object type
of a particular object associated with the difference. For example, if client device 210 detects
a difference in a source file name between the first code set and the second code set, the
comparison information may identify an object type of "file name." Similarly, if client device
210 detects a difference in a function, the comparison information may identify an object type

                                                 21
of "function." As another example, if client device 210 detects a difference in a variable
value, the comparison information may identify an object type relating to the difference in the
variable value. Additionally, or alternatively, the comparison information may identify an
object type that is different in the first code set as compared to the second code set (e.g., a
file format object type, a customized object type, etc.).
[0061]      In some implementations, the comparison information may identify an original
value and/or a modified value, and/or may include information identifying particular code that
is associated with a difference. For example, if a pair of code sets includes a modification of
a variable name from sourcee"        to "sourceA," the comparison information may identify an
original variable name of sourcee"         and/or a modified variable name of "sourceA."        As
another example, if a pair of code sets includes a modification of metadata between the first
code set and the second code set (e.g., a change in a code comment, a change in a tag
associated with the first code set, a change in information identifying an author associated
with the first code set, etc.), the comparison information may identify original values and/or
modified values of the metadata (e.g., an original and/or modified code comment, a tag, an
author, etc.).
[0062]      In some implementations, client device 210 may not generate comparison
information corresponding to a particular difference.       Additionally, or alternatively, client
device 210 may omit, from a code comparison report, comparison information pertaining to
the particular difference. For example, client device 210 may receive (e.g., based on user
input) information identifying a particular difference or a particular type of difference that is
not to be identified in comparison information, and may omit, from a code comparison report,
particular comparison information pertaining to the particular differences or the particular
type of difference. In this way, client device 210 may conserve computing resources.
[0063]      In some implementations, client device 210 may automatically determine
comparison information to be omitted from a code comparison report (e.g., based on a
particular portion of the code set in which the particular difference is included, based on the
particular difference being detected a threshold quantity of times, etc.). Additionally, or
alternatively, client device 210 may determine comparison information to be omitted from a

                                               22
code comparison report based on a user input. For example, assume that client device 210
receives information identifying a particular difference that is to be omitted from a code
comparison report. In such a case, client device 210 may generate a code comparison report
that omits comparison information corresponding to the particular difference.
[0064]     As an example, when a code set is converted or migrated from a first software
development environment to a second software development environment (e.g., a
development     environment,     a  quality assurance   environment,     a  user acceptance
environment, etc.), labels, names, metadata, comments, or other information associated with
the code set may change based on the different software development environments. In
such a case, client device 210 may omit, from the code comparison report, comparison
information relating to differences caused by conversion from the first software development
environment to the second software development environment.             By omitting particular
differences related to changing environments, client device 210 may conserve computing
resources (e.g., processing resources, memory resources, etc.) that would otherwise be
used to generate or provide comparison information that is related to the changing
environments.
[0065]     As further shown in Fig. 4, process 400 may include storing and/or providing the
comparison information (block 450).        For example, client device 210 may store and/or
provide the comparison information.        In some implementations, client device 210 may
provide the comparison information for display. For example, client device 210 may generate
a report that identifies the comparison information and/or the differences between the first
code set and the second code set, and may provide the comparison information for display.
In some implementations, the report may include visual cues to aid a user in interpreting the
report. For example, the report may identify additions, deletions, and/or modifications based
on color-coding. As another example, the additions, deletions, and/or modifications may be
identified via icons, symbols, fonts, font styles, indicators, or the like.   As yet another
example, the additions, deletions, and/or modifications may be sorted in a particular manner,
or may be identified via context and/or other information.

                                                23
[0066]      In some implementations, client device 210 may provide comparison information
for a particular portion of a code set. For example, when comparing code sets with multiple,
different corresponding portions, client device 210 may provide a code comparison report
corresponding to each portion, may provide a code comparison report for a particular portion
based on a user interaction to select the particular portion, may provide a code comparison
report for each portion that includes at least one difference, or the like.
[0067]      In some implementations, client device 210 may modify the first code set and/or
the second code set based on the comparison information. For example, client device 210
may insert information into a code set based on the comparison information (e.g., tags,
comments, etc.). As another example, client device 210 may re-insert code that has been
removed from a particular code set, or may delete code that has been added to a particular
code set.
[0068]      In this way, a quantity of errors in program code is reduced, thereby improving
performance of the program code and conserving processor resources. Additionally, by
receiving multiple portions of code as input and concurrently comparing the multiple portions,
processor resources are saved that would otherwise be used to individually or non
concurrently compare each of the multiple portions.        Further, processing resources are
conserved that would otherwise need to be used to generate and/or debug working code in
the event that these techniques are not applied. Still further, implementations described
herein may result in faster processing of code based on the code including fewer errors.
[0069]      Although Fig. 4 shows example blocks of process 400, in some implementations,
process 400 may include additional blocks, fewer blocks, different blocks, or differently
arranged blocks than those depicted in Fig. 4. Additionally, or alternatively, two or more of
the blocks of process 400 may be performed in parallel.
[0070]      Figs. 5A-5C are diagrams of an example implementation 500 relating to example
process 400 shown in Fig. 4.       Figs. 5A-5C show an example of generating comparison
information based on comparing a first code set and a second code set. For the purpose of
Figs. 5A-5C, assume that client device 210 has compared a first code set and a second code

                                                24
set to determine comparison information that identifies differences between the first code set
and the second code set.
[0071]     As shown in Fig. 5A, and by reference number 510, client device 210 may provide
a code comparison report that includes a summary of the first code set and the second code
set. As further shown in Fig. 5A, the first code set is associated with a name of "Before
Changes," and the second code set is associated with a name of "After Changes." As shown,
the first code set may be associated with a production environment (e.g., in a software
development life cycle), and the second code set may be associated with a development
environment (e.g., in the software development lifecycle). As shown by reference number
520, the code comparison report may include tabs relating to different portions of the first
code set and the second code set (e.g., summary, source, target, transformation, etc.). The
example of Fig. 5A shows the summary portion of the first code set and the second code set.
[0072]     As shown in Fig. 5B, and by reference number 530, client device 210 may detect
a user interaction with an element of a graphical user interface (e.g., a "source" button) to
cause client device 210 to display the code comparison report pertaining to the source
definition portion of the first code set and the second code set. As shown by reference
number 540, client device 210 may display information indicating that no difference has been
found in the source definition portion of the first code set and the second code set.
[0073]     As shown in Fig. 5C, and by reference number 550, client device 210 may detect
an interaction with an element of a graphical user interface (e.g., a "Transformation" button).
Based on detecting the interaction, client device 210 may provide, for display, a code
comparison report pertaining to transformation portions of the first code set and the second
code set. The transformation portions of the code sets may identify transformations to apply
based on mapping information that associates sources of data with targets for the data.
Modifications, additions, and removals         in the transformation     portion may identify
modifications    to  transformations,   additions    of transformations,    and  removals    of
transformations between the first data set and the second data set, respectively.
[0074]     As further shown in Fig. 5C, and by reference number 560, the code comparison
report may identify differences between the first code set and the second code set within the

                                               25
transformation portions. For example, the code comparison report may identify an action
(e.g., modification, addition, or removal), a program name, a transformation name, a
transformation type (e.g., source qualifier, expression, etc.), a value name, a value, a data
type, and an expression to which the action applies. The "source qualifier" transformation
type may convert source data to a target format. The "expression" transformation type may
perform a transformation based on an expression. The "value" column may identify a value
based on which to transform or convert data (e.g., an SQL query, as shown by reference
number 570).      The "expression" column may identify an expression based on which to
perform the transformation (e.g., the expressions shown in the rightmost column of the code
comparison report in Fig. 5C, as shown by reference number 580).
[0075]     In some implementations, modifications to the code sets may be identified based
on a visual cue. For example, as shown by reference numbers 570 and 580, modified code
may be denoted by an underline font style (e.g., in which underlined text indicates text that
has been added to an existing transformation). The additions identify transformations that
were added to the transformation portion.         Other font styles may be used to indicate
modifications (e.g., a strikethrough font style for deleted text, etc.). Thus, client device 210
improves readability of the code comparison report and reduces a likelihood that a user
misunderstands the code comparison report.
[0076]     As indicated above, Figs. 5A-5C are provided merely as an example.              Other
examples are possible and may differ from what was described with regard to Figs. 5A-5C.
[0077]     In this way, a quantity of errors in program code is reduced, thereby improving
performance of the program code and conserving processor resources. Additionally, by
receiving multiple portions of code as input and concurrently comparing the multiple portions,
processor resources are saved that would otherwise be used to individually or non
concurrently compare each of the multiple portions.        Further, processing resources are
conserved that would otherwise need to be used to generate and/or debug working code in
the event that these techniques are not applied. Still further, implementations described
herein may result in faster processing of code based on the code including fewer errors.

                                               26
[0078]     The foregoing disclosure provides illustration and description, but is not intended
to be exhaustive or to limit the implementations to the precise form disclosed. Modifications
and variations are possible in light of the above disclosure or may be acquired from practice
of the implementations.
[0079]     As used herein, the term component is intended to be broadly construed as
hardware, firmware, and/or a combination of hardware and software.
[0080]     Some implementations are described herein in connection with thresholds. As
used herein, satisfying a threshold may refer to a value being greater than the threshold,
more than the threshold, higher than the threshold, greater than or equal to the threshold,
less than the threshold, fewer than the threshold, lower than the threshold, less than or equal
to the threshold, equal to the threshold, etc.
[0081]     Certain user interfaces have been described herein and/or shown in the figures.
A user interface may include a graphical user interface, a non-graphical user interface, a
text-based user interface, etc. A user interface may provide information for display. In some
implementations, a user may interact with the information, such as by providing input via an
input component of a device that provides the user interface for display.              In some
implementations, a user interface may be configurable by a device and/or a user (e.g., a user
may change the size of the user interface, information provided via the user interface, a
position of information provided via the user interface, etc.). Additionally, or alternatively, a
user interface may be pre-configured to a standard configuration, a specific configuration
based on a type of device on which the user interface is displayed, and/or a set of
configurations based on capabilities and/or specifications associated with a device on which
the user interface is displayed.
[0082]     It will be apparent that systems and/or methods, described herein, may be
implemented in different forms of hardware, firmware, or a combination of hardware and
software. The actual specialized control hardware or software code used to implement these
systems and/or methods is not limiting of the implementations. Thus, the operation and
behavior of the systems and/or methods were described herein without reference to specific

                                                27
software code-it being understood that software and hardware can be designed to
implement the systems and/or methods based on the description herein.
[0083]      Even though particular combinations of features are recited in the claims and/or
disclosed in the specification, these combinations are not intended to limit the disclosure of
possible implementations. In fact, many of these features may be combined in ways not
specifically recited in the claims and/or disclosed in the specification.        Although each
dependent claim listed below may directly depend on only one claim, the disclosure of
possible implementations includes each dependent claim in combination with every other
claim in the claim set.
[0084]      No element, act, or instruction used herein should be construed as critical or
essential unless explicitly described as such. Also, as used herein, the articles "a" and "an"
are intended to include one or more items, and may be used interchangeably with "one or
more." Furthermore, as used herein, the term "set" is intended to include one or more items
(e.g., related items, unrelated items, a combination of related and unrelated items, etc.), and
may be used interchangeably with "one or more." Where only one item is intended, the term
"one" or similar language is used. Also, as used herein, the terms "has," "have," "having," or
the like are intended to be open-ended terms. Further, the phrase "based on" is intended to
mean "based, at least in part, on" unless explicitly stated otherwise.
[0085]      Throughout this specification and the claims which follow, unless the context
requires otherwise, the word "comprise", and variations such as "comprises" and
"comprising", will be understood to mean the inclusion of a stated feature or step, or group
of features or steps, but not the exclusion of any other feature or step, or group of features
or steps.
[0086]      The reference to any prior art in this specification is not, and should not be taken
as an acknowledgement, or any suggestion that, the prior art forms part of the common
general knowledge.

                                                 28
The claims defining the invention are as follows:
1.     A device, including:
       one or more processors that:
             obtain a first code set and a second code set,
                      the first code set having at least one difference from the second code
       set,
                              the at least one difference relating to addition, removal, or
                      modification of code of the first code set in comparison to code of the
                      second code set, and
                              the first code set and the second code set relating to input data
                      from a source file and output data formed therefrom;
                      identify two or more first portions of the first code set each
             corresponding to one or more of extracting the input data from the source file,
             transforming the input data to form the output data, or storing the output data
              in a target file, and two or more second portions of the second code set each
             corresponding to one or more of extracting the input data from the source file,
             transforming the input data to form the output data, or storing the output data
              in a target file,
                      each first portion, of the two or more first portions, to be compared to a
             corresponding second portion of the two or more second portions;
             concurrently compare each of two or more first portions and each of two or
       more corresponding second portions to identify the at least one difference, based on
       one or more of:
                      performing parallel processing with regard to comparing each of the two
             or more first portions and each of the two or more corresponding second
              portions, or
                      concatenating each first portion, of the two or more first portions, to form
             the first code set, and each second portion, of the plurality of second portions,
             to form the second code set;
             generate comparison information identifying the at least one difference; and

                                                 29
                store or provide the comparison information.
2.      A device according to claim 1, where the one or more processors, when generating
the comparison information:
        generate information identifying particular code that is included in one or more of the
first code set or the second code set,
                the at least one difference relating to addition, deletion, or modification of the
        particular code.
3.      A device according to either claim 1 or claim 2, where the one or more processors
further:
        receive information identifying a particular difference that is to be omitted from the
comparison information; and
        where the one or more processors, when storing or providing the comparison
information:
                generate a report that includes the comparison information,
                       the report excluding comparison information corresponding to the
                particular difference; and
                provide the report.
4.      A device according to any one of the preceding claims, where the one or more
processors, when identifying the one or more first portions and the one or more second
portions:
        identify the one or more first portions and the one or more second portions based on
at least one of:
                metadata identifying the one or more first portions and the one or more second
        portions, or
                user input identifying the one or more first portions and the one or more second
        portions.

                                                 30
5.     A device according to any one of the preceding claims, where the one or more
processors, when generating the comparison information:
       determine that a particular first portion, of the one or more first portions, and a
particular second portion, of the one or more second portions, are identical; and
       where the one or more processors, when providing the comparison information, are
to:
               provide information indicating that the particular first portion and the particular
       second portion are identical.
6.     A device according to any one of the preceding claims, where the one or more
processors, when obtaining the first code set and the second code set:
       obtain parts of the first code set from a first plurality of source objects; and
       obtain parts of the second code set from a second plurality of source objects;
       generate the first code set based on the parts of the first code set; and
       generate the second code set based on the parts of the second code set.
7.     A non-transitory computer-readable medium storing instructions, the instructions
including:
       one or more instructions that, when executed by one or more processors, cause the
one or more processors to:
               receive a first code set and a second code set relating to input data from a
       source file and output data formed therefrom,
                       the first code set including one or more differences in comparison with
              the second code set,
                               the one or more differences relating to addition, removal, or
                       modification of code of the first code set in comparison to code of the
                       second code set;
               identify two or more first portions included in the first code set each
       corresponding to one or more of extracting the input data from the source file,
       transforming the input data to form the output data, or storing the output data in a
       target file, and two or more second portions included in the second code set each

                                                  31
       corresponding to one or more of extracting the input data from the source file,
       transforming the input data to form the output data, or storing the output data in a
       target file,
                       each first portion, of the two or more first portions, to be compared with
               a corresponding second portion of the two or more second portions;
               concurrently compare each of two or more first portions and each of two or
       more second portions to identify the one or more differences, based on one or more
       of:
                       performing parallel processing with regard to comparing each of the two
               or more first portions and each of the two or more corresponding second
               portions, or
                       concatenating each first portion, of the two or more first portions, to form
               the first code set, and each second portion, of the plurality of second portions,
               to form the second code set;
               generate comparison information identifying the one or more differences; and
               store or provide the comparison information.
8.     A non-transitory computer-readable medium according to claim 7, where the one or
more instructions, when executed by the one or more processors, further cause the one or
more processors to:
       determine that the first code set is associated with a first software development
environment;
       determine that the second code set is associated with a second software development
environment that is different than the first software development environment; and
       where the one or more instructions, that cause the one or more processors to
generate the comparison information, cause the one or more processors to:
               determine particular comparison information identifying a particular difference,
       of the one or more differences, that is included in the first code set or the second code
       set based on the first code set and the second code set being associated with different
       software development environments; and

                                                  32
        where the one or more instructions, that cause the one or more processors to store
or provide the comparison information, cause the one or more processors to:
                 generate a report based on the comparison information,
                        the report identifying the one or more differences and identifying code,
                 of the first code set or the second code set, to which the one or more
                 differences relate, and
                        the report not identifying the particular difference; and
                 provide the report.
9.      A non-transitory computer-readable medium according to claim 8, where the
particular comparison information relates to metadata that is included in the first code set
and the second code set,
        the metadata being different in the first code set than in the second code set based
on the first code set and the second code set being associated with the different software
development environments.
10.     A non-transitory computer-readable medium according to any one of claims 7 to 9,
where the one or more instructions, that cause the one or more processors to generate the
comparison information, further cause the one or more processors to:
         identify a particular object that was added to the first code set, modified in the first
code set, or removed from the first code set based on the one or more differences; and
        generate the comparison information to include information identifying the particular
object.
11.     A non-transitory computer-readable medium according to claim 10, where the one or
more instructions, that cause the one or more processors to generate the comparison
information, further cause the one or more processors to:
        generate the comparison information to include information indicating whether the
particular object was added to the first code set, removed from the first code set, or modified
in the first code set.

                                                 33
12.     A non-transitory computer-readable medium according to either claim 10 or claim 11,
where the one or more instructions, that cause the one or more processors to generate the
comparison information, further cause the one or more processors to:
        generate the comparison information to identify a particular value, included in or
associated with the particular object, that is associated with the one or more differences.
13.     A non-transitory computer-readable medium according to any one of claims 7 to 12,
where the one or more instructions, that cause the one or more processors to provide the
comparison information, further cause the one or more processors to:
        provide the comparison information for display,
                the comparison information including a visual cue to identify code that was
        added, removed, or modified.
14.     A method, including:
        obtaining, by a device, a first code set and a second code set,
                the first code set including one or more differences in comparison with the
        second code set, and
                        the first code set and the second code set relating to input data from a
                source file and output data formed therefrom;
        identifying, by the device, two or more first portions included in the first code set each
corresponding to one or more of extracting the input data from the source file, transforming
the input data to form the output data, or storing the output data in a target file, and two or
more second portions included in the second code set each corresponding to one or more
of extracting the input data from the source file, transforming the input data to form the output
data, or storing the output data in a target file,
                each first portion, of the two or more first portions, to be compared with a
        corresponding second portion of the two or more second portions;
        concurrently comparing, by the device, each of two or more first portions and each of
two or more second portions, based on one or more of:
                performing parallel processing with regard to comparing each of the two or
        more first portions and each of the two or more corresponding second portions, or

                                                 34
                concatenating each first portion, of the two or more first portions, to form the
        first code set, and each second portion, of the plurality of second portions, to form the
        second code set;
        identifying, by the device, the one or more differences based on the concurrent
comparing of the two or more first portions and the two or more second portions;
        generating, by the device, comparison information identifying the one or more
differences; and
        storing or providing, by the device, the comparison information.
15.     A method according to claim 14, where a particular difference, of the one or more
differences, relates to particular code that is included in the first code set and the second
code set; and
        where the comparison information identifies the particular code.
16.     A method according to claim 15, where the comparison information includes
information identifying a first state of the particular code in the first code set; and
        where the comparison information includes information identifying a second state of
the particular code in the second code set,
                the particular code being modified in the second code set as compared to the
        first code set.
17.     A method according to any one of claims 14 to 16, where the first code set is
associated with a first software development environment; and
        where the second code set is associated with a second software development
environment; and
        where storing or providing the comparison information includes:
                identifying particular comparison information        that is associated with a
        difference between the first software development environment and the second
        software development environment; and
                generating a report based on the comparison information,
                        the report excluding the particular comparison information; and

                                                   35
                 providing the report.
18.     A method according to any one of claims 14 to 17, where the first code set includes a
plurality of first portions,
                 the one or more first portions being included in the plurality of first portions; and
        where the second code set includes a plurality of second portions,
                 the one or more second portions being included in the plurality of second
        portions; and
        where identifying the one or more first portions and the one or more second portions
includes:
                 receiving an instruction to compare the one or more first portions to the one or
        more second portions; and
                 identifying the one or more first portions and the one or more second portions
        based on the instruction.
19.     A method according to any one of claims 14 to 18, where obtaining the first code set
and the second code set includes:
        obtaining first parts of the first code set from a plurality of first objects;
        obtaining second parts of the second code set from a plurality of second objects; and
        combining the first parts to form the first code set; and
        combining the second parts to form the second code set.
1a.     A device, including:
        one or more processors that:
                 obtain a first code set and a second code set,
                         the first code set having at least one difference from the second code
        set,
                                 the at least one difference relating to addition, removal, or
                         modification of code of the first code set in comparison to code of the
                         second code set, and
                         the first code set and the second code set relating to one or more of:

                                                 36
                              extracting input data from a source file,
                              transforming the input data to form output data, or
                              storing the output data in a target file;
              identify one or more first portions of the first code set and one or more second
       portions of the second code set,
                      each first portion, of the one or more first portions, to be compared to a
              corresponding second portion of the one or more second portions;
              concurrently compare the one or more first portions and the one or more
       corresponding second portions to identify the at least one difference;
              generate comparison information identifying the at least one difference; and
store or provide the comparison information.
2a.    A non-transitory computer-readable medium storing instructions, the instructions
including:
       one or more instructions that, when executed by one or more processors, cause the
one or more processors to:
              receive a first code set and a second code set,
                      the first code set including one or more differences in comparison with
              the second code set,
                              the one or more differences relating to addition, removal, or
                      modification of code of the first code set in comparison to code of the
                      second code set;
              identify one or more first portions included in the first code set and one or more
       second portions included in the second code set,
                      each first portion, of the one or more first portions, to be compared with
              a corresponding second portion of the one or more second portions;
              concurrently compare the one or more first portions and the one or more
       second portions to identify the one or more differences;
              generate comparison information identifying the one or more differences; and
       store or provide the comparison information.

                                                  37
3a.     A method, including:
        obtaining, by a device, a first code set and a second code set,
                the first code set including one or more differences in comparison with the
        second code set, and
                the first code set and the second code set relating to one or more of:
                        extracting input data from a source file,
                        transforming the input data to form output data, or
                        storing the output data in a target file;
        identifying, by the device, one or more first portions included in the first code set and
one or more second portions included in the second code set,
                each first portion, of the one or more first portions, to be compared with a
        corresponding second portion of the one or more second portions;
        concurrently comparing, by the device, the one or more first portions and the one or
more second portions;
        identifying, by the device, the one or more differences based on comparing the one
or more first portions and the one or more second portions;
        generating, by the device, comparison information identifying the one or more
differences; and
        storing or providing, by the device, the comparison information.

              100                                      1/9
<removed-date>                       102                                         110
                              Code Version 1                              Code Version 2
<removed-apn>
                    Source definition (Program1)                Source definition (Program1)
                     Column name: SColA                104       Column name: SColA                112
                     Column datatype: Decimal                    Column datatype: Decimal
                     Column precision: 3
                                                                Target definition (Program1)
                    Target definition (Program1)
                                                                 Column name: TColA1
                     Column name: TColA
                                                       106       Column datatype: Decimal          114
                     Column datatype: Decimal
                                                                 Column nullable?: Yes
                     Column nullable?: No
                                                                Workflow (Program1)
                    Workflow (Program1)                          Transformation A
                     Transformation A                            Transformation 2
                     Transformation B                            Transformation C
                     Transformation C                  108       Transformation D                  116
                    Source definition (Program2)                Source definition (Program2)
                                                     Program1           Program2          118
                                                   Code Version 1    Code Version 1
                                                   Code Version 2    Code Version 2
                                 Client
                                 Device
                                                                                                Server
                                                   FIG. 1A                                      Device

                                 <removed-apn>           <removed-date>
100
                   Identify portions of code for
                                                      120
                   comparison
                   Portions: Source definition
                             Target definition
                             Workflow                 122
                             Transformations
                   Concurrently compare portions of             2/9
                   code version 1 and code version
                   2, of Program1 and Program2, to    124
                   identify differences. Generate
      Server       code comparison report.
      Device
                   Output code comparison report      126
               FIG. 1B

                                                             <removed-apn>             <removed-date>
100
                                 Code Comparison Report: Program1
                      Portion           Action          Value         Object Type    130    128
                                                       Column           Source       132
                      Source           Removal
                                                       Precison        Definition
                                                                        Target       134
                       Target        Modification      TColA1
                                                                       Definition
                                                                        Target       136
                       Target        Modification   Nullable: Yes
                                                                       Definition
                                                    Transformation
                      Workflow       Modification                  Transformation    138
                                                          2
                                                    Transformation
                      Workflow         Addition                    Transformation    140
                                                          D                                       3/9
                  Transformation       Addition     Look up (table)   Lookup rule    142
           Program1       Program2        144
                                 Code Comparison Report
                                                                        Client
      Server
                                                                        Device
      Device
                                     FIG. 1C

                          <removed-apn>    <removed-date>
200
      Client                           Server
                Network                          4/9
      Device                           Device
                 230
       210                              220
               FIG. 2

                                                     <removed-apn>         <removed-date>
300
                                                                       Storage
                    Processor               Memory
                                                                      Component
                      320                    330
                                                                         340
  Bus
  310
                                                                                      5/9
          Input                   Output              Communication
        Component               Component               Interface
           350                     360                    370
                                  FIG. 3

                                                          <removed-apn>      <removed-date>
400
      410        Receive a first code set and a second code set
              Identify first portions of the first code set and second
      420    portions, of the second code set, that correspond to the
                                     first portions
             Concurrently compare the first portions and the second
      430      portions to identify one or more differences, such as
            additions, removals, and/or modifications between the first            6/9
                         portions and the second portions
            Generate comparison information that identifies the one or
      440
                              more differences
      450        Store and/or provide the comparison information
                                   FIG. 4

                                                  <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
500
                                      510
                         Code Comparison Report
        Summary
                         Before Changes      After Changes
        Environment Name Production          Development
                                                                         7/9
        Program Name     s_DummyCode         s_DummyCode
      SUMMARY      SOURCE       TARGET      TRANSFORMATION
       520
                               FIG. 5A

                                          <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
500
                            540
            REPORT          NO DIFFERENCE FOUND
                                                                 8/9
      SUMMARY   SOURCE     TARGET    TRANSFORMATION
                     530
                           FIG. 5B

                                                                      <removed-apn>             <removed-date>
500
               560                                                   570                            580
                               Transfor- Transfor-
                     Program                         Value                 Data
      Action                   mation    mation              Value                   Expression
                     Name                            Name                  Type
                               Name      Type
                                                             Select Total,
      MODIFI-        s_Dummy   SQ_Dum Source         SQL
                                                             Type from     Blank     Blank
      CATION         Code      my     Qualifier      Query
                                                             DummyTable;
      MODIFI-        s_Dummy   exp_Dum
                                       Expression    Blank   Blank         decimal   V_Dummy
      CATION         Code      my
                                                                                     IIF(v_Dummy=0,
      MODIFI-        s_Dummy   exp_Dum
                                       Expression    Blank   Blank         decimal   v_Dummy1,
      CATION         Code      my
                                                                                     NULL)
                                                                                                           9/9
                     s_Dummy   SQ_Dum Source
      ADDITION                                       Blank   Blank         string    Blank
                     Code      my     Qualifier                                               580
                                                                                     IIF(i_Dummy=D
                                                                                     MY or
                     s_Dummy   exp_Dum                                               (i_Dummy <>
      ADDITION                         Expression    Blank   Blank         decimal
                     Code      my                                                    DMY AND (IN
                                                                                     (i_Dummy, D,
                                                                                     Y))), Dummy,0)
          TRANSFORMATION                SESSION       SHORTCUT         MAPPING
                     550
                                              FIG. 5C

