ABSTRACT
Provided herein are compositions and methods for modifying a predetermined nucleic acid
sequence. A programmable nucleoprotein molecular complex containing a polypeptide moiety
and a specificity conferring nucleic acid (SCNA) which assembles in-vivo, in a target cell, and
is capable of interacting with the predetermined target nucleic acid sequence is provided. The
programmable nucleoprotein molecular complex is capable of specifically modifying and/or
editing a target site within the target nucleic acid sequence and/or modifying the function of
the target nucleic acid sequence.

      WO 2013/088446                                                          PCT/IL2012/050528
                                                   1
          COMPOSITIONS AND METHODS FOR MODIFYING A PREDETERMINED
                               TARGET NUCLEIC ACID SEQUENCE
   FIELD OF THE INVENTION
 5         The present invention relates to compositions and methods for targeting and
   modifying nucleic acid sequences utilizing a programmable molecular complex.
   BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
           A major area of interest in biology and medicine is targeted alteration of genomic
10 nucleotide sequences. Such alterations include insertion, deletion and replacement of
   endogenous chromosomal nucleic acid sequences. Past attempts have been made by others to
   alter genomic sequences by different techniques.
           Gene targeting is a biotechnological tool desired for genome manipulation or genome
   functional modification. Gene targeting can induce a change in a specific genomic location
15 which may or may not, be related to coding sequences.
   In a gene targeting event, a predefined endogenous gene, or another predefined endogenous
   nucleic acid sequence, is either targeted for cleavage resulting in deletion, mutation, insertion
   or replacement     or targeted    for chemical modification by targeted gene-functional
   modification. One advantage of gene-targeting over untargeted transgenic organism
20 production is the possibility to modify or delete existing genomic sequences without insertion
   of foreign DNA, or alternatively, place a foreign donor DNA, by insertion or replacement, in
   a predefined locus. It is advantageous to be able to thus manipulate a sequence without
   superfluous sequences, as these are undesired by breeders, farmers, consumers and regulatory
   agencies, and while many techniques for avoiding such sequences have been suggested, each
25 suffers from its own shortcomings.
           The strategies for gene targeting in Eukaryotes are dependent on two cellular dsDNA
   break repair mechanisms: The homologous recombination (HR) and non-homologous-end
   joining (NHEJ) repair pathways. In NHEJ gene insertions depend on the existence of a
   dsDNA break which may occur randomly (e.g. through radiation or oxidative damage) or be
30 directed by a nuclease such as a TALE nuclease (TALEN), meganuclease or a zinc-finger
   nuclease (ZFN). HR can be induced by dsDNA breaks. In HR, a dsDNA break is not
   essential, but may improve the efficiency if located near the recombination site.
           Extensive research has been conducted on HR mediated gene targeting which
   functions usefully well in many organisms such as bacteria, yeast and the primitive plant,

       WO 2013/088446                                                            PCT/IL2012/050528
                                                      2
   moss. HR has also been utilized in higher organisms such as drosophila, mice, and humans.
   Rates of HR in these organisms are about          OA-6,   and can be increased to over    OA-2,  in
   assisted HR, by creating a gene specific DSB. Low rates of transformants are one reason
   these methods are not prevalent in gene therapy or breeding programs.
 5          Various techniques for modifying nucleic acids in-vivo have been suggested and can
   be divided into enzyme based or nucleotide based methods. In general, enzyme based
   methods use a DNA-binding protein which has both a desired catalytic activity and the ability
   to bind the desired target sequence through a protein-nucleic-acid interaction in a manner
   similar to restriction enzymes. Examples include meganucleases which are naturally
10 occurring or engineered rare sequence cutting enzymes, zinc finger nucleases (ZFNs) or
   transcription activator-like nucleases (TALENs) which contain the FokI catalytic nuclease
    subunit linked to a modified DNA binding domain and can cut one predetermined sequence
    each. In ZFNs the binding domain is comprised of chains of amino-acids folding into
    customized zinc finger domains. In TALENs, similarly, 34 amino acid repeats originating
15  from transcription factors fold into a huge DNA-binding domain. In the event of gene
    targeting, these enzymes can cleave genomic DNA to form a double strand break (DSB) or
    create a nick which can be repaired by one of two repair pathways, non-homologous end
   joining (NHEJ) or homologous recombination (HR). The NHEJ pathway can potentially
    result in specific mutations, deletions, insertions or replacement events. The HR pathway
20  results in replacement of the targeted sequence by a supplied donor sequence. One
    disadvantage of these protein-only based methods is the long and laborious necessity to
    design and supply a different protein for every desired target sequence. Other disadvantages
    include the somewhat limited subset of nucleic acid triplets or sequences recognized by ZFNs
    and meganucleases respectively. Moreover, even a six-Zinc-finger ZFN, which is very
25  difficult to construct, is limited to a binding site of only 18 nucleotides, and as 18 nucleotides
    are statistically not sufficient to confer sequence specificity in the sequence space, or
    complexity, of a whole genome these must be supplied as heterodimers. Moreover, the nature
    of ZFNs and TALENs requires functionality screening and even successful nucleases may
    show poor gene-targeting efficiency.
30          For nucleotide based methods, nucleic acids are supplied to the organism and
    endogenous processes bring about DNA repair or gene-targeting through unassisted
    homologous recombination or integration of the oligonucleotide into the genome. These
    nucleic acids can be supplied using viral-vectors, plasmid vectors, T-DNA vectors and
    double-stranded DNA oligonucleotides. Shorter nucleotides termed Triple-helix forming

       WO 2013/088446                                                       PCT/IL2012/050528
                                                  3
   oligonucleotides (TFOs) are used for Oligonucleotide-based mismatch repair, and can attain
   repair of point mutations or up to 4 nucleotide repair. There is ample evidence that these
   methods too are dependent on the formation of DSBs which can be random, randomly
   induced or locally induced by enzymatic or chemical modifications through enzymes or
 5 reactive chemicals covalently bound to the supplied nucleic acid. Double strand breaks
   (DSB) in DNA are necessary for HR. Specific pre-existing DSBs are not essential but
   improve efficiency.     Natural breaks in DNA are randomly located and rare, and thus
   efficiency, thus, must be low (1 O^-6). DSBs can be randomly induced by ionizing radiation or
   oxidizing chemicals, improving efficiency at the expense of genotoxicity. In an improvement
10 to this system, assisted HR or repair has been performed in the past using non-enzymatic
   DNA cleavage assisted by chemical modification of the terminus of a nucleic acid. These
   modifications include EDTA-Fe or photoactivatable Psoralen and were used for the
   production of a sequence specific DSB in dsDNA when incorporated in vitro to form a triple
   helix. An additional method uses oligonucleotides, or modified oligonucleotides, derived
15 from single-stranded DNA (ssDNA), otherwise known as "small synthetic single-stranded
   oligodeoxynucleotides (ODNs or ssODNs). However, while oligonucleotide based methods
   may result in relatively efficient point mutations in mammalian cell genomes, these are
   restricted to this mode of editing.
            Oligonucleotide-enzyme conjugates are a combination of the two methods comprising
20 of a nucleic acid covalently bound in-vitro to a catalytic enzyme prior to supplying the
   conjugate to the organism. These methods, in contrast to enzyme-only methods are modular,
   allowing preparation of conjugates aimed at a diversity of target sequences. The main
   disadvantage of oligonucleotide-enzyme conjugates is that they cannot self-assemble in vivo,
   thereby severely limiting their usefulness for genome editing in vivo. Additional critical
25 disadvantage of such systems known in the art is that in uses of these conjugates the enzyme
   component is active as a monomer, and thus any binding of the enzyme to a nucleic acid,
   specific or not, will result in cleavage.    Such non-specific cleavage severely reduces the
   safety of such systems, as they might introduce undesired changes/mutations at undesired
   locations.
30          Non-conjugated oligonucleotide-protein systems have also been used to cleave a
   ssDNA substrate. In this system a Class-IIS Restriction Enzyme, FokI, which cleaves outside
   its recognition site was used in vitro, in conjunction with a hairpin forming oligonucleotide
   which reconstitutes the FokI recognition sequence, with a PolIk enzyme and dNTPs to create
   a double-strand section of DNA primed by the oligonucleotide to be cleaved. In this system,

       WO 2013/088446                                                           PCT/IL2012/050528
                                                     4
   not only the intended sequence is cleaved, but any naturally occurring FokI site will be
   recognized and the sequence adjacent to it will be cleaved. As FokI has only a 5-nucleotide
   recognition site this implies there are thousands of potential cleavage sites in a whole
   genome, rendering this system useless for genome editing.
 5           In higher plants and humans, in contrast to other organisms where HR can be used for
   gene-targeting, the NHEJ pathway is the predominant endogenous mechanism. The plant
   DNA-repair machinery does not permit efficient HR between donor and chromosomal DNA.
   Indeed, it is widely accepted that foreign donor DNA molecules, which are often delivered by
   Agrobacterium-mediated        genetic transformation,     are recognized     by the plant Non
10 Homologous End Joining (NHEJ) pathway, which leads to their random integration
   throughout the host genome.          Most current plant transformation methods, thus, are not
   considered gene targeting, as in these methods, sequences are randomly inserted in the
    genome, and as an undesirable side effect, may disrupt an existing gene, and are often
   inserted in multiple copies, or contain undesired plasmid, marker or bacterial sequence
15 remnants.
             Methods for induction of specific dsDNA breaks, useful for assisted HR and directed
   NHEJ, utilize expression of nucleases in vivo. These include rare-sequence cutting nucleases
    (rare-cutters) such as meganucleases or chimeric meganucleases, derived from homing
    endonucleases, custom-made recombinant Zinc-Finger-Nucleases (ZFNs), or custom-made
20  recombinant TAL effector nucleases. In these methods, recognition of the cleaved target site,
    is achieved by the interaction of a protein domain or subunit which naturally recognizes a
    specific nucleotide sequence, or is engineered specifically to recognize a specific nucleotide
    sequence and is not based on polynucleotide-polynucleotide hybridization or base-pairing.
    For example, Zinc Finger Nucleases are chimeric proteins, constructed as hybrids between
25  the FokI nuclease subunit and synthetic zinc-finger (ZF) domains. Zinc Finger Nucleases do
    not contain a nucleic acid component. ZFNs are designed to specifically recognize nucleotide
    triplets through a combination of several ZF motifs. ZFNs cannot be constructed to recognize
    all sequences due to their inherent ability to recognize only a limited subset of nucleotide
    triplets. Use of ZFN heterodimers, whereby two different ZFNs, which are inactive as a
30  monomer are delivered concomitantly, has a positive effect on specificity, though this
    complicates the design further and reduces the choice of target sequences. ZFNs have also
    been utilized to create artificial transcription factors both for activation and for repression of
    genes, for altering gene regulation.      However, such Zinc finger based transcription factors
    cannot bind all sequences, being limited in length of recognition site and limited to several

       WO 2013/088446                                                         PCT/IL2012/050528
                                                    5
   specific tri-nucleotide motifs, and thus cannot be utilized to activate or suppress all possible
   genes.
            For example, Schierling et. al., disclose a novel zinc finger nuclease platform with a
   sequence-specific cleavage module. For example, Eisenschmidt K, et. al. disclose a
 5 programmed restriction endonuclease for highly specific DNA cleavage. For example, WO
   2006/027099 is directed to enzyme conjugates with a programmable specificity, which react
   in a highly specific manner with DNA.
            Kubo et. al., for example, disclose the control of intracellular delivery of
   oligonucleotides by signal peptides and genetic expression in human cells.           Jinek et. al.,
10 disclose a programmable Dual-RNA-Guided DNA endonuclease in adaptive bacterial
   immunity.
            WO 2012/129373, for example, is directed to methods for producing a complex
   transgenic trait locus.
            Nevertheless, there is still an unmet need in the art for safe, reliable, modular, and
15 inexpensive compositions and methods that allow the specific targeting and modifying of
   target nucleic acid sequences in-vivo.
    SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
            The present invention provides compositions and methods for targeting and
20 modifying nucleic acid sequences, in-vivo or in-vitro. According to some embodiments the
    novel composite programmable molecular complex (nucleo-protein complex) provided herein
    is used to edit or functionally modify a predetermined nucleic acid sequence target precisely,
    reliably and cost effectively.
            In some embodiments, the molecular complex disclosed herein is used for gene
25  targeting and/or targeted gene-functional modification including, but not limited to,
    generation of breaks in one or two strands of the target nucleic acid to initiate gene mutation,
    deletion, gene replacement, and integration of a foreign nucleic acid molecule, or for its
    chemical, conformational, or biological functional modification.
             According to some embodiments, the molecular complex disclosed herein comprises
30  a) a chimeric polypeptide (that may be encoded by a polynucleotide molecule), the chimeric
    polypeptide comprising: (i) a functional (effector) domain (FD) capable of modifying a target
    site; and (ii) a linking domain (LD); and (b) a specificity conferring nucleic acid (SCNA), the
    SCNA comprising: (i) a nucleotide sequence complementary to a region of a target nucleic
    acid flanking the target site; and (ii) a recognition region capable of specifically attaching to

       WO 2013/088446                                                           PCT/IL2012/050528
                                                   6
   the linking domain of the polypeptide; whereby assembly of the polypeptide and the SCNA
   within a host/target cell forms a functional, programmable, nucleoprotein molecular complex,
   capable of specifically modifying the target nucleic acid at the target site.
            In some embodiments, the present invention provides an advantageous composition
 5 comprising a protein effector module (or a nucleic acid molecule encoding the same) and a
   programming/targeting nucleic-acid module which can self-assemble in-vivo into a specific,
    active nucleic acid modifying molecular nucleoprotein complex. In this complex, the nucleic
    acid, also termed herein as a "programming moiety", "programming oligonucleotide" or
    "specificity-conferring nucleic acid" (SCNA) provides the specificity and binding capabilities
10  of the molecular complex to the target nucleic acid through base-pairing of said specificity
    conferring nucleic acid and a target nucleic acid. The protein effector component or module
    of this complex is designed to bind/link/attach to the specificity determining nucleic acid by a
    chemical moiety attached to the oligonucleotide, a modification of a nucleotide or nucleotides
    on the oligonucleotide, a specific recognition sequence on the oligonucleotide, and the like,
15  or combinations thereof. Advantageously, the compositions and methods disclosed herein
    confer higher specificity with a wide range of desired target sequences, are less genotoxic,
    modular in their assembly, reliable, utilize a single platform without customization, practical
    for independent use outside of specialized core-facilities, and have a shorter development
    time frame and reduced costs.
20           The activity of the protein module may result in the modification of the target nucleic
    acid sequence and/or the functional modification of the target nucleic acid. Target nucleic
    acid modification may include, but is not limited to: mutation, deletion, insertion,
    replacement, binding, digestion, nicking, methylation, acetylation, ligation, recombination,
    helix unwinding, chemical modification, labeling, activation, and inactivation or any
25  combinations thereof. Target nucleic acid functional modification may lead to, but is not
    limited to: changes in transcriptional activation, transcriptional inactivation, alternative
    splicing, chromatin rearrangement, pathogen inactivation, virus inactivation, change in
    cellular localization, compartmentalization of nucleic acid, and the like, or combinations
    thereof. Any editing action or other modification effected by the protein moiety is directed or
30  guided to an intended (predefined) specific target nucleic acid by its linkage to the
    specificity-conferring nucleic acid. Advantageously, use of each single type of protein
    component may be combined with an unlimited assortment of nucleotide-sequences of
    specificity determining nucleic acids concomitantly or separately, to allow similar action on
    different sections of intended target nucleic acid. This allows overcoming shortcoming of

        WO 2013/088446                                                          PCT/IL2012/050528
                                                      7
   state of the art methods, by providing a versatile, reliable and cost effective methods and
   compositions for modifying predetermined nucleic acid sequence targets. Thus, if used in one
   receptacle or organism, only one type of protein is to be provided with any combination or
   multiplicity of specificity determining nucleic acid types. This also includes the possibility to
 5 concomitantly use more than one type of protein component with more than one type of
   specificity determining nucleic acids.
             According to some embodiments, the complex disclosed herein is modular and can
   self-assemble within a target cell either in vivo or in vitro, allowing the supply of one type of
   protein moiety at a time with one or a multiplicity of specificity-determining oligonucleotides
10 concomitantly. Furthermore, in some embodiments, the protein component can be delivered
   to a desired cell(s) and expressed in vivo, awaiting the delivery of any appropriate SCNA at a
   later time. In some embodiments, the protein component and the SCNA may be delivered
   simultaneously, or essentially simultaneously. Thus, the combination of the protein
   component and the SCNA, preferably within the desired target cell, may accomplish the
15 induction of specific genomic double strand breaks (DSBs), or any other desired nucleic acid
   modification, in vivo. The methods of the present invention are not limited to the introduction
   of point mutations to the target nucleic acid, as the molecular complex can target any nucleic
    acid sequence or pair of sequences, cut/restrict/cleave in close proximity to them, and
    consequentially delete a small or large nucleic acid section, or cut/restrict/cleave the sequence
20  in order to initiate a removal, or an insertion, or a replacement of any nucleic acid sequence.
             Advantageously, the present invention, in embodiments thereof, discloses for the first
   time expression of a protein component in-vivo and its binding/attachment to the SCNA(s) by
    self-assembling in-vivo to form a molecular complex in-vivo, without the need of prior
    covalent/chemical linking between the protein moiety and the targeting nucleic acid.
25  According to embodiments of the present invention, in contrast to the oligonucleotide-based
    systems known in the art, the SCNA bound to the protein is not intended to function as a
    donor, but rather as a specificity conferring moiety, and does not become part of the modified
    nucleic acid. Furthermore, in some embodiments of the present invention, the SCNA can be
    expressed in vivo in a manner that causes the assembly of all the components of the
30  molecular complex with a single delivery event. Furthermore,                 according to some
    embodiments, the effector protein can be designed to be active only upon it's dimerization
    (i.e. it must form a dimer to be active), whereby the dimerization can be controlled such that
    an active dimer can only form when it is targeted/programmed by an SCNA and bound to its
    target site, for example, when the molecular distances between the monomeric partners

      WO 2013/088446                                                         PCT/IL2012/050528
                                                   8
   (proteins) of the dimer are precise enough. Thus, advantageously, the molecular complex is
   activated only at its intended target site, thereby enhancing specificity and reliability.
   According to further embodiments, one protein component may be expressed to
   form/produce homo-dimers, each programmed/targeted by a different oligonucleotide
 5 conferring specificity. Additionally, as viral expression systems, which are known in the art
   for use for protein expression in-vivo, are often limited to the production of one protein due
   to size constraints, and are often exclusive to similar viruses due to cross protection, using
   one protein component has thus a critical advantage for that mode of delivery. Furthermore,
   in contrast to other methods known in the art (such as ZFNs and meganucleases), which have
10 a limited subset of recognition sequences, the programming oligonucleotides (SCNAs)
   disclosed herein, have an infinite repertoire of sequences, thus conceivably achieving extreme
   sequence specificity in high complexity genomes. Moreover, as many programming
   oligonucleotides can be supplied concomitantly with a single protein effector moiety, it is
   possible to modify more than one target at the same time, providing additional advantages
15 over methods know in the art. This can be useful, for example, for rapidly knocking out a
   multiplicity of genes, or for inserting several different traits in different locations, or for
   tagging several different locations with one donor nucleotide tag.
           According to some embodiments, since an unprogrammed protein component (i.e. a
   protein not attached/linked to a programming oligonucleotide) has no or very low affinity to
20 target nucleic acids, improved specificity and safety and reduced genotoxicity are
   advantageously obtained. As detailed above, the effector or catalytic domain of the protein
   component is only active upon dimerization,            whereby at least two programming
   oligonucleotides (SCNAs) must bind the target flanking sequences to cause protein
   dimerization and activation. Two sufficiently long programming oligonucleotides can impart
25 the very high theoretical specificity needed in high complexity genomes by creating extensive
   complementarity with the binding sites. Since the unprogrammed expressed protein has no
   affinity to the target nucleic acid it does not bind, and/or modify the target nucleic acid.
   Thus, in     applications  where, for example, the programming           oligonucleotides   are
   delivered/supplied separately to the target cell (which already expresses the unprogrammed
30 protein component), or in conditions where oligonucleotides are depleted from the target cell
   (for example, by dilution or degradation) no unspecific cleavage can occur, thereby
   increasing safety and reducing genotoxicity.

       WO 2013/088446                                                        PCT/IL2012/050528
                                                    9
            Thus, according to embodiments of the present invention, both directed non
   homologous-end-joining (NHEJ) and assisted homologous recombination (HR) may be
   utilized specifically and in a programmable manner to achieve one or more of the following:
   1) Mutate a DNA sequence by cleaving inside it, creating a double strand break (DSB), to be
 5      somewhat degraded by the endogenous nucleases and re-ligated by the endogenous NHEJ
        DNA repair mechanism to create either an in-frame deletion and/or a frame-shift mutation
        of the DNA. As opposed to T-DNA or transposon insertion lines in plants, this method of
        deletion or mutation of an endogenous gene leaves behind no foreign DNA and the plant
        might be termed non-transgenic by some definitions. In NHEJ one or more nucleotides
10      may also be added in the DSB in a yet uncharacterized endogenous mechanism,
        essentially achieving the same effect of frame shifting or mutation.
   2) Delete a stretch of DNA sequence by cleaving two sequences flanking it, to be re-ligated
        by the endogenous NHEJ DNA repair mechanism, or by assisted HR by cleaving in or
        near the sequence to be deleted and supplying a donor DNA which is subsequently
15      recombined into the target, and which contains sequences flanking the sequence to be
        deleted in the target.
   3) Insert a donor nucleic acid into a DSB by cleaving a target nucleic acid and supplying a
        Donor DNA to be either ligated directly into the gap by the NHEJ mechanism, or
        preferably, supplying a donor that has homology to the ends of the gap to be recombined
20      and ligated into the gap by assisted HR.
   4) Replace a target nucleic acid sequence by cleaving both sequences flanking it, and
        supplying a donor nucleic acid to be inserted, to be ligated within the target flanking
        sequence either by NHEJ, or preferably, recombined and ligated by HR, by adding
        sequences similar to the target nucleic acid, or those flanking it, at the termini of the
25       donor.
             According to some embodiments, and without wishing to be bound to theory or
   mechanisms, the advantages of the compositions and methods disclosed herein, include the
   creation of a general enzymatic complex construction scheme that can target an unlimited
   selection of sequences. Once a protein component has been optimized for a specific purpose
30  (e.g. dsDNA cleavage), this same protein can be used with an unlimited selection of
   programming nucleic acid (SCNA) sequences. Thus, the diversity of target sequences to be
    affected is achieved by the design of the SCNA, without the difficult and time-consuming
   necessity of protein re-design and optimization, which is inherent in other methods known in
   the art, such as, TALENs, ZFNs and Meganucleases, where the protein itself must be

       WO 2013/088446                                                            PCT/IL2012/050528
                                                    10
   changed and adapted for every target sequence. Designing and preparing synthetic SCNAs is
   relatively simple, rapid and relatively inexpensive. It is also possible, in some embodiments
   of this invention, to produce SCNAs in-vivo, circumventing the necessity to deliver
   chemically synthesized SCNAs to a cell. Furthermore, SCNAs can be designed to base pair to
 5 almost any desired target sequence, and thus, can direct the molecular complex to almost any
   target sequence. Moreover, several target sequences may be used in the same cell
   concomitantly. For example, in editing functions which require more than one cleavage site,
   such as deletion or replacement of specific stretches of nucleic acid, by simply providing four
   different SCNAs and one protein moiety.
10           According to some embodiments, there is thus provided a nucleo-protein composition
    for modifying a predetermined target site in a target nucleic acid sequence in a target cell, the
    composition comprising: a polynucleotide molecule encoding a polypeptide, or a polypeptide,
    said polypeptide comprising: (i) a functional (effector) domain (FD) capable of modifying
    said target site, the functional domain being devoid of a specific nucleic acid binding site; and
15  (ii) a linking domain (LD), capable of interacting with a specificity conferring nucleic acid
    (SCNA), wherein the linking domain being devoid of a specific target nucleic acid binding
    site; and; (b) the specificity conferring nucleic acid (SCNA) or a nucleic acid encoding for
    the SCNA, the SCNA comprising: (i) a nucleotide sequence complementary to a region of the
    target nucleic acid flanking the target site; and (ii) a recognition region capable of specifically
20  attaching to the linking domain of the polypeptide with high binding affinity; whereby
    assembly of the polypeptide and the SCNA within the target cell forms a functional
    nucleoprotein complex, capable of specifically modifying said target nucleic acid at the target
    site.
             In some embodiments, the functional domain comprises a catalytic domain. In some
25  embodiments, the polypeptide further comprises a subcellular localization domain.
             In some embodiments, modifying the target nucleic acid is selected from: mutation,
    deletion, insertion, replacement, binding, digestion, double-strand-break creation, nicking,
    methylation, acetylation, ligation, recombination, helix unwinding, chemical modification,
    labelling, activation and inactivation.
30           According to some embodiments, the SCNA comprises a nucleic acid molecule
    selected from the group consisting of a single-strand DNA, a single strand RNA, a double
     strand RNA, a modified DNA, a modified RNA, a locked-nucleic acid (LNA) and a peptide
    nucleic acid (PNA) or combinations thereof.

       WO 2013/088446                                                          PCT/IL2012/050528
                                                   11
           In some embodiments, the recognition region of the SCNA comprises a modification
   selected from 5'-end modification, 3'-end modification, and internal modification. In some
   embodiments, the chemical modification is selected from the group consisting of a nucleotide
   modification, and addition of a non nucleotide moiety. In some embodiments, the the non
 5 nucleotide moiety is selected from: Biotin, Fluorescein, Amine-linkers, oligo-peptides,
   Aminoallyl, a dye molecule, fluorophores, Digoxigenin, Acrydite, Adenylation, Azide, NHS
   Ester,   Cholesteryl-TEG,     Alkynes,   Photocleavable     Biotin, Thiol, Dithiol.     In some
   embodiments, the nucleotide modification is selected from the group consisting of phosphate,
   2-Aminopurine,      Trimer-20,   2,6-Diaminopurine,     5-Bromo-deoxiUridine,       DeoxiUridine,
10 Inverted dT, dideoxi-nucleotides, 5-methyl deoxyCytidine, deoxyInosine, 5-nitroindole, 2-0
   methyl RNA bases, Iso-dC, Iso-dG, Fluorine modified bases and Phosphorothioate bonds. In
   some embodiemtns, the modification is selected from the group consisting of a nucleotide
   modification, Biotin, Fluorescein, Amine-linkers,          oligo-peptides,   Aminoallyl,   a dye
   molecule,     fluorophores,    Digoxygenin,    Acrydite,     Adenylation,    Azide,   NHS-Ester,
15  Cholesteryl-TEG, Alkynes, Photocleavable Biotin, Thiol, Dithiol, Modified bases, phosphate,
    2-Aminopurine,     Trimer-20,    2,6-Diaminopurine,     5-Bromo-deoxiUridine,      DeoxiUridine,
    Inverted dT, dideoxi-nucleotides, 5-methyl deoxyCytidine, deoxylnosine, 5-nitroindole, 2-0
    methyl RNA bases, Iso-dC, Iso-dG, Flourine modified bases and Phosphorothioate bonds,
    and proteins covalently bound by their interaction with the specific nucleotide sequences. In
20  some embodiments, proteins covalently bound by their interaction with the specific
    nucleotide sequences may be selected from, but not limited to: Agrobacterium VirD2 protein,
    Picornavirus VPg, Topoisomerase, PhiX174 phage A protein, PhiX A* protein and any
    variants thereof
            In some embodiments, the attachment/binding/association between the modification
25  on the SCNA and the linking domain results from an interaction of a binding-pair selected
    from non-covalent interaction of a binding-pair selected from, but not limited to: Biotin
    Avidin; Biotin-Streptavidin; Biotin-modified forms of Avidin; protein-protein; protein
    nucleic acid interactions; ligand-receptor interactions; ligand-substrate interactions; antibody
    antigen; single chain antibody-antigen; antibody or single chain antibody-hapten; hormone
30  hormone binding protein; receptor-agonist; receptor-receptor antagonist; IgG-protein A;
    enzyme-enzyme cofactor; enzyme-enzyme inhibitor; single-strand DNA-VirE2; StickyC
    dsDNA; RISC - RNA; viral coat protein-nucleic acid; anti-Fluorescein single-chain variable
    fragment antibody (anti-FAM ScFV) - Fluorescein; anti-DIG single-chain variable fragment

       WO 2013/088446                                                          PCT/IL2012/050528
                                                     12
   (scFv) immunoglobin (DIG-ScFv) - Digoxigenin (DIG) and Agrobacterium VirD2- VirD2
   binding protein; and any variants thereof
             In some embodiments, the recognition region of the SCNA comprises a nucleotide
   motif capable of specifically attaching/binding/associating to the linking domain of the
 5 chimeric protein. In some embodiments, the attachment/association/binding between the
   nucleotide motif and the linking domain is selected from, but not limited to: Zinc finger
   protein- Zinc finger motif; restriction enzyme recognition domain- restriction enzyme
   recognition sequence; DNA binding domain of transcription factor- DNA motif; repressor
   operator; Leucine zipper -promoter; Helix loop helix- E box domain; RNA binding motifs
10  comprising Arginine-Rich Motif domains, ac protein domains, RNA Recognition Motif
    (RRM) domains, K-Homology Domains, Double Stranded RNA Binding Motifs, RNA
   binding Zinc Fingers, and RNA-Targeting Enzymes- cognate specific RNA sequence; HIV
   rev protein- Stem IIB of the HIV rev response element (RRE); Bovine immunodeficiency
   virus (BIV) Tat main binding domain- loop 1 of the BIV trans-acting response element
15  (TAR) sequence; Phage lambda, phi2l, and P22 Nproteins- The boxB loop hairpins in the N
    utilization (nut) sites in their respective RNAs.
             According to some embodiments, there is provided a method for modifying a
    predetermined target site within a target nucleic acid sequence by a programmable
    nucleoprotein molecular complex, the method comprising the steps of: a) delivering a nucleic
20  acid sequence encoding a programmable chimeric protein (polypeptide) or the protein
    (polypeptide) to a host cell; b) delivering a specificity-conferring nucleic acid (SCNA)
    molecule, or a nucleic acid encoding for the SCNA to said host cell; c) binding of said
    chimeric protein to the SCNA, thereby targeting the chimeric protein to the predetermined
    target nucleic acid sequence within the host cell, to form an active programmed nucleoprotein
25  complex ;and d) allowing the modification of the predetermined target site of the target
    nucleic acid sequence by said active programmed nucleoprotein molecular complex.
              In some embodiments, there is provided a method for modifying a predetermined
    target site within a target nucleic acid sequence by a programmable nucleoprotein molecular
    complex, the method comprising the steps of:
30            a. delivering a nucleic acid sequence          encoding   a programmable     chimeric
                 polypeptide to a host cell, said chimeric polypeptide comprising:
                     (i) a functional domain capable of modifying said target site, the functional
                     domain being devoid of a specific nucleic acid binding site; and

      WO 2013/088446                                                            PCT/IL2012/050528
                                                   13
                   (ii) a linking domain that is capable of interacting with a specificity conferring
                   nucleic acid, wherein the linking domain being devoid of a specific target
                   nucleic acid binding site;
           b. delivering a specificity-conferring nucleic acid (SCNA) molecule, or a nucleic
 5             acid encoding the SCNA to said host cell, said SCNA molecule comprising:
                   (i) a nucleotide sequence complementary to a region of the target nucleic acid
                   flanking the target site; and
                   (ii) a recognition region capable of specifically attaching to the linking domain
                   of the polypeptide with high binding affinity;
10         wherein expression of the polypeptide in the cell harboring the SCNA enables
   attachment of said chimeric polypeptide to the SCNA, forming an active programmed
   nucleoprotein complex, thereby targeting the chimeric polypeptide to the predetermined
   target nucleic acid sequence within the host cell, enabling the modification of the
   predetermined target site of the target nucleic acid sequence by said active programmed
15 nucleoprotein molecular complex.
           In some embodiments, the target nucleic acid is DNA. In some embodiments, the
   target DNA is genomic DNA. In some embodiments, the target nucleic acid sequence is an
   extra-chromosomal nucleic acid sequence. In some embodiments, the extra-chromosomal
   target nucleic acid sequence resides in an organelle selected from the group consisting of
20 mitochondria, chloroplast, amyloplast and chromoplast. In some embodiments, the target
   nucleic acid sequence is a viral nucleic acid sequence. In some embodiments, the target
   nucleic acid sequence is a prokaryotic nucleic acid sequence. In some embodiments, the
   target nucleic acid sequence is a synthetic nucleic acid sequence.
           In some embodiments, the modification is selected from mutation, deletion, insertion,
25 replacement, binding, digestion,         double-strand-break creation, nicking, methylation,
   acetylation, ligation, recombination, helix unwinding, chemical modification, labelling,
   activation and inactivation.
           In some embodiments, the chimeric protein (polypeptide) comprises a protein moiety
   having a nucleic acid modifying activity. In some embodiments, the chimeric protein
30 comprises a protein moiety having a nucleic acid functional modifier, wherein the functional
   modification is selected from the            group consisting of transcriptional        activation,
   transcriptional inactivation, RNA transcript silencing, alternative RNA splicing, chromatin
   rearrangement, cellular parasite and virus inactivation and change in cellular localization or
   compartmentalization of said target nucleic acid sequence.

       WO 2013/088446                                                         PCT/IL2012/050528
                                                    14
            In some embodiments, the SCNA comprises a molecule selected from the group
   consisting of a single-strand DNA, a single strand RNA, a double strand RNA, a modified
   DNA, a modified RNA, a locked-nucleic acid (LNA) and a peptide-nucleic acid (PNA) or
   combinations thereof. In some embodiments, the SCNA comprises a specificity-defining
 5 sequence configured to specifically interact with the target nucleic acid. The interaction
   between the SCNA and the target nucleic acid is through base pairing, selected from the
   group consisting of a full double helix base pairing, a partial double helix base pairing, a full
   triple helix base pairing, a partial triple helix base pairing, and D-loops or branched forms,
   formed by said base pairing.
10          In additional embodiments, the SCNA comprises a recognition region, configured to
   associate/bind/attach with a linking domain of the chimeric protein. In some embodiments,
   the recognition region comprises a modification selected from the group consisting of 5'-end
   modification, 3'-end modification, and internal modification.         The modification may be
    selected from, but not limited to nucleotide modification, Biotin, Fluorescein, Amine-linkers,
15  oligo-peptides, Aminoallyl, a dye molecule,            fluorophores,  Digoxygenin, Acrydite,
   Adenylation, Azide, NHS-Ester, Cholesteryl-TEG, Alkynes, Photocleavable Biotin, Thiol,
    Dithiol, Modified bases, phosphate, 2-Aminopurine, Trimer-20, 2,6-Diaminopurine, 5
    Bromo-deoxiUridine,       DeoxiUridine,     Inverted     dT,   dideoxi-nucleotides,    5-methyl
    deoxyCytidine, deoxyInosine, 5-nitroindole, 2-0-methyl RNA bases, Iso-dC, Iso-dG,
20  Flourine modified bases and Phosphorothioate bonds, and proteins covalently bound by their
    interaction with the specific nucleotide sequences. The proteins covalently bound by their
    interaction with the specific nucleotide sequences are selected from Agrobacterium VirD2
    protein, Picornavirus VPg, Topoisomerase, PhiX174 phage A protein, PhiX A* protein and
    any variants thereof.
25           In some embodiments, the association/binding/attachment between the modification
    on the SCNA and the linking domain results from a non-covalent interaction of a binding-pair
    selected from: Biotin-Avidin; Biotin-Streptavidin; Biotin-modified forms of Avidin; Protein
    protein interactions; protein-nucleic acid interactions; ligand-receptor interactions; ligand
    substrate interactions; antibody-antigen interactions; single chain antibody-antigen; antibody
30  or single chain antibody-hapten interactions; hormone-hormone binding protein; receptor
    agonist; receptor-receptor antagonist; anti-Fluorescein single-chain variable fragment
    antibody (anti-FAM ScFV) - Fluorescein; anti-DIG single-chain variable fragment (scFv)
    immunoglobin (DIG-ScFv) - Digoxigenin (DIG); IgG- protein A; enzyme-enzyme cofactor;
    enzyme-enzyme inhibitor; single-strand DNA-VirE2; StickyC - dsDNA; RISC - RNA; viral

        WO 2013/088446                                                          PCT/IL2012/050528
                                                     15
    coat protein-nucleic acid and Agrobacterium VirD2- VirD2 binding protein; and any variants
    thereof
             In some embodiments, binding/association between the specificity conferring nucleic
    acid sequence and the linking domain of the protein moiety is covalently created in vivo. In
 5  some embodiments, the covalent association of the linking domain and the SCNA results
    from a biological interaction of Agrobacterium VirD2- Right border sequence or any variants
    thereof, and is created in a bacterium comprising Agrobacterium.
              In some embodiments, the recognition region comprises a nucleotide motif capable
     of interacting/attaching/binding with the linking domain of the chimeric protein. In some
10   embodiments, the interaction pair is selected from: Zinc finger protein- Zinc finger motif;
     restriction enzyme recognition domain- restriction enzyme recognition sequence; DNA
     binding domain of transcription factor- DNA motif; repressor- operator; Leucine zipper
     promoter; Helix loop helix- E box domain; RNA binding motifs comprising Arginine-Rich
     Motif domains, ac protein domains, RNA Recognition Motif (RRM) domains, K-Homology
15   Domains, Double Stranded RNA Binding Motifs, RNA-binding Zinc Fingers, and RNA
     Targeting Enzymes- cognate specific RNA sequence; HIV-rev protein- Stem IIB of the HIV
     rev response element (RRE); Bovine immunodeficiency virus (BIV) Tat main binding
     domain- loop 1 of the BIV trans-acting response element (TAR) sequence; Phage lambda,
     phi21, and P22 Nproteins- The boxB loop hairpins in the N-utilization (nut) sites in their
20   respective RNAs.
              According to some embodiments, the predetermined target nucleic acid sequence is
     involved in a genetic trait, and the modification results in changes in the transcription or
     translation of a genetic element, by a technical procedure selected from the group consisting
      of permanently replacing, knocking-out, temporarily or permanently enhancing, shutting-off,
25    knocking-down, and frameshifting. In some embodiments, the genetic trait is modified by
      editing the genetic element sequence itself, its regulatory sequences, genes regulating the
      gene of interest or their regulatory sequences in a regulatory chain of events.
              According to further embodiments, there is provided a nucleo-protein complex,
      wherein a physical association between the protein moiety and the specificity conferring
 30   nucleic acid moiety form a programmed functional complex. In some embodiments, the
      physical association between the linking domain of the protein moiety and the SCNA is based
      on an affinity interaction selected from the group consisting of ligand-receptor, ligand
      substrate, hydrogen bonds, van der Waals bonds, ionic bonds and hydrophobic interaction.

       WO 2013/088446                                                         PCT/IL2012/050528
                                                    16
           According to some embodiments, there is provided a host cell having a predetermined
   genetic modification in a predetermined target site, created by the method disclosed herein.
   In some embodiments, the host cell may be any type of cell, such as, but not limited to:
   vertebrate cell, mammalian cell, human cell, animal cell, plant cell, invertebrate cell,
 5 nematodal cell, insect cell, and a stem cell.
            According to some embodiments, there is provided a transgenic organism or knock
   out organism, having a predetermined genetic modification formed by the method described
   herein. In some embodiments, the organism is a plant or an animal.
            According to some embodiments, there is provided a method of treating a genetic
10  disease in an organism, the method comprising introducing into a cell of the organism the
   nucleoprotein programmable molecular complex.
            According to some embodiments, there is provided a host cell comprising:
            a) a polypeptide comprising:(i) a functional domain capable of modifying a target site
        in a target nucleic acid sequence in the cell, the functional domain being devoid of a
15      specific nucleic acid binding site; and (ii) a linking domain that is capable of interacting
        with a specificity conferring nucleic acid and being devoid of a specific target-nucleic
        acid binding site; and;
            (b) a specificity conferring nucleic acid (SCNA) comprising:
                   (i) a nucleotide sequence complementary to a region of the target nucleic acid
20                 flanking the target site; and (ii) a recognition region capable of specifically
                   attaching to the linking domain of the polypeptide;
            whereby assembly of the polypeptide and the SCNA within the host cell forms a
    functional nucleoprotein complex, capable of specifically modifying the target nucleic acid at
    the target site.
25          In some embodiments, there is provided a host cell harbouring: (a) a polynucleotide
    molecule encoding for a polypeptide, the polypeptide comprising:(i) a functional domain
    capable of modifying a target site in a target nucleic acid sequence in the cell, the functional
    domain being devoid of a specific nucleic acid binding site; and (ii) a linking domain that is
    capable of interacting with a specificity conferring nucleic acid and being devoid of a specific
30  target-nucleic acid binding site; and (b) a specificity conferring nucleic acid (SCNA)
    comprising: (i) a nucleotide sequence complementary to a region of the target nucleic acid
    flanking the target site; and (ii) a recognition region capable of specifically attaching to the
    linking domain of the polypeptide; whereby assembly of the polypeptide and the SCNA

      WO 2013/088446                                                        PCT/IL2012/050528
                                                   17
   within the host cell forms a functional nucleoprotein complex, capable of specifically
   modifying the target nucleic acid at the target site.
   BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
 5 Figures 1A-B are schematic cartoons showing elements/components of a programmable
   molecular complex, according to some embodiments;
   Figures 2A-B are schematic cartoons showing the assembly of the programmable molecular
   complex, according to some embodiments;
   Figure 3 demonstrates a 3D Modeled example of a molecular complex designed for cleavage
10 of a predefined nuclear dsDNA target sequence, according to some embodiments;
    Figures 4A-B are schematic drawings (not to scale) of exemplary mode of assembly of the
   components of the programmable molecular complex on a target nucleic acid, according to
   some embodiments.
   Figure 5 is a schematic scheme demonstrating the delivery of the programmable molecular
15 complex to a cell using in-vitro produced SCNAs, according to some embodiments;
   Figure 6 is a general scheme demonstrating the delivery of the programmable molecular
   complex to a cell using an in-vivo produced SCNA, according to some embodiments;
   Figures 7A-B are schemes showing non-limiting examples of the delivery of the
   programming nucleic acid moiety of the molecular complex to a cell using a single-strand
20 DNA SCNA produced in Agrobacterium (Fig. 7A) and bacterial secretion system (Fig. 7B),
   according to some embodiments;
   Figures 8A-B schematic illustration demonstrating the delivery of the programming moiety
   of the programmable molecular complex to a cell using RNA SCNAs produced
   Agrobacterium (Fig. 8A) or by an autonomously replicating vector such as a virus (Fig.8B),
25 according to some embodiments;
   Figure 9 shows a schematic illustration (not to scale) of a non-limiting example of a delivery
   vehicle or vector for concomitant delivery of the composition comprising the components
   necessary for the assembly of a programmable molecular complex to a susceptible target
   Eukaryotic cell in a single delivery event, according to some embodiments;
30 Figure 10 is a schematic illustration (not to scale) demonstrating the use of a programmed
   molecular complex to create a mutation in a Target nucleic acid, according to some
   embodiments.

      WO 2013/088446                                                       PCT/IL2012/050528
                                                 18
   Figure 11 is a schematic illustration (not to scale) demonstrating the use of a programmed
   molecular complex to insert one or a multiplicity of nucleotides into a Target nucleic acid
   using a supplied Donor nucleic acid, according to some embodiments.
   Figure 12 is a schematic illustration (not to scale) demonstrating the use of a programmed
 5 molecular complex to replace one or a multiplicity of nucleotides in a Target nucleic acid
   using a supplied Donor nucleic acid, according to some embodiments
   Figure 13 is a schematic illustration (not to scale) demonstrating the use of a programmed
   molecular complex to create a deletion of one or a consecutive multiplicity of nucleotides
   from a Target nucleic acid, according to some embodiments.
10 Figure 14 is a schematic illustration (not to scale) demonstrating the use of a programmed
   molecular complex to replace one or a multiplicity of nucleotides in a Target nucleic acid
   using a supplied Donor nucleic acid, according to some embodiments.
   Figure 15 shows a schematic illustration of a non-limiting example of a delivery vehicle or
   vector (not to scale) for concomitant delivery of the programmable molecular complex
15 protein (PMCP) to a susceptible target Eukaryotic cell together with a target sequence to test
   its activity, according to some embodiments, and as detailed in Example 10.
   Figure 16 shows a schematic drawing (not to scale) of parameters to empirically determine
   the optimal distance between SCNA pairs and to test capability of different types of
   programmed molecular complexes to specifically cleave a target DNA, as detailed in
20 Example 12.
   DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
            According to some embodiments, there are provided compositions and methods for
   modifying a predetermined target nucleic acid. Specifically disclosed are methods for
25 modifying a target sequence in-vivo, using a composition which comprises a programmable
   molecular complex. The programmable molecular complex (also referred to herein as a
    "nucleo-protein complex") comprises a protein moiety, (also referred to herein as a
   "programmable moiety"), and a nucleic acid moiety, (also referred to herein as a "specificity
   conferring nucleic acid" (SCNA) or "the programming nucleic acid"). According to some
30 embodiments, the components of the molecular complex self-assemble in-vivo in a living
    cell, organism, tissue, callus, organ or part thereof, whether differentiated or not, in the
   presence of a target nucleic acid sequence(s) to form an active, programmed functional
   molecular complex.

       WO 2013/088446                                                            PCT/IL2012/050528
                                                     19
            It is to be understood that the terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing
   particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting. It must be noted that, as used
   in the specification and the appended claims, the singular forms "a," "an" and "the" include
   plural referents unless the context clearly dictates otherwise.
 5          For the recitation of numeric ranges herein, each intervening number there between
   with the same degree of precision is explicitly contemplated. For example, for the range of 6
   9, the numbers 7 and 8 are contemplated in addition to 6 and 9, and for the range 6.0-7.0, the
   number 6.0, 6.1, 6.2, 6.3, 6.4, 6.5, 6.6, 6.7, 6.8, 6.9 and 7.0 are explicitly contemplated.
10 DEFINITIONS
    about
   As used herein, the term "about" refers to +/-10%.
    administering
    "Administering" is directed to providing a pharmaceutical agent or composition to a subject,
15  and includes, but is not limited to, administering by a medical professional and self
    administering.
    "Parenteral administration," means administration not through the intestines. Parenteral
    administration includes, but is not limited to, subcutaneous administration, intravenous
    administration, or intramuscular administration.
20  "Subcutaneous administration" means administration just below the skin.
    "Intravenous administration" means administration into a vein.
    "Intratumoral administration" means administration within a tumor.
    "Chemoembolization" means a procedure in which the blood supply to a tumor is blocked
    surgically or mechanically and chemotherapeutic agents are administered directly into the
25  tumor.
    antisense
    The term "antisense," as used herein, refers to nucleotide sequences which are
    complementary to a specific DNA or RNA sequence. The term "antisense strand" is used in
    reference to a nucleic acid strand that is complementary to the "sense" strand. Antisense
30  molecules may be produced by any method, including synthesis by ligating the gene(s) of
    interest in a reverse orientation to a viral promoter which permits the synthesis of a
    complementary strand. Once introduced into a cell, this transcribed strand combines with
    natural sequences produced by the cell to form duplexes. These duplexes then block either
    the further transcription or translation. In this manner, mutant phenotypes may be generated.

       WO 2013/088446                                                           PCT/IL2012/050528
                                                   20
   autonomously replicating vectors
   "Autonomously replicating vectors" are defined here as to comprise any natural or un-natural
   nucleic acid sequence capable of replicating within a host, comprising but not limited to
   viruses, modified viruses, certain recombinant vectors and plasmids, replicons and
 5 intracellular parasites.
   cell
   "Cell" is defined here as to comprise any type of cell, prokaryotic or a eukaryotic cell,
   isolated or not, cultured or not, differentiated or not, and comprising also higher level
   organizations of cells such as tissues, organs, calli, organisms or parts thereof. Exemplary
10 cells include, but are not limited to: vertebrate cells, mammalian cells, human cells, plant
   cells, animal cells, invertebrate cells, nematodal cells, insect cells, stem cells, and the like.
   complement
   "Complement" or "complementary" as used herein means Watson-Crick (e.g., A-T/U and C
   G) or Hoogsteen base pairing between nucleotides or nucleotide analogs of nucleic acid
15 molecules. A full complement or fully complementary may mean 100% complementary base
   pairing between nucleotides or nucleotide analogs of nucleic acid molecules. Partial
   complementary      may     mean    less   than  100%     complementarity,     for    example     80%
    complementarity.
    delivery vector
20  " delivery vector" or " delivery vectors" is directed to any delivery vector which can be used
    in the present invention to put into cell contact or deliver inside cells or subcellular
    compartments agents/chemicals and molecules (proteins or nucleic acids) needed in the
    present invention. It includes, but is not limited to, transducing vectors, liposomal delivery
    vectors, plasmid delivery vectors, viral delivery vectors, bacterial delivery vectors, drug
25  delivery vectors, chemical carriers, polymeric carriers, lipoplexes, polyplexes, dendrimers,
    microbubbles (ultrasound contrast agents), nanoparticles, emulsions or other appropriate
    transfer vectors. These       delivery vectors    allow    delivery    of molecules,     chemicals,
    macromolecules (genes, nucleic acid(s), proteins), or other vectors such as plasmids and T
    DNA. These delivery vectors are molecule carriers.
30  dose
    "Dose" as used herein means a specified quantity of a pharmaceutical agent provided in a
    single administration. In certain embodiments, a dose may be administered in two or more
    boluses, tablets, or injections. For example, in certain embodiments, where subcutaneous
    administration is desired, the desired dose requires a volume not easily accommodated by a

       WO 2013/088446                                                          PCT/IL2012/050528
                                                    21
   single injection. In such embodiments, two or more injections may be used to achieve the
   desired dose. In certain embodiments, a dose may be administered in two or more injections
   to minimize injection site reaction in an individual.
   dosage unit
 5 "Dosage unit" as used herein means a form in which a pharmaceutical agent is provided. In
   certain embodiments, a dosage unit is a vial containing lyophilized oligonucleotide. In certain
   embodiments, a dosage unit is a vial containing reconstituted oligonucleotide.
   donor nucleic acid
   "Donor nucleic acid" is defined here as any nucleic acid supplied to an organism or
10 receptacle to be inserted or recombined wholly or partially into the target sequence either by
   DNA repair mechanisms, homologous recombination (HR), or by non-homologous end
   joining (NHEJ).
    duration
    "Duration" as used herein means the period of time during which an activity or event
15  continues. In certain embodiments, the duration of treatment is the period of time during
    which doses of a pharmaceutical agent or pharmaceutical composition are administered.
    expression vector
    "Expression vector" as used herein means any nucleic acid designed to artificially encode an
    exogenous protein or proteins in a host cell. Examples for expression vectors comprise
20  plasmid DNA, T-DNA, Virus- RNA, ssDNA or dsDNA, Replicons, autonomously
    replicating vectors, linear ssDNA, linear dsDNA, phi polymerase products, RNA transcript,
    circular RNA, and in some applications of this invention, genomic and organellar DNA
    transferred into the host cell.
    fragment
25  "Fragment" is used herein to indicate a non-full length part of a nucleic acid or polypeptide.
    Thus, a fragment is itself also a nucleic acid or polypeptide, respectively.
    gene
    "Gene" as used herein may be a natural (e.g., genomic) or synthetic gene comprising
    transcriptional and/or translational regulatory sequences and/or a coding region and/or non
30  translated sequences (e.g., introns, 5'- and 3'-untranslated sequences). The coding region of a
    gene may be a nucleotide sequence coding for an amino acid sequence or a functional RNA,
    such as tRNA, rRNA, catalytic RNA, siRNA, miRNA or antisense RNA. A gene may also be
     an mRNA or cDNA corresponding to the coding regions (e.g., exons and miRNA) optionally
     comprising 5'- or 3'-untranslated sequences linked thereto. A gene may also be an amplified

       WO 2013/088446                                                         PCT/IL2012/050528
                                                   22
   nucleic acid molecule produced in vitro comprising all or a part of the coding region and/or
   5'- or 3'-untranslated sequences linked thereto.
   gene targeting
   "Gene targeting" is used herein as any genetic technique that induces a permanent change to
 5 a target nucleic acid sequence including deletion, insertion, mutation and replacement of
   nucleotides in a target sequence.
   genomic modification
   "Genomic modification" is used herein as any modification generated in a genome or a
   chromosome or extra-chromosomal DNA or organellar DNA of an organism as the result of
10 gene targeting or gene-functional modification.
   host cell
   "Host cell" used herein may be a naturally occurring cell or a transformed cell that may
   contain a vector. Host cells may be cultured cells, explants, cells in vivo, and the like. Host
   cells may be prokaryotic cells such as E. coli, or eukaryotic cells such as plant, yeast, insect,
15 amphibian, or mammalian cells, such as CHO and HeLa.
   According to some embodiments, said host cell is a whole or partial, differentiated or
   undifferentiated, cell in organism, organ, tissue or callus.
   identity
    "Identical" or "identity" as used herein in the context of two or more nucleic acids or
20 polypeptide sequences mean that the sequences have a specified percentage of residues that
    are the same over a specified region. The percentage may be calculated by optimally aligning
   the two sequences, comparing the two sequences over the specified region, determining the
   number of positions at which the identical residue occurs in both sequences to yield the
    number of matched positions, dividing the number of matched positions by the total number
25  of positions in the specified region, and multiplying the result by 100 to yield the percentage
    of sequence identity. In cases where the two sequences are of different lengths or the
    alignment produces one or more staggered ends and the specified region of comparison
    includes only a single sequence, the residues of the single sequence are included in the
    denominator but not the numerator of the calculation. When comparing DNA and RNA,
30  thymine (T) and uracil (U) may be considered equivalent. Identity may be performed
    manually or by using a computer sequence algorithm such as BLAST or BLAST 2.0.
    inhibit
    "Inhibit" as used herein may mean prevent, suppress, repress, reduce or eliminate.

       WO 2013/088446                                                          PCT/IL2012/050528
                                                    23
   in-vitro
   "In-vitro" is defined herein as an artificial environment outside the membranes of a whole or
   partial, differentiated or undifferentiated, living organism, organ, tissue, callus or cell. In
   some embodiments, the term in-vitro is not inside a viable cell.
 5 in-vivo
   "In-vivo" is defined herein as inside a whole or partial, differentiated or undifferentiated,
   organism, organ, tissue, callus or cell.
   kits
   A kit as used herein may comprise the compositions described herein together with any or all
10 of the following: assay reagents, buffers, probes and/or primers, and sterile saline or another
   pharmaceutically acceptable emulsion and suspension base. In addition, the kits may include
   instructional materials containing directions (e.g., protocols) for the practice of the methods
   described herein.
   label
15  "Label" as used herein means a composition detectable by spectroscopic, photochemical,
   biochemical, immunochemical, chemical, or other physical means. For example, useful labels
            32
   include     P, fluorescent dyes, electron-dense reagents, enzymes (e.g., as commonly used in an
   ELISA), biotin, digoxigenin, or haptens and other entities which can be made detectable. A
    label may be incorporated into nucleic acids and proteins at any position.
20  mismatch
    "Mismatch" means a nucleobase of a first nucleic acid that is not capable of pairing with a
   nucleobase at a corresponding position of a second nucleic acid.
    modified oligonucleotide
    "Modified oligonucleotide" as used herein means an oligonucleotide having one or more
25 modifications relative to a naturally occurring terminus, sugar, nucleobase, and/or
    internucleoside linkage.
    modulation
    "Modulation" as used herein means a perturbation of function and/or activity and/or structure.
    In certain embodiments, modulation means an increase in gene expression. In certain
30  embodiments, modulation means a decrease in gene expression.
    mutant
    "Mutant" as used herein refers to a sequence in which at least a portion of the functionality of
   the sequence has been lost, for example, changes to the sequence in a promoter or enhancer
   region will affect at least partially the expression of a coding sequence in an organism. As

      WO 2013/088446                                                         PCT/IL2012/050528
                                                  24
   used herein, the term "mutation," refers to any change in a sequence in a nucleic acid
   sequence that may arise such as from a deletion, addition, substitution, or rearrangement. The
   mutation may also affect one or more steps that the sequence is involved in. For example, a
   change in a DNA sequence may lead to the synthesis of an altered mRNA and/or a protein
 5 that is active, partially active or inactive.
   nucleic acid
   "Nucleic acid sequence" or "oligonucleotide" or "polynucleotide" as used herein mean at least
   two nucleotides covalently linked together. The depiction of a single strand also defines the
   sequence of the complementary strand. Thus, a nucleic acid also encompasses the
10  complementary strand of a depicted single strand. Many variants of a nucleic acid may be
   used for the same purpose as a given nucleic acid. Thus, a nucleic acid also encompasses
    substantially identical nucleic acids and complements thereof. A single strand provides a
   probe that may hybridize to a target sequence under stringent hybridization conditions. Thus,
    a nucleic acid also encompasses a probe that hybridizes under stringent hybridization
15  conditions.
   Nucleic acids may be single stranded or double stranded, or may contain portions of both
    double stranded and single stranded sequence. The nucleic acid may be DNA, both genomic
    and cDNA, RNA, or a hybrid, where the nucleic acid may contain combinations of
    deoxyribo- and ribo-nucleotides, and combinations of bases including uracil, adenine,
20  thymine, cytosine, guanine, inosine, xanthine hypoxanthine, isocytosine and isoguanine.
    Nucleic acids may be obtained by chemical synthesis methods or by recombinant methods.
    A nucleic acid will generally contain phosphodiester bonds, although nucleic acid analogs
    may be included that may have at least one different linkage, e.g., phosphoramidate,
    phosphorothioate, phosphorodithioate, or O-methylphosphoroamidite linkages and peptide
25  nucleic acid backbones and linkages. Other analog nucleic acids include those with positive
    backbones; non-ionic backbones, and non-ribose backbones, including those described in
    U.S. Pat. Nos. 5,235,033 and 5,034,506, which are incorporated by reference. Nucleic acids
    containing one or more non-naturally occurring or modified nucleotides are also included
    within one definition of nucleic acids. The modified nucleotide analog may be located for
30  example at the 5'-end and/or the 3'-end of the nucleic acid molecule. Representative examples
    of nucleotide analogs may be selected from sugar- or backbone-modified ribonucleotides. It
    should be noted, however, that also nucleobase-modified ribonucleotides, i.e. ribonucleotides,
    containing a non-naturally occurring nucleobase instead of a naturally occurring nucleobase
    such as uridines or cytidines modified at the 5-position, e.g. 5-(2-amino) propyl uridine, 5-

      WO 2013/088446                                                        PCT/IL2012/050528
                                                  25
   bromo uridine; adenosines and guanosines modified at the 8-position, e.g. 8-bromo
   guanosine; deaza nucleotides, e.g. 7-deaza-adenosine; 0- and N-alkylated nucleotides, e.g.
   N6-methyl adenosine are suitable. The 2'-OH-group may be replaced by a group selected
   from H, OR, R, halo, SH, SR, NH2, NHR, NR2 or CN, wherein R is C1-C6 alkyl, alkenyl or
 5 alkynyl and halo is F, Cl, Br or I. Modified nucleotides also include nucleotides conjugated
   with cholesterol through, e.g., a hydroxyprolinol linkage. Modifications of the ribose
   phosphate backbone may be done for a variety of reasons, e.g., to increase the stability and
   half-life of such molecules in physiological environments, to enhance diffusion across cell
   membranes, or as probes on a biochip. The backbone modification may also enhance
10 resistance to degradation, such as in the harsh endocytic environment of cells. The backbone
   modification may also reduce nucleic acid clearance by hepatocytes, such as in the liver.
   Mixtures of naturally occurring nucleic acids and analogs may be made; alternatively,
   mixtures of different nucleic acid analogs, and mixtures of naturally occurring nucleic acids
   and analogs may be made.
15  operably linked
    "Operably linked" used herein may mean that expression of a gene is under the control of a
   promoter with which it is spatially connected. A promoter may be positioned 5' (upstream) or
    3' (downstream) of a gene under its control. The distance between the promoter and a gene
    may be approximately the same as the distance between that promoter and the gene it
20  controls in the gene from which the promoter is derived. As is known in the art, variation in
    this distance may be accommodated without loss of promoter function.
    promoter
    "Promoter" as used herein may mean a synthetic or naturally-derived molecule which is
    capable of conferring, activating or enhancing expression of a nucleic acid in a cell. A
25  promoter may comprise one or more specific transcriptional regulatory sequences to further
    enhance expression and/or to alter the spatial expression and/or temporal expression of same.
    A promoter may also comprise distal enhancer or repressor elements, which can be located as
    much as several thousand base pairs from the start site of transcription. A promoter may be
    derived from sources including viral, bacterial, fungal, plants, insects, and animals. A
30  promoter may regulate the expression of a gene component constitutively, or differentially
    with respect to cell, the tissue or organ in which expression occurs or, with respect to the
    developmental stage at which expression occurs, or in response to external stimuli such as
    physiological stresses, pathogens, metal ions, or inducing agents. Representative examples of
    promoters include the bacteriophage T7 promoter, bacteriophage T3 promoter, SP6 promoter,

       WO 2013/088446                                                          PCT/IL2012/050528
                                                  26
   lac operator-promoter, tac promoter, SV40 late promoter, SV40 early promoter, RSV-LTR
   promoter, CMV IE promoter, , CaMV 35S promoter, NOS promoter, heat-shock promoters,
   Steroid-regulated promoters, Metal-regulated promoters, Seed promoters and plant ubiquitin
   promoters.
 5 recombinant host cells
   "Recombinant host cells" refers to cells which have been transformed with vectors
   constructed using recombinant DNA techniques.
   selectable marker
   "Selectable marker" used herein may mean any gene which confers a phenotype on a host
10 cell, tissue, organ, callus or organism in which it is expressed to facilitate their identification
   and/or selection of those which are transfected or transformed with a genetic construct.
   Representative examples of selectable markers include the ampicillin-resistance gene
   (AmpR), tetracycline-resistance gene (TcR), bacterial kanamycin-resistance gene (KanR),
   zeocin resistance gene, the AURI-C gene which confers resistance to the antibiotic
15  aureobasidin A, phosphinothricin-resistance gene (Bar), neomycin phosphotransferase gene
    (nptll), hygromycin-resistance gene, beta-glucuronidase        (GUS)    gene, chloramphenicol
    acetyltransferase (CAT) gene, green fluorescent protein (GFP)-encoding gene and luciferase
    gene. In some embodiments of this invention a selectable marker can be produced from a
   modification of an endogenous gene, for example abolishment of a chemokine receptor
20  expressed and displayed on the surface of a cell when a mutation of this gene results in a
    frame-shift mutation and can then be negatively selected with an antibody, or for example a
    W568L mutation in the Tobacco Acetolactate synthase gene which results in resistance the
    herbicides chlorsulfuron and imazaquin.
    stringent hybridization conditions
25  "Stringent hybridization conditions" as used herein mean conditions under which a first
    nucleic acid sequence (e.g., probe) will hybridize to a second nucleic acid sequence (e.g.,
    target), such as in a complex mixture of nucleic acids. Stringent conditions are sequence
    dependent and will be different in different circumstances. Stringent conditions may be
    selected to be about 5-10*C lower than the thermal melting point (Tm) for the specific
30  sequence at a defined ionic strength and pH. The Tm may be the temperature (under defined
    ionic strength, pH, and nucleic acid concentration) at which 50%                  of the probes
    complementary to the target hybridize to the target sequence at equilibrium (as the target
    sequences are present in excess, at Tm, 50% of the probes are occupied at equilibrium).

       WO 2013/088446                                                          PCT/IL2012/050528
                                                   27
   Stringent conditions may be those in which the salt concentration is less than about 1.0 M
   sodium ion, such as about 0.01-1.0 M sodium ion concentration (or other salts) at pH 7.0 to
   8.3 and the temperature is at least about 30'C for short probes (e.g., about 10-50 nucleotides)
   and at least about 60*C for long probes (e.g., greater than about 50 nucleotides). Stringent
 5 conditions may also be achieved with the addition of destabilizing agents such as formamide.
   For selective or specific hybridization, a positive signal may be at least 2 to 10 times
   background hybridization. Exemplary stringent hybridization conditions include                 the
   following: 50% formamide, 5x SSC, and 1% SDS, incubating at 42'C, or, 5x SSC, 1% SDS,
   incubating at 65*C, with wash in 0.2x SSC, and 0.1% SDS at 65'C.
10 complementary
   "complementary" as used herein means that a first sequence is at least 60%, 65%, 70%, 75%,
   80%, 85%, 90%, 95%, 97%, 98% or 99% identical to the complement of a second sequence
   over a region of 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 30, 35, 40,
   45, 50, 55, 60, 65, 70, 75, 80, 85, 90, 95, 100 or more nucleotides, or that the two sequences
15 hybridize under stringent hybridization conditions.
   substantially identical
    "Substantially identical" as used herein means that a first and a second sequence are at least
   60%, 65%, 70%, 75%, 80%, 85%, 90%, 95%, 97%, 98% or 99% identical over a region of 8,
   9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 30, 35, 40, 45, 50, 55, 60, 65,
20 70, 75, 80, 85, 90, 95, 100 or more nucleotides or amino acids, or with respect to nucleic
    acids, if the first sequence is substantially complementary to the complement of the second
    sequence.
    target nucleic acid
    "Target nucleic acid" or "target sequence" as used herein is any desired predetermined
25 nucleic acid sequence to be acted upon, including but not limited to coding or non-coding
    sequences, genes, exons or introns, regulatory sequences, intergenic sequences, synthetic
    sequences and intracellular parasite sequences. In some embodiments, the target nucleic acid
   resides within a target cell, tissue, organ or organism. The target nucleic acid comprises a
   target site, which includes one or more nucleotides within the target sequence, which are
30 modified to any extent by the methods and compositions disclosed herein. For example, the
    target site may comprise one nucleotide. For example, the target site may comprise 1-300
    nucleotides.    For example, the target site may comprise about 1-100 nucleotides.            For
    example, the target site may comprise about 1-50 nucleotides. For example, the target site

      WO 2013/088446                                                          PCT/IL2012/050528
                                                   28
   may comprise about 1-35 nucleotides.        In some embodiments, a target nucleic acid may
   include more than one target site, that may be identical or different.
   targeted gene-functional modification
   "Targeted gene-functional modification" and "target gene modification" are directed to any
 5 genetic technique that results in a permanent or temporary alteration in a target nucleic acid,
   including but not limited to deletion, insertion, mutation, replacement, nicking, methylation,
   acetylation, ligation, recombination, helix unwinding, chemical modification, labelling,
   activation, inactivation and repression of one or more nucleotides in a target sequence.
   therapy
10 "Therapy" as used herein means a disease treatment method. In certain embodiments, therapy
   includes, but is not limited to, chemotherapy, surgical resection, transplant, and/or
   chemoembolization.
   transgenic organism
   The term is directed to an organism having one or more target gene modification(s) in it's
15 genome, introduced by the compositions and methods disclosed herein.              For example,
   modification is selected from: insertion, mutation, replacement of one or more nucleotides,
   nicking, methylation, acetylation, ligation, recombination, helix unwinding, chemical
   modification, labelling, activation, inactivation and/or repression. The organism may be any
   type of organism, such as, human, animal, plant, and the like.
20 transient expression
   "Transient expression" or "transiently expressing" used herein may refer to the transcription,
   or translation from a provided nucleic acid in a whole or partial, differentiated or
   undifferentiated, organism, organ, tissue, callus or cell, said expression being limited due to
   non-integration of the provided nucleic acid into the stable nucleic acids of the organism,
25 organ, tissue, callus or cell comprising the genome or organellar nucleic acids. Vectors for
   transient expression comprise provided linear or circular ssDNA, dsDNA or RNA, plasmids,
   autonomously replicating vectors, viruses, in-vitro transcripts, T-DNA, synthetic nucleic
   acids and modified derivatives thereof. Thus, while transient expression is non-hereditable by
   definition, it may be expressed continuously in cell lineages and autonomously transferred
30 from cell to cell due to nucleic acid replication outside of a chromosome or an organellar
   genome.
   treat
   "Treat" or "treating" used herein when referring to protection of a subject from a condition
   may mean preventing, suppressing, repressing, or eliminating the condition. Preventing the

       WO 2013/088446                                                          PCT/IL2012/050528
                                                   29
   condition involves administering a composition described herein to a subject prior to onset of
   the condition. Suppressing the condition involves administering the composition to a subject
   after induction of the condition but before its clinical appearance. Repressing the condition
   involves administering the composition to a subject after clinical appearance of the condition
 5 such that the condition is reduced or prevented from worsening. Elimination of the condition
   involves administering the composition to a subject after clinical appearance of the condition
   such that the subject no longer suffers from the condition.
   variant
   "Variant" as used herein referring to a nucleic acid means (i) a portion of a referenced
10 nucleotide sequence; (ii) the complement of a referenced nucleotide sequence or portion
   thereof; (iii) a nucleic acid that is substantially identical to a referenced nucleic acid or the
    complement thereof; or (iv) a nucleic acid that hybridizes under stringent conditions to the
   referenced nucleic acid, complement thereof, or a sequence substantially identical thereto.
   vector
15  "Vector" as used herein means a nucleic acid sequence used for the purpose of nucleic acid
    delivery. A vector may be used in this invention to bring about genetic transformation, the
    expression of a protein, the transcription of an RNA, or to be used directly as a Donor for
    homologous recombination or non-homologous end-joining. A vector may be a plasmid
    DNA, T-DNA, Virus- RNA, ssDNA or dsDNA, Replicons, autonomously replicating vectors,
20  linear or circular ssDNA, linear or circular dsDNA, branched phi polymerase products,
    nucleic acid dendrimers, RNA transcript, circular RNA, bacteriophage, bacterial artificial
    chromosome or yeast artificial chromosome and in some applications of this invention,
    genomic and organellar DNA transferred into the host cell. A vector may be either non
    replicating, a self-replicating extrachromosomal vector or a vector which integrates into a
25  host genome.
    wild type
    As used herein, the term "wild type" sequence refers to a coding, a non-coding or an interface
    sequence which is an allelic form of sequence that performs the natural or normal function
    for that sequence. Wild type sequences include multiple allelic forms of a cognate sequence,
30  for example, multiple alleles of a wild type sequence may encode silent or conservative
    changes to the protein sequence that a coding sequence encodes.
            According to some embodiments, the composition comprising the programmable
    molecular complex which comprises a protein (polypeptidic) moiety, and a nucleic acid

         WO 2013/088446                                                          PCT/IL2012/050528
                                                      30
    moiety, self-assemble in-vivo in a living cell, organism, tissue, callus, organ or part thereof,
    in the presence of a target nucleic acid sequence(s) to form an active, programmed functional
    molecular complexes.
             According to some embodiments, the various programmed molecular complexes can
 5  be constructed to permanently or transiently modify an existing or imminent eukaryotic,
    prokaryotic, synthetic, intracellular parasite or viral target sequence such as that found in a
     genome, a nucleus, a chromosome, a cytoplasm, an organelle, or an extra-chromosomal
    nucleic acid. The target modification performed by the action of the molecular complex
     comprises       heritable     and     non-heritable,    permanent     and     transient    genetic
10   changes/modifications. In some embodiments, the target is comprised of a nucleic acid
     involved in a genetic trait of interest which would be advantageous to alter. Alterations in the
     targeted sequence include, for example, but not limited to: permanent deletion, mutation,
     insertion of nucleic acids, and replacement of a targeted sequence with another nucleic acid
     sequence, knocking-out, frame-shifting, or any change in any fashion of the transcription or
15   translation of a gene, its regulatory sequences, the genes regulating the gene of interest or
     their regulatory sequences in a regulatory chain of events. Permanent changes to the target
     nucleic acid include, for example, genetic. material editing or sequence alterations such as
     nucleic-acid mutation, deletion, insertion, replacement and recombination. Transient changes
     to the target sequence include, for example, binding, digestion, nicking, helix unwinding,
20    activation, inactivation, chemical modification, methylation, acetylation and labelling of the
     target nucleic acid. Target modification include, for example, target functional modification
      which can lead in the cell to changes in transcriptional activation, transcriptional inactivation,
      RNA silencing, alternative RNA splicing, chromatin rearrangement, intracellular parasite
      inactivation, and changes in cellular localization or compartmentalization of the target nucleic
25    acid.
               According to some embodiments, and without wishing to be bound to any theory or
      mechanism, the design of the programmable molecular complex, is based on its ability to
      self-assemble, its ability to target a predefined intended sequence on a target nucleic acid, and
      its ability to act upon the target sequence in a predetermined fashion. The components of the
 30   complex are modular and adjustable to be suitable for 1) particular types of molecular action
      required, 2) the target, and 3) the desired nucleic acid delivery method used for its expression
      in-vivo. The methods and compositions of the present disclosure have several advantages
      over other systems known in the art. For example, the protein moieties of the complex are in
      active as monomers, and only correct spacing, within a limited range, of the two SCNA

        WO 2013/088446                                                            PCT/IL2012/050528
                                                      31
    oligonucleotides that bind the target nucleic acid at a predetermined sequence, will result in
    placement of the effector domains of the protein moieties such that they dimerize and are able
    to specifically act upon the desired, predetermined target site. Such a setting, whereby only
    dimers of programmed molecular complexes (i.e. complex which comprises a protein moiety
 5  linked to the SCNA, which is bound to the target nucleic acid), reduces or completely
    eliminates potential off-site or non-specific cleavage, since the protein moiety by itself does
    not bind the target nucleic acid and does not act as a monomer.
             According to some embodiments, the active portion (functional domain), of the
    molecular complex is designed to be activated only upon dimerization of the functional
10   domain of the protein moiety. The unprogrammed protein component is designed to have low
     or practically no non-specific affinity to nucleic acid sequence and to the target site. Thus,
    while for all types of modifications a single type of monomer of the protein moiety needs to
     be expressed, for the minimal functions of point modification, such as, for example, a point
     mutation mediated by a nuclease domain, or alternatively, a point methylation mediated by a
15   methylase domain, two SCNAs, designed to bind sequences flanking the target site, should be
     present to affect the correct spacing of the proteins and allow both their binding and their
     dimerization with each other. This advantageously enhances the sequence-specificity of the
     complex. In some embodiments, for the editing functions of deletion and replacement, two
     different sites flanking the region of interest may need to be cleaved concomitantly. In such
20   embodiment, even in this case, only one exogenous protein component needs to be expressed
     along with four SCNAs. When the oligonucleotides are depleted, either by dilution or by
     degradation, the unprogrammed expressed protein has no affinity to the target nucleic acid
     and will cease to act upon it (i.e, in this case, cease cleaving the target nucleic acid).
              According to some embodiments the protein (polypeptide) moiety may be expressed
25   as separate polypeptides or as one contiguous protein (polypeptide). In some embodiments,
     the protein moiety (component) may have one or more identifiable domain(s), identifiable
     according to structure and/or function (utility). In some embodiments, one structural domain
     may have more than one utility domain, that is, a separable structural domain may have
     several functions. According to some embodiments, the protein moiety may comprise one or
 30  more of the following structural and/or utility domains: a) an "effector domain" (functional
      domain), that can interact with and consequently affect the target nucleic acid; and/or b) a
      "linking domain", that can directly or indirectly specifically bind the SCNA; and/or c) a
      "cellular localization domain"; and/or d) interdomain connectors or spacers; and any
      combination thereof.

       WO 2013/088446                                                        PCT/IL2012/050528
                                                    32
           According to some embodiments, the "Effector Domain" (also termed herein as
   "Functional Domain"), interacts with the target nucleic acid after assembly of the molecular
   complex and exert the intended effect on the target sequence. In some exemplary
   embodiments, this domain has an enzymatic or catalytic function, comprising a nucleic acid
 5 modifying activity. In some embodiments, this domain may be derived from active domains
   derived from whole, or portions of, or modified portions of proteins of known function such
   as, a DNA binding protein, a nuclease, a methylase, a methylated DNA binding factor, a
   transcription factor, a chromatin remodelling factor, a polymerase, a demethylase, an
   acetylase, a deacetylase, a kinase, a phosphatase, an integrase, a recombinase, a ligase, a
10 topoisomerase, a girase and a helicase. In some embodiments, the functional domain may be
   constructed by fusing amino-acid sequence(s) of active domains derived from whole, or
   portions of, or modified portions of proteins of known function comprising a DNA binding
   protein, a nuclease, a methylase, a methylated DNA binding factor, a transcription factor, a
   chromatin remodelling factor, a polymerase, a demethylase, an acetylase, a deacetylase, a
15 kinase, a phosphatase, an integrase, a recombinase, a ligase, a topoisomerase, a girase and a
   helicase.    In some embodiments, for an effector domain which is or is derived from a
   nuclease, the DNA-binding recognition domain of the nuclease may be removed.                 For
    example, when the effector domain is derived from a FokI nuclease, the FokI site recognition
    and binding domains are absent in the Effector domain of the protein moiety. In some
20  embodiments, the effector domain is devoid of a specific target-nucleic acid binding site, i.e.,
    it cannot specifically bind a specific target sequence.
            According to some embodiments, the "Linking Domain" is designed to directly or
    indirectly specifically bind/attach the SCNA (and in particular, to the SCNA recognition
    region). The binding/attachment between the linking domain and the SCNA can be direct, or
25  indirect through, for example, a modification on the SCNA. The attachments/binding/linking
    between the linking domain and the SCNA enables in vivo the assemblage of the SCNA with
    the protein moiety. In some embodiments, the linking domain is constructed by fusing the
    amino-acid sequence of the protein moiety to amino-acids incorporating a domain which
    specifically binds a nucleotide sequence or a chemical or a biological element on the
30  specificity-conferring nucleic acid. The physical interaction between the Linking Domain and
    the Specificity Conferring Nucleic Acid can be due to, but is not limited to, an affinity due to
    one or more of the following types of interactions; ligand-receptor, ligand-substrate,
    Hydrogen bonds, van der Waals bonds, Covalent bonds formed in-vivo, Ionic bonds and
    hydrophobic interactions. Non-covalent binding examples comprise, one or more, or of

       WO 2013/088446                                                        PCT/IL2012/050528
                                                   33
   fragments or portions or modified forms of the following: binding-pair examples: Biotin
   Avidin; Biotin-Streptavidin; Biotin-modified forms of Avidin; Protein-protein; nucleic acid
   protein; ligand-receptor; substrate-ligand; antigen-antibody; antigen-single chain antibody;
   hapten- antibody or -single chain antibody; hormone-hormone binding protein; agonist
 5 receptor; receptor antagonist-receptor; protein A- IgG; enzyme cofactor- enzyme; enzyme
   inhibitor-enzyme; single-strand DNA-VirE2; dsDNA-StickyC; RNA- Argonaute family
   protein; dsRNA-RnaseIII family protein; nucleic acid-viral coat protein and Agrobacterium
   VirD2 or parts thereof- VirD2 binding protein, whereby each of the Specificity-Conferring
   Nucleic Acid and Linking Domain comprise one of the pair members. In an exemplary
10 embodiment, the Linking Domain contains a single chain antibody ScFV capable of binding
   the dye Fluorescein which in turn is chemically linked via a linker to a 5'-terminus or a 3'
   terminus of the Specificity-Conferring Nucleic Acid, thus enabling the association of the
   protein moiety and the nucleic acid moiety of the programmable complex. In some
    embodiments, the Linking Domain is derived from the C. Elegans PUF5 binding element
15  eight triple-helical repeat, and the Specificity-conferring nucleic acid (SCNA) contains the
    RNA sequence as set forth in SEQ ID NO: 1 (CUCUGUAUCUUGU) at or sufficiently near
    one of its termini. In this embodiment the protein and SCNA are directly brought together
    without the need for a chemical modification on the SCNA, permitting its biosynthesis in
    vivo as a transcript and thus enabling the in-vivo association of the protein moiety and the
20  nucleic acid moiety of the programmable complex. In some exemplary embodiments, an
    RNA sequence/molecule capable of forming secondary or tertiary structures (such as hairpin
    loop), located within the SCNA, interacts with the linking domain of the protein moiety,
    which is an RNA-motif-binding Linking Domain, derived from the viral TAT proteins (such
    as, HIV, BIV, and the like). In some exemplary embodiments, a 20-mer boxB RNA hairpin
25  binding sequence from bacteriophage Phi2l is located on the SCNA and is capable of
    binding/attaching it's counterpart linking Domain on the protein moiety, which is derived
    from the RNA-binding protein (RBP) bacteriophage Phi2l NProtein. In another exemplary
    embodiment, which allows the production of the SCNA in-vivo, the Linking Domain is
    derived from a protein which binds Agrobacterium VirD2 protein, comprising VirD2
30  binding proteins found in bacteria comprising VBP1, VBP2 and VBP3 and artificial single
    chain antibodies designed to bind VirD2. In this embodiment, the SCNA is produced as a
    ssDNA from a T-DNA in an Agrobacterium, where it is covalently bound at its 5'- terminus
    to tyrosine 29 of VirD2 which is required for the covalent association, whereby the covalent
    binding occurs in-vivo. The catalysis occurs in the bacterium and the complex is

        WO 2013/088446                                                       PCT/IL2012/050528
                                                       34
    subsequently exported from the bacterium through a bacterial secretion system into a
    eukaryotic cell comprising whole or partial plant-, animal- and human- cells, tissues, calli and
    organs. In this embodiment, the VirD2-binding domain in the Linking Domain binds the
    VirD2 protein attached to the SCNA thus enabling the association of the protein moiety and
 5  the nucleic acid moiety of the programmable complex. In this embodiment, modifications to
    VirD2 expressed in the bacterium could be designed that would decrease DNA integration
    and could be of benefit to avoid non-specific DNA integration.         Examples of Covalent
    binding formed in vivo in the target organism, comprise, respectively, on the recognition
    region of the SCNA, and in the Linking domain, one or more, of fragments or portions or
10  modified forms of, but not limited to, the following binding-pair example paired by a dash
    symbol; the RB sequence of T-DNA GTTTACCCGCCAATATATCCTGTCA (SEQ ID NO:
    2) - Agrobacterium VirD2; Picornavirus RNA - VPg; DNA - Topoisomerase; PhiX174 phage
    origin sequence on ssDNA- PhiX174 phage A protein or PhiX A* protein, and the like. In
     one exemplary embodiment of such an in-vivo SCNA-Linking Domain attachment, a
15   synthetic ssDNA oligonucleotide containing an RB sequence at or near its 5'-terminus is
     delivered to a cell where it encounters the protein moiety. The protein harbours a portion of
     VirD2 capable of cleaving the RB sequence and subsequently binds the rest of the
     oligonucleotide containing the sequence TCA at its 5' end, an appropriate spacer, and a
     target-base-pairing sequence, thus effectively "programming" the molecular complex in-vivo.
20   In some embodiments, the linking domain is devoid of a specific target-nucleic acid binding
     site, i.e., it cannot specifically bind a specific target sequence.
               According to some embodiments, a "cellular localization domain" which can localize
     the protein moiety or the programmed protein moiety or the assembled complex to a specific
     cellular or sub cellular localization in a living cell, may optionally be part of the protein
25   moiety. The cellular localization domain may be constructed by fusing the amino-acid
     sequence of the protein moiety to amino-acids incorporating a domain comprising a Nuclear
     localization signal (NLS); a Mitochondrial leader sequence (MLS); a Chloroplast leader
     sequence; and/or any sequences designed to transport or lead or localize a protein to a nucleic
     acid containing organelle, a cellular compartment or any subdivision of a cell. In some
 30  exemplary embodiments, the organism is eukaryotic and the cellular localization domain
      comprises a nuclear localization domain (NLS) which allows the protein access to the
     nucleus and the genomic DNA within. The sequence of said NLS may comprise any
      functional NLS positively charged sequence comprising, for example, the SV40NLS
      sequence PKKKRKV (SEQ ID NO: 3). In another exemplary embodiment, this domain is

       WO 2013/088446                                                        PCT/IL2012/050528
                                                  35
   comprised of a leader sequence enabling the entry of the protein moiety or of the
   programmed nucleo-protein into an organelle, enabling the desired modification of the
   organelle DNA by the complex. In another exemplary embodiment, a sequence derived from
   the Yeast mitochondrial Cox4p (MLSLRQSIRFFKPATRTLCSSRYLL (SEQ ID NO: 4)) or
 5 a sequence derived from the human malate dehydrogenase mitochondrial leader sequence
   (MLS) (MLSALARPASAALRRSFSTSAQNNAKVAVLGAS                          (SEQ ID NO: 5)) or derived
   from the Arabidopsis Lipoic acid synthase (NCBI Ref. Seq. ID: NP_179682.1 designated
   herein as SEQ ID NO: 6: MHSRSALLYRFLRPASRCFSSSS) may be used to localize the
   complex into a mitochondrial matrix to modify mitochondrial DNA. One use of this
10 application may include the curing of maternally inherited mitochondrial DNA defects in
   various Eukaryotes, such as Chronic Progressive External Ophthalmoplegia Syndrome in
   Humans. Another example is inducing defects to bring about male sterility in plants used for
    hybrid plant production. In one embodiment the mitochondrial target is an ATPase and
   reconstitutes the function of the pcf locus in Petunia.
15      According to further embodiments, optional various interdomain connectors or spacers
    designed to allow the desired function of the complex by serving as molecular adapters or
    hinges. Many such connectors may be foreseen by those skilled in the art. Choice of
    connector may affect the specificity of the programmed molecular complex by affecting the
    range of target nucleic acid in reach of the functional domain active site. In one exemplary
20  embodiment, the C' of the Linking Domain and the N' of the Functional Domain are flexibly
    connected with the amino acids GGSGG (SEQ ID NO: 7), spanning about 15 Angstrom. In
    another embodiment, a rigid Alpha-helix linker with the amino acids NIHHVTWHMDFP
    (SEQ ID NO: 8) spanning about 16 Angstrom is used. In another embodiment, a rigid helical
    linker with the amino acids PNSLIVP (SEQ ID NO: 9) spanning about 16.88 Angstrom is
25  used. In another embodiment, a disordered coiled linker with the amino acids TGLDSP
    (SEQ ID NO: 10) spanning about 15.55 Angstrom is used. Extra amino acids encoded by
    restriction enzyme sites may be added in the interdomain connector to facilitate exchanging
    protein modules (e.g. GSLE (SEQ ID NO: 11) encoding BamHI/XhoI).
             According to some embodiments, the nucleic-acid moiety of the molecular complex,
30  termed herein "Specificity-conferring nucleic acid" (SCNA) or "programming nucleic acid"
     comprises one or more portions (regions) and functions. One portion (region) defines the
    target region to be acted upon, and contains the specificity-defining sequence. The
     specificity-defining sequence in the SCNA defines its specificity to the target nucleic acid by
     base pairing. This pairing may form, for example, but not limited to: a full or partial double

       WO 2013/088446                                                           PCT/IL2012/050528
                                                   36
   helix, a full or partial triple helix, D-loops and branched forms, and may be the result of
   hydrogen bonds or Hoogsteen hydrogen bonds or combinations thereof. In some
   embodiments, the specificity-defining sequence is capable of interacting with the target
   nucleic acids, at regions which are proximate to, or flanking the target site. In some
 5 embodiments, the specificity-defining sequence of the SCNA does not bind/interact with the
   target site. In some embodiments, the specificity-defining sequence may include any number
   of nucleotides. For example, the specificity-defining sequence may be at a length of about 3
   200 nucleotides. For example, the specificity-defining sequence may be at a length of about
    10-100 nucleotides. For example, the specificity-defining sequence may be at a length of
10  about 15-50 nucleotides. For example, the specificity-defining sequence may be at a length
    of over about 18 nucleotides.
            According to some embodiments, a second portion of the SCNA, is the recognition
    region (portion), which is a region that can specifically bind/attach/recognize the linking
    domain of the protein moiety. In some embodiments, this recognition region may be and/or
15  include a modification or a Linking-Domain-recognition sequence (also termed herein as
    SCNA nucleotide motif or SCNA linking domain-binding nucleotide sequence). The
    recognition region may be an integral part or may be linked (for example, covalently) to the
    specificity-defining sequence, and may be composed of a sequence or a modification which
    enables the binding of the SCNA to the Linking Domain of the protein moiety, as detailed
20  above.
            In some embodiments, the SCNA is comprised of but not limited to, a molecule of the
    following types: single-strand DNA, single strand RNA, double strand RNA, modified DNA,
    modified RNA,       locked-nucleic    acid (LNA),     peptide-nucleic    acid (PNA)     and any
     combinations of the above. In some embodiments, the SCNA may additionally include one or
25   a multiplicity of modifications which may enhance its stability, enhance its specificity to the
    target, modify its affinity to nucleic acids and/or enable its binding to the Linking Domain of
    the complex. The modifications may be positioned at its 5' end, at its 3' end, as spacers
     and/or internally on the SCNA. Exemplary modifications include, but are not limited to,
    Nucleotides, Biotin, Fluorescein, Amine-linkers, oligo-peptides, Aminoallyl, a dye molecule,
30   fluorophores, Digoxygenin, Acrydite, Adenylation, Azide, NHS-Ester, Cholesteryl-TEG,
     Alkynes, Photocleavable Biotin, Thiol, Dithiol, Modified bases, phosphate, 2-Aminopurine,
     Trimer-20, 2,6-Diaminopurine, 5-Bromo-deoxiUridine, DeoxiUridine, Inverted dT, dideoxi
     nucleotides, 5-methyl deoxyCytidine, deoxylnosine, 5-nitroindole, 2-0-methyl RNA bases,

       WO 2013/088446                                                         PCT/IL2012/050528
                                                   37
   Iso-dC, Iso-dG, Flourine modified bases, Phosphorothioate bonds and the Agrobacterium
   VirD2 protein and parts of said VirD2 and modifications of VirD2.
           According to some embodiments, the SCNA may further include optional spacer
   sequences that may be used for optimizing the molecular distances and degrees of freedom
 5 necessary to bring together the linking domain and a target nucleic acid.              In some
   embodiments, the spacer sequences may be at a length of about 0-100 nucleotides.             For
   example, the spacer may be at a length of about 0-6 nucleotides.
            According to some embodiments, the SCNA may be produced chemically and/or
   biologically, in-vitro and in-vivo, and the modification may be pre-synthesized or added post
10 synthesis. In some exemplary embodiments, the SCNA is produced chemically and is
   composed of phosphorothioate-modified ssDNA which is modified at one of its termini by
   the linking of a C6-Fluorescein dye molecule. This SCNA is consequently delivered to a cell,
   (for example, by particle bombardment, Polyethylene glycol transfection, liposomes, viral
   particles, silicon-carbide whiskers and/or electroporation) where it encounters both the
15 protein component of the molecular complex, which comprises a Linking Domain comprising
    a single chain antibody ScFV capable of binding the dye Fluorescein, thus programming the
   molecular complex, and delivering/targeting the complex to its intended target nucleotide
    sequence. According to some embodiments, the SCNA does not bind/interact with the target
    site.
20          Reference is now made to Figs. 1A-B which are schematic cartoons (not to scale)
    showing elements/components of a programmable molecular complex, according to some
    embodiments. The schematic cartoons (not to scale) of Figs 1A-B, show a molecule of a
    programmable protein moiety as a monomer, and two molecules of specificity conferring
    nucleic acids (SCNA). As shown in Figs. lA-B, the protein moiety is a polypeptide (a chain
25  of amino-acids) arranged into several structural/functional domains: a linking domain (LD), a
    functional or Effector Domain (FD); an optional Cellular Localization Domain (CLD) and an
    optional interdomain connector(s) (IDC), each defined by their role in the molecular
    complex. The function of the linking domain is to bind the SCNA. The function of the
    Effector domain is to interact with the target nucleic acid and structurally modify the target
30  site and/or modify it's function and/or the function of the entire target nucleic acid. The
    function of the optional cellular localization domain is to localize the protein complex to the
    same cellular or subcellular compartment as the target nucleic acid. The function of the
    optional interdomain connectors is to allow optimal molecular distances and degrees of
    freedom between domains for the proper function of the complex. The SCNAs are comprised

       WO 2013/088446                                                        PCT/IL2012/050528
                                                    38
   of a nucleic acid chain or a modified nucleic acid chain (comb shape) and include a
   modification, preferably at one of its termini (shown in Fig. 1A as black oval) for binding to
   the protein moiety, or a sequence, (termed the SCNA-nucleotide motif, or Linking-domain
   binding nucleotide sequence or Linking-Domain-recognition sequence or segment, shown in
 5 Fig. 1B, arrow marked comb), which can bind the linking domain on the protein moiety. In
   the non-limiting example presented in Figs 1A-B, the specificity determining portion of the
   SCNA is single stranded.        In some embodiments, the SCNA may form double strand
   segments/regions (by self annealing, such as forming hairpin loops). The specificity of the
   SCNA to a predetermined target nucleic acid sequence is achieved through a stretch of base
10 pairing nucleic acids or modified nucleic acids (Target nucleic acid base-pairing, comb
   shape), also termed the variable sequence, which may include any number of nucleotides,
   such as, 3- 200 nucleotides, and any ranges thereof. For example, the length can be 10-100
   nucleotides.     For example, the length can be at least 18 nucleotides. Optional spacer
    sequences (Spacer sequence, comb shape), may be present for optimizing the molecular
15  distances and degrees of freedom necessary to bring together the linking domain and a target
   nucleic acid. In some embodiments, the spacer sequences may be at a length of about 0-100
   nucleotides. For example, the spacer may be at a length of about 0-6 nucleotides. Action or
    effect of the functional domain of the protein moiety, which occurs upon binding to the
    SCNA linking domain and dimerization and its consequent co-localization to the target
20  nucleic acid, is portrayed as a lightning symbol ("Action/Effect").
            Reference is now made to Figs. 2A-B, which are schematic cartoons showing the
    assembly of the programmable molecular complex, according to some embodiments. The
    schematic cartoons (not to scale) of Figs 2A-B demonstrate mode of assembly of the
    components of the programmable molecular complex on a target nucleic acid. In the example
25  shown in Figs 2A-B, two protein monomers bind two different SCNAs, each having a
    different specificity determinant in its variable sequence region. These SCNAs base pair and
    bind with predefined homologous sequences on a target nucleic acid (marked in the Figs. as
    "Target nucleic acid"). This base pairing can form a double- or a triple-helix with the Target
    nucleic acid, depending whether the target is double- or single-stranded (illustrated in these
30  figures, as dsDNA). Both SCNAs can bind either the same strand or opposite strands as
    required, in an optimized distance. The SCNAs can bind the protein Linking Domain through
    a modification on their terminus (Fig. 2A) or through an SCNA-nucleotide motif (Fig. 2B).
    Upon assembly the Functional Domain prompts its effect on the predetermined target site
    (marked as "Target site") on the target nucleic acid.

       WO 2013/088446                                                     PCT/IL2012/050528
                                                 39
           Reference is now made to Fig. 3, which demonstrates a 3D Modeled example of a
   molecular complex designed for cleavage of a predefined nuclear dsDNA target sequence,
   according to some embodiments. A programmed dimerized protein moiety is shown in
   association with its Target dsDNA (A, shown in part). Each monomer of the protein moiety is
 5 comprised of a Functional Domain derived from a Fokl nuclease subunit (B); a cellular
   localization domain derived from the SV40NLS (C); a Linking Domain derived from an anti
   Fluorescein single-chain variable fragment antibody (anti-FAM ScFV, D) and an interdomain
   connector (E). Each Linking Domain (D) is shown bound to a Specificity Conferring Nucleic
   Acid, SCNA ssDNA (F, shown in part) through its modifier 6-carboxy Fluorescein molecule
10 (G), which is covalently bound to the terminus of each SCNA. Expected cleavage sites (target
   site) of the target dsDNA (shown as balls on the helix backbone) are marked with arrows
   300A-B. Each SCNA is depicted here as forming a partial triple-helix occupying the major
   groove of the dsDNA target-flanking sequence.
            Reference is now made to Figs. 4A-B, which are schematic drawings (not to scale) of
15 exemplary mode of assembly of the components of the programmable molecular complex on
    a target nucleic acid, according to some embodiments. As shown in the non limiting
    examples presented in Figs. 4A-B, two monomers of the protein moiety bind two different
    SCNAs (SCNA1, SCNA2), each having a different specificity determinant in the variable
    sequence region. As shown in the figures, both SCNAs reside on a single nucleic acid and are
20  connected with a sequence of undetermined sequence or length which does not base-pair with
    the Target, referred to herein as the"SCNA connector". The SCNA connector may include
    any sequence of nucleotides, at any length (X(n)). In some embodiments, X(n) signifies an
    undetermined length of RNA nucleotides connecting the two specificity conferring regions to
    each other. In some embodiments, for linear DNA, the expected optimal length (n) is about,
25  for example, between 10-100 nucleotides. For example, the length is about 35-73 nucleotides
    (nts). For example, the length is over about 70 nucleotides. For example, the length is
    shorter than about 35 nucleotides. These SCNAs base pair and bind with predefined
    homologous (corresponding) sequences on the target nucleic acid. This base pairing can form
    a double- or a triple-helix with the target nucleic acid, depending whether the target is
30  double- or single-stranded (in the example illustrated in Figs. 4A-B, dsDNA). In some
    embodiments, both SCNAs can bind either the same strand or opposite strands of the target
    nucleic acid as required, in a distance optimized to achieve a desired result. In some
    embodiments, only one dual connected SCNA containing nucleic acid is needed to target a
    target site, by flanking both ends of the target site. In some embodiments, the SCNAs can

       WO 2013/088446                                                         PCT/IL2012/050528
                                                  40
   bind the binding site of the Linking Domain (indentation in Linking domain) of the protein
   moiety, via SCNA-nucleotide motifs on both SCNAs (marked combs in Linking domain
   binding site, Fig. 4A, or through a modification on both termini (black ovals in Linking
   domain binding site, Fig. 4B). Upon assembly, the Functional Domain may prompt its effect
 5 on the target site in the target nucleic acid.
            According to some embodiments, methods for delivery of the SCNA into the
   organism or cell comprise the multitude of methods known to those skilled in the art and are
   generally those optimal for the organism or cell type used in the relevant circumstance. These
   can include delivery of nucleic acid by the biological methods of: infection using
10 autonomously replicating vectors, transgenic virus infection or transduction, including the use
   of deconstructed or partial viruses, inoculation, agrobacterium T-DNA delivery, breeding,
   crossing, grafting, organelle transfer, chromosome transfer, cell fusion; the chemical
   mediated uptake methods of: using transfection agents, DEAE-Dextran, Calcium phosphate,
   artificial lipids, dendrimers, polymers (PEG etc.), proteins/ peptides, virus-like particles; the
15 mechanical methods of: bombardment, injection/microinjection, pressure, whiskers; and the
    electrical method of electroporation, and any method that alters the cellular plasma
   membrane, allowing nucleic acids to actively or passively enter the cell.
             According to some embodiments, methods for delivery of the nucleic acid encoding
    the protein module into the organism or cell comprise the multitude of methods known to
20  those skilled in the art and are generally those optimal for the organism or cell type used in
    the relevant circumstance. These can include delivery of nucleic acid by crossing or breeding
    an organism with a transgenic organism carrying the gene or by the biological methods of:
    infection using autonomously replicating vectors, transgenic virus infection or transduction,
    including the use of deconstructed or partial viruses, inoculation, agrobacterium T-DNA
25  delivery, grafting, organelle transfer, chromosome transfer, cell fusion; the chemical
    mediated uptake methods of: using transfection agents, DEAE-Dextran, Calcium phosphate,
    artificial lipids, dendrimers, polymers (PEG etc.), proteins/ peptides, virus-like particles; the
    mechanical methods of: bombardment, injection/microinjection, pressure, whiskers; and the
    electrical method of electroporation, and any method that alters the cellular plasma
30  membrane, allowing nucleic acids to actively or passively enter the cell.
             According to some embodiments, methods for delivery of "donor DNA", in the
    subgroup of uses requiring such a DNA comprising gene-insertion or gene replacement,
    comprise similar methods to those described for delivery of the nucleic acid which encodes
    the protein module. This DNA can be either single stranded, double stranded or partially

       WO 2013/088446                                                           PCT/IL2012/050528
                                                    41
   double stranded, linear or circular. This DNA can be supplied on a single vector or on several
   vectors, concurrently or separately from the nucleic acid encoding the protein component of
   the molecular complex and from the specificity-determining programming nucleic acid.
   Thus, nucleic acids can be delivered, by choosing from the appropriate aforementioned
 5 delivery methods, to a plant or a part of a plant, to a plant tissue or organ such as an embryo,
   pollen, ovum, anther, stigma, whole flower, cotyledon, leaf, root, stem, petiole, to isolated
   plant cells such as protoplasts, or to differentiated or undifferentiated cultured plant tissue,
   callus, or cells. In some embodiments, nucleic acids can be delivered to a fungus, including
   unicellular and multicellular fungi, and to a member of the animal kingdom including
10 invertebrates (such as arthropods and nematodes), vertebrates (such as birds, fish, mammals,
   reptiles, and amphibians) and to parts of these organisms including organs, cultured organs,
   tissues, cultured tissues, isolated cells, cell cultures, cell lines and stem cells such as human
    embryonic stem cells or human hematopoietic stem cells.
            Reference is now made to Figure 5 which shows a schematic illustration
15  demonstrating delivery options of the programmable molecular complex to a cell using in
    vitro produced SCNAs, according to some embodiments. A general scheme for selecting an
    appropriate delivery method is shown. A nucleic acid molecule encoding for the protein
    moiety is selected from the left hand column and delivered using applicable methods selected
    from the next two columns. A synthetic SCNA is supplied through methods selected from
20  those shown in the two right columns. Within the target cell, a nucleic acid encoding for the
    protein brings about the expression of the protein by its translation in-vivo from a template
    RNA molecule. If the delivered nucleic acid molecule is comprised of dsDNA, it may first
    transcribe to RNA (via a designated promoter). If the delivered nucleic acid molecule is
    comprised of ssDNA it may first be complemented to dsDNA and then transcribed. If the
25  delivered nucleic acid molecule is comprised of RNA, such as that encoding a virus or
    another autonomously replicating vector, it may proceed through replication via a minus
    strand before being translated. The translated protein can then be localized to the desired
    subcellular compartment, according to its localization signal (if present). The SCNAs may be
    delivered concomitantly or separately from the nucleic acid molecule encoding for the protein
30  moiety by the same or different delivery method. Once the SCNA, protein moiety and Target
    nucleic acid are co-localized within the cell, they may assemble to form an active molecular
    dimeric complex. Donor DNA,            if required, may also be delivered separately or
    simultaneously.

       WO 2013/088446                                                        PCT/IL2012/050528
                                                  42
           Reference is now made to Fig. 6, which is a general scheme demonstrating the
   delivery of the programmable molecular complex to a cell using an in-vivo produced SCNA,
   according to some embodiments. A nucleic acid molecule encoding the protein moiety is
   selected from the left hand column and delivered using applicable methods selected from the
 5 next three columns. In-vivo produced SCNAs are encoded by a nucleic acid molecule
   provided for that purpose and introduced into the cell using these same methods. The nucleic
   acid molecules encoding for the protein moiety and/or the SCNA may be delivered separately
   or concomitantly. In the cell, the nucleic acid encoding the SCNA expresses the SCNA by
   transcription or nucleic acid cleavage. If the delivered nucleic acid molecule is comprised of
10 dsDNA, it may be first transcribed to RNA via a designated promoter.          If the delivered
   nucleic acid molecule is comprised of ssDNA it may first be complemented to dsDNA and
   then transcribed. If the delivered nucleic acid molecule is comprised of RNA such as that
   encoding a virus or another autonomously replicating vector, it may proceed through
   replication via a minus strand. Within the cell, the nucleic acid encoding the protein is
15 expressed via its translation in-vivo from an RNA molecule produced in a manner similar to
   that described for the SCNA. The translated protein can then be localized to the desired
   subcellular compartment, according to its localization signal (if present). The nucleic acid
   molecules encoding for the protein moiety and/or the nucleic acid molecules encoding for the
    SCNAs may be delivered concomitantly (at the same time) or separately, by identical or
20  different delivery methods. Once the SCNA, protein moiety and Target nucleic acid are co
    localized within the cell, they may assemble to form an active molecular dimeric complex.
    Donor DNA, if required, may also be delivered separately or simultaneously.
            According to some embodiments, the biological synthesis in-vivo of the SCNA may
    be performed by several routes, such as, but not limited to: (a) the use of Agrobacterium to
25  synthesize both nucleic acid and the Linking-Domain-binding moiety, in this example VirD2,
    which also catalyzes their covalent linking. Agrobacterium then facilitates the transfer to a
    cell of a ssDNA covalently bound to VirD2, (b) the use of Agrobacterium to transfer a T
    DNA to a cell, said T-DNA comprising promoters driving the synthesis in the cell of RNA
    SCNAs having an RNA domain that binds the Linking Domain of the complex upon their
30  converging. Thus, the complex, expressed in the target cell, assembles through an RNA
    protein interaction, (c) the use of autonomously replicating vectors comprising viruses and
    viral-based expression vectors to deliver a replicon to a cell, said replicon comprising
    subgenomic promoters driving the synthesis of RNA SCNAs having an RNA domain that

      WO 2013/088446                                                         PCT/IL2012/050528
                                                   43
   binds the Linking Domain of the complex upon their converging. Thus, the complex,
   expressed in the target cell, assembles through an RNA-protein interaction.
            Reference is now made to Figs. 7A-B which are schematic drawings (not to scale)
   showing non-limiting examples of delivery of the SCNA to a cell using a single-strand DNA
 5 produced in Agrobacterium. Shown in Fig. 7A is a non-limiting example of the use of
   Agrobacterium for production of ssDNA SCNA bound to a protein, VirD2, in vivo, at its 5'
   end. As shown in this example, the targeting variable SCNA sequence is inserted into a
   multiple cloning site (MCS) in a plasmid capable of replicating in Agrobacterium.
   Agrobacterium is then transformed with this plasmid. The Ti plasmid Right Border (RB)
10 sequence on the plasmid is cleaved and ssDNA is bound by VirD2 in the bacterium. 3
   nucleotides of the RB sequence are left behind at the 5' of the sequence after cleavage, and
   21 nucleotides of the Ti plasmid left Border (LB) sequence are left behind after cleavage at
   the 3' of the sequence. The LB sequence can further aid in SCNA stabilization and in
   screening for unwanted integration events. Mutated forms of Agrobacteria, (for example,
15 those missing VirEl or VirE2 or with partial VirD2 functionality) are useful for the inhibition
   of unwanted integration events. Agrobacterium then exports the T-DNA comprising the
   SCNA bound to VirD2 into the cell.       Shown in Fig. 7B is a non-limiting example of the use
   of a bacterial secretion system to deliver SCNAs to a host cell. One or a multiplicity of
   agrobacteria transformed with different T-DNAs encoding different SCNA sequences are
20 used to infect one cell. The VirD2-bound ssDNA SCNA thus created in the bacteria and
   exported to the host cell can then encounter and bind the Linking Domain of the protein
   moiety through an interaction between the VirD2 protein and the VirD2-binding domain in
   the Linking Domain in the host cell. An example for such a VirD2-binding Linking Domain
    comprises an artificial single-chain variable fragment of an antibody (scFv) produced against
25 VirD2. The SCNA can thus bring about the assembly of the molecular complex on a Target
   nucleic acid.
             Reference is now made to Figures 8A-B which are schematic illustrations
    demonstrating the delivery of SCNA to a cell using RNA SCNAs produced inside the host
    cell, from an Agrobacterium delivered T-DNA (Fig. 8A) or from a nucleic acid delivered by
30  an autonomously replicating vector such as a virus (Fig. 8B). The RNA SCNAs presented in
   these figures include an SCNA-RNA motif (marked combs) which can bind a corresponding
   RNA-binding motif of the Linking Domain of the protein moiety. As shown in Fig. 8A, the
    SCNA sequences are inserted into a multiple cloning site (MCS) in a plasmid capable of
   replicating in Agrobacterium and containing the appropriate Eukaryotic promoters for the

       WO 2013/088446                                                         PCT/IL2012/050528
                                                   44
   transcription of one or a multiplicity of RNA SCNAs in the infected cell. Fig. 8B: The SCNA
   sequence(s) is/are inserted into the genome of a virus or a virus-derived autonomously
   replicating vector each under the control of a sub-genomic (sg) promoter for the transcription
   of one or a multiplicity of RNA SCNAs in the infected cell. In the non-limiting examples
 5 shown in Figs. 8A-B, the nucleic acid molecule encoding for the protein-moiety coding may
   be delivered to the target cell beforehand, together with (concomitantly) or after the delivery
   of the SCNA encoding nucleic acid molecule. When the protein moiety and the SCNA are
   expressed in the cell, the assembly of the molecular complex on the target nucleic acid
   occurs.
10          Reference is now made to Fig. 9, which shows a schematic illustration (not to scale)
    of a non-limiting example of a delivery vehicle or vector for concomitant delivery of the
    composition comprising the components necessary for the assembly of a programmable
    molecular complex to a susceptible target Eukaryotic cell in a single delivery event,
    according to some embodiments. For the non-limiting example shown in Fig. 9, the desired
15  action is replacement of a genomic DNA stretch (the target nucleic acid), with a
    predetermined sequence the "Donor cassette". Accordingly, the domains of the protein
    moiety include: a Functional Domain, derived from a nuclease and having a nucleic cleavage
    activity; a cellular localization domain, which is a nuclear localization signal (NLS); and
    Linking Domain capable of recognizing and binding an RNA motif on the SCNAs. In the
20  example shown in Fig. 9, a biological delivery system is used. Agrobacterium is transformed
    with a plasmid vector, such as plasmid (800), which contains various functional/structural
    sequences, such as, bacterial selectable marker, various origins of replication sites (E. Coli
    ori, pSa Ori), LB sequence, promoter regions (designated as (P)), the protein moiety
    expressing sequence (comprising an ATG start codon and an in-frame STOP codon),
25  Terminator site (T), multiple SCNA transcribing cassettes (shown as four SCNA transcribing
    cassettes, each comprising a promoter and terminator sequences), a Donor cassette, and RB
    site. The plasmid vector (transfected Agrobacterium) is then brought into contact with the
    target organism cells. Agrobacterium then forms a T-DNA from the region between the Right
    border (RB) and the Left border (LB) sequences and secretes it into the Eukaryotic cell. The
30  ssDNA of the T-DNA is delivered to the nucleus, complemented in-vivo to become dsDNA,
    and transcribed to RNA from the compatible promoters (P) on the plasmid. The thus formed
    transcript of the protein moiety is translated to form the designated protein. Transcripts from
    the SCNA cassette which comprise an RNA motif sequence are bound by a specific RNA
    sequence-binding domain in the protein moiety. The Donor cassette contains a sufficiently

       WO 2013/088446                                                           PCT/IL2012/050528
                                                    45
   long sequence that can recombine with the target nucleic acid in the presence of a double
   strand break (DSB) formed adjacent to the recombination site. The SCNAs are designed to
   target and hybridize sequences flanking the sequence to be replaced. In some embodiments, a
   similar plasmid, lacking border sequences, or a linear DNA of similar construction, can
 5 further be used to transfect cells in a non-biological delivery system, to the same effect.
           According to some embodiments, and as detailed above, alterations/modifications in
   the targeted sequence include, for example, but not limited to: permanent deletion, mutation,
   insertion of nucleic acids, and replacement of a targeted sequence with another nucleic acid
   sequence, knocking-out, frame-shifting, or any change in any fashion of the transcription or
10 translation of a gene, its regulatory sequences, the genes regulating the gene of interest or
   their regulatory sequences in a regulatory chain of events.
            Reference is now made to Fig. 10, which is a schematic illustration (not to scale)
    demonstrating the use of a programmed molecular complex to create a mutation in a Target
    nucleic acid, according to some embodiments. As shown in the non limiting example
15  presented in Fig. 10, the Functional Domain of the protein moiety is derived from a nuclease,
    and the mutation of the target site on the target nucleic acid is achieved through the creation
    of a dsDNA break (DSB) in the Target nucleic acid in a predefined location. The SCNA
    programmed       molecular   complexes     self-assemble   by   SCNA      base-pairing   with  a
    corresponding target sequence on the target nucleic acid. Upon assembly of the components
20  of the complex, the Functional Domain is dimerized and the nuclease is activated, cleaving
    the target site, which is located, in this example, at or near the midpoint, between the two
    SCNA molecules, thereby creating a DSB (for example, the DSB can have 4 nucleotide 5'
    overhangs such as those created by the restriction enzyme FokI). Cellular Non homologous
    end-joining (NHEJ) repair mechanisms attempt to repair the DSB and while doing so may: 1)
25  make a perfect ligation- while the complex may continue to recleave the same sequence for
    repeated attempts at mutation until depletion of complex components, 2) add one or a
    multiplicity of nucleotides thus widening the distance between the SCNAs and abolishing
    Functional Domain dimerization, thereby ending the action of the complex, or 3) remove one
     or a multiplicity of nucleotides ("pacman" figure), thus narrowing the distance between the
30   SCNAs and abolishing the Functional Domain dimerization, thereby ending the action of the
     complex. When any of options 2 or 3 occur within the cell, a mutation is achieved.
            Reference is now made to Fig. 11, which is a schematic illustration (not to scale)
     demonstrating the use of a programmed molecular complex to insert one or a multiplicity of
     nucleotides into a Target nucleic acid using a supplied Donor nucleic acid, according to some

        WO 2013/088446                                                       PCT/IL2012/050528
                                                  46
   embodiments. As shown in the non limiting example presented in Fig. 11, the Functional
   Domain of the protein moiety is derived from a nuclease, and a dsDNA break (DSB) in the
   target nucleic acid at a predefined location (target site) assists the process of Homologous
   Recombination (HR). The SCNA-programmed molecular complexes self-assemble by SCNA
 5 base-pairing with a corresponding target sequence. Upon assembly of the components of the
   complex, the Functional Domain is dimerized and the nuclease is activated, thereby cleaving
   the target nucleic acid at the target site, which may be located, for example, at or near the
   midpoint between the two SCNA molecules, thereby creating a DSB. The Donor DNA
    contains the sequence to be inserted and sufficiently long stretches of nucleotides, flanking
10 this sequence which are essentially identical to the Target sequence flanking the intended
    DSB point. These flanking sequences may then recombine (X) with the target nucleic acid
    through the cellular process of HR, thus replacing a predetermined stretch of nucleotides in
    the Target nucleic acid, and in effect bringing about an Insertion of the desired sequence.
    Upon recombination and Insertion of the predetermined Donor sequence, the distance
15  between the SCNAs is widened, thus interfering with dimerization of the Functional Domain,
    thereby ending the action of the complex. In occasions when perfect re-ligation by NHEJ
    occurs, the activated programmed complex may continue to recleave the same sequence for
    repeated attempts at insertion.
             Reference is now made to Fig. 12, which is a schematic illustration (not to scale)
20  demonstrating the use of a programmed molecular complex in the replacement, insertion
    and/or deletion of one or a multiplicity of nucleotides in a Target nucleic acid using a
    supplied Donor nucleic acid, according to some embodiments. As shown in the non limiting
     example presented in Fig. 12, the Functional Domain of the protein moiety is derived from a
    nuclease, and a dsDNA break (DSB) in the Target nucleic acid in a predefined location
25   (target site) assists the process of Homologous Recombination (HR). SCNA-programmed
     molecular complexes self-assemble by SCNA base-pairing with a predetermined target
     sequence. Upon assembly of the components of the complex, the Functional Domain is
     dimerized and the nuclease is activated, cleaving the target nucleic acid at the target site,
     which may be located, for example, at or near the midpoint between the two SCNA
30   molecules, thereby creating a DSB. The Donor DNA contains the exogenous sequence to be
     inserted instead of the endogenous target sequence to be removed as well as sufficiently long
     stretches of nucleotide flanking this exogenous sequence, which are essentially identical to
     the Target sequence flanking the intended sequence to be removed. These flanking sequences
     may then recombine (X) with the Target DNA through the cellular process of HR, thus

        WO 2013/088446                                                       PCT/IL2012/050528
                                                  47
    replacing a stretch of DNA in the Target DNA and in effect bringing about a replacement of
    an undesired endogenous sequence by a desired exogenous sequence. Upon successful
    recombination and replacement of the desired exogenous sequence, the SCNA binding sites
    on the Target nucleic acid may be designed to be abolished, thus ending the action of the
 5  complex. In occasions when perfect re-ligation by NHEJ occurs, the complex may continue
    to recleave the same sequence for repeated attempts at recombination.
             Reference is now made to Fig. 13, which is a schematic illustration (not to scale)
    demonstrating the use of a programmed molecular complex to create a deletion of one or a
     consecutive multiplicity of nucleotides from a target nucleic acid, according to some
10   embodiments. As shown in the non limiting example presented in Fig. 13, the Functional
     Domain of the protein moiety is derived from a nuclease, and the deletion is achieved through
     the creation of two dsDNA breaks (DSBs) in the Target nucleic acid at two predefined
     locations. SCNA-programmed molecular complexes self-assemble by SCNA base-pairing
     with corresponding target sequences. Upon assembly of the components of the complex, the
15   Functional Domains are dimerized and the nucleases are activated, cleaving the target nucleic
     acid at the target site, which may be located at or near the midpoint between each pair of
     SCNA molecules creating DSBs. Concomitant or sequential cleavage of both sites essentially
     eliminates, or deletes, the sequence in between. Cellular Non homologous end-joining
     (NHEJ) repair mechanisms attempt to repair the DSB and while doing so may: 1) make a
20   perfect ligation of the target DNA flanking the deleted sequence, while the activate complex
     may continue to recleave the same sequence until depletion of complex components (left
     hand panel); 2) make a perfect re-ligation of each separate DSB- while the complex may
      continue to recleave the same sequence for repeated attempts at deletion until depletion of
      complex components; 3) remove one or a multiplicity of nucleotides ("pacman" figure, right
25   hand panel) in the DSB gap, thus narrowing the distance between the SCNAs and abolishing
      Functional Domain dimerization, thereby ending the action of the complex; or 4) add one or a
     multiplicity of nucleotides in the DSB gap thus widening the distance between the SCNAs
      and abolishing Functional Domain dimerization, thereby ending the action of the complex.
             Reference is now made to Fig. 14, which is a schematic illustration demonstrating the
 30   use of a programmed molecular complex to replace one or a multiplicity of nucleotides in a
      Target nucleic acid using a supplied Donor nucleic acid, according to some embodiments. As
      shown in the non limiting example presented in Fig. 13, the Functional Domain of the protein
      moiety is derived from a nuclease, and the replacement is achieved through the creation of
      two dsDNA breaks (DSBs) in the Target nucleic acid in two predefined locations (target

       WO 2013/088446                                                      PCT/IL2012/050528
                                                 48
   sites), creating a deletion, and supplying a linear or linearized DNA Donor to fill the gap.
   SCNA-programmed          molecular complexes self-assemble by SCNA base-pairing with
   corresponding target sequences. Upon assembly of the components of the complex, the
   Functional Domains are dimerized and the nucleases are activated, cleaving the target at or
 5 near the midpoint between each pair of SCNA molecules, thereby creating DSBs.
   Concomitant or sequential cleavage of both sites essentially eliminates, or deletes, the
   sequence region in between. Cellular Non homologous end-joining (NHEJ) repair
   mechanisms attempt to repair the DSB and while doing so may: 1) make a perfect pair of
   ligations of the Donor into the Target abolishing Functional Domain dimerization, thereby
10 ending the action of the complex; 2) make a perfect ligation of the target nucleic acid
   sequence flanking the deleted sequence - whereas the complex may continue to recleave the
   same sequence for repeated attempts at replacement until depletion of complex components;
   3) make a perfect re-ligation of each separate DSB, whereas the complex may continue to
   recleave the same sequence for repeated attempts at replacement until depletion of complex
15 components; 4) remove one or a multiplicity of nucleotides in a DSB gap, thus narrowing the
   distance between the SCNAs and abolishing Functional Domain dimerization, thereby ending
   the action of the complex; or 5) add one or a multiplicity of nucleotides in a DSB gap thus
   widening the distance between the SCNAs and abolishing Functional Domain dimerization
   thereby ending the action of the complex.
20
   Genetic Diseases
            According to some embodiment, the compositions and methods of the present
   invention can be used to replace any genomic sequence with a homologous, non-identical
    sequence. For example, a mutant genomic sequence can be replaced by its wild-type
25  counterpart, thereby providing methods for treatment of e.g., genetic disease, inherited
    disorders, cancer, and autoimmune disease. In like fashion, one allele of a gene can be
   replaced by a different allele using the methods disclosed herein. Exemplary genetic diseases
    include, but are not limited to, achondroplasia, achromatopsia, acid maltase deficiency,
    acquired immunodeficiencies,      adenosine deaminase deficiency (OMIM No. 102700),
30  adrenoleukodystrophy, aicardi syndrome, alpha-I antitrypsin deficiency, alpha-thalassemia,
    androgen     insensitivity syndrome, apert    syndrome,   arrhythmogenic right ventricular,
    dysplasia, ataxia telangictasia, barth syndrome, beta-thalassemia, blue rubber bleb nevus
    syndrome, canavan disease, chronic granulomatous diseases (CGD), cri du chat syndrome,
    cystic fibrosis, dercum's disease, ectodermal dysplasia, Fanconi's anemia, fibrodysplasia

       WO 2013/088446                                                          PCT/IL2012/050528
                                                    49
   ossificans progressive, fragile X syndrome, galactosemis, Gaucher's disease, generalized
   gangliosidoses (e.g., GM1), hemochromatosis, hemoglobinopathies (e.g., sickle cell anemia,
   the hemoglobin C mutation in the 6.sup.th codon of beta-globin, alpha-thalassemia, beta
   thalassemia), hemophilia, Huntington's disease, Hurler Syndrome, hypophosphatasia,
 5 Klinefleter syndrome, Krabbes Disease, Langer-Giedion Syndrome, leukocyte adhesion
   deficiency (LAD, OMIM No. 116920), leukodystrophy, long QT syndrome, lysosomal
   storage diseases (e.g., Gaucher's disease, GM1, Fabry disease and Tay-Sachs disease),
   Marfan syndrome, Moebius syndrome, mucopolysaccahidosis (e.g. Hunter's disease, Hurler's
    disease), nail patella syndrome, nephrogenic diabetes insipdius, neurofibromatosis, Neimann
10 Pick disease, osteogenesis imperfecta, porphyria, Prader-Willi syndrome, progeria, Proteus
    syndrome, retinoblastoma, Rett syndrome, Rubinstein-Taybi syndrome, Sanfilippo syndrome,
    severe combined immunodeficiency (SCID), Shwachman syndrome, sickle cell disease
    (sickle cell anemia), Smith-Magenis syndrome, Stickler syndrome, Tay-Sachs disease,
    Thrombocytopenia Absent Radius (TAR) syndrome, Treacher Collins syndrome, trisomy,
15  tuberous sclerosis, Turner's syndrome, urea cycle disorder, von Hippel-Landau disease,
    Waardenburg syndrome, Williams syndrome, Wilson's disease, Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome,
    X-linked lymphoproliferative syndrome (XLP, OMIM No. 308240).
             The following examples are presented in order to more fully illustrate some
20  embodiments of the invention. They should, in no way be construed, however, as limiting the
    broad scope of the invention.
                                               EXAMPLES
    EXAMPLE 1 - In-vivo system as bioassay for tuning components of the molecular
25   complex:
             This example describes a bioassay suitable for testing and optimizing permutations in
    the design and use of the programmable molecular complex, such as, for testing its activity in
     different organisms or cells, for testing different delivery methods, and for testing the editing
     functions of mutation, replacement, deletion and insertion.
30           The experiments shown in the examples below are for the detection of gene targeting
     and specific cleavage by a composition of the programmable molecular complex, which
     includes a modified nuclease as the effector domain of the protein moiety.
             Visual reporter systems are used, based on repair of a STOP codon which is placed
     inside the reporter coding sequence. The reporter in these examples is Green Fluorescent

       WO 2013/088446                                                        PCT/IL2012/050528
                                                  50
   Protein (GFP). When targeted, a double strand breaks (DSB) formed by the activated
   complex is repaired, (presumably through NHEJ pathway as exemplary illustrated in Figure
   10), abolishing the STOP codon and restoring GFP activity. This assay may thus give a good
   indication of gene targeting efficiency. This assay is known also as the "STOP GFP" assay.
 5 This visual assay is designed to target plasmid or genomic DNA in-vivo. In the following
   examples, an Arabidopsis protoplast based bioassay is used. In the described bioassay, the
   aforementioned reporter systems are delivered into protoplasts on a plasmid, co-delivered
   with the plasmid expressing the protein moiety of the molecular complex in-vivo and co
   delivered with a pair of ssDNA Specificity Conferring Nucleic Acids (SCNA) modified, in
10 this example, with a terminal (NHS-Ester-)-Digoxigenin (DIG). A second modification for
   exonuclease protection, (phosphorothioate), is added at the opposite terminus (here marked
   with an asterisk). The plasmid vectors used herein comprise plant promoters.
   Protein sequence and properties
            The molecular complex designed for this application is composed of two sequences of
15 homologous nucleic acids for specificity determination (SCNAs) and a chimeric protein
    component containing a nuclease which binds to the SCNAs in vivo. The resulting cleavage
    of the predetermined target site (STOP codon) of the target nucleic acid (GFP coding
    sequence) results in its desired mutation, by endogenous processes. The programmable
    molecular complex in this example consists of 2 identical monomers of a protein moiety and
20  two different SCNA molecules (as schematically illustrated in Figs. 1A and 2A). In this
    example the protein moiety contains an amino-acid sequence modified from a FokI nuclease
    domain as the Functional Domain; an amino-acid sequence adapted from anti-DIG
    (Digoxigenin) single-chain variable fragment (scFv) immunoglobin (DIG-ScFv) similar to
    that described in (Huston et. al, 1988) as Linking Domain; an SV40NLS (SEQ ID NO: 3,
25  PKKKRKV) as a nuclear localization domain and a        -15A  inter-domain connector (SEQ ID
    NO:7, GGSGG). The nucleic acid sequence encoding for the protein moiety is inserted into
    suitable expression vectors (pUC based vectors (pSAT)), including a NOS or 35S promoter.
            The in-vivo binding between the specificity-conferring nucleic acid and the Linking
    domain of the protein moiety, in this example, is the result of a non-covalent interaction
30  which can be described as an antibody-antigen interaction; single-chain antibody-antigen;
    antibody or single-chain antibody-hapten interaction.
            In this example, the nucleic acid end-modification of the SCNA is an NHS-Ester
    linked Digoxigenin (DIG) that is attached to the 5' or 3' position of the SCNA
    oligonucleotide.

        WO 2013/088446                                                           PCT/IL2012/050528
                                                     51
            Amino-acid sequence (one letter code) of the protein moiety of the molecular
    complex (NLS-Fokl-nuclease sequence With Digoxygenin ScFv) is as designated in SEQ ID
    NO: 12, and is encoded by the sequence as set forth in SEQ ID NO: 13.
    SCNA properties and sequence
 5           The length of the SCNA of the complementary, target-base-pairing oligonucleotide is
    preferentially at least 18 bases. The SCNA can also contain a small number (e.g. 1-6, in one
    example 6, in other example, 2) of non-target-base-pairing nucleotides (N's) of any sequence
    composition that serve as a spacer between the DIG-NHS terminal-modifier and the target
    complementary nucleotides. As detailed above, due to histones occupying minor grooves of
10  DNA in chromosomal DNA, some constraints on SCNA spacing may exist. Thus, SCNAs are
    preferably designed to fit in the target DNA major groove by modulating the distance
    between SCNAs, to enable an orientation of the target helix that allows Linking Domains of a
    dimerized programmable molecular complex to bind. Choice of interdomain connector
    between the globular Functional Domain and the Linking Domain (in the example shown
15  here is GSLEGGSGG (SEQ ID NO: 14)) also influences the optimal SCNA distance as it
    either restricts or permits movement in the "hinge" between these two domains. Addition of
    non-target-base-pairing nucleotides ("N's") changes both the distance between SCNAs and
    the rotational orientation on the target helix as it changes the flexibility of the SCNA relative
    to the protein and the helix. These unpaired nucleotides are not constrained to the target DNA
20  major groove.
             The results of spatial measurements taken from computerized 3D models for the anti
    DIG-ScFv- NHS-Ester-DIG system with the GSLEGGSGG (SEQ ID NO: 14) interdomain
     linker, as shown in this example, yielded that the expected optimal distance between SCNAs
    is, in the presence of 2 N's in the SCNA, about 23-26 nucleotides. Cleavage is predicted to
25   occur about 2 nucleotides to left and to the right of the 11, 12'h or 13t nucleotide, counting
     from after the last nucleotide hybridizing with the SCNA on either side, taking into account
    the 4 base 5' overhang created by dsDNA cleavage by the dimerized construct. This criterion
     suggests that if the targeted sequence is, for this 24 nucleotide example:
     AAAAAAAAAAYYYYYYYYYXXXXXXYYYYYYYYYCCCCCCCCCC,                                       where Y+X
 30  represents the number of        nucleotides between the SCNA base-pairing sites, then the
     designed SCNAs base-pair with areas A and C and the cleavage resulting in DSB is in or
     adjacent to the X area. The SCNAs can be complementary to either sense or antisense
     strands, but are chosen preferably to base-pair with the sense (untranscribed) sequence. Both
     SCNAs can base-pair with the same strand, as the protein moiety's position is situated at the

       WO 2013/088446                                                         PCT/IEL2012/050528
                                                     52
    "near end" of the SCNA as defined by the 5' or 3' modification of the primer being at the
    "near end" (as illustrated in Fig 2A). Distance optimization between SCNAs, as well as
    preferred strand, are one of several criteria tested in this bioassay.
            Target nucleic acid (GFP coding sequence), containing a target site (STOP codon,
 5  (TAG)) includes the nucleotide sequence set forth in SEQ ID NO: 15 ("STOP-GFP"), where
    the TAG stop codon is located at nucleotide 878:
            The mCherry donor for examples 1B and 1C includes a promoter-less and terminator
    less coding sequence, set forth in SEQ ID NO: 16:
    The following target site sequence is targeted in examples 1A through 1C:
10  Examples 1A-C "first target" sequence:
    GTCGACAACTAGTCCAGATCT (SEQ ID NO: 17)
     SCNA sequences
    Modification symbols are: Phosphorothioate-bonds                *; 5' DIG= /5DigN/    ; 3'DIG=
    /3DigN/).
15   Tested paired SCNA combinations for 1A-1C "first target":
     Sense SCNA:
     GFP_918_SRI: /5DigN/NNNNNNGTGTCCAAGGGCGAGGAGCTG*T;                           (the nucleic acids
     only are designated herein as SEQ ID NO: 18)
     GFP_896 _SLI: T*TTACGAACGATAGCCATGGCCNNNNNN/3DigN/                          (the nucleic acids
20   only are designated herein as SEQ ID NO: 19)
     A second Sense paired combination, employing a 24bp target gap and a shorter SCNA linker
     according to the prediction results:
     GFP_920_SRI: /5DigN/NNGTCCAAGGGCGAGGAGCTGTT*C (the nucleic acids only
     are designated herein as SEQ ID NO: 20)
 25  GFP_895_SL1: A*TTTACGAACGATAGCCATGGCNN/3DigN/(the                        nucleic acids only are
     designated herein as SEQ ID NO: 21)
     Anti-sense SCNA:
     GFP_918 _ASRI: C*AGCTCCTCGCCCTTGGAGACNNNNNN/3DIGN/ (the nucleic acids
     only are designated herein as SEQ ID NO: 22)
 30  GFP_896_ASL1: /5DIGN/NNNNNNGGCCATGGCTATCGTTCGTA*A                           (the nucleic acids
     only are designated herein as SEQ ID NO: 23)
     A second Anti-sense paired combination, employing a 24bp target gap and a shorter SCNA
     linker according to the prediction results:

      WO 2013/088446                                                           PCT/IL2012/050528
                                                   53
   GFP_920 _ASR1:G*AACAGCTCCTCGCCCTTGGACNN/3DIGN/( the nucleic acids only
   are designated herein as SEQ ID NO: 24)
   GFP_895_ASL1: /5DIGN/NNGCCATGGCTATCGTTCGTAAA*T (the nucleic acids only
   are designated herein as SEQ ID NO: 25)
 5 Combinations of sense and anti-sense pairs:
   GFP_918_SRI: /5DigN/NNNNNNGTGTCCAAGGGCGAGGAGCTG*T                              (the nucleic acids
   only are designated herein as SEQ ID NO: 18)
   GFP_896_ASL1: /5DIGN/NNNNNNGGCCATGGCTATCGTTCGTA*A                              (the nucleic acids
   only are designated herein as SEQ ID NO: 23)
10         A second Anti-sense paired combination, employing a 24bp target gap and a shorter
   SCNA linker according to the prediction results:
   GFP_920_SR1: /5DigN/NNGTCCAAGGGCGAGGAGCTGTT*C                          /(the nucleic acids only
   are designated herein as SEQ ID NO: 20)
15 GFP_895_ASL1: /5DIGN/NNGCCATGGCTATCGTTCGTAAA*T                           (the nucleic acids only
   are designated herein as SEQ ID NO: 25)
   GFP_918 _ASR1: C*AGCTCCTCGCCCTTGGAGACNNNNNN/3DIGN/                              (the nucleic acids
   only are designated herein as SEQ ID NO: 22)
   GFP_896 _SL1: T*TTACGAACGATAGCCATGGCCNNNNNN/3DigN/                             (the nucleic acids
20 only are designated herein as SEQ ID NO: 19)
   A second Anti-sense paired combination, employing a 24bp target gap and a shorter SCNA
   linker according to the prediction results:
   GFP_920_SLI: A*TTTACGAACGATAGCCATGGCNN/3DigN/                        (the nucleic acids only are
   designated herein as SEQ ID NO: 21)
25 GFP_895 ASR1: G*AACAGCTCCTCGCCCTTGGACNN/3DIGN/ (the nucleic acids only
   are designated herein as SEQ ID NO: 24)
    "First target" for example IC is identical to the 1A and 1B target.
   "Second target" for example 1C: GACTCTAAGCTTGGGTCTAGA (SEQ ID NO: 26)
   SCNAs for example IC:
30 A combination, utilizing a 24bp target gap and a short SCNA linker:
   Sense:
   GFP_1658_SR: /5DIGN/NNTCCGCAAAAATCACCAGTCTC*T (the nucleic acids only
   are designated herein as SEQ ID NO: 27)

        WO 2013/088446                                                        PCT/IL2012/050528
                                                      54
    GFP_1633_SL: G*CATGGACGAGCTGTACAAGTCNN/3DIGN/ (the nucleic acids only
    are designated herein as SEQ ID NO: 28)
    Antisense:
    GFP_1658_ASR: A*GAGACTGGTGATTTTTGCGGANN/3DIGN/ (the nucleic acids only
 5  are designated herein as SEQ ID NO: 29)
    GFP_1633_ASL: /5DIGN/NNGACTTGTACAGCTCGTCCATG*C (the nucleic acids only
    are designated herein as SEQ ID NO: 30)
    As in example 1A-C "first target" SCNAs these four example 1C "second target" SCNAs
    may be paired using one "left" (L) and one "right" (R) SCNA from the list above.
10  Delivery
    Bioassay setup: Arabidopsis protoplast preparation is based on Wu et. al. (Wu et. al., 2009):
    Plant material: Arabidopsis grown under 16hr day optimal light (150microEinstein-m-2-s-1)
    at 22 degrees C.
    Leaves: 3-5 week old plants (W -2cm L -5cm).
15  Working Solutions:
    Enzyme solution: 1%Cellulase, 0.25% Macerozyme, 0.4M Mannitol, 10mM CaCl2, 20mM
    KCl, 0.1% BSA, 20mM MES pH5.7. Heat 50-55 degrees C 10 minutes to inactivate
    proteases and then filter. Use fresh. 10ml/ 7-10 peeled leaves (1-5gr)/ dish.
    Modified W5 solution: 154mM NaCi, 125mM CaCl2, 5mM KCl, 5mM Glucose, 2mM MES
20  pH5.7. Wash twice with 25ml/plate, + twice 3 ml for transfection wash+ 1ml resuspension
    Modified MMg solution: (Resuspension solution) 0.4M Mannitol, 15mM MgCl2, 4mM MES
    pH5.7.
     Modified TEAMP transfection buffer (PEG solution): 40% PEG MW 4000, 0.1M CaCl2,
     0.2M Mannitol volume = 1:1 of 200microliter protoplasts in MMg + volume of DNA
25   BSA: 1% BSA
     Working protocol:
     1. Preheat waterbath to 50-55 degrees C, cool swing-out centrifuge, chill W5 and MMg, and
         cut tips.
     2. Prepare fresh BSA coated plates (1.25ml 1%BSA/well in water, incubate on bench till
 30      ready)
     3.  Make fresh enzyme solution 1Oml / treatment.
     4. Pick 7-10 leaves, must not be wet. 10 leaves should yield -4-5 transformations.
     5. Tape upper epidermis with Time-tape, lower with Magic tape. Easier without gloves.
         Easier to peel if petiole is stuck to time-tape only.

        WO 2013/088446                                                         PCTIL2012/050528
                                                    55
    6. 0.22gm-filter 10ml fresh enzyme solution into each petri dish
    7. Peel and discard Magic tape. Transfer Time-tape side to petri dish
    8. Gently shake on platform shaker 40 rpm 20-60 min in light until protoplast release (check
         empirically)
 5  9. Centrifuge in 50ml tubes 100 x g 3 min in swing-out rotor
    10. Wash twice with 25ml cold W5 solution.
    11. Ice 30 min, count during this time in hemocytometer using light microscope
    12. Centrifuge and resuspend in MMg solution to 2-5 x10^5 cells/ml (about 1 ml).
    Transfection:
10   1. Make fresh PEG sol for transfection in 2ml tube
    2. Pour off BSA from 6-well plates and dry
    3. Mix ~5 x 10A4 protoplasts (2 x 10A4 -1 x 10A5 ) in 0.2ml MMg solution with a mixture of
         Target plasmid DNA, Protein Moiety expressing plasmid DNA and SCNAs ssDNA to a
         total of 30-40microgram at RT in 15ml round-bottom (snap-cap) tubes.
15  4. Add equal volume (0.2ml protoplasts + midiprep vol.) of fresh PEG sol
     5. Incubate RT 5 min
     6. Wash by slowly adding 3ml W5 solution, Iml at a time, and mixing
     7. Centrifuge 100 x g in swing-out 1 min
     8. Repeat wash and pellet
20   9. Resuspend in 1ml W5 solution
     10. Pour into BSA-coated plates
     11. Grow protoplasts under 16hr day optimal light (15omicroEinstein-mA-2.sA1) at 22
          degrees C, replacing media as needed.
     Protoplasts suspended in W5 solution are screened for GFP/mCherry activity 3 days after
25   transfection using an automated flow-cytometer (FACS). GFP is detected by excitation at
     488nm with emission detected by 530/30 filter. mCherry excitation and emission are 561nm
     and 610/20 filter. Threshold and compensation factors are set to exclude any false positives.
     Example LA: Point mutation by induced DSB.
 30           In this example, cleavage of the target results in a Double-Strand-Break (DSB) in the
     plasmid DNA target. This DSB is designed to be created in the STOP codon site, which is
     digested and is repaired by the NHEJ repair mechanism as set forth in the exemplary
     illustration of Figure 10 (mutation). NHEJ is prone to mutations, and some of these mutations
     may abolish the STOP codon and restore an open reading frame resulting in an active GFP

       WO 2013/088446                                                           PCT/IL2012/050528
                                                   56
   open reading frame (ORF). GFP is then detected by means of microscopy or flow cytometer
   (FACS), enabling the measurement of system efficiency and comparison between variables
   for its improvement.
   When targeting a STOP-GFP transgene previously stably introduced into the Arabidopsis
 5 genome (instead of a plasmid), genome-modified plants can be regenerated from GFP
   expressing protoplasts.
   Example 1B: Specific integration into an induced genomic DSB.
             Similar to the example 1A, the in-frame GFP stop codon sequence is targeted with the
   programmed molecular complex. In this application a linear dsDNA donor is added,
10  comprising a promoter-less, terminator-less mCherry reporter gene containing only the CDS.
    Following transfection as described, mCherry expressing protoplasts are detected by red
    fluorescence by means of microscopy or flow cytometer (FACS), enabling the measurement
    of system efficiency and comparison between variables for its improvement. The mCherry
    excitation and emission are 561nm and 610/20 filter. Since the donor DNA contains a
15  promoter-less mCherry, its activity can be achieved by promoter trapping. Thus, the targeted
    GFP cassette is cleaved to form a DSB wherein any linear DNA may be ligated. Since excess
    of the mCherry CDS linear dsDNA is supplied, it is trapped in the DSB, causing, in some
    cases, translation in frame of the mCherry protein. Targeted plasmids with such specific
    insertion of the mCherry into the GFP targeted sequence are further analyzed by PCR with
20  the following primers: one binding the target plasmid DNA sequence, and one binding the
    inserted DNA:
     35SF: CTATCCTTCGCAAGACCCTTCC (SEQ ID NO: 31)
    mCherryR: TTATCTTGTACAGCTCGTCCAT (SEQ ID NO: 32)
     Similarly, a bacterial antibiotic resistance (NPT-II coding cassette, without an origin of
25  replication) is provided into the protoplasts as a linear dsDNA. This DNA is inserted instead
     of the mCherry CDS of examples 1B and 1C, and screened by extracting total DNA from
     protoplasts, transforming the DNA including plasmids with or without insertions into E. coli,
     and growing these on a medium containing Kanamycin. Resistant bacteria have plasmids that
     trapped the NPT-II cassette. To assess the specificity of the insertion into the predetermined
30   GFP target site, the GFP-target site is PCR-amplified with primers spanning the expected
     insertion site. Specific insertion causes a significant shift in size of the PCR product on an
     agarose gel. Efficiency of insertion is calculated by dividing the number of Kanamycin
     resistant colonies by the number of Ampicillin resistant colonies (Ampicillin resistance is
     encoded on the target plasmid) in a duplicate-plating experiment. Specificity is calculated by

        WO 2013/088446                                                         PCT/IL2012/050528
                                                    57
   repeating the experiment omitting or replacing components of the programmable molecular
   complex (e.g. GFP-targeting SCNAs) and comparing to unmodified experiments.
   Example 1C: Gene replacement through NHEJ repair mechanism.
            In this example, the GFP coding sequence is replaced with mCherry CDS via
 5 endogenous NHEJ. To delete an extensive section of target DNA via the NHEJ strategy, two
   DSBs are created. To target the beginning and the end of the GFP CDS, two sets of SCNAs
   are used in conjunction with the mCherry linear dsDNA donor. Since the donor DNA
    contains promoter-less mCherry, its activity can be achieved by promoter trapping. The
   targeted GFP cassette can therefore trap the mCherry CDS. The mCherry is analyzed by
10  FACS or microscope with excitation and emission detected at 561nm and 610/20 filters,
    respectively.
            mCherry positive protoplast are sorted by FACS and subsequently subjected to DNA
    extraction, direct transformation of the total DNA which includes plasmids into E. coli,
    growth on antibiotic containing media, and performing two colony-PCR reactions on each
15  bacterial colony with two primer sets:
    35SF: CTATCCTTCGCAAGACCCTTCC (SEQ ID NO: 31)
    mCherryR: TTATCTTGTACAGCTCGTCCAT (SEQ ID NO: 32)
    and
    35S-T-R-SEQ:CCCTATAAGAACCCTAATTCCC (SEQ ID NO: 33)
20  mCherryF: ATGGTGAGCAAGGGCGAGGA (SEQ ID NO: 34)
             Colonies which produce an amplification product in both PCR reactions contain a
    plasmid which has been targeted in Arabidopsis protoplasts to produce a correctly oriented
    replacement event through the NHEJ repair pathway, and are further sequenced for
    verification.
25  When targeting a GFP transgene previously stably introduced into the Arabidopsis genome
     (instead of a plasmid), no such direct transformation of E. coli is performed. Instead, genomic
     DNA is amplified directly by PCR from single protoplasts using said primers. Alternatively,
     genome-modified plants can be regenerated from non-GFP expressing, mCherry expressing
     protoplasts, portions of which can be similarly analyzed.

       WO 2013/088446                                                         PCT/IL2012/050528
                                                  58
   EXAMPLE 2. DNA Double strand break induction, mutation and insertion, in a
   monocotyledon cereal plant genome.
   Targeting IPK1 in maize for knockout.
 5         The IPKI gene, encodes inositol-1,3,4,5,6-pentakisphosphate           2-kinase which is
   involved in phytate biosynthesis in maize seeds. Phytate, when fed to non-ruminant livestock,
   is an anti-nutritional component that contributes to environmental phosphorus pollution.
   Targeting IPKi may reduce the seed phosphorus by 75%. Two paralogous Zea mays IPK
   genes sharing 98% sequence identity exist in the maize genome. In this example, the IPK1
10 sequence based on Genbank Accession. #: EF447274 is targeted.
   Target site in the target nucleotide sequence:
   In IPK1 exon 2: TTCTCAAGTCATGAGCAACTC (SEQ ID NO: 35)
   Protein sequence and properties
            The resulting cleavage of the predetermined Target site IPK1 by the programmed
15 molecular complex, result in its mutation or in insertion of a donor DNA into the DSB
    created by the programmed complex, as desired, aided by endogenous processes. The
    programmable molecular complex here consists of 2 identical monomers of a protein moiety
    and two different SCNA molecules. In this example, the protein moiety is identical to that of
    example 1.
20          In this example the nucleic acid end-modification of the SCNA is an NHS-Ester
    linked Digoxigenin (DIG) that is attached to the 5' or 3' position of the oligonucleotide.
    SCNA properties and sequence
            The rational design of the SCNA is essentially as described in Example 1. The length
    of the SCNA of the complementary, target-base-pairing oligonucleotide is preferentially at
25  least 18 bases. The SCNA can also contain a small number (e.g. 1-6, in one example 6, in
    other example, 2) of non-target-base-pairing nucleotides (N's) of any sequence composition
    that serve as a spacer between the DIG-NHS terminal-modifier and the target-complementary
    nucleotides.
    SCNA nucleotide sequences flanking the IPKl target site
30  Combinations of the following "R" and "L" SCNAs employing a 2lbp target gap are tested:
    IPK1-SR-1710: /5DIGN/NNNNNNCTGTGGGGCCATATCCCAGAA*C                             (the nucleic acids
    only are designated herein as SEQ ID NO: 36)

       WO 2013/088446                                                          PCT/IL2012/050528
                                                 59
   IPK1-SL-1688: G*CGGGCACCGAGTTGTATTGTANNNNNN/3DIGN/                            (the nucleic acids
   only are designated herein as SEQ ID NO: 37)
   IPK1-ASR-1710:        G*TTCTGGGATATGGCCCCACAGNNNNNN/3DIGN/                          (the nucleic
   acids only are designated herein as SEQ ID NO: 38)
 5 IPK1-ASL-1688:       /5DIGN/NNNNNNTACAATACAACTCGGTGCCCG*C                           (the nucleic
   acids only are designated herein as SEQ ID NO: 39)
             A second set of paired "R" and "L" SCNAs combination, employing a 24bp target
   gap and a shorter SCNA linker according to the prediction results:
   IPK1-SR-1712: /5DigN/NNGTGGGGCCATATCCCAGAAC*T                       (the nucleic acids only are
10 designated herein as SEQ ID NO: 40)
   IPK1-SL-1687: A*GCGGGCACCGAGTTGTATTGTNN/3DigN/ (the nucleic acids only are
    designated herein as SEQ ID NO: 41)
    IPK1-ASL-1687: /5DigN/NNACAATACAACTCGGTGCCCGC*T                         (the nucleic acids only
15  are designated herein as SEQ ID NO: 42)
    IPK1-ASR-1712: A*GTTCTGGGATATGGCCCCACNN/3DigN/ (the nucleic acids only are
    designated herein as SEQ ID NO: 43)
    SCNAs comprise modified ssDNA. Modification symbols are: Phosphorothioate-bonds =
    5' DIG= /5DigN/ ; 3'DIG= /3DigN/.
20  Experiment 2A: IPK1 knockout and GFP expression in protoplasts
    In this experiment, genomic DSB in Maize plants and specific integration of GFP sequence
    into the IPK1 gene forming a knockout mutation and expression of GFP in the IPK1 locus are
    tested. The programmed molecular complex forms the genomic DSB in the IPK1 sequence,
    initiating the integration of the donor DNA into the IPK1 sequence through homologous
25  recombination.
    This example, 2A, is performed on maize protoplasts which are analyzed by FACS for GFP
     activity.
    Working Protocol:
    Protoplast preparation:
30           A transient expression assay using maize mesophyll protoplasts (Sheen, 2001) is used
     with electroporation-induced nucleic-acid delivery in addition or alternatively to a Polybrene
     induced delivery protocol:

        WO 2013/088446                                                        PCT/IL2012/050528
                                                      60
    Transfection based on (Antonelli & Stadler, 1989):
             Freshly isolated protoplasts (about 2x1 0 ^6 ) are incubated for about 6 to 12h with
    about 20-50 microgram of transfecting DNA comprising modified-ssDNA SCNAs, a plasmid
    encoding the Protein Moiety, Donor DNA (where applicable), and 30 microgram of the
 5  polycation Polybrene (hexadimethrine bromide). At the end of the incubation period, the
    transfection mixture is diluted by addition of growth medium and the cells are then incubated
    further for about 30h before being assayed for transient gene expression:
     1. Prepare protoplasts, and resuspend 2 x 10A6 cells in 0.5ml Murashige Skoog-based growth
    medium with 8%mannitol (MS2D8M).
10  2. For each experiment, prepare a fresh Polybrene (Aldrich) stock solution (10mg/ml in
    phosphate buffered saline, pH 7.0). This is an extremely hygroscopic chemical and the
    manufacturer's safety instructions must be rigorously applied. The stock solution is then
     diluted to yield a final concentration of 3Omicrogram Polybrene in 0.1 ml MS2D8M.
     3. The desired concentration of transfecting DNA - plasmid DNA and modified ssDNA
15   SCNAs - is suspended in 0.4ml MS2D8M.
     4. Mix the 0.1ml (30 microgram) Polybrene solution with the resuspended protoplasts and
     transfer to a 60 mm Petri dish.
     5. Immediately add (dropwise) the 0.4ml DNA suspension. The protoplast/Polybrene/DNA
     mixture (total volume 1.0ml) is rotated gently (25rpm) on a gyrotary shaker for 15 min and
20   then incubated (stationary) at 28 C for 6h.
     6. After the 6h incubation, dilute the above mixture with 4.Oml MS2D8M, seal the Petri dish,
     and follow procedures for assaying transient gene expression or for selection of stable
     transfectants.
     Detection:
 25           Transfected maize protoplasts suspended in MS2D8M solution are analyzed by flow
      cytometer using Fluorescence-activated cell sorting (FACS), 3 days after transfection with
      Polybrene. GFP is detected by excitation at 488nm with emission detected by 530/30 filter.
      Threshold and compensation factors are set to exclude any false positives. FACS is used to
      separate targeted cells for further analysis.
 30   The protoplasts are subjected to analysis by extraction of genomic DNA and its amplification
      by PCR using the primers 1F and 1R below and subsequent digestion with BspHI of the PCR
      product. BspHI uncleavable products of more or less similar size to wild-type result from
      precise targeting events coupled with imprecise re-ligation, larger sized PCR-products result
      from insertions into the target site as desired.

        WO 2013/088446                                                      PCT/IL2012/050528
                                                  61
    Primer IF: GAGCTAGATAGCAGATGCAGAT (SEQ ID NO: 44)
    Primer 2R: CTCCAGAAAATCCCTAGAAACA (SEQ ID NO: 45)
    Alternatively, the PCR product is subjected to CEL I Enzymatic Mutation Detection Assay,
    in accordance with the instructions in the SURVEYOR Mutation Detection Kit
 5  (Transgenomics, USA). This assay is used to evaluate the effectivity of mutation of IPKI
    DNA by gene targeting by the programmed molecular complex.
    Donor sequence for experiment 2A: GFP is fused to IPKI sequence and thus GFP expression
    can happen only by precise homologous recombination (HR). The sequence of the entire
     donor sequence is as set forth in SEQ ID NO: 46. The sequence homologous to IPK1
10  necessary for recombination is nucleotides 1-621 and 1960-2610 of SEQ ID NO:46, and the
     GFP cassette is encoded by nucleotides 622-1959.
     Experiment 2B: IPK knockout and Bar insertion, delivery to calli
     In this experiment, genomic DSB in Maize plants and specific integration of the herbicide bar
15   resistance gene conferring resistance to Bialaphos (Phosphinothricin; Glufosinate
     Ammonium; its analogues or commercial herbicides such as Basta, Bayer Crop Science) into
     the IPKI gene forming knockout mutation and expression of bar in the IPK1 locus, are tested.
     The programmed molecular complex forms the genomic DSB in the IPK1 sequence initiating
     the integration of the donor DNA into the IPK1 sequence through homologous
20   recombination.
     This example is performed on maize calli which are transfected by DNA bombardment and
     then grown under Bialaphos (Basta) selection.
      Working Protocol:
25    1. Formation of embryogenic callus: Immature embryos 1.6mm to 1.8mm (Plants
          A188XB73 or A188XB84) Growth conditions: Light 10microEinstein/m^2/sec 24
          degrees C on N6 medium containing 2mg/L glycine, 2.9g/L L-proline, 100mg/L casein
          hydrolysate, 13.2mg/L dicamba or 1mg/L 2,4D, 20g/L sucrose, pH 5.8. Solidified with
          2g/L Gelgro.
 30   2. Bombardment of plasmid DNA and modified ssDNA-SCNAs into calli based on the
          method used by (Gordon-Kamm et. al., 1990).
      3. Transfer calli to growth condition as described in example 2A, with final concentration of
          2.5mg/L Bialaphos in the medium (B0178 Gold Biotechnology, 1328 Ashby Rd., St.
          Louis, MO 63132 U.S.A.).

      WO 2013/088446                                                           PCT/fL2012/050528
                                                  62
   4. Calli are moved into new medium every 2 weeks.
   5. Calli grown for 2 month on Bialaphos are resistant to the herbicide and can be subjected
       to PCR analysis or regeneration.
   6. Regenerated plants are both resistant to Basta and have reduced levels of phytate.
 5 Detection and analysis:
            Calli bombarded with the modified ssDNA-SCNA, the plasmid encoding the
   programmable molecular complex protein moiety and the donor DNA containing bar
   resistance CDS expression cassette are grown on regeneration medium containing 2.5mg/L
   Bialaphos. Only calli that include cells where the bar gene coding sequence are integrated
10 into the IPK1 locus through HR are able to grow under these conditions, therefore, plant
   material still proliferating after 1 month on this medium is deemed genome-modified as
   desired.
            By this design, while the bar resistance cassette integrates into the genome by HR to
   function properly, the Corynebacterium diphtheria toxin A (DT-A) cassette is an autonomous
15  cassette that expresses the DT-A under heat shock (HS) conditions (42 degrees C). Thus, for
    further analysis, calli is split into HS induced calli and uninduced calli. Only calli which
    contain a perfect HR event do not express the DT-A. Calli that contain randomly integrated
    plasmid, which contains both the donor DNA and the DT-A cassette express the DT-A and
    consequently die.
20  Further, calli are subjected to PCR analysis using the primers 1F and 1R shown in example
    2A, followed by digestion of the product, as above, with BspHI.
    Donor sequence for experiment 2B:
    The Donor plasmid contains both a bar resistance cassette, to be inserted into the IPK1
    cleavage site, and a DT-A cassette which should not recombine into the IPK1 locus, as a non
25  specific integration event marker: The bar resistance cassette is flanked by sequences
    homologous to IPK1 (nts. 1-621 and 2338-2988 of SEQ ID NO:47) necessary for HR, while
    the DT-A cassette is located outside the homologous sequence flanked site. The bar cassette
    (nts. 622-2337 of SEQ ID NO: 47) contains a CaMv 35S constitutive promoter; the
    Streptomyces hygroscopicus bar gene CDS for phosphinothricin acetyl transferase conferring
30  glufosinate ammonium resistance (nts. 1526-2078 of SEQ ID NO:47); and the NOS
    terminator - downstream from the bar CDS.-The entire 2B Donor sequence is set forth in
    SEQ ID NO: 47.
             On the same plasmid, a second cassette encoding diphtheria toxin A, DT-A, (from
     GenBank: AB535096. 1) under the control of a Heat-shock inducible promoter (HS-Promotor

       WO 2013/088446                                                      PCT/IL2012/050528
                                                 63
   of Arabidopsis HSP18.2 from GenBank: X17295.1) and terminated with a NOS terminator
   has the sequence as set forth in SEQ ID NO: 48.
   EXAMPLE 3. Induction of predetermined chromosomal double strand breaks (DSBs)
 5 in living cells of Arabidopsis.
           The enzyme Phytoene Desaturase (PDS) is involved in the conversion of phytoene to
   zeta-carotene in carotenoid biosynthesis. Disruption of Arabidopsis phytoene desaturase
   results in albino and dwarf phenotypes. This phenotype is explained by impaired chlorophyll,
   carotenoid, and gibberellin biosynthesis. Thus, a mutation in this gene is phenotypically
10 detectable.
   Experiment 3A:
            In this example, a chromosomal double-strand break (DSB) in the endogenous PDS
    gene is specifically induced in order to create a point mutation through a frameshift, thus
   knocking out the function of the gene by utilizing the NHEJ endogenous pathway.
15
    Experiment 3B:
            In this example, a chromosomal double-strand break (DSB) specifically induced in
    the endogenous PDS gene in order to create an Insertion of a mCherry Donor sequence into
    an endogenous PDS sequence to knock out PDS by assisted homologous recombination using
20  the programmable molecular complex.
            For examples 3A-3B, an Arabidopsis protoplast based bioassay is used. In this
    bioassay the protoplasts are delivered with a plasmid expressing the protein moiety of the
    molecular complex in-vivo and co-delivered with a pair of ssDNA Specificity Conferring
25  Nucleic Acids (SCNA) modified, in this example, with a terminal Fluorescein (6-carboxy
    Fluorescein, 6-FAM), each SCNA having such a modification at either the 3'-terminus or the
    5'-terminus (/36-FAM/and /56-FAM/, respectfully). A second modification for exonuclease
    protection, such as phosphorothioate, is added at the opposite terminus, as may internal
    phosphorothioate bonds for endonuclease protection. In this example, the coding sequences
30  for the Protein Moiety and the Donor DNA are concomitantly delivered on a single plasmid
    using a PEG transfection protocol (Wu et. al., 2009). Modified ssDNA SCNAs are
    synthetically produced and delivered together with the plasmid using PEG as above.

       WO 2013/088446                                                       PCT/IL2012/050528
                                                  64
    Protein sequence and properties
            In this example, the protein moiety, encoded on a plasmid, contains an amino-acid
    sequence adapted from a FokI nuclease domain as the Functional Domain; an amino-acid
    sequence adapted from anti-Fluorescein single-chain variable fragment (scFv) immunoglobin
 5  (Protein Data Bank accession codes 1X9Q, 1FLRH), as Linking Domain; an SV40NLS
    (PKKKRKV: SEQ ID NO: 3) as a nuclear localization domain and a -15A inter-domain
    connector (GGSGG: SEQ ID NO: 7).
    Thus, the protein moiety of the molecular complex described in this example has the amino
    acid sequence as set forth in SEQ ID NO: 49 and is encoded by the nucleotide sequence as set
10  forth in SEQ ID NO:50.
             The specificity-conferring nucleic acid (SCNA) of this example is modified by the
    addition of a Fluorescein-ScFv/6-FAM, 6-carboxyfluorescein - Fluorescein dT which
    includes a C6-linker to one end of each SCNA.
     SCNA properties and sequence
15           The design of the SCNA is essentially as described in Example 1. The length of the
     SCNA of the complementary, target-base-pairing oligonucleotide is preferentially at least 18
    bases. The SCNA can also contain a small number (e.g. 1-6, in one example 6, in other
     example, 2) of non-target-base-pairing nucleotides (N's) of any sequence composition that
     serve as a spacer between the 6-FAM terminal-modifier and the target-complementary
20   nucleotides.
     Target sequence:
     The target sequence is: GTCCTGCTAAGCCTTTGAAAG (SEQ ID NO: 51), Located on
     Exon    2 of the Arabidopsis PDS          Sequence   (GI:5280985,    gene   d13145c,   protein
     id="CAB10200.1).
 25  SCNA sequence options:
     SCNAs may be targeted to either strand, thus, for the shown target, 4 SCNA pairing options
     exist:
     Sense (S) SCNAs:
     PDS-SL1-846: GCATCCTTCCGTAGTGCTCCTCNNNNNN/36-FAM/ (the nucleic acids
 30  only are designated herein as SEQ ID NO: 52)
     PDS-SR1-868:/56-FAM/NNNNNNTTGTAATTGCTGGTGCTGGTAT                          (the nucleic acids
     only are designated herein as SEQ ID NO: 53)
     Anti-sense (AS) SCNAs:

        WO 2013/088446                                                     PCT/IL2012/050528
                                                 65
    PDS-ASL1-846: /56-FAM/NNNNNNGAGGAGCACTACGGAAGGATGC                          (the nucleic
    acids only are designated herein as SEQ ID NO: 54)
    PDS-ASR1-868: ATACCAGCACCAGCAATTACAANNNNNN/36-FAM                          (the nucleic
    acids only are designated herein as SEQ ID NO:217)
 5  Mixed strand SCNAs:
    PDS-SL1-846: GCATCCTTCCGTAGTGCTCCTCNNNNNN/36-FAM/ (the nucleic acids
    only are designated herein as SEQ ID NO: 52)
    PDS-ASR1-868: ATACCAGCACCAGCAATTACAANNNNNN/36-FAM/                         (the nucleic
    acids only are designated herein as SEQ ID NO:217)
10  PDS-SR1 -868: /56-FAM/NNNNNNTTGTAATTGCTGGTGCTGGTAT                      (the nucleic acids
    only are designated herein as SEQ ID NO: 53)
    PDS-ASLI-846: /56-FAM/NNNNNNGAGGAGCACTACGGAAGGATGC                           (the nucleic
    acids only are designated herein as SEQ ID NO: 54)
             A second set of paired "R" and "L" SCNAs combinations, employing a 24bp target
15   gap and a shorter SCNA linker according to the prediction results:
     PDS-SL2-845: TGCATCCTTCCGTAGTGCTCCTNN/36-FAM/ (the nucleic acids only are
     designated herein as SEQ ID NO: 55)
     PDS-SR2-870: /56-FAM/NNGTAATTGCTGGTGCTGGTATGT (the nucleic acids only are
     designated herein as SEQ ID NO: 56)
20   PDS-ASL2-845: /56-FAM/NNAGGAGCACTACGGAAGGATGCA                      (the nucleic acids only
     are designated herein as SEQ ID NO: 57)
     PDS-ASR2-870: ACATACCAGCACCAGCAATTACNN/36-FAM/ (the nucleic acids only
     are designated herein as SEQ ID NO: 58)
     PDS-SL2-845: TGCATCCTTCCGTAGTGCTCCTNN/36-FAM/ (the nucleic acids only are
 25  designated herein as SEQ ID NO: 55)
     PDS-ASR2-870: ACATACCAGCACCAGCAATTACNN/36-FAM/                     (the nucleic acids only
     are designated herein as SEQ ID NO: 58)
     PDS-SR2-870: /56-FAM/NNGTAATTGCTGGTGCTGGTATGT (the nucleic acids only are
     designated herein as SEQ ID NO: 56)
 30  PDS-ASL2-845: /56-FAM/NNAGGAGCACTACGGAAGGATGCA                      (the nucleic acids only
      are designated herein as SEQ ID NO: 57)
     /56-FAM/ symbolizes a 5'-modification on the SCNA ssDNA comprising of 6-FAM (6
      carboxy-Fluorescein). /36-FAM/ symbolizes a 3'-modification on the SCNA ssDNA
      comprising of 6-FAM (6-carboxy-Fluorescein). N symbolizes any nucleotide.

        WO 2013/088446                                                         PCT/IL2012/050528
                                                   66
    Donor sequence is DONOR PD-MCHERRY-S having the sequence as set forth in SEQ ID
    NO: 59 (mCherry encoding ORF is at nucleotides 662-1372 of SEQ ID NO:59).
    Delivery
             Bioassay setup: Arabidopsis protoplast preparation is based on (Wu et. al., 2009) and
 5  is similar to that of example 1 with differences in the transfection step:
    Transfection:
         1. Make fresh PEG sol for transfection in 2ml tube
         2. Pour off BSA from 6-well plates and dry
         3. Mix -5 x 10^4 protoplasts (2 x 10^4 -1 x 10^5 ) in 0.2ml MMg with a mixture of
10            Donor plasmid DNA (where relevant), Protein Moiety expressing plasmid DNA and
              SCNAs ssDNA to a total of 30-40microgram at RT in 15ml round-bottom (snap-cap)
              tubes. Alternatively Donor DNA and Protein-moiety expressing DNA are constructed
              and delivered on a single plasmid.
         4. Add equal volume (0.2ml protoplasts + midiprep vol.) of fresh PEG sol
15       5. Incubate RT 5 min
         6. Wash by slowly adding 3ml W5, 1ml at a time, and mixing
         7. Centrifuge 100 x g in swing-out 1 min
         8. Repeat wash and pellet
         9. Resuspend in 1ml W5 solution
20        10. Pour into BSA-coated plates
          11. Grow protoplasts under 16hr day optimal light (150microEinstein-m^-2s-A 1) at 22
               degrees C, replacing media as needed.
     Analysis
               In experiment 3A, DNA from pooled protoplasts is analyzed by PCR and restriction
25   fragment analysis of the PCR product.
     The PCR is conducted with the primers:
     PCR Primer2F: TGGTTGTGTTTGGGAATGTTTCT (SEQ ID NO: 60); and
     PCR Primer2R: TATCCAAAAGATATCTTCCAGTAAAC (SEQ ID NO: 61)
               Abolishment of cleavage with the restriction enzyme DdeI in at least a portion of the
 30  amplified DNA indicates at least some successful gene targeting and directed mutation of the
     genomic template.
               In experiment 3B a Donor DNA encoding mCherry is fused in frame to the
     endogenous PDS gene. mRNA produced from this gene encodes a disrupted PDS fused to a
     full mCherry immediately followed by a STOP codon ("PD-mCherry"). Protoplasts

      WO 2013/088446                                                          PCT/IL2012/050528
                                                   67
   suspended in W5 solution are screened for mCherry activity 3 days after transfection using an
   automated flow-cytometer (FACS) machine. PDS-modified protoplasts are detected by FACS
   analysis, where an insertion of mCherry donor is detectable by mCherry fluorescence using a
   561m     excitation wavelength and detection of 590-630nm emission. Threshold and
 5 compensation factors are set to exclude any false positives.
           Further characterization in both experiments is achieved by regenerating protoplasts
   on suitable media and examining their subsequent phenotypic character, where bleached
   plants or calli indicate successful gene-targeting.
10 EXAMPLE          4. In-vivo    genomic    DNA     targeting and gene-replacement         in the
   dicotyledonous plant Tobacco.
           Replacement of the ALS gene in tobacco and producing herbicide resistant plants:
   Acetolactate synthase (ALS) is an enzyme in the biosynthetic pathways of valine, leucine,
   and isoleucine in plants. Mutations in this gene result in resistance to several herbicides. For
15 example, mutations in the SuRB gene in tobacco have been shown to provide the following
   herbicide resistances: S647T - imazaquin, P191A - chlorsulfuron, W568L - chlorsulfuron
   and imazaquin
           In this example, the Tobacco ALS is targeted in order to replace the wild-type gene
   with a herbicide tolerant mutated version by assisted homologous-recombination mediated
20 gene replacement.
   Expression and assembly of the programmed molecular complex in tobacco plants is,
   performed here in two steps. Delivery of the protein moiety is achieved by infecting a
   Tobacco plant with a Tobacco Rattle Virus (TRV)-based viral protein expression vector such
    as a vector modified from pTRV2 (Vainstein et. al., 2011) for the delivery and expression of
25 the programmable protein moiety in-planta.
            Delivery of SCNA into plants expressing the protein moiety is achieved by infecting
   the plants with Agrobacterium carrying a T-DNA encoding both a pair of RNA-SCNAs and a
    Donor sequence.
            The RNA-SCNAs in this example bind the Linking Domain of the Protein Moiety of
30  the Molecular complex using the 20-mer boxB RNA hairpin binding sequence from
    bacteriophage Phi2l (SEQ ID NO: 62: 5'-UJUCACCUCUAACCGGGUGAG-3')                          as the
    "SCNA nucleotide motif' schematically exemplified in Figure 1B.
            The Linking Domain in this example is derived from the RNA-binding protein (RBP)
    bacteriophage Phi2l NProtein (SEQ ID NO: 63: N'-GTAKSRYKARRAELIAER-C'). In the

        WO 2013/088446                                                           PCT/IL2012/050528
                                                     68
   example shown here the hairpin is not on the target but rather on the SCNA, and the action of
   the binding protein is thus not limited to a specific recognition site on the target RNA itself,
   but can be used to target any sequence, including DNA, depending exclusively on the
   variable SCNA target base-pairing sequence adjacent to the invariable RBP-binding hairpin.
 5           The target nucleic acid (gene) in this example is SuRB (GenBank accession
   GI: 19778) and the desired amino acid mutation is P191A - conferring chlorsulfuron
   resistance. Thus:
   Unaltered original Sequence: GGTCAAGTGCCACGTAGGATG (SEQ ID NO: 64)
   Induced Mutation:                 GGTCAAGTGGCGCGCAGGATG (SEQ ID NO: 65)
10 The sequence of the components of the protein moiety:
   Components:
          1. Bacteriophage Phi2l NProtein (SEQ ID NO: 63: GTAKSRYKARRAELIAER) at or
             near the N' terminus as in the full-length N-protein the RNA-binding peptide is
              situated at the N-terminus.
15       2. FokI nuclease
          (VKSELEEKKSELRHKLKYVPHEYIELIEIARNSTQDRILEMKVMEFFMKVYGYRG
         KHLGGSRKPDGAIYTVGSPIDYGVIVDTKAYSGGYNLPIGQADEMQRYVEENQT
         RNKHINPNEWWKVYPSSVTEFKFLFVSGHFKGNYKAQLTRLNHITNCNGAVLSV
         EELLIGGEMIKAGTLTLEEVRRKFNNGEINF) (SEQ ID NO: 66)
20        3. SV40-NLS: (SEQ ID NO: 67: MPKKKRKV)
         4. Interdomain connectors: various poly-amino-acid linkers are tested for optimal
              function of the programmed molecular complex.
         Two options for protein assembly are tested in this example:
          1. The first option, (as set forth in SEQ ID NO: 68), in which the Phi2l NProtein is
25        assembled in the N' terminus of the protein moiety of the programmable molecular
          construct and the nuclear localization signal, SV40NLS, is located at the C' terminus and
         the interdomain linker is GGSGG (SEQ ID NO: 7). This protein assembly is encoded by
         the nucleic acid sequence as set forth in SEQ ID NO: 69.
              Spatial measurements taken from computerized 3D models for the C' Phi2l NP
30 version in conjunction with the BoxB RNA hairpin system and the GGSGGESK (SEQ ID
   NO: 74) interdomain linker, as shown in this example, yielded that the expected optimal
   distance between SCNAs is, in the presence of a single "N" in the SCNA, about 26-30
   nucleotides. Cleavage is predicted to occur about +2 nucleotides to left and to the right of the
    13 th    th nucleotide, counting starts after the last nucleotide hybridizing with the SCNA on

       WO 2013/088446                                                         PCT/IL2012/050528
                                                   69
   either side, taking into account the 4 base 5' overhang created by dsDNA cleavage by the
   dimerized construct. This criterion suggests that if the targeted sequence is 28 nucleotide in
   this example:
   AAAAAAAAAAYYYYYYYYYYXXXXXXXYYYYYYYYYYCCCCCCCCCC,
 5 where Y+X represents the number of nucleotides between the SCNA base-pairing sites, then
   the designed SCNAs base-pair with areas A and C and the cleavage resulting in DSB is in or
    adjacent to the X area. The SCNAs can be complementary to either sense or antisense
    strands, but are chosen preferably to base-pair with the sense (untranscribed) sequence. Both
    SCNAs can base-pair with the same strand, as the protein moiety's position is situated at the
10  "near end" of the SCNA as defined by the 5' or 3' modification of the primer being at the
    "near end".
    SCNA sequence options:
    SCNAs base-pair to sequences flanking the target site that is to be cleaved on either strand,
    thus, for the shown target, utilizing a 28bp target gap: 4 SCNA pairing options exist:
15  Sense (S) SCNA pair:
    SuRBP191_SRI 586:
    UUCACCUCUAACCGGGUGAGNGGUACUGAUGCUUUUCAGGAAA                                    (SEQ ID NO:
    70)
     SuRB_P191_SL1 557:
20  AUAGCGUCCCCAUUGUUGCUAUNUUCACCUCUAACCGGGUGAG                                   (SEQ ID NO:
     71)
     Antisense (AS) SCNA pair:
     SuRBP191_ASRI 586:
     UUUCCUGAAAAGCAUCAGUACCNUUCACCUCUAACCGGGUGAG                                  (SEQ ID NO:
25   72)
     SuRB_P191_ASL1 557:
     UUCACCUCUAACCGGGUGAGNAUAGCAACAAUGGGGACGCUAU                                   (SEQ ID NO:
     73)
             And all combinations of sense and antisense pairs always choosing one Right (R) and
30   one Left (L) SCNA:
             The second option for protein assembly tested in this example, assembled with the
     Phi2l nProtein at the C' of the protein and the SV40NLS at the N' of the protein moiety. In

        WO 2013/088446                                                        PCT/IL2012/050528
                                                   70
    this construct an interdomain connector of the sequence: GGSGGESK (SEQ ID NO: 74) is
    used:
             The Assembled Phi2l NP- based programmable protein moiety of this example has
    the amino acid sequence as set forth in SEQ ID NO: 75 and is encoded by the nucleic acid
 5  sequence as set forth in SEQ ID NO: 76.
             Results of spatial measurements taken from computerized 3D models for the C' Phi2l
    NP version in conjunction with the BoxB RNA hairpin system and the GGSGGESK (SEQ
    ID NO: 74) interdomain linker, as used in this example, yielded that the expected optimal
     distance between SCNAs is, in the presence of 1 N in the SCNA, about 22-24 nucleotides.
10   Cleavage is predicted to occur about 2 nucleotides to left and to the right of the 11 * 1211 or
     13th nucleotide, counting from after the last nucleotide hybridizing with the SCNA on either
     side, taking into account the 4 base 5' overhang created by dsDNA cleavage by the dimerized
     construct. This criterion suggests that if the targeted sequence is, for this 23 nucleotide
     example:          AAAAAAAAAAYYYYYYYYXXXXXXXYYYYYYYYCCCCCCCCCC,
15   where Y+X represents the number of nucleotides between the SCNA base-pairing sites, then
     the designed SCNAs base-pair with areas A and C and the cleavage resulting in DSB is in or
     adjacent to the X area. The SCNAs can be complementary to either sense or antisense
     strands, but are chosen preferably to base-pair with the sense (untranscribed) sequence. Both
     SCNAs can base-pair with the same strand, as the protein moiety's position is situated at the
20   "near end" of the SCNA as defined by the 5' or 3' modification of the primer being at the
     "near end".
      SCNA sequence options:
      SCNAs base-pair to sequences flanking the target site to be cleaved on either strand, utilizing
 25   a 3lbp target gap, result in 4 SCNA pairing options:
      Sense (S) SCNA pair:
      SuRB_P191_SR1-588:
      UUCACCUCUAACCGGGUGAGUACUGAUGCUUUUCAGGAAACU                                  (SEQ ID NO: 77)
 30   SuRBP191_SL1-556:
      GAUAGCGUCCCCAUUGUUGCUAUUCACCUCUAACCGGGUGAG                                  (SEQ ID NO: 78)
      Antisense (AS) SCNA pair:
      SuRB_P191_ASR1-588:
      AGUUUCCUGAAAAGCAUCAGUAUUCACCUCUAACCGGGUGAG                                   (SEQ ID NO: 79)

      WO 2013/088446                                                    PCT/IL2012/050528
                                                71
   SuRBP191_ASL-556:
   UUCACCUCUAACCGGGUGAGUAGCAACAAUGGGGACGCUAUC                             (SEQ ID NO: 80)
   Combinations of sense and antisense pairs:
   SuRBP191_SR1-588:
 5 UUCACCUCUAACCGGGUGAGUACUGAUGCUUUUCAGGAAACU                              (SEQ ID NO: 77)
   SuRB_P191_ASL1-556:
   UUCACCUCUAACCGGGUGAGUAGCAACAAUGGGGACGCUAUC                             (SEQ ID NO: 80)
   SuRB_P191_SL1-556:
   GAUAGCGUCCCCAUUGTUGCUAUUCACCUCUAACCGGGUGAG                             (SEQ ID NO: 78)
10 SuRB_P191_ASR1-588:
   AGUUUCCUGAAAAGCAUCAGUAUUCACCUCUAACCGGGUGAG                              (SEQ ID NO: 79)
   A second set of paired "R" and "L" SCNAs combinations, employing a 23bp target gap and a
   short (a single N) SCNA linker according to the prediction results:
   Sense (S):
15 SURB_P191_SR2-584:
   UUCACCUCUAACCGGGUGAGNUCGGUACUGAUGCUUUUCAGGA                               (SEQ ID NO:
   81)
   SURB_P191_SL2-560:
   GCGUCCCCAUUGUUGCUAUAACNUUCACCUCUAACCGGGUGAG                               (SEQ ID NO:
20  82)
   Antisense (AS):SuRB_P191_ASR2-584:
   UCCUGAAAAGCAUCAGUACCGANUUCACCUCUAACCGGGUGAG                               (SEQ ID NO:
    83)
    SuRBP191_ASL2-560:
25  UUCACCUCUAACCGGGUGAGNGUUAUAGCAACAAUGGGGACGC                               (SEQ ID NO:
    84)
     Or combinations of "R" and "L" SCNAs from the second set.
    UUCACCUCUAACCGGGUGAG. (SEQ ID NO:62) is the sequence of the 20-mer boxB
30  RNA hairpin binding sequence from bacteriophage Phi2l, and functions as the Linking
    domain-binding segment of the SCNA (schematically marked as "SCNA nucleotide motif' in
    Figure IB).
    Coding sequence of the ALS SURB CDS (unaltered) is set forth in SEQ ID NO: 85.

      WO 2013/088446                                                         PCT/IL2012/050528
                                                  72
   DONORI P191A: donor has altered nucleotide sequence to create a Proline to Alanine
   (P19 1A) mutation and to enable restriction enzyme analysis. The sequence of this donor is set
   forth as SEQ ID NO: 86. Altered sequence is as set forth in nucleotides 544-591 of SEQ ID
   NO: 86.
 5 Method:
           In this example, natural host plants petunia, Nicotiana tabacum or N. Benthamiana
   plants are first inoculated with a pTRV-based or pTRVdelta2b-based vector (Vainstein et. al.,
   2011), which is designed to express, in this example, the programmable molecular construct
   under the control of a viral subgenomic promoter. About 5-21 days after infection, plant
10 leaves are collected and plant sap, used here as inoculum, is extracted by crushing the leaves
   in phosphate buffer (20mM, pH 6.8), optionally supplemented with a nonionic wetting agent
   such as Silwet L-77 (about 0.015%). Clearing the solution by centrifugation and/or
   cheesecloth is optionally followed by 0.22 1m filtering. Filtering is necessary for injection
   into tissue-culture grown plants. Concomitantly, a portion of a leaf is analyzed for stability of
15 the viral construct by extracting RNA, reverse transcribing the RNA using a primer 3' from
   the foreign gene insertion site, amplifying the cDNA by PCR using primers spanning the
    foreign gene insertion site and electrophoresing side by side with a similarly PCR amplified
   pTRV plasmid originally used for inoculation. Target tobacco plants, about 1 month old, are
    then infected by lightly abrading their leaves with carborundum and rubbing the sap on the
20  leaf surface. These plants may be grown in-vitro or otherwise. TRV-based self-replicating
    vector carrying the programmable molecular complex infects the plant and spreads
    systemically to leaves, meristems and non-inoculated tissues and organs. While still un
    programmed the said complex is inactive as a nuclease.
            Once the TRV-based self-replicating vector has spread systemically throughout the
25  plant (about 5-7 days), hence, expressing the programmable protein moiety of the molecular
    complex, leaf-disks are excised under sterile conditions. Leaf disk transient expression is
    done in a manner similar to (Gallois & Marinho, 1995). Briefly, disks are vacuum infiltrated
    with a suitable strain of Agrobacterium (e.g. EHA105) pre-transformed with one binary
    plasmid (e.g. pRCS, pSOUP + pGreen, or other suitable binary vector) encoding between its
30  RB and LB sequences one of the combinations of two SuRB_P191 SCNA transcripts shown
    above (see also Figure 9 and Figure 8A for schematic illustrations), under the control of two,
    identical or different, constitutive plant promoters such as CaMV 35S or NOS or OCS and
    carrying also the Donor1 P191A sequence. SCNAs are transcribed upon T-strand import into
    the cell, assemble with the programmable protein to form a programmed molecular complex

       WO 2013/088446                                                       PCT/IL2012/050528
                                                  73
   which is then imported into the nucleus where it specifically cleaves a DSB in the SurB locus
   in the tobacco genomic DNA. Donor DNA from the T-DNA then recombines with the SurB
   gene near this DSB bringing about the desired mutation. Leaf disks are placed on selection
   medium containing 420 nM chlorsulfuron as described by Kochevenko (Kochevenko &
 5 Willmitzer, 2003) and in the detailed protocol below. Agrobacterium is killed with a suitable
   antibiotic (Carbenicillin 250ug/ml + Vancomycin 250ug/ml), and callus developing from
   leaf-disks is permitted to form shoots grown into herbicide resistant genome-modified plants.
   Regenerating plants are screened for chlorsulfuron resistance on Murashige and Skoog
   medium containing 420 nM chlorsulfuron as described by Kochevenko et. al. Only plants
10 that grow on chlorsulfuron have an altered ALS gene, indicating that ALS was targeted by
   the programmed molecular complex and that the Donor was properly recombined into the
    correct location.
            Analysis enabling resolving of successful gene-replacement events is achieved by
    conducting PCR on genomic DNA extracted from portions of Tobacco regenerants. On the
15  altered sequence, the Agel restriction enzyme site is abolished and BssHII and KpnI sites are
    added. Thus amplifying a PCR fragment encompassing the replacement site in the SuRB
    gene and digestion of the PCR fragment with Agel, BssHII and KpnI provides a diagnostic
    pattern enabling recognition of successful gene replacement. These plants are further
    screened to eliminate those that have unwanted integrated T-DNA by DNA extraction and
20  PCR amplification of a non-SuRB region of the SCNA-encoding T-DNA.
    Detailed Agrobacterium transformation protocol:
         1. Collect 2ml overnight Agrobacterium culture (transformed with a binary plasmid
            encoding the SCNA transcripts and carrying the Donor DNA).
25       2. Resuspend in 4ml Induction medium (IL: 10.5g K2HPO4, 4.5g KH2PO4, Ig
            (NH4)2SO4, 0.5g NaCitrate, lg glucose, 4g fructose, 4g glycerol, 0.12g MgSO4,
             1.95g MES pH5.6), add Acetosyringone to final concentration of 100pM.
         3. Grow at 30 degrees C for 6h.
         4. Collect bacteria by centrifugation 3000g 5min.
30       5. Resuspend in infiltration medium (10mM MgSO4, 10mM MES pH5.6) containing
            200 pM Acetosyringone to final OD600 0.4.
         6. Take leaf discs of 4-12mm diameter and incubate in the bacterial infiltration solution
             (step 5) for 30min.

       WO 2013/088446                                                        PCT/IL2012/050528
                                                   74
        7. Place leaf discs on regeneration medium (1L: 4.3g MS, 30g sucrose, 100mg Myo
            inositol, pH 5.6, 10g Agar, add NAA and BA to final concentration of
            100microgram/L NAA and 3mg/L BA). Incubate for 48h at 20-25 degrees C.
        8. Move leaf discs to new regeneration medium containing the antibiotic carbenicillin
 5          (0.3mg) and the herbicide chlorsulfuron (420 nM). Move to new medium every 21
            days.
        9. Cut shoots above 10mm and move to 1/2 MS medium for rooting (IL: 2.15g MS, lOg
            Sucrose, 0.5g MES pH=5.7 with KOH, lOg Agar).
10
    EXAMPLE 5. Targeted chemical modification of DNA using a Programmed Molecular
    Complex.
    In this example, specific methylation of DNA in a predetermined location is tested.
             DNA methylation is catalyzed by DNA methyltransferases, which transfer a methyl
15  group (-CH3) from S-adenosyl-L-methionine to the C-5 position of cytosine residues. Three
    active DNA methyltransferases, DNMT1, DNMT3A, and DNMT3B, have been identified in
    humans and mice. Methylation in these examples is of DNA on the Cytosine of a CpG
    sequence.     These    enzymes    belong   to  a    class   of S-adenosyhnethionine-dependent
    methyltransferases (SAM or AdoMet-MTase), class I; AdoMet-MTases are enzymes that use
20   S-adenosyl-L-methionine (SAM or AdoMet) as a substrate for methyltransfer, creating the
    product S-adenosyl-L-homocysteine (AdoHcy).
     DNMT3A
             Both the DNMT1 and DNMT3 families of methyltransferases contain the highly
     conserved C-5 methyltransferase motifs at their C termini, but they show no sequence
 25  similarity in their N-terminal regions. DNMT3A also binds deacetylases and is recruited by a
     sequence-specific repressor to silence transcription. DNMT3A associates with the histone
     deacetylase HDACI using its ATRX homology domain. This domain of DNMT3A
     represents an independent transcriptional repressor domain whose silencing functions require
     HDAC activity. DNMT3A acts as a co-repressor protein carrying deacetylase activity and
 30  can be targeted to specific regulatory foci via its association with DNA-binding transcription.
     DNMT3A also cooperates with RP58 to repress transcription in a methylation-independent
     manner. In this example, methyltransferase activity is localized to a specific locus using
      SCNAs.

        WO 2013/088446                                                       PCT/IL2012/050528
                                                    75
             In this example a portion of the C' of DNMT3A is used to construct a
    methyltransferase-based programmable molecular complex. The PWWP domains which
    target DNMT3A to pericentric heterochromatin, the Zinc-finger domains, the ADD domains,
    the ATRX region which causes its association the histone deacetylase HDAC1, and the whole
 5  regulatory N'-part of the protein are removed, keeping the region comprising the
    AdoMet_MTase region (www.uniprot.org Q9Y6K1). The C-terminus of DNMT3A and B
    contain the catalytic domain. In DNMT3A the active site is C7 10 (numbering is based on the
    translated GenBank accession AF067972.2).
              DNMT3A       forms    a  DNMT3L:DNMT3A:DNMT3A:DNMT3L                 heterotetramer
10   complex. DNMT3L is inactive as a methylase, and DNMT3A can dimerize and is active
     without DNMT3L. DNMT3A is functional in the homodimeric form. The complex shows
     specific contacts at the DNMT3A homodimer interface (dimer interface) and dimerization
     brings two enzyme active sites separated by approximately one helical turn, in B-form DNA.
     Thus, a programmed molecular complex dimer localized to a specific locus by the SCNA,
15   can bring about methylation of cytosines at CpG sites about 10-11 base pairs apart. To further
     restrict DNMT3A interactions with DNMTL, the mutation R729A in the C' terminal
     AdoMet_MTase region is used in this example. The DNMT3A mutants that form dimers
     instead of tetramers on DNA are R771A, E733A, R729A, F732A, and Y735A.
              In order to test the capability of the molecular complex of this example to perform
20   directed specific methylation on a predetermined DNA sequence, a plasmid is used as the
     target nucleic acid. Directed methylation of different locations on the gene encoding the
     mCherry on both strands is tested on the pSAT6-mCherry plasmid by methylation sensitive
     restriction analysis.
     Detection of transfected cells, is done by FACS analysis at wavelength 561nm excitation and
 25   emission detected by 610/20 filter.
      Protein Moiety construction:
      In this example, the protein, encoded on the delivered plasmid, contains an amino-acid
      sequence adapted from the AdoMetMTase region containing the catalytic site of a
      methyltransferase based on human DNA (cytosine-5)-methyltransferase 3A (DNMT3A PDB
 30   accession 2QRV is used to elucidate 3D structure). A mutation, R729 or R771 (based on the
      translated GenBank AF067972.2 numbering) is added to abolish tetramerization with the
      regulatory DNMTL without disrupting DNMT3A dimerization or reducing Kcat. The amino
      acid sequence (translated according to GenBank AF067972.2) of the methyltransferase

       WO 2013/088446                                                        PCT/IL2012/050528
                                                  76
   region of this example is set forth in SEQ ID NO: 87 (DNMT3A AdoMet_MTase region
   R729A)
            An amino-acid sequence adapted from anti-Fluorescein single-chain variable
   fragment (scFv) immunoglobin (Protein Data Bank accession codes 1X9Q, lFLR H), is used
 5 in this example as Linking Domain; an SV40NLS (PKKKRKV: SEQ ID NO: 3) is used as a
   nuclear localization domain and inter-domain connectors such as a flexible inter-domain
    connector (SEQ ID NO. 14: GSLEGGSGG) are utilized in this example for their attachment.
    The protein moiety has the amino-acid sequence set forth in SEQ ID NO: 88, encoded by the
    nucleic acid sequence set forth as SEQ ID NO: 89:
10          The Target sequence for the methylation assay is based on a mCherry coding cassette
    cloned into the MCS site of pSAT6-MCS (AY818383.1 GI:56553596) and includes the
    nucleotide sequence as set forth in SEQ ID NO: 90. The mCherry coding sequence (cds) is
    as set forth in nucleotides 952-1671 of SEQ ID NO: 90.
    SCNA sequence used in this experiment:
15  SL898: TCGAGCTCAAGCTTCGAATTCTNNNNNN/36-FAM/                        (the nucleic acids only are
    designated herein as SEQ ID NO: 91).
    SR951: /56-FAM/NNNNNNGATGGTGAGCAAGGGCGAGGAG                          (the nucleic acids only
    are designated herein as SEQ ID NO: 92).
    3'- and 5'-6FAM (6 carboxy-Fluorescein) Linking-domain-binding-sites are labeled, by /36
20  FAM/ and /56-FAM/ respectively. Though one SCNA is sufficient for DNA methylation, it is
    possible to use more than one SCNA, spaced correctly to allow protein dimerization to
     enhance specificity.
     Experimental Procedure
25  A double transfection strategy is utilized to allow the expression of the protein moiety of the
     molecular complex before introduction of SCNAs and Target DNA.
     Arabidopsis protoplast preparation is based on Wu (Wu et. al., 2009) and is similar to that of
     example 1 with differences in the transfection step:
     Transfection:
30       1. Make fresh PEG sol for transfection in 2ml tube
         2. Pour off BSA from 6-well plates and dry
         3. Mix ~5 x 10A4 protoplasts (2 x 10A4 -1 x 10A5) in 0.2ml MMg with about
             20microgram Protein-Moiety-expressing plasmid DNA at RT in 15ml round-bottom
             (snap-cap) tubes.

     WO 2013/088446                                                        PCT/IL2012/050528
                                                77
     4. Add equal volume (0.2ml protoplasts + midiprep vol.) of fresh PEG sol
     5. Incubate RT 5 min
     6. Wash by slowly adding 3ml W5, 1ml at a time, and mixing
     7. Centrifuge 100 x g in swing-out 1 min
 5    8. Repeat wash and pellet
      9. Resuspend in 1ml W5
      10. Pour into BSA-coated plates
      11. Grow protoplasts under 16hr day optimal light (1 50microEinstein-m^-2sA 1) at 22
          degrees C, replacing media as needed.
10    12. About 16 Hrs. later, retransfection of these cells is done, by repetition of steps 1-11
          replacing the plasmid of step 3 with plasmid encoding the mCherry Target and with
          relevant SCNAs (total about 20 microgram).
      13. mCherry expression and methylation status of extracted plasmids is analyzed 48h
          later.
15
   Analysis
   Analysis of CpG methylation status of target DNA are performed by two methods:
      A) Digested DNA from pooled protoplasts is analyzed by PCR amplification. Digestion
          is performed using the methylation sensitive restriction enzymes SmaI (CCCGG),
20         SalI (GTGAC) or SacII (CCGCGG). The SmaI, SalI, SaclI cluster is used as a CpG
           site for the methylase. CpG dinucleotides underlined. Methylated DNA does not
           cleave with these enzymes. Thus, the MCS sequence spanning the cleavage sites of
          these enzymes is amplified and the product measured by Quantitative PCR returning a
          measure of the methylation efficiency versus samples lacking components of the
25         molecular complex or deliberately containing non-specific SCNAs, scarcely amplified
           due to complete cleavage resulting from non-methylation.
      B) DNA from pooled protoplasts is converted by bisulphite prior to PCR amplification,
           cloning and sequencing, to analyze the methylation status of a number of target and
           non-target control sequences. Bisulphite sequencing is done as described in the EZ
30         DNA Methylation-Gold Kit (ZYMO, USA) suitable for methylated DNA detection
           and is used for further analysis.

       WO 2013/088446                                                        PCT/IL2012/050528
                                                    78
   EXAMPLE 6. Targeted genome modification in Humans: CCR5 gene deletion in
   human hematopoietic stem cells.
            C-C chemokine receptor type 5 (CCR5, GenBank Acc. Nr. NT_022517.18) is a
   chemokine receptor expressed and displayed on the surface of T cells, macrophages, dendritic
 5 cells and microglia. A mutation of this gene - CCR5-A32, which consists of a 32 base
   deletion, results in a frame-shift mutation which introduces 31 new amino-acids at the C'
   terminus of the truncated protein, and confers resistance to smallpox and some types of
   Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV). This allele is found in about 10% of Europeans but
   is rare in other groups.
10 In the following example, CCR5 or portions of this gene are deleted from hematopoietic stem
   cells (HSC) extracted from HIV infected patients that do not have the A32 allele.
            The protein moiety is composed of a nuclease-based Functional Domain (modified
   FokI nuclease domain, as above) and an RNA-motif-binding Linking Domain (derived from
   the BIV TAT protein minimal BIV TAT peptide SGPRPRGTRGKGRRIRR (SEQ ID NO:
15 93) domain, where the linking domain of the protein moiety binds the particular RNA
   sequence UUCAGCUCGUGUAGCUCAUUAGCUCCGAGCU                      (SEQ ID NO: 94) which is the BIV
   TAR loop 1. Delivery of the nucleic acid encoding for the protein moiety is performed
    concomitantly with the delivery of the specificity conferring nucleic acid (SCNA) by
   Adenoviral vector, for their transient expression. Adenoviruses do not integrate into the host
20  genome.
            Upon introduction and expression in the target cells (HSC), the molecular complexes
    self-assemble on the CCR5 target gene, allowing the protein moieties to dimerize and cleave
    the CCR5 sequence, to cause a deletion of portions of this gene, as intended. Following this
    genetic modification, the thus created gene-modified HSCs, or their descendants are
25  autologously retransplanted to the patient. Cells which have been modified are enriched by
    selection by removing CCR5 displaying cells prior to grafting. CCR5 mutated T-cells and
    macrophages develop from these HSCs becoming resistant to HIV infection. Most of the
    Adenovirus and the molecular complex components clear from the HSCs before grafting,
    having completed their function.
30           Functionally preventing the display of CCR5 can be achieved through this system in
    several different ways, using different SCNA types and locations, as detailed below:
             In the A32 allele, 32 nucleotides of the 3' of the CCR5 CDS are missing, resulting in a
    frame-shift             deletion.          The             deleted       sequence            is:

      WO 2013/088446                                                       PCT/IL2012/050528
                                               79
   TTCCATACAGTCAGTATCAATTCTGGAAGAA                      (SEQ ID NO: 95). To delete this
   sequence from CCR5 expressing cells, SCNAs derived from the following sequences (shown
   without Linking-domain-binding modification) are used:
   ATCAATTCTGGAAGAATTTCCA (SEQ ID NO: 96);
 5 TCATTACACCTGCAGCTCTCAT (SEQ ID NO: 97).
          In this example, where the Linking Domain-binding modification on a transcribed
   SCNA utilizes the BIV TAR, the complete sequences of the SCNA sequences are:
   SCNA distance option 1, Utilizing a 16bp gap and no SCNA internal "N" linker:
   CCR5_D32_SR_3321:
10 UUCAGCUCGUGUAGCUCAUUAGCUCCGAGCUAUCAAUUCUGGAAGAAUUUCCA
   (SEQ ID NO: 98)
   CCR5_D32_SL_3304:
   UCAUUACACCUGCAGCUCUCAUUUCAGCUCGUGUAGCUCAUUAGCUCCGAGCU
   (SEQ ID NO: 99)
15
   SCNA distance option 2, employing a 27bp target gap and 2 "N" linker
   nucleotides:CCR5_D32_SR_3319:
   UUCAGCUCGUGUAGCUCAUUAGCUCCGAGCUNNGUAUCAAUUCUGGAAGAAU
   UUC (SEQ ID NO: 100)
20  CCR5_D32_SL_3291:
    CAAAAAGAAGGUCUUCAUUACACNNUUCAGCUCGUGUAGCUCAUUAGCUCCGA
    GCU (SEQ ID NO: 101)
           These     SCNAs    are    designed   to   allow     modification/cleavage    in   the
    TTTCCATACAGTCAGTATCAATTCTGGAAGAA                      target sequence (SEQ ID NO: 102).
25  Cleavage and DSB formation mediated by these pairs alone can, in some cases, through
    endogenous mechanisms, cause a mutation that can lead to a frame shift. In order to make
    wider deletions in the CCR5 gene pairs of SCNAs targeting at least two targets on CCR5 are
    used:
           Deletion of substantially all of the CCR5 coding sequence are induced by using
30  CCR5-ATG region binding SCNAs and CCR5-STOP codon region binding SCNAs,
    concomitantly.

       WO 2013/088446                                                     PCT/IL2012/050528
                                                  80
    ATG SCNAs:
    Targeted area between SCNAs (ATG underlined):
    CAGGGTGGAACAAGATGGATTATCAAGTGTC (SEQ ID NO: 103).
    SCNA distance option 1 utilizing a 3ibp target gap and no SCNA internal "N" linker:
 5  CCR5_SR_2779:
    UUCAGCUCGUGUAGCUCAUUAGCUCCGAGCUAAGTCCAATCTATGACATCAAT
    (SEQ ID NO: 104);
    CCR5_SL_2747:
    AAGATCACTTTTTATTTATGCAUUCAGCUCGUGUAGCUCAUUAGCUCCGAGCU.
10  (SEQ ID NO: 105).
            SCNA distance option 2, based on the computational results, employing a 27bp target
    gap and 2 "N" linker nucleotides:
    CCR5_SR_2777:
    UUCAGCUCGUGUAGCUCAUUAGCUCCGAGCUNNUCAAGUCCAAUCUAUGACAU
15   CA (SEO ID NO: 106)
     CCR5_SL_2749:
     GAUCACUUUUUAUUUAUGCACANNUUCAGCUCGUGUAGCUCAUUAGCUCCGA
     GCU (SEO ID NO: 107)
     STOP SCNAs:
20   Targeted area between SCNAs (STOP codon underlined):
     ATATCTGTGGGCTTGTGACACGGACTCAAGT (SEQ ID NO: 108)
     SCNA distance option 1 Utilizing a 3 lbp target gap and no SCNA internal "N" linker:
     CCR5_SR_3884:
     UUCAGCUCGUGUAGCUCAUUAGCUCCGAGCUGGGCTGGTGACCCAGTCAGAGT
25   (SEQ ID NO: 109);
     CCR5_SL_3802:
     CCGATCCACTGGGGAGCAGGAAUUCAGCUCGUGUAGCUCAUUAGCUCCGAGCU
     (SEQ ID NO: 110)
     SCNA distance option 2, based on computational results, employing a 27bp target gap and 2
 30  "N" linker nucleotides:
     CCR5_SR_3833:
     UUCAGCUCGUGUAGCUCAUUAGCUCCGAGCUNNUGGGCUGGUGACCCAGUCAG
     AG (SEQ ID NO: 111)
     CCR5_SL_3805:

      WO 2013/088446                                                              PCT/IL2012/050528
                                                      81
   AUCCACUGGGGAGCAGGAAAUANNUUCAGCUCGUGUAGCUCAUUAGCUCCGA
   GCU (SEQ ID NO: 112)
           The protein moiety of the molecular complex is expressed via a nucleotide sequence
   carried in an Adenovirus-based expression system, such as, Adeno-XTM Adenoviral System 3
 5 (Clontech Laboratories (CA, USA)) and used according to manufacturer instructions.
   Alternatively, the protein moiety is delivered by naked RNA transfection.
   The Protein Moiety amino-acid sequence for this example:
   Functional Domain: derived from the FokI nuclease subunit (as above).
   Linking Domain: minimal BIV TAT peptide SGPRPRGTRGKGRRIRR (SEQ ID NO: 93)
10 domain.
   Cellular Localization Domain: Nuclear localization signal (NLS) domain of SV40
   (SV40NLS).
   FokI nuclease subunit:
   VKSELEEKKSELRHKLKYVPHEYIELIEIARNSTQDRILEMKVMEFFMKVYGYRGKH
15 LGGSRKPDGAIYTVGSPIDYGVIVDTKAYSGGYNLPIGQADEMQRYVEENQTRNKHI
   NPNEWWKVYPSSVTEFKFLFVSGHFKGNYKAQLTRLNHITNCNGAVLSVEELLIGGE
   MIKAGTLTLEEVRRKFNNGEINF (SEQ ID NO: 66);
    SV40NLS: MPKKKRKV (SEQ ID NO: 67);
    BIV TAT peptide: SGPRPRGTRGKGRRIRR (SEQ ID NO: 93).
20  Interdomain connector: GSGGSGP (SEQ ID NO: 113)
            The Assembled BIV TAT- based programmable protein moiety of this example has
    the amino acid sequence as set forth in SEQ ID NO: 114, which is encoded by the nucleic
    acid sequence as set forth in SEQ ID NO: 115.
            Spatial measurements taken from computerized 3D models for the BIV-TAT-TAR
25  system with the GGSGGGP (SEQ ID NO: 116) interdomain linker, as used in this example,
    yielded that the expected optimal distance between SCNAs is, in the presence of 2 N's in the
    SCNA, is about 26-28 nucleotides. Cleavage is predicted to occur about 2 nucleotides to left
    and to the right of the  12 th, 13th or 1 4 th nucleotide, counting starts after the last nucleotide
    hybridizing with the SCNA on either side, taking into account the 4 base 5' overhang created
30  by dsDNA cleavage by the dimerized construct. This criterion suggests that if, as in this
    example, the targeted sequence is, 27 nucleotides:
    AAAAAAAAAAYYYYYYYYYYXXXXXXXYYYYYYYYYYCCCCCCCCCC,                                              where
    Y+X represents the number of nucleotides between the SCNA base-pairing sites, then the
    designed SCNAs base-pair with areas A and C and the cleavage resulting in DSB is in or

      WO 2013/088446                                                        PCT/IL2012/050528
                                                   82
   adjacent to the X area (target site). The SCNAs can be complementary to either sense or
   antisense strands, but are preferably chosen to base-pair with the sense (untranscribed)
   sequence. Both SCNAs can base-pair with the same strand, as the protein moiety's position is
   situated at the "near end" of the SCNA as defined by the 5' or 3' modification of the primer
 5 being at the "near end".
            Detection and selection of CCR5 non-expressing/presenting cells vs. wild type CCR5
   expressing cells is performed by FACS analysis, using a monoclonal mouse anti-Human
   CCR5 antibody (R&D systems Catalog nr. FABSP1).
10 EXAMPLE          7. Programmable nucleic-acid        base-pairing targeted transcriptional
   activator
   In this example, a protoplast system in the monocot maize (Marrs & Urioste, 1995; Rhodes
   et. al., 1988) is used as a bioassay. In this system maize protoplasts are electroporated to
   introduce a plasmid for transient expression. These protoplasts may then be regenerated if so
15 desired.
   In this example, a protein moiety composed of the Gal4 transcriptional activator domain,
   excluding the UAS binding domain, and a linking domain composed of the anti-Fluorescein
   ScFV, together with a Fluorescein-modified SCNA, is used to activate the expression of a
   reporter gene. In this example, used here, the DNA binding domain of the Gal4 is removed
20  and replaced with a Linking Domain of the protein moiety.
             In the first example, two reporter plasmids are used, which can express GFP (option
    1) or   p-glucoronidase   (GUS, option 2) only if a transcriptional activator is bound to a
    sequence upstream from a TATA box. In this example, this sequence is a 6X-UAS, known to
    be activated by Gal4 protein.
25           In the second example, the UAS sequences are removed from the target nucleic acid
    and the SCNA binds at minus 62 (62nt downstream from the TATA box), thus essentially
    attaining the same result but without any natural promoter. In the maize protoplast bioassay
    system the protein moiety shown below and the SCNA can be co-transfected using
    electroporation.
30           Protein moiety amino acid sequence: comprising an N' nuclear-targeted Gal4
    activation domain fused via an interdomain connector to an anti-Fluorescein ScFv is
    designated herein as SEQ ID NO: 132 and is encoded by the nucleotide sequence as set for
    the in SEQ ID NO: 157.

       WO 2013/088446                                                         PCT/IL2012/050528
                                                   83
           The first example utilizes a target plasmid with 6 UAS repeats:
   The target plasmid contains, in the following order (5'->3'), a 6UAS promoter region
   followed by a TATA box and is designated herein in SEQ ID NO: 180:
   GGACTGTAGAGGTTCCGGGTGACAGCCCTCCGACGGGTGACAGCCCTCCGACGG
 5 GTGACAGCCCTCCGAATTCTAGAGGATCCGGGTGACAGCCCTCCGACGGGTGAC
   AGCCCTCCGACGGGTGACAGCCCTCCGAATTCGAGCTCGGTACCCGGGGATCTGT
   CGACCTCGATCGAGATCTTCGCAAGACCCTTCCTCTATATA;
   A spacer having the sequence:
   AGGAAGTTCATTTCATTTGGRGAGGACACGCTGAACC (SEQ ID NO: 192);
10  Option 1: A GFP coding sequence set forth in SEQ ID NO: 193.
    Option 2: A p-glucoronidase (GUS) coding sequence, set forth in SEQ ID NO: 194.
    a 35S-Terminator sequence:
    GTCCGCAAAAATCACCAGTCTCTCTCTACAAATCTATCTCTCTCTATTTTTCTCCA
    GAATAATGTGTGAGTAGTTCCCAGATAAGGGAATTAGGGTTCTTATAGGGTTTCG
15  CTCATGTGTTGAGCATATAAGAAACCCTTAGTATGTATTTGTATTTGTAAAATACT
    TCTATCAATAAAATTTCTAATTCCTAAAACCAAAATCCAGTGAC                                (SEQ ID NO: 195)
    Two different orientations of SCNA are supplied in separate experiments to choose the more
    effective of the two: UAS-sequence binding SCNA
    Sense: CGGGTGACAGCCCTCCGANNNNNN/36-FAM/                        (the nucleic acids only are set
20  forth herein in SEQ ID NO: 196)
    Anti-sense:/5-6FAM/NNNNNNTCGGAGGGCTGTCACCCG (the nucleic acids only are set
    forth herein in SEQ ID NO: 197)
            The end modification of the SCNAs is 6-carboxy fluorescein (6FAM). 5' or 3'
    modification shown as /5-6FAM/ or /3-6FAM/ respectively. N represents any nucleotide.
25          The second example utilizes a target plasmid lacking a promoter for controlling
    expression of the reported gene:
    The target plasmid contains, in the following order, a plasmid backbone sequence followed
    by a TATA box:
    TCTTCGCTATTACGCCAGCTGGCGAAAGGGGGATGTGCTGCAAGGCGATTAAGTT
30  GGGTAACGCCAGGGTTTTCCCAGTCACGACGTTGTAAAACGACGGCCAGTGCCA
    CCCATAATACCCATAATAGCTGTTTGCCAACCGGTTCTATATA (SEQ ID NO: 198);
    A spacer sequence (SEQ ID NO: 199):
    AGGAAGTTCATTTCATTTGGRGAGGACACGCTGAACC;
    Option 1: the GFP ORF, as set forth in SEQ ID NO: 200.

       WO 2013/088446                                                        PCT/IL2012/050528
                                                  84
    Option 2: p-glucoronidase (GUS) coding sequence, as set forth in SEQ ID NO: 201.
    a 35S Terminator sequence (SEQ ID NO: 202):
    Two different orientations of SCNA are used:
    SCNA: options (minus 62):
 5  GCCAGGGTTTTCCCAGTCACGANNNNNN/36-FAM/                        (the nucleic acids only are set
    forth herein in SEQ ID NO: 203)
    /5-6FAM/NNNNNNTCGTGACTGGGAAAACCCTGGC                         (the nucleic acids only are set
    forth herein in SEQ ID NO: 204)
            Maize protoplasts are tested for GFP expression (option 1) using microscopic or flow
10  cytometric methods. GFP positive cells indicate the functioning of the programmed complex.
    The percentage of GFP positive cells allows the calculation of relative efficiencies between
    experiments conducted to improve different parameters of the system. Absence of GFP in
     cells missing the proper components of the complex (e.g. by using control non-specific
     SCNAs) allows to measure the limits of specificity.
15           Maize protoplasts are tested for GUS expression (option 2) by staining the cells with
     X-Gluc in 0.45M mannitol and incubating overnight at 370 C, and detected using a
     microscope. GUS positive cells (stained blue) indicate the functioning of the programmed
     complex. The percentage of GUS positive cells allows us to calculate relative efficiencies
     between experiments conducted to improve different parameters of the system. Absence of
20   GUS in cells missing the proper components of the complex (e.g. by using control non
     specific SCNAs) allows us to measure the limits of specificity.
     EXAMPLE 8: Gene-Targeting in organellar DNA.
 25          In Eukaryotes, organelles such as mitochondria and plastids contain their own
     genomes. Furthermore, in plants, they may also contain sub-genomic circular DNAs.
     Modifying mitochondrial DNA can have implications for treatment of human disease and for
     agricultural uses, among others. Challenges for these modifications include, among other
     technical hurdles, the delivery and activation of a reasonably efficient, sequence-specific
 30  system necessary for gene-editing into the organelle.
     PCF in Petunia
     Cytoplasmic male sterility (CMS) is a valuable plant trait used extensively by commercial
     seed companies as a method of protecting their seed lines. Thus it is advantageous to either
     repair CMS in existing lines or create CMS in new lines. Cytoplasmic male sterility can be

       WO 2013/088446                                                           PCT/IL2012/050528
                                                    85
    due to the failure of plants to produce functional anthers, pollen, or male gametes as the result
    of specific nuclear and mitochondrial interactions. In the examples shown here a
    characterized cytoplasmic male sterility trait in petunia which is caused by a combined
    deletion and insertion into the atp9 gene in mitochondrial DNA which encodes the subunit 9
 5  of an ATPase, is used. This results in disruption of the proton-translocating function of the
    mitochondrial ATPase multiprotein complex leading to male sterility.
             The protein moiety of the programmable molecular complex of this example is
    designed to harbor a mitochondrial localization signal to ensure the localization of the
    programmed molecular complex inside the mitochondria. Other methods to transfer nucleic
10   acids into mitochondria include the use of liposomes or electroporation. Plant mitochondria,
     and specifically in a plant from the solanaceae which includes Petunia, actively import DNA
     via the permeability transition pore complex. The process is restricted to double-strand DNA,
     but has no obvious sequence specificity. Donor sequences can be delivered, for example,
     either as linear purified PCR fragments, linearized plasmids, or as circular plasmids,
15   depending on the method of delivery. Expression from plasmids, electroporated into isolated
     wheat mitochondria, for example, is very efficient when using a mitochondria-compatible
     promoter such as the 882 bp of T.timopheevi cox II mitochondrial promoter containing the
     initiation region described by (Hanic-Joyce and Gray, 1991).
     Selection of cells containing a replacement or insertion event can be achieved by a
20   Chloramphenicol resistance operon encoded in the Donor DNA.
     In the following examples (8A-8C) the protein moiety comprises:
     A Linking Domain derived from BIV TAT peptide comprising the amino-acid sequence
     SGPRPRGTRGKGRRIRR (SEQ ID NO: 93);
     A Functional Domain derived from FokI nuclease comprising the amino-acid sequence
 25  VKSELEEKKSELRHKLKYVPHEYIELIEIARNSTQDRILEMKVMEFFMKVYGYRGKH
      LGGSRKPDGAIYTVGSPIDYGVIVDTKAYSGGYNLPIGQADEMQRYVEENQTRNKHI
     NPNEWWKVYPSSVTEFKFLFVSGHFKGNYKAQLTRLNHITNCNGAVLSVEELLIGGE
      MIKAGTLTLEEVRRKFNNGEINF (SEQ ID NO: 66);
      a Cellular Localization Domain derived from the Arabidopsis Lipoic acid synthase and
 30   comprising the amino-acid sequence MHSRSALLYRFLRPASRCFSSSS (SEQ ID NO:6)
      which is a mitochondrial localization signal (MLS).
      Interdomain connector: GSGGSGP (SEQ ID NO: 113)

         WO 2013/088446                                                        PCT/IL2012/050528
                                                     86
             The Assembled BIV TAT- based programmable protein moiety of this example has
    the amino acid sequence set forth in SEQ ID NO: 205, which is encoded by the nucleotide
    sequence set forth in SEQ ID NO:206.
              The results of spatial measurements taken from computerized 3D models for the BIV
 5  TAT-TAR system with the GGSGGGP (SEQ ID NO: 116) interdomain linker, of this
    example, show that the expected optimal distance between SCNAs, in the presence of 2 N's
    in the SCNA, is about 26-28 nucleotides. Cleavage is predicted to occur about +2 nucleotides
    to left and to the right of the 12th,     13th or 14th nucleotide, counting starts after the last
     nucleotide hybridizing with the SCNA on either side, taking into account the 4 base 5'
10   overhang created by dsDNA cleavage by the dimerized construct. This criterion suggests that
     if the targeted sequence is, for example, the following 27 nucleotides:
     AAAAAAAAAAYYYYYYYYYYXXXXXXXYYYYYYYYYYCCCCCCCCCC,                                          where
     Y+X represents the number of nucleotides between the SCNA base-pairing sites, then the
     designed SCNAs base-pair with areas A and C and the cleavage resulting in DSB is in or
15   adjacent to the X area. The SCNAs can be complementary to either sense or antisense
     strands, but are chosen preferably to base-pair with the sense (untranscribed) sequence. Both
      SCNAs can base-pair with the same strand, as the protein moiety's position is situated at the
      "near end" of the SCNA as defined by the 5' or 3' modification of the primer being at the
      "near end".
20            The SCNA Linking-Domain-binding RNA sequence used in this example is derived
      from     the    BIV     TAR      loop     1   comprising    the   nucleic    acids    sequence
      UUCAGCUCGUGUAGCUCAUUAGCUCCGAGCU                          (SEQ ID NO: 117). The SCNA may
      thus be either directly delivered to isolated mitochondria (by electroporation of mitochondria
      in the presence of a DNA encoding the SCNA under a bacterial promoter) or delivered to the
25    cytoplasm (by Agrobacterium mediated transient transcription) and "pulled" into the
      mitochondria by the protein moiety bound to it and comprising an MLS.
               After expression of the programmable molecular complex, mitochondria are isolated
      and a Donor DNA is transfected into the isolated mitochondria.
               The following examples are performed, each having 2 options for SCNA distances:
 30    1. Forming a CMS phenotype without a donor DNA (8A).
      2. Targeting atp9 to form a pcf-like mutant using a Donor DNA with Chloramphenicol
      resistance (8B).
       3. Repairing a pcf (CMS) phenotype, reforming ATP9 and restoring fertility and
       concomitantly using a Donor DNA with Chloramphenicol resistance (8C).

       WO 2013/088446                                                         PCT/IL2012/050528
                                                  87
   Target nucleic acid sequences for these examples include:
   "ATP9": Petunia x hybrida X Petunia axillaris subsp. parodii mitochondrial ATP synthase
   subunit 9, GenBank acc. Nr. Y00609.1 GI:297475.
   "pcf': Cytoplasmic male sterility (CMS) in Petunia axillaris subsp. Parodii, CMS-associated
 5 fusion protein (CMS-afp), NADH dehydrogenase subunit 3 (nad3), and ribosomal protein
   S12 (rpsl2) genes, complete cds; mitochondrial, GenBank acc. Nr. M16770.1 GI:1256946.
   Example 8A. Directed DNA-mutation in organellar DNA, without organelle isolation.
   Targeting ATP9 to form a mutation which causes CMS by creating a non-functional protein
10 ATP9 protein.
   The SCNAs are designed to form a single DSB in the target site, that is repaired by the
   endogenous NHEJ repair pathway, creating frameshifts in part of the coding sequence.
   ATP9 Target site: GCAAAACAATTATTTGGTTATGCCATTTTGG (SEQ ID NO: 118).
    SCNA distance option 1, 3 1bp target gap:
15  ATP9 target site flanking SCNAs:
    ATP9_ASL_705:
    UUCAGCUCGUGUAGCUCAUUAGCUCCGAGCUCAAUGAUGGAUUUCGCGCCACG
    (SEQ ID NO: 119)
    ATP9_ASR_737:
20  UUAGCUUCGGUUAGAGCAAAGCUUCAGCUCGUGUAGCUCAUUAGCUCCGAGCU
    (SEQ ID NO: 120)
    SCNA distance option 2, employing a 27bp target gap:
    ATP9_ASL_707:
    UUCAGCUCGUGUAGCUCAUUAGCUCCGAGCUGCCAAUGAUGGAUUUCGCGCCA
25  (SEQ ID NO: 121)
    ATP9_ASR_735:
    AGCUUCGGUUAGAGCAAAGCCCUUCAGCUCGUGUAGCUCAUUAGCUCCGAGCU
    (SEQ ID NO: 122)
            Petunia leaves are inoculated using a standard leaf infiltration method as known in the
30  art, with Agrobacterium harboring T-DNA derived from a binary vector plasmid encoding
    the protein moiety, and the RNA-SCNAs (as schematically shown in Fig. 8A). After
    transfection, the components of the Programmed molecular complex are expressed in the
     cytoplasm, self-assemble, and are then localize to the mitochondria by the mitochondrial
    import machinery, via the MLS exhibited on the surface of protein moiety. The programmed

      WO 2013/088446                                                         PCT/IL2012/050528
                                                  88
   molecular complex (comprising the protein moiety and the targeting SCNA) then targets the
   ATP9 gene in mitochondrial DNA thus forming mutated mitochondria.
   For analysis, 48 hours after the transfection, DNA is purified from the plants and the ATP9
   sequence is amplified by PCR using primers:
 5 ATP9atgF: ATGTTAGAAGGTGCAAAATCAA (SEQ ID NO: 123)
   ATP9p2R: CTAACGGACTTGGAATACGAAT (SEQ ID NO: 124)
   The PCR product is then subjected to CEL I Enzymatic Mutation Detection Assay
   (SURVEYOR Mutation Detection Kit (Transgenomics, USA)). This assay is used to evaluate
   the effectivity of mutation of mitochondrial DNA by gene targeting with a programmed
10 molecular complex.
   Example 8B. Directed DNA-insertion in organellar DNA.
             In this example, ATP9 is targeted to form a pcf-like mutant by inserting a Donor
   DNA containing the selection marker chloramphenicol into the ATP9 locus.
15 Method: as in Example 8A, petunia leaves are inoculated using a standard leaf infiltration
   method with Agrobacterium harboring T-DNA derived from a binary vector plasmid
    encoding the protein moiety of the programmed molecular complex, and the SCNAs. After
   transfection, the components of the Programmed molecular complex are expressed in the
    cytoplasm, self-assemble, and are localize into the mitochondria by the mitochondrial import
20 machinery via the MLS exhibited on the surface of protein moiety. After about 12-72 Hrs
    infiltrated leaves are used for mitochondrial preparation. A plasmid vector or a linear PCR
    product comprising the Donor DNA of this example, is delivered by electroporation into
    isolated mitochondria. The electroporated mitochondria are then transplanted into fresh
    Petunia protoplasts by microinjection. The injected protoplasts are regenerated on
25  Chloramphenicol selection media allowing only the PCF like mitochondria to survive in the
    cells.
    The 8B DONOR DNA (atp9 changed to pcf-like) is set forth in SEQ ID NO: 125:
    Results and analysis:
30           The programmed molecular complex cleaves the atp9 gene in its coding sequence,
    downstream of the region homologous to pcf. This results in homologous recombination
    (HR) between the pcf-like Donor and the cleaved atp9 gene. A pcf male sterile genotype in
    the mitochondrial genome is thus recreated. Further, the donor contains a chloramphenicol
    resistance cassette allowing selection for mitochondria resistant to chloramphenicol. Injected

         WO 2013/088446                                                       PCT/IL2012/050528
                                                  89
                                                                                  chloramphenicol
    protoplasts which are able to regenerate on selection media containing
    contain the DNA-modified targeted mitochondria. Callus resulting from these protoplasts is
    capable of shoot differentiation, and ultimately whole plants are formed resulting in
                                                                                             is thus
    regenerated plants containing only the targeted mitochondria. Male sterile Petunia
 5  achieved by regenerating          plants from calli    containing   chloramphenicol resistant,
    mitochondria.
     Example 8C. Directed DNA-Replacement in organellar DNA.
     In this example, pcf mutant is targeted to form an active repaired ATP9 sequence using a
10   Donor DNA containing a resistance to Chloramphenicol.
               In this example, the Donor DNA is designed to be integrated by HR into the pcf locus,
     creating a STOP codon to recreate an intact ATP9 protein devoid of the superfluous amino
     acid sequence causing the pcf disorder. A Chloramphenicol resistance cassette (AY230218.1
      GI:30267504) in the Donor DNA is used for selection of repaired mitochondria. The CDS on
15   the donor are in an operon based design. The chloramphenicol sequence is shown in
      underlined lowercase.
      Method: A plasmid vector comprising the Donor DNA of this example, the SCNA shown in
                                                                                electroporation into
      example 8C and the protein moiety of example 8A are delivered by
      isolated mitochondria, in this example on a single plasmid similar in design to that
 20   schematically shown in Figure 9.
                Similarly to example 8B, the electroporated mitochondria are transplanted into
      Petunia protoplasts by microinjection. The protoplasts are sown on Chloramphenicol
      selection media. Callus resulting from these protoplasts is capable of shoot differentiation
                                                                                         regenerated
       (Frearson et. al., 1973), and ultimately whole plants are formed resulting in
                                                                                            for male
 25   plants containing only the targeted mitochondria. These petunia plants are screened
       fertility.
       8C sequences:
       Target site in pcf: AGACTTACATCACGATGTCTTTTTCTTCGTT (SEQ ID NO: 126)
       SCNAs flanking target site:
 30    SCNA distance option 1, 3lbp target gap:
       CMSASL_704:
       UUCAGCUCGUGUAGCUCAUUAGCUCCGAGCUGUUAUUUGUAUACCUAACACGG
        (SEQ ID NO: 127).

         WO 2013/088446                                                      PCT/IL2012/050528
                                                   90
    CMSASR_736:
    AUACGAAAACCAAAAUCAGAAUUUCAGCUCGUGUAGCUCAUUAGCUCCGAGCU
    (SEQ ID NO: 128).
    SCNA distance option 2, based on computational results, employing a 27bp target gap:
 5  CMSASL_706
    uucagcuCGUGUAGCUCAUUAGCUCCGagCuCUGUUAUUUGUAUACCUAACAC (SEQ
    ID NO: 129)
     CMSASR_734
     ACGAAAACCAAAAUCAGAAUAAUUCAGCUCGUGUAGCUCAUUAGCUCCGAGCU
10   (SEQ ID NO: 130)
     The sequence of the 8C DONOR is as set forth in SEQ ID NO: 131.
     EXAMPLE 9: Genomic modification of mammalian cells: Preventing FAS receptor
15    mediated death.
              The FAS receptor (FasR) also known as apoptosis antigen 1 (APO-1, APT,
      TNFRSF6, CD95), is a protein that in humans is encoded by the TNFRSF6 gene located on
      chromosome 10 in humans (GenBank accession NC_000010 REGION: 90750288..90775542
 20   GPC_000000034 VERSION NC_000010.10 GI:224589801). The Fas receptor is a death
      receptor displayed on the surface of cells that leads to programmed cell death (apoptosis) by
      forming the death-inducing signaling complex (DISC) upon ligand binding. Membrane
      anchored Fas ligand trimer on the surface of an adjacent cell causes trimerization of Fas
      receptor. Fas ligand or FasL (CD95L) is a homotrimeric type II transmembrane protein.
 25    Soluble FasL is less active than its membrane-bound counterpart and does not induce
      receptor trimerization and DISC formation. Upon ensuing death domain (DD) aggregation,
       the receptor complex is internalized and initiates a cascade of events through caspases,
       eventually leading to DNA degradation, membrane blebbing, and other hallmarks of
                                                                                            used in
       apoptosis. This event can also be mimicked by binding of an agonistic Fas antibody,
 30    the example here.
               Eight splice variants of FasR are known, which are translated into seven isoforms of
       the protein. Apoptosis-inducing Fas receptor is dubbed isoform 1 and is a type 1
       transmembrane protein. Fas protein has 319 amino acids, is divided into 3 domains: an
        extracellular domain, a transmembrane domain, and a cytoplasmic domain. The extracellular

        WO 2013/088446                                                           PCT/IL2012/050528
                                                      91
    domain has 157 amino acids and is rich in cysteine residues. The transmembrane and
    cytoplasmic domains have 17 and 145 amino acids respectively. Exons 1 through 5 encode
    the extracelluar region which can interact with FasR trimer. Exon 6 encodes the
    transmembrane region. Exons 7-9 encode the intracellular region.
 5
    Protein sequence and properties
    The protein moiety is as described in Example 3.
    Thus, the protein moiety of the molecular complex described in this example has the amino
     acid sequence set forth in SEQ ID NO: 49.
10            The specificity-conferring nucleic acid (SCNA) of this example is modified by the
     addition of a Fluorescein-ScFv/6-FAM, 6-carboxyfluorescein - Fluorescein dT which
     includes a C6-linker to one end of each SCNA.
     SCNA properties and sequence
15   The length of the SCNA of the complementary, target-base-pairing oligonucleotide is
     preferentially at least 18 bases. The SCNA can also contain a small number (e.g. 0-6, in this
      example 6) of non-target-base-pairing nucleotides (N's) of any sequence composition that
      serve as a spacer between the 6-FAM terminal-modifier and the target-complementary
      nucleotides.
20    The results of spatial measurements taken from computerized 3D models for the anti
      Fluorescein-ScFv- 6-FAM system with the GGSGG (SEQ ID NO: 7) interdomain linker, as
      used in this example, yielded that the expected optimal distance between SCNAs is, in the
      presence of 2 N's in the SCNA, about 23-26 nucleotides. Cleavage is predicted to occur
      about 2 nucleotides to left and to the right of the 11 t, 12h or 13th nucleotide, counting from
25    after the last nucleotide hybridizing with the SCNA on either side, taking into account the 4
      base 5' overhang created by dsDNA cleavage by the dimerized construct. This criterion
      suggests that if the targeted sequence is, for this 24 nucleotide example:
      AAAAAAAAAAYYYYYYYYYXXXXXXYYYYYYYYYCCCCCCCCCC,                         where Y+X represents the
      number of nucleotides between the SCNA base-pairing sites, then the designed SCNAs base
 30   pair with areas A and C and the cleavage resulting in DSB is in or adjacent to the X area. The
      SCNAs can be complementary to either sense or antisense strands, but are chosen preferably
      to base-pair with the sense (untranscribed) sequence. Both SCNAs can base-pair with the

        WO 2013/088446                                                           PCT/IL2012/050528
                                                   92
    same strand, as the protein moiety's position is situated at the "near end" of the SCNA as
    defined by the 5' or 3' modification of the primer being at the "near end".
    Target site sequence:
    The target sequences examples are:
 5  A) Exon 1 starts at 347, target sequence is: GGGCATCTGGACCCTCCTACC (SEQ ID NO:
          133)
    SCNAs:
    SCNA distance option 1, 2 lbp target gapSL35 1:
    A*GGATTGCTCAACAACCATGCTNNNNNN/36-FAM/                          (the nucleic acids only are set
10  forth herein in SEQ ID NO: 134)
     SR373: /56-FAM/NNNNNNTCTGGTGAGCCCTCTCCTGCC*C (the nucleic acids only are
     set forth herein in SEQ ID NO: 135)
     SCNA distance option 2, based on computational results, employing a 24bp target gap and a
15   shorter SCNA "N" tinker:
     SL349: G*GAGGATTGCTCAACAACCATGNN/36-FAM/                         (the nucleic acids only are set
     forth herein in SEQ ID NO: 136)
     SR374: /56-FAM/NNCTGGTGAGCCCTCTCCTGCCC*G (the nucleic acids only are set
     forth herein in SEQ ID NO: 137)
20   Exon 2 starts at 12499, target sequence is: TACGTCTGTTGCTAGATTATC (SEQ ID NO:
     138)
     B)
     SCNAs:
     SCNA distance option 1, 21bp target gap:
25   SL12503: A*TGCTTTTATTTTACAGGTTCTNNNNNN/36-FAM/ (the nucleic acids only
     are set forth herein in SEQ ID NO: 139)
     SR12525: /56-FAM/NNNNNNGTCCAAAAGTGTTAATGCCCA*A                             (the nucleic acids only
     are set forth herein in SEQ ID NO: 140)
      SCNA distance option 2, based on computational results, employing a 24bp target gap and a
 30   shorter SCNA "N" linker:
      SL12501: TCATGCTTTTATTTTACAGGTTNN/36-FAM/ (the nucleic acids only are set
      forth herein in SEQ ID NO: 141)
      SR12526: /56-FAM/NNTCCAAAAGTGTTAATGCCCAA*G (the nucleic acids only are set
      forth herein in SEQ ID NO: 142)

      WO 2013/088446                                                        PCT/IL2012/050528
                                                   93
           Exon 2 Target for restriction analysis: CAGTTGAGACTCAGAACTTGG (SEQ ID
   NO: 143)
   C)
   SCNAS:
 5 SCNA distance option 1, 21bp target gap
   SL1 2595: G*GAATTGAGGAAGACTGTTACTANNNNNN/36-FAM/                         (the nucleic acids
   only are set forth herein in SEQ ID NO: 144)
   SRI 2617: /56-FAM/NNNNNNAAGGCCTGCATCATGATGGCCAATTCT*C                             (the nucleic
   acids only are set forth herein in SEQ ID NO: 145)
10 SCNA distance option 2, based on computational results, employing a 24bp target gap and a
   shorter SCNA "N" linker:
   SL12594: G*GAATTGAGGAAGACTGTTACTNN/36-FAM/ (the nucleic acids only are set
   forth herein in SEQ ID NO: 146)
15 SR12619: /56-FAM/NNGGCCTGCATCATGATGGCCAA*T (the nucleic acids only are set
   forth herein in SEQ ID NO: 147)
   Primers for analysis of example C:
   FASE2F: CATGCTTTTATTTTACAG; (SEQ ID NO: 148)
    FASE2R: CTGTGACTTTCACTGTAATC (SEQ ID NO: 149)
20  PCR-amplification of the target with these primers forms (in unmodified DNA) a 227bp PCR
    product digested with DdeI forming fragments of 127bp and 100bp. DdeI digestion is
    abolished by accurate targeting.
    Exon 9 target: CAATTGTGAATTCACATAGAA (SEQ ID NO: 150)
    D)
25  SCNAs:
    SCNA distance option 1, 21bp target gap
    SL24524: G*GTGTCATATTATACAATATTTNNNNNN/36-FAM/                       (the nucleic acids only
    are set forth herein in SEQ ID NO: 151)
    SR24546: /56-FAM/NNNNNNAACATTAAATTATAATGTTTG*A                        (the nucleic acids only
30  are set forth herein in SEQ ID NO: 152)
    SCNA distance option 2, based on computational results, employing a 24bp target gap and a
    shorter SCNA "N" linker:
    SL24522: T*TGGTGTCATATTATACAATATNN/36-FAM/ (the nucleic acids only are set
    forth herein in SEQ ID NO: 153)

        WO 2013/088446                                                         PCT/IL2012/050528
                                                    94
    SR24547: /56-FAM/NNACATTAAATTATAATGTTTGA*C                       (the nucleic acids only are set
    forth herein in SEQ ID NO: 154)
             Primers for analysis of example D:
    FASE9F CTTTGTTTATAACTCTGAGAAG (SEQ ID NO: 155)
 5  FAS_E9R TCAAAATGCTTTTGATGCCTGA (the nucleic acids only are set forth herein in
    SEQ ID NO: 156)
    PCR-amplification of the target with these primers forms (in unmodified DNA) a 240bp PCR
    product digested with EcoRI forming fragments of 134bp and 106bp. EcoRI digestion is
10  abolished by accurate targeting.
    /56-FAM/ and /36-FAM/symbolize a 5'-modification or a 3'-modification respectively on the
     SCNA ssDNA comprising of 6-FAM (6-carboxy-Fluorescein). N symbolizes any nucleotide.
     Phosphorothioate-bonds are symbolized by an asterisk (*).
             While each SCNA pair can cause a mutation that knocks out the FAS receptor,
15   deletion of a whole stretch of DNA resulting from targeting more than one site in the gene
     can disable the activity of FASR outright. Thus, for example, using the SCNAs in examples
     A-C may result in mutations abolishing FasR activity, while using any of these SCNAs
     together with the SCNA of example D leads to a major genomic deletion that abolishes FasR
     activity.
20   Assay:
              A bioassay for detecting an induced specific mutation in Human genomic DNA is as
     follows: HeLa and Jurkat Cells are transfected with a plasmid encoding the protein moiety of
     the programmable molecular complex together with the relevant ssDNA SCNAs using the
     transfection agents (Mirus, USA) TransIT-HeLaMONSTER or TransIT-LT1 for formulating
25   the plasmid DNA and TransIT-Oligo for formulating the SCNA ssDNA. Once incubated for
     the allotted time, both sets of formulated DNA-transfection-agent mixes are supplied
     simultaneously to the cells, to target chromosomal FasR. To determine the efficiency of gene
     targeting cells are tested for their sensitivity to FasL in a protocol modified from (Kotlo et.
      al., 2003): Transfected cells are plated in duplicates 20-24 h prior to the treatment with a
 30   combination of 200 ng/ml anti-FasR agonistic antibody (Anti-Fas mAb, clone 2R2 Cat. No.:
     MC-121, Kamiya Biomedical Company, or monoclonal anti CD95 Clone 7C1 1, Cat. No.: PN
      IM2387 Beckman-Coulter) and optionally, a sensitizing agent such as Dicumarol 100
      micromolar. Seventeen hours post-treatment, the number of viable, trypan blue excluding
      cells that remain attached to the plate following rinsing with PBS is determined or

        WO 2013/088446                                                          PCT/IL2012/050528
                                                    95
    alternatively propidium iodide exclusion staining is done to evaluate intact living cells by
    Flow cytometry faces) . Cells in which the FAS gene is targeted and disabled, do not go
    through a death-induction process, do not stain, but rather multiply. Thus, a comparison
    between induced, specifically targeted cells versus non-specifically targeted cells (e.g. no
 5  SCNAs or non-FAS SCNAs) evaluates gene targeting success in human cells. Surviving or
    FACS-sorted cell-lines are analysed by PCR amplification of genomic DNA in the targeted
    FasR regions followed by restriction fragment analysis and sequencing to identify induced
    mutations.
10
     EXAMPLE         10: Editing plasmid        DNA     sequence   in-vivo.   Antibiotic    resistance
     modification.
15           This example is for a bioassay suitable for testing and fine-tuning permutations in the
     basic design of the programmable molecular complex; for testing its application in different
     organisms or cells; for testing different delivery methods; and for testing the editing functions
     of mutation, replacement, deletion and insertion.
     Bacterial selectable marker genes are used to determine the gene targeting efficiency when
20   targeting plasmid DNA.
              In these examples an Arabidopsis protoplast based bioassay is used. In this bioassay,
     protoplasts are delivered with the reporter system and the molecular complex on a plasmid,
      co-delivered with paired ssDNA SCNA modified with a terminal Digoxigenin (NHS Ester)
      (DIG), one SCNA having such a modification at the 3'-terminus and the other at the 5'
25   terminus. A second modification for exonuclease protection, such as phosphorothioate, may
     be added at the opposite terminus.
      Protein sequence and properties
              The protein moiety is as described in Example 1.
      In this example, the nucleic acid end-modification of the SCNA is an NHS-Ester linked
 30   Digoxigenin (DIG), attached to the 5' or 3' position of the oligonucleotide.
      Amino-acid sequence (one letter code) of the protein moiety of the molecular complex (NLS
      FokI-nuclease sequence With Digoxygenin ScFv is set forth in (SEQ ID NO: 12):

       WO 2013/088446                                                          PCT/IL2012/050528
                                                    96
   SCNA properties and sequence
            The length of the SCNA of the complementary, target-base-pairing oligonucleotide is
   preferentially at least 18 bases. The SCNA can also contain a small number (e.g. 1-6, in one
   example 6, in other example, 2) of non-target-base-pairing nucleotides ("N's") of any
 5 sequence composition that serve as a spacer between the DIG-NHS terminal-modifier and the
   target-complementary nucleotides.
            Results of spatial measurements taken from computerized 3D models for the anti
   DIG-ScFv- NHS-Ester-DIG system with the GSLEGGSGG (SEQ ID NO: 14) interdomain
   linker, as shown in this example, yielded that the expected optimal distance between SCNAs
10 is, in the presence of 2 N's in the SCNA, about 23-26 nucleotides. Cleavage is predicted to
   occur about 2 nucleotides to left and to the right of the 1Ii, 12 or 13 nucleotide, counting
    from after the last nucleotide hybridizing with the SCNA on either side, taking into account
    the 4 base 5' overhang created by dsDNA cleavage by the dimerized construct. This criterion
    suggests that if the targeted sequence is, for this 24 nucleotide example:
15  AAAAAAAAAAYYYYYYYYYXXXXXXYYYYYYYYYCCCCCCCCCC,                         where Y+X represents the
    number of nucleotides between the SCNA base-pairing sites, then the designed SCNAs base
    pair with areas A and C and the cleavage resulting in DSB is in or adjacent to the X area. The
    SCNAs can be complementary to either sense or antisense strands, but are chosen preferably
    to base-pair with the sense (untranscribed) sequence. Both SCNAs can base-pair with the
20  same strand, as the protein moiety's position is situated at the "near end" of the SCNA as
    defined by the 5' or 3' modification of the primer being at the "near end".
    Detection assay:
    The target plasmid pTGD (schematically represented in Fig. 15) comprises 4 main sections:
25       1. The target ampicillin resistance cassette (AmpR).
        2. Constitutive selection Kanamycin (Km) resistance cassette (KanR).
        3. Origin of replication (ori).
        4. The programmable molecular complex protein moiety encoding sequence cassette
             (PMCP) including a promoter suitable for the test organism, in this example, plants.
30      5. TI and T2 - target sequences 1 and 2.
             This plasmid multiplies in bacterial cells such as E. coli cells. In this example the
     SCNAs, the target plasmid pTGD encoding the programmable molecular complex protein

        WO 2013/088446                                                        PCT/IL2012/050528
                                                   97
    moiety and a donor DNA (in examples 10B, 1OC) are delivered into Arabidopsis protoplasts.
    48 hours after transfection, DNA is extracted from the transfected protoplasts (Kit Al 120
    Promega Corp.) and transformed into E. coli bacterial competent cells (Kit L3002 Promega
    Corp.). The transfected bacteria are spread on LB medium containing Kanamycin in a
 5  concentration of 100microgram/ml. Colonies are grown for about 16h at 37 degrees C. The
    colonies are then transferred in replica to Ampicillin (100 microgram/ml) or Tetracycline
    (100 microgram/ml) LB plates and grown for another 16h at 37 degrees C.
    Analysis:
             Colonies from each replica are counted. Number of Kanamycin resistant colonies
10  suggests total plasmid number which also represents total target number. Colonies which are
    not resistant to Ampicillin are colonies that contain a plasmid successfully targeted validating
    the editing functions of "Mutation" or "Deletion". Colonies resistant to Tetracycline but not
    to Ampicillin represent integration of the donor DNA into the target plasmid by NHEJ
    validating the editing function of "Replacement". Colonies that are resistant to both
15  Ampicillin and Tetracycline are colonies containing plasmids that were targeted, had the
     donor integrated into the Ampicillin target sequence, but did not replace it validating the
     editing function of "Insertion".
     Plasmids are then subjected to PCR and sequence analysis for verification of the results with
     the primers:
20   A961F: TAGGGCGCTGGCAAGTGTAG              (SEQIDNO: 158)
     A2161R: CATAACACCCCTTGTATTAC (SEQ ID NO: 159)
     Experiments:
     Example 10A - Targeted mutation in the AMPR cassette.
25           The detection assay is performed essentially as described above ("detection assay")
     with the following additional details: pTGD plasmid is transfected together with SCNAs
     flanking target sequence 1 (SEQ ID NO: 161) to Arabidopsis protoplasts. DNA is purified
      and transformed into E. coli competent cells which are spread on LB Kan medium. A replica
     is made on LB AMP plates. Colonies that lost resistance to AMP contain a targeted plasmid.
 30
      Example 10B
              The detection assay is performed essentially as described above ("detection assay")
      with the following additional details: pTGD plasmid is transfected together with SCNAs

       WO 2013/088446                                                          PCT/IL2012/050528
                                                   98
   flanking target sequence 1 and a linear dsDNA Tetracycline (Tet) donor, produced as a PCR
   product, into Arabidopsis protoplasts. DNA is purified and transformed into E. coli
   competent cells which are spread on LB Km medium. A replica is made on both LB AMP
   and on LB Tet plates. Colonies that lost resistance to AMP contain a targeted plasmid.
 5 Colonies resistant to Tet represent plasmids containing specifically integrated donor DNA.
   Example 10C
            The detection assay is performed essentially as described above ("detection assay")
   with the following additional details: pTGD plasmid is transfected together with SCNAs
   directed against target sequence 1 and SCNAs against target sequence 2 (SEQ ID NO: 170),
10 together with the Tetracycline (Tet) donor DNA to Arabidopsis protoplasts. DNA is purified
   and transformed into E. coli competent cells which are spread on LB Km medium. A replica
   is made on LB AMP and on LB Tet plates. Colonies that lose resistance to AMP contain a
   targeted plasmid. Tet resistant colonies represent specifically integrated donor DNA. The
   AMP sensitive colonies are subjected to PCR analysis with primers A961F and A2161R.
15  Colonies that contain a plasmid incorporating the Tet donor (ca. 1.9Kb) instead of the AMP
    (ca. 860bp) target sequence demonstrate gene replacement events.
    Colonies sensitive to both AMP and to Tet demonstrate gene deletion through NHEJ.
    Colonies resistant to both Tet and AMP contain a plasmid incorporating the TetR donor
    without deletion of the Amp resistance cassette and demonstrate targeted donor integration or
20  "insertion".
    Delivery
            Bioassay setup: Arabidopsis protoplast preparation is based on Wu et. al. (2009), and
    is similar to that of example 1 with differences in the transfection step:
    Transfection:
25       1. Make fresh PEG sol for transfection in 2ml tube
         2. Pour off BSA from 6-well plates and dry
         3. Mix -5 x 10^4 protoplasts (2 x 10^4 -1 x 10A5 ) in 0.2ml MMg with a mixture of
            plasmid comprising the Target plasmid DNA and the Protein Moiety expressing
            DNA, the ssDNA SCNAs and the linear dsDNA Donor to a total of 30-40microgram
30          at room temperature in 15ml round-bottom (snap-cap) tubes.
         4. Add equal volume (0.2ml protoplasts + midiprep vol.) of fresh PEG sol
         5. Incubate RT* 5 min
         6. Wash by slowly adding 3ml W5, lml at a time, and mixing

      WO 2013/088446                                                         PCT/IL2012/050528
                                                  99
       7. Centrifuge 100 x g in swing-out 1 min
        8. Repeat wash and pellet
        9. Resuspend in Iml W5 solution.
        10. Pour into BSA-coated plates
 5      11. Grow protoplasts under 16hr day optimal light (150microEinstein-m^-2-s^-1) at 22
            degrees C, replacing media as needed.
   Protoplasts are then subjected to DNA extraction as described in the Detection Assay.
   Targeted AmpR Cassette is as set forth in SEQ ID NO: 160.
   SCNA pairs are chosen one left (L) and one right (R) irrespective of sense (S) or antisense
10 (AS) strand: Choice of SCNA pair combination is a tested parameter in the experiment.
   Target sequence TI on AMPR cassette: TATGAGTATTCAACATTTCCG (SEQ ID NO:
   161) (ATG start codon is underlined)
   Set 1 of AMP targeting SCNAs:
   Option 1 - utilizing a 21 bp target gap:
15 pTGD_130_SL: A*ATAATATTGAAAAAGGAAGAGNNNNNN/3DIGN/                              (the nucleic
   acids only are set forth herein in SEQ ID NO: 162)
   pTGD_152_SR: /5DIGN/NNNNNNTGTCGCCCTTATTCCCTTTTT*T (the nucleic acids
   only are set forth herein in SEQ ID NO: 163)
   pTGD_130_ASL: /5DIGN/NNNNNNCTCTTCCTTTTTCAATATTAT*T (the nucleic acids
20 only are set forth herein in SEQ ID NO: 164)
   pTGD_152_ASR: A*AAAAAGGGAATAAGGGCGACANNNNNN/3DIGN/                                (the nucleic
   acids only are set forth herein in SEQ ID NO: 165)
   Option 2 - paired combinations, employing a 24bp target gap and a shorter SCNA linker
    according to the prediction results:AMP_129_SL:
25  C*AATAATATTGAAAAAGGAAGANN/3DIGN/                    (the nucleic acids only are set forth
    herein in SEQ ID NO: 166)
   AMP_154_SR: /5DIGN/NNTCGCCCTTATTCCCTTTTTTG*C (the nucleic acids only are
    set forth herein in SEQ ID NO: 167)
    AMP_129_ASL: /5DIGN/NNTCTTCCTTTTTCAATATTATT*G (the nucleic acids only are
30  set forth herein in SEQ ID NO: 168)
    AMP_154_ASR: G*CAAAAAAGGGAATAAGGGCGANN/3DIGN/                           (the nucleic acids only
    are set forth herein in SEQ ID NO: 169)
    Target sequence T2 on AMPR cassette: AGCATTGGTAACTGTCAGACC (SEQ ID NO:
    170)

       WO 2013/088446                                                      PCT/IL2012/050528
                                                 100
    Set 2 of AMP targeting SCNAs:
    Option 1 utilizing a 2 1bp target gap:
    pTGD_981_SL: G*AGATAGGTGCCTCACTGATTANNNNNN/3DIGN/                          (the nucleic acids
    only are set forth herein in SEQ ID NO: 171)
 5  pTGD_1003_SR: /5DIGN/NNNNNNAAGTTTACTCATATATACTTT*A                          (the nucleic acids
    only are set forth herein in SEQ ID NO: 172)
    pTGD_981_ASL: /5DIGN/NNNNNNTAATCAGTGAGGCACCTATCT*C                            (the nucleic
    acids only are set forth herein in SEQ ID NO: 173)
    pTGD_1003_ASR: T*AAAGTATATATGAGTAAACTTNNNNNN/3DIGN/                             (the nucleic
10  acids only are set forth herein in SEQ ID NO: 174)
    Option 2 paired combinations, employing a 24bp target gap and a shorter SCNA linker
     according to the prediction results:
    AMP_980_SL: T*GAGATAGGTGCCTCACTGATTNN/3DIGN/ (the nucleic acids only are
15   set forth herein in SEQ ID NO: 175)
     AMP_1005_SR: /5DIGN/NNGTTTACTCATATATACTTTAG*A                     (the nucleic acids only
     are set forth herein in SEQ ID NO: 176)
     AMP_980_ASL: /5DIGN/NNAATCAGTGAGGCACCTATCTC*A (the nucleic acids only
     are set forth herein in SEQ ID NO: 177)
20   AMP_1005_ASR: T*CTAAAGTATATATGAGTAAACNN/3DIGN/                       the nucleic acids only
     are set forth herein in SEQ ID NO: 178)
     Donor:
     Donor sequence encoding Tetracycline resistance from Cloning vector pSoup, EU048870.1
     GI:155733614 is as set forth in SEQ ID NO: 179.
25
     EXAMPLE 11: Construction of the programmable molecular complex to act with a pair
     of connected SCNA sequences.
 30           In this example, the programmable molecular complex is designed to operate with a
     single nucleic acid molecule incorporating dual target sequence binding nucleic acid
     sequences, here designated as a connected pair of Specificity Conferring Nucleic Acid
     sequences (SCNA sequences) as schematically illustrated in Figs. 4A and 4B.

      WO 2013/088446                                                         PCT/IL2012/050528
                                                 101
           In this example, a disrupted GFP target sequence is repaired by removal or mutation
   of a STOP codon. The resulting cleavage of the predetermined Target GFP leads to point
   mutation that may restore GFP activity.
           In these examples, an Arabidopsis protoplast based bioassay, in which the protoplasts
 5 are delivered with the reporter system (target plasmid), protein moiety expressing plasmid,
   co-delivered with either: For example 12A (schematically illustrated in Fig. 4A) - A nucleic
   acid encoding an RNA, RNA composed of two SCNA sequences modified, in this example,
   by the 20-mer boxB RNA hairpin binding sequence from bacteriophage Phi2l (SEQ ID NO:
   62: 5'-UUCACCUCUAACCGGGUGAG-3')                     and an "SCNA Connector", a non-target
10 hybridizing stretch of nucleotides of undefined sequence or length. One SCNA having such a
   modification at the 3'-terminus and the other at the 5'-terminus of the RNA molecule. The
   RNA-SCNAs in this example bind the Linking Domain of the Protein Moiety of the two
   Molecular complexes using the 20-mer boxB RNA hairpin binding sequence from
   bacteriophage Phi2l (5'-UUCACCUCUAACCGGGUGAG-3'(SEQ ID NO: 62), or:
15 In example 11B schematically illustrated in Fig. 4B) a modified ssDNA SCNA containing
   sequence, in this example, modified on both the 5' and the 3' termini by addition of terminal
   Digoxigenin (NHS Ester) (DIG) molecules and an "SCNA Connector", a non-target
   hybridizing stretch of nucleotides of undefined sequence or length.
   Protein sequence and properties
20          The protein moiety in example 11 A, contains an amino-acid sequence derived from a
    FokI nuclease domain as the Functional Domain, Linking Domain in derived from the RNA
    binding    protein  (RBP)    bacteriophage   Phi2l    NProtein    (SEQ    ID   NO:   63:   N'
    GTAKSRYKARRAELIAER-C'), an SV40NLS (PKKKRKV: SEQ ID NO: 3) as a nuclear
    localization domain and an inter-domain connector (SEQ ID NO: 14: GSLEGGSGG).
25          The protein moiety in example 1 1B contains an amino-acid sequence adapted from a
    FokI nuclease domain as the Functional Domain; an amino-acid sequence adapted from anti
    DIG single-chain variable fragment (scFv) immunoglobin (DIG-ScFv) similar to that
    described in (Huston et. al., 1988) as Linking Domain; an SV40NLS (PKKKRKV: SEQ ID
    NO: 3) as a nuclear localization domain and an inter-domain connector (SEQ ID NO: 14:
30  GSLEGGSGG).
            The nucleic acid end-modifications of the SCNA are NHS-Ester linked Digoxigenin
    (DIG) and are attached to both the 5' and the 3' position of the oligonucleotide.

       WO 2013/088446                                                         PCT/IL2012/050528
                                                  102
   Example 11A: Phi21NP based Programmable Molecular Complex protein moiety
   sequence:
   Components:
            Bacteriophage Phi2l NProtein (SEQ ID NO: 63: GTAKSRYKARRAELIAER) at
 5 or near the N' terminus as in the full-length N-protein the RNA-binding peptide is situated at
   the N-terminus.
            FokI nuclease:
   VKSELEEKKSELRHKLKYVPHEYIELIEIARNSTQDRILEMKVMEFFMKVYGYRGKH
   LGGSRKPDGAIYTVGSPIDYGVIVDTKAYSGGYNLPIGQADEMQRYVEENQTRNKHI
10 NPNEWWKVYPSSVTEFKFLFVSGHFKGNYKAQLTRLNHITNCNGAVLSVEELLIGGE
    MIKAGTLTLEEVRRKFNNGEINF (SEQ ID NO: 66)
            SV40-NLS: (PKKKRKV: SEQ ID NO: 3)
    Interdomain connectors: various poly-amino-acid linkers are tested for optimal function of
    the programmed molecular complex.
15  Amino-acid sequence of the protein moiety of the molecular complex: In this example, the
    Phi2l NProtein (amino acid sequence as set forth in SEQ ID NO:68) is assembled in the N'
    terminus of the protein moiety of the programmable molecular construct and the nuclear
    localization signal, SV40NLS, is located at the C' terminus and the interdomain linker is
    GGSGG (SEQ ID NO: 7).
20
    Example 1iB: Amino-acid sequence (one letter code) of the protein moiety of the molecular
    complex (NLS-FokI-nuclease with Digoxygenin ScFv, is set forth in SEQ ID NO: 12).
    SCNA properties and sequence
25          The SCNA length of the complementary, target-base-pairing oligonucleotide can be at
     any predeteremined length. For example, the length is at least 18 bases. The SCNA can also
     contain a small number (preferably 0-6, more preferably 1-2) of non-target-base-pairing
    nucleotides (N's) of any sequence composition that serve as a spacer between the A) Phi21
    boxB RNA hairpin terminal modifier in example 11A or 11B) DIG-NHS terminal-modifier in
30   example 12B, and the complementary nucleotides. In these examples, the SCNAs are
     connected by a non-target-base pairing sequence designated the "SCNA Connecter" in Figure
     14 or X(n) in the sequences of this example. X(n) signifies an undetermined length of RNA
     nucleotides connecting the two specificity conferring regions to each other. For linear DNA
     the expected optimal length (n) is about, 35-73 nucleotides (nts), while both longer (above 73

      WO 2013/088446                                                       PCT/IL2012/050528
                                                 103
   nts) and shorter (4-34 nts) SCNA connectors are applicable. In the examples given here n=40
   nucleotides.
           The SCNAs can be complementary to either sense or antisense strands, but are chosen
   preferably to base-pair with the sense (untranscribed) sequence though two options are shown
 5 here for each example. Both SCNA sequences can base-pair with the same strand, as the
   protein moiety position is situated at the "near end" of the SCNA as defined by the 5' or 3'
   modification of the primer being at the "near end".
           Target "STOP GFP" containing plasmid for the assays of Examples 11A and 11B
   contains the nucleic acid sequence as set forth in (SEQ ID NO: 181).
10 Example 11A: (Phi21NP based)
   Sense or antisense hybridizing dual SCNAs are constructed:
   Sense connected SCNAs:
    GFP-921SR-X(n)-892SL BOXBPHI
   UUCACCUCUAACCGGGUGAGNUCCAAGGGCGAGGAGCUGUUCA                                 (SEQ ID NO:
15 207)-X(n)-ACCAUUUACGAACGAUAGCCAUNUUCACCUCUAACCGGGUGAG
    (designated as SEQ ID NO: 208).
    Anti-sense connected SCNAs:
    GFP-921ASR-X(n)-892ASL BOXBPHI
    UUCACCUCUAACCGGGUGAGNAUGGCUAUCGUUCGUAAAUGGU                                 (SEQ ID NO:
20  209)-X(n)-UGAACAGCUCCUCGCCCUUGGANUUCACCUCUAACCGGGUGAG                                 (SEQ
    ID NO: 210)
           The 20-mer boxB PHI sequence 5'-UUCACCUCUAACCGGGUGAG-3'                     (SEQ ID
    NO: 62) is underlined. Specificity-conferring sequences on the dual SCNA are marked in the
    schematic drawings of Figs. 4A-B as SCNA1 and SCNA2. N's signify a short stretch (0-6) of
25  any nucleotide, X(n) signifies a non-target hybridizing stretch of nucleotides of undefined
    sequence or length (SCNA Connector).
    Example 11B:
    Sense or antisense hybridizing dual SCNAs are constructed:
30  Sense connected SCNAs:
    GFP-919SR-X(n)-894SL-DIG
    /5DigN/NNTGTCCAAGGGCGAGGAGCTGTT (the nucleic acids only are designated as
    SEQ ID NO: 211)

        WO 2013/088446                                                         PCT/IL2012/050528
                                                  104
    -X(n)- CATTTACGAACGATAGCCATGGNN/3DigN/                     (the nucleic acids only are
    designated as SEQ ID NO: 212)
    Antisense connected SCNAs:
    GFP-919ASR-X(n)-894ASL-DIG
 5  /5DigN/NNCCATGGCTATCGTTCGTAAATG (the nucleic acids only are designated as
    SEQ ID NO: 213)-X(n)-AACAGCTCCTCGCCCTTGGACANN/3DigN/                          (the nucleic acids
    only are designated as SEQ ID NO: 214)
             Modification symbols are those used in the Integrated DNA Technology (IDT)
     website (5' DIG= /5DigN/; 3'DIG= /3DigN/), X(n) signifies a non-target hybridizing stretch
10   of nucleotides of undefined sequence or length (SCNA Connector).
     Delivery
             Bioassay setup: Arabidopsis protoplast preparation is based on Wu et. al. (Wu et. al.,
     2009) and is similar to that of example 1 with differences in the transfection step:
     Transfection:
15           1. Make fresh PEG sol for transfection in 2ml tube
             2. Pour off BSA from 6-well plates and dry
             3. Mix -5 x 104 protoplasts (2 x 104 -1 x 105 ) in 0.2ml MMg with a mixture of
                  plasmid comprising the Target plasmid DNA and the Protein Moiety expressing
                  DNA and the dual-SCNA expressing plasmid (For example 12A) or dual SCNA
                                                                           0
20                containing ssDNA (For example 12B) of 30-40tg at RT in 15ml round-bottom
                  (snap-cap) tubes.
             4. Add equal volume (0.2ml protoplasts + midiprep vol.) of fresh PEG sol
             5. Incubate RT 5 min
             6. Wash by slowly adding 3ml W5, 1ml at a time, and mixing
25           7. Centrifuge 100 x g in swing-out 1 mn
             8. Repeat wash and pellet
             9. Resuspend in lml W5 solution
              10. Pour into BSA-coated plates
              11. Grow protoplasts under 16hr day optimal light (150 jE-m-2-s-1) @ 22*C,
 30               replacing media as needed.
     Protoplasts are then subjected to FACS or DNA extraction as described below.

       WO 2013/088446                                                       PCT/IL2012/050528
                                                  105
   Results: Point mutation by induced DSB.
            In this example, cleavage of the target by the molecular complex results in a Double
   Strand-Break (DSB) in the plasmid DNA target. This DSB is created in the STOP codon site,
   which is digested and is repaired by endogenous NHEJ repair mechanism. NHEJ is prone to
 5 mutations, and some of these mutations may abolish the STOP codon and restore an open
   reading frame resulting in an active GFP open reading frame (ORF). GFP is then detected by
   means of microscopy or flow cytometer faces) , enabling the measurement of system
   efficiency and comparison between variables for its improvement.
10 Analysis:
            The gene targeting efficiency is determined as the percentage of positive GFP cells.
    Protoplasts suspended in W5 solution are screened for GFP activity 3 days after transfection
   using an automated flow-cytometer faces) . GFP is detected by excitation at 488nm with
    emission detected by 530/30 filter. Threshold and compensation factors are set to exclude any
15  false positives.
             The target sequence is a STOP codon coupled with a diagnostic restriction site (Spel
    ACTAGT, STOP underlined) in the GFP coding sequence. When successfully targeted, the
    STOP codon and diagnostic restriction site are abolished by a deletion, an insertion or a point
    mutation event. Repair in a specific frame can also restore GFP expression. The assay is
20  analyzed by FACS as described herein below or by purifying plasmid DNA from the
    protoplasts using a plasmid miniprep kit (Bioneer K3030) as following: protoplasts in W5
    solution are precipitated, and lysed by addition of 250ul Buffer 1 and proceeding with the
    protocol as for bacterial pellets in the manufacturer's instructions. The region between the
     SCNAs is amplified from resulting plasmid preparation by PCR. PCR products are
25   exhaustively cleaved with SpeL. After electrophoresis uncleaved products are excised from
    the gel, cloned into a T/A cloning vector (pUC57/T Fermentas) and individual clones are
     sequenced to detect different mutation events.
30   EXAMPLE 12. Bioassay for determination of optimal SCNA distances.
             To determine optimal SCNA distances from potential target sites, for each different
     target type or programmable molecular complex type, a set of target plasmids (pTARGET
     STOPGFP(n), Fig 16.) containing a disrupted GFP reporter coding sequence (STOP-GFP)

      WO 2013/088446                                                        PCT/IL2012/050528
                                                 106
   are created. In an artificial N' leader and in the GFP coding sequence (CDS) two SCNA
   binding sequences (SCNAbs) are inserted, which flank a target sequence with variable
   lengths forming series of plasmids designated as pTARGET-STOPGFP(1-8) (Fig.16). Inserts,
   as outlined in Fig. 16 are inserted using the restriction enzymes NcoI and MscI. The target
 5 sequence is a STOP codon coupled with a diagnostic restriction site (Spel ACTAGT (SEQ ID
   NO:215) or BclI TGATCA (SEQ ID NO:216), STOP underlined) in the artificial N' leader.
            Other components of the plasmid include 1) a promoter operably linked to the GFP
   sequence. Assay can be conducted in different Eukaryotes. In this example, a plant promoter
   such as NosP is used for conducting the experiment in Arabidopsis protoplasts. 2) a pair of
10  SCNA binding sites (SCNAlbs and SCNA2bs); 3) a Target site containing a STOP codon; 4)
    a GFP coding sequence and 5) a transcription terminator sequence, in this example NosT.
             The schematic cartoon (not to scale) shown in Fig. 16, illustrates a set of eight
    exemplary constructs in a set of plasmids pTarget-STOPGFP(n), containing a disrupted
    Green Fluorescent Protein (GFP) reporter coding sequence (STOPGFP), where "n" signifies
15  a serial number as shown in the table in Fig. 16. The set of inserts of variable length and
    composition are delineated by an NcoI restriction site encompassing the start codon and an
    MscI site at the opposite end. SCNAlbs is located in the GFP-artificial N' leader and
    SCNA2bs is located in the GFP coding sequence. The target sequence is a STOP codon
    coupled with a diagnostic restriction site (SpeI ACTAGT (SEQ ID NO:215) or BclI
20  TGATCA (SEQ ID NO:216), STOP underlined) and a frameshift (except in n=5) in the
    artificial N' leader. Sequences of the target site spacers are shown in Example 12. In the
    table, "n" signifies the plasmid serial number. The distance between SCNAbs in base-pairs
    (bp) is shown followed by the relevant diagnostic restriction site in parenthesis. Desired
    cleavage positions on the top and bottom strands, due to expected four bp 5' overhangs, are
25  shown, where 2 numbers are in even-numbered inserts and +3 numbers in odd-numbered
    inserts, due to uncertainty caused by the positioning of the catalytic location "on" a
    nucleotide instead of between nucleotides. In some cleavage events endogenous repair
    mechanisms may cause imperfect repair causing the deletion, mutation or addition of non
    templated nucleotides. Some of these repaired sequences may cause the abolishment of the
30  STOP codon and of the diagnostic restriction site coupled with a frame shift restoring GFP
    expression. The minimal restoring events, addition or deletion of nucleotides or point
    mutations, are shown in the rightmost column of the table.
    Recognition sequence of SCNAI binding in insert:
    ATCTCAAGTCTCTAGGACTGGT (SEQ ID NO: 182)

       WO 2013/088446                                                      PCT/IL2012/050528
                                                   107
    Recognition sequence of SCNA2 binding in GFP sequence:
    ATCTGTGAGCAAAGGCGAGGAG (SEQ ID NO: 183)
    As outlined in Figure 16:
    NcoI/MscI insert for n=1:
 5  CCATGGGATCTCAAGTCTCTAGGACTGGTCTTCAAAATCTTTCTCACTAGTTTCTA
    CGATCTTGGCCA (SEQ ID NO: 184)
    NcoI/MscI insert for n=2:
    CCATGGGATCTCAAGTCTCTAGGACTGGTCAAAATCTTTCTCACTAGTTTCTACGC
    TGGCCA (SEQ ID NO: 185)
10  NcoI/MscI insert for n=3:
    CCATGGGATCTCAAGTCTCTAGGACTGGTAATCTTTCTCACTAGTTACGCTGGCC
    A (SEQ ID NO: 186)
    NcoI/MscI insert for n=4:
    CCATGGGATCTCAAGTCTCTAGGACTGGTAATCTTTCTTGATCAGTCTGGCCA
15  (SEQ ID NO: 187)
    NcoI/MscI insert for n=5:
    CCATGGGATCTCAAGTCTCTAGGACTGGTAATCTTTCTTGATCAGCTGGCCA (SEQ
    ID NO: 188)
    NcoI/MscI insert for n=6:
20   CCATGGGATCTCAAGTCTCTAGGACTGGTAATCTTTCTTGATCACTGGCCA                                       (SEQ
     ID NO: 189)
     NcoI/MscI insert for n=7:
     CCATGGGATCTCAAGTCTCTAGGACTGGTCTTTCTCACTAGTTCTGGCCA (SEQ ID
     NO: 190)
 25  NcolI/MscI insert for n=8:
     CCATGGGATCTCAAGTCTCTAGGACTGGTCTTCACTAGTGGCCA (SEQ ID NO: 191)
             Each molecular complex is co transfected into Arabidopsis protoplasts as described
     herein below:
     Delivery
 30      Bioassay setup: Arabidopsis protoplast preparation is based on (Wu et. al.) and is similar
     to that of example 1 with differences in the transfection step:
          Transfection:
              1. Make fresh PEG sol for transfection in 2ml tube
             2. Pour off BSA from 6-well plates and dry

      WO 2013/088446                                                        PCT/IL2012/050528
                                                 108
           3. Mix -5 x 10^4 protoplasts (2 x 10A4 -1 x 10A5 ) in 0.2ml MMg with a mixture of
               Donor plasmid DNA (where relevant), Protein Moiety expressing plasmid DNA
               and SCNAs ssDNA to a total of 30-40microgram at RT' in 15ml round-bottom
               (snap-cap) tubes. Alternatively Donor DNA and Protein-moiety expressing DNA
 5             are constructed and delivered on a single plasmid.
           4. Add equal volume (0.2ml protoplasts + midiprep vol.) of fresh PEG sol
           5. Incubate RT 5 min
           6. Wash by slowly adding 3ml W5, lml at a time, and mixing
           7. Centrifuge 100 x g in swing-out 1 min
10         8. Repeat wash and pellet
           9. Resuspend in lml W5 solution
           10. Pour into BSA-coated plates
           11. Grow protoplasts under 16hr day optimal light (150microEinstein-m^-2sA1) at
                22 degrees C, replacing media as needed.
15
   Analysis:
           The gene targeting efficiency of each form of the molecular complex is tested on the
   pTARGET-STOPGFP(n) plasmid series.
           When successfully targeted, the STOP codon and diagnostic restriction site are
20 abolished by a deletion, an insertion or a point mutation event (Fig. 16). Repair in a specific
   frame can also restore GFP expression (Fig. 16). The assay is analyzed by FACS or by
   purifying plasmid DNA from the protoplasts using a plasmid miniprep kit (Bioneer K3030)
   as following: protoplasts in W5 solution are precipitated, and lysed by addition of 250ut
   Buffer 1 and proceeding with the protocol as for bacterial pellets in the manufacturer's
25 instructions. The "spacer" region is amplified from resulting plasmid preparation by PCR.
   PCR products are exhaustively cleaved with Spel (37 0 C) or BclI (50*C) as appropriate. After
   electrophoresis, uncleaved products are excised from the gel, cloned into a T/A cloning
   vector (pUC57/T Fermentas) and individual clones are sequenced to detect different mutation
   events.
30          The gene targeting efficiency is then determined as the percentage of positive GFP
   cells. Protoplasts suspended in W5 solution are screened for GFP activity 3 days after
   transfection using an automated flow-cytometer (FACS). GFP is detected by excitation at

       WO 2013/088446                                                        PCT/IL2012/050528
                                                  109
   488nm with emission detected by 530/30 filter. Threshold and compensation factors are set to
   exclude any false positives.
            Controls included in the experiment are 1) use of illegitimate (non-base pairing)
   SCNAs to control for non-specific cleavage, 2) use of a pTARGET-STOPGFP missing one
 5 target binding site to control for non-dimer action, 3) use of pTARGET-GFP, a similar
   plasmid without the GFP-disrupting STOP codon and having an in-frame GFP as a positive
   control, 4) use of pTARGET-STOP-I-SceI-GFP, a plasmid similar to pTARGET-STOPGFP
   but containing an I-Scel restriction site near the GFP-disrupting STOP codon, in conjunction
   with pSAT4-NLS-I-SceI, a plasmid expressing a nuclear localized I-SceI restriction enzyme
10 in plant cells, as a comparative heterologous system control.
            The foregoing description of the specific embodiments will so fully reveal the general
    nature of the invention that others can, by applying current knowledge, readily modify and/or
15  adapt for various applications such specific embodiments without undue experimentation and
    without departing from the generic concept, and, therefore, such adaptations and
    modifications should and are intended to be comprehended within the meaning and range of
    equivalents of the disclosed embodiments. Although the invention has been described in
    conjunction with specific embodiments thereof, it is evident that many alternatives,
20  modifications and variations will be apparent to those skilled in the art. Accordingly, it is
    intended to embrace all such alternatives, modifications and variations that fall within the
    spirit and broad scope of the appended claims.
25
    REFERENCES
     1. Schierling B, Dannemann N, Gabsalilow L, Wende W, Cathomen T, Pingoud A. (2012).
    A novel zinc-finger nuclease platform with a sequence-specific cleavage module. Nucleic
    Acids Res. 2012 Mar;40(6):2623-38.
30  2. Eisenschmidt K, Lanio T, Simonesits A, Jeltsch A, Pingoud V, Wende W, Pingoud A.
    (2005). Developing a programmed restriction endonuclease for highly specific DNA
    cleavage. Nucleic Acids Res. 2005 Dec 14;33(22):7039-47.

       WO 2013/088446                                                          PCT/IL2012/050528
                                                   110
   3. Kubo T, Kanno K, Ohba H, Rumiana B, Fujii M. (2004). Control of intracellular delivery
   of oligonucleotides by signal peptides and genetic expression in human cells. Nucleic Acids
   Symp Ser (Oxf). 2004;(48):303-4.
   4. Jinek M, Chylinski K, Fonfara I, Hauer M, Doudna JA, Charpentier E. (2012). A
 5 programmable dual-RNA-guided DNA endonuclease in adaptive bacterial immunity.
   Science. 2012 Aug 17;337(6096):816-21.
   5. Hanic-Joyce PJ, Gray MW (1991) Accurate transcription of a plant mitochondrial gene in
   vitro. Mol Cell Biol 11: 2035-2039
   6. Vainstein A, Marton I, Zuker A, Danziger M, Tzfira T (2011) Permanent genome
10 modifications in plant cells by transient viral vectors. Trends in Biotechnology 29: 363-369
   7. Gallois P, Marinho P (1995) Leaf disk transformation using Agrobacterium tumefaciens
   expression of heterologous genes in tobacco. Methods Mol Biol 49: 39-48
   8. Kochevenko A, Willmitzer L (2003) Chimeric RNA/DNA oligonucleotide-based site
   specific modification of the tobacco acetolactate syntase gene. Plant Physiol 132: 174-184
15 9. Marrs KA, Urioste JC (1995) Transient Gene Expression Analysis in Electroporated Maize
   Protoplasts. Vol. 55, pp 133-145.
   10. Kotlo KU, Yehiely F, Efimova E, Harasty H, Hesabi B, Shchors K, Einat P, Rozen A,
   Berent E, Deiss LP (2003) Nrf2 is an inhibitor of the Fas pathway as identified by Achilles'
   Heel Method, a new function-based approach to gene identification in human cells. Oncogene
20 22: 797-806
    11. Huston JS, Levinson D, Mudgett-Hunter M, Tai MS, Novotny J, Margolies MN, Ridge
   RJ, Bruccoleri RE, Haber E, Crea R, et. al. (1988) Protein engineering of antibody binding
   sites: recovery of specific activity in an anti-digoxin single-chain Fv analogue produced in
   Escherichia coli. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 85: 5879-5883
25  12. Wu FH, Shen SC, Lee LY, Lee SH, Chan MT, Lin CS (2009) Tape-Arabidopsis
   Sandwich - a simpler Arabidopsis protoplast isolation method. Plant Methods 5: 16.
    13. Antonelli NM, Stadler J (1989) Chemical methods for direct gene transfer to maize
   protoplasts: I. Efficient transient expression after treatment with the polycation Polybrene
   Maize News letter 63: 21-22
30  14. Sheen J (2001) Signal transduction in maize and Arabidopsis mesophyll protoplasts. Plant
   Physiol 127: 1466-1475
    15. Gordon-Kamm WJ, Spencer TM, Mangano ML, Adams TR, Daines RJ, Start WG,
    O'Brien JV, Chambers SA, Adams WR, Jr., Willetts NG, Rice TB, Mackey CJ, Krueger RW,

   WO 2013/088446                                                 PCT/IL2012/050528
                                          111
Kausch AP, Lemaux PG (1990) Transformation of Maize Cells and Regeneration of Fertile
Transgenic Plants. Plant Cell 2: 603-618.

                                              112
CLAIMS
1.   A method for site-specific modification of a target DNA molecule, the method
     comprising
     assembling a nucleoprotein complex comprising
     a)      a polypeptide comprising a catalytic domain and a linking domain, and
     b)      an engineered specificity conferring nucleic acid (SCNA) comprising
             (i)    a nucleotide sequence complementary to a target region of the target DNA
                    molecule, and
             (ii)   a recognition region comprising a nucleotide motif capable of specifically
                    attaching to the linking domain;
     contacting the nucleoprotein complex with the target DNA molecule, wherein the
             engineered SCNA is capable of guiding the nucleoprotein complex to the target
             region of the target DNA molecule, and wherein the nucleoprotein complex
             modifies the target DNA molecule.
2.   The method of claim 1, wherein the catalytic domain comprises a domain selected from
     the group consisting of a nuclease domain, a nickase domain, a methylase domain, a
     polymerase domain, a demethylase domain, an acetylase domain, a deacetylase domain, a
     kinase domain, a phosphatase domain, an integrase domain, a topoisomerase domain, a
     gyrase domain, a helicase domain, a ligase domain, a methyltransferase domain, and a
     combination thereof.
3.   The method of claim 2, wherein the catalytic domain is a nuclease domain.
4.   The method of claim 1, wherein the polypeptide further comprises a nuclear localization
     signal.
5.   The method of claim 1, the polypeptide further comprises a mitochondrial leader
     sequence or a chloroplast leader sequence.
6.   The method of claim 1, wherein the target DNA molecule is double-stranded.
7.   The method of claim 1, wherein the target DNA molecule is genomic DNA.

                                              113
8.  The method of claim 1, wherein the SCNA is synthetically produced.
9.  The method of claim 1, wherein the SCNA comprises a nucleic acid molecule selected
    from the group consisting of a single-strand RNA, a double strand RNA, a single-strand
    DNA, a double strand DNA, and a DNA-RNA hybrid.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein the SCNA is a RNA molecule.
11. The method of claim 1, wherein the interaction between the SCNA and the target DNA is
    through base pairing selected from the group consisting of a full double helix base
    pairing, a partial double helix base pairing, a full triple helix base pairing, a partial triple
    helix base pairing, a D-loop form pairing, and a branched form pairing.
12. The method of claim 1, wherein the interaction between the SCNA and the target DNA is
    through a R-loop form pairing.
13. The method of claim 1, wherein the recognition region of the SCNA comprises a RNA
    secondary or tertiary structure.
14. The method of claim 1, wherein the nucleoprotein complex comprises two SCNAs.
15. The method of claim 1, wherein the site-specific modification is selected from the group
    consisting of mutation, deletion, insertion, replacement, double-strand-break, nicking,
    methylation, acetylation, ligation, recombination, helix unwinding, and chemical
    modification.
16. The method of claim 1, wherein the nucleoprotein complex is assembled in vivo.
17. A method comprising
    contacting a target DNA molecule with a nucleoprotein complex comprising
    a)      a polypeptide comprising a catalytic domain and a linking domain, and
    b)      an engineered specificity conferring nucleic acid (SCNA) comprising
            (i)      a nucleotide sequence complementary to a target region of the target DNA
                     molecule, and

                                               114
             (ii)    a recognition region comprising a nucleotide motif capable of specifically
                     attaching to the linking domain; and
      producing a modification in the target DNA molecule.
18.  The method of claim 17, wherein the target DNA molecule is genomic DNA, and
     wherein the catalytic domain is a nuclease domain.
19.  A system comprising
     a)      a polypeptide comprising a catalytic domain and a linking domain, and
     b)      a programmable, non-naturally occurring specificity conferring nucleic acid
             (SCNA) comprising
             (i)     a ribonucleotide sequence complementary to a target region of a target
                     DNA molecule, and
             (ii)    a recognition region comprising a nucleotide motif capable of specifically
                     attaching to the linking domain;
     wherein the polypeptide and the programmable, non-naturally occurring SCNA forms a
     nucleoprotein complex and is capable of specifically modifying the target DNA
     molecule.
20.  The system of claim 19, wherein the target DNA molecule is genomic DNA, and wherein
     the catalytic domain is a nuclease domain.
END OF CLAIMS

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-date>
                              EDITORIAL NOTE
                                     <removed-apn>
              - There is 139 pages of Gene Sequence only
<removed-apn>

                                            SEQUENCE LISTING
<removed-date>
              <110>   TargetGene Biotechnologies LTD.
              <120>   COMPOSITIONS AND METHODS FOR MODIFYING A PREDETERMINED TARGET
                      NUCLEIC ACID SEQUENCE
              <130>   TGT 001 PCT
              <150>   US 61/576423
              <151>   2011-12-16
<removed-apn>
              <160>   217
              <170>   PatentIn version 3.5
              <210>   1
              <211>   13
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   polynucleotide
              <400> 1
              c u c u       g   u   a   u   c   u                           u   g   u
              13
              <210>   2
              <211>   25
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   polynucleotide
              <400> 2
              g t t t a c c c g c                   c a a t a t a t c c    t g t c a
              25
              <210>   3
              <211>   7
              <212>   PRT

              <213>   Artificial sequence
<removed-date>
              <220>
              <223>   peptide
              <400>   3
              Pro Lys Lys Lys Arg Lys Val
              1               5
<removed-apn>
              <210>   4
              <211>   25
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Peptide
              <400>   4
              Met Leu Ser Leu Arg Gln Ser Ile Arg Phe Phe Lys Pro Ala Thr Arg
              1               5                   10                  15
              Thr Leu Cys Ser Ser Arg Tyr Leu Leu
                          20                  25
              <210>   5
              <211>   33
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   polypeptide
              <400>   5
              Met Leu Ser Ala Leu Ala Arg Pro Ala Ser Ala Ala Leu Arg Arg Ser
              1               5                   10                  15
              Phe Ser Thr Ser Ala Gln Asn Asn Ala Lys Val Ala Val Leu Gly Ala
                          20                  25                  30

<removed-date>
              Ser
              <210>   6
              <211>   23
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial sequence
<removed-apn>
              <220>
              <223>   polypeptide
              <400>   6
              Met His Ser Arg Ser Ala Leu Leu Tyr Arg Phe Leu Arg Pro Ala Ser
              1               5                   10                  15
              Arg Cys Phe Ser Ser Ser Ser
                          20
              <210>   7
              <211>   5
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   peptide
              <400>   7
              Gly Gly Ser Gly Gly
              1               5
              <210>   8
              <211>   12
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   peptide

              <400>   8
<removed-date>
              Asn Ile His His Val Thr Trp His Met Asp Phe Pro
              1               5                   10
              <210>   9
              <211>   7
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial sequence
<removed-apn>
              <220>
              <223>   peptide
              <400>   9
              Pro Asn Ser Leu Ile Val Pro
              1               5
              <210>   10
              <211>   6
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   peptide
              <400>   10
              Thr Gly Leu Asp Ser Pro
              1               5
              <210>   11
              <211>   4
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   peptide
              <400>   11

              Gly Ser Leu Glu
              1
<removed-date>
              <210>   12
              <211>   461
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial peptide
<removed-apn>
              <400>   12
              Met Pro Lys Lys Lys Arg Lys Val Val Lys Ser Glu Leu Glu Glu Lys
              1               5                   10                  15
              Lys Ser Glu Leu Arg His Lys Leu Lys Tyr Val Pro His Glu Tyr Ile
                          20                  25                  30
              Glu Leu Ile Glu Ile Ala Arg Asn Ser Thr Gln Asp Arg Ile Leu Glu
                      35                  40                  45
              Met Lys Val Met Glu Phe Phe Met Lys Val Tyr Gly Tyr Arg Gly Lys
                  50                  55                  60
              His Leu Gly Gly Ser Arg Lys Pro Asp Gly Ala Ile Tyr Thr Val Gly
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Ser Pro Ile Asp Tyr Gly Val Ile Val Asp Thr Lys Ala Tyr Ser Gly
                              85                  90                  95
              Gly Tyr Asn Leu Pro Ile Gly Gln Ala Asp Glu Met Gln Arg Tyr Val
                          100                 105                 110
              Glu Glu Asn Gln Thr Arg Asn Lys His Ile Asn Pro Asn Glu Trp Trp
                      115                 120                 125

              Lys Val Tyr Pro Ser Ser Val Thr Glu Phe Lys Phe Leu Phe Val Ser
<removed-date>
                  130                 135                 140
              Gly His Phe Lys Gly Asn Tyr Lys Ala Gln Leu Thr Arg Leu Asn His
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Ile Thr Asn Cys Asn Gly Ala Val Leu Ser Val Glu Glu Leu Leu Ile
                              165                 170                 175
<removed-apn>
              Gly Gly Glu Met Ile Lys Ala Gly Thr Leu Thr Leu Glu Glu Val Arg
                          180                 185                 190
              Arg Lys Phe Asn Asn Gly Glu Ile Asn Phe Gly Ser Leu Glu Gly Gly
                      195                 200                 205
              Ser Gly Gly Phe Asp Pro Glu Val Gln Leu Gln Gln Ser Gly Pro Glu
                  210                 215                 220
              Leu Val Lys Pro Gly Ala Ser Val Arg Met Ser Cys Lys Ser Ser Gly
              225                 230                 235                 240
              Tyr Ile Phe Thr Asp Phe Tyr Met Asn Trp Val Arg Gln Ser His Gly
                              245                 250                 255
              Lys Ser Leu Asp Tyr Ile Gly Tyr Ile Ser Pro Tyr Ser Gly Val Thr
                          260                 265                 270
              Gly Tyr Asn Gln Lys Phe Lys Gly Lys Ala Thr Leu Thr Val Asp Lys
                      275                 280                 285
              Ser Ser Ser Thr Ala Tyr Met Glu Leu Arg Ser Leu Thr Ser Glu Asp
                  290                 295                 300

              Ser Ala Val Tyr Tyr Cys Ala Gly Ser Ser Gly Asn Lys Trp Ala Met
              305                 310                 315                 320
<removed-date>
              Asp Tyr Trp Gly His Gly Ala Ser Val Thr Val Ser Ser Gly Gly Gly
                              325                 330                 335
              Gly Ser Gly Gly Gly Gly Ser Gly Gly Gly Gly Ser Asp Val Val Met
                          340                 345                 350
<removed-apn>
              Thr Gln Thr Pro Leu Ser Leu Pro Val Ser Leu Gly Asp Gln Ala Ser
                      355                 360                 365
              Ile Ser Cys Arg Ser Ser Gln Ser Leu Val His Ser Asn Gly Asn Thr
                  370                 375                 380
              Tyr Leu Asn Trp Tyr Leu Gln Lys Ala Gly Gln Ser Pro Lys Leu Leu
              385                 390                 395                 400
              Ile Tyr Lys Val Ser Asn Arg Phe Ser Gly Val Pro Asp Arg Phe Ser
                              405                 410                 415
              Gly Ser Gly Ser Gly Thr Asp Phe Thr Leu Lys Ile Ser Arg Val Glu
                          420                 425                 430
              Ala Glu Asp Leu Gly Ile Tyr Phe Cys Ser Gln Thr Thr His Val Pro
                      435                 440                 445
              Pro Thr Phe Gly Gly Gly Thr Lys Leu Glu Ile Lys Arg
                  450                 455                 460
              <210>   13
              <211>   1386
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence

              <220>
              <223>   Polynucleotide
<removed-date>
              <400> 13
              atgcccaaaa agaaacgtaa agttgtgaaa tcggaactcg aagagaagaa atccgagctc
              60
              aggcataagt tgaagtatgt tccgcacgag tacattgaac taattgagat cgctcgtaac
              120
              tctacacaag accgtattct tgaaatgaag gtgatggagt ttttcatgaa ggtttatgga
<removed-apn>
              180
              tatagaggga agcacttggg tggttctcga aaacctgatg gcgcaatcta cacggttggc
              240
              tcgccaattg attatggggt gatagtggat actaaggcat actctggtgg atacaatctt
              300
              cctataggtc aagccgacga aatgcagagg tatgttgaag aaaatcagac aagaaacaag
              360
              catatcaatc ccaatgagtg gtggaaggtt taccctagct ctgtgaccga attcaaattc
              420
              ttatttgtct ccggtcactt taagggaaac tataaggctc aattgacaag acttaatcat
              480
              attacaaact gtaatggtgc agtgctcagt gtcgaagagt tgcttatagg tggggagatg
              540
              attaaagccg gaacgcttac cttggaagaa gtacgtagaa aattcaataa cggggagata
              600
              aactttggaa gcttagaggg tggaagtggt ggcttcgatc cggaagtcca gctccaacaa
              660
              agtggacctg aactagttaa gcctggcgca tccgttagaa tgtcttgtaa atcaagtgga
              720
              tacatcttta cagatttcta catgaactgg gttaggcaat ctcatgggaa gtctcttgat
              780
              tacattggct atatctctcc atattctggt gtaactgggt acaatcagaa gtttaaaggt
              840

              aaggctactt taactgtcga taaatcatct tctacagcgt atatggagtt aagatcactg
<removed-date>
              900
              acatccgaag attcagctgt gtattactgt gctgggagtt ctgggaataa gtgggcgatg
              960
              gactattggg gccatggtgc ttcggtcacc gtatcaagtg gcggtggcgg atccggtggt
              1020
              ggtggctcgg gtggtggcgg aagtgacgtt gtaatgacac aaaccccact gtctcttcct
<removed-apn>
              1080
              gtcagcctag gtgatcaggc tagcatttct tgccgatcct cacaatcttt agtgcactcg
              1140
              aatggaaaca cttatcttaa ctggtacttg cagaaggcag gacagtcacc aaaactcttg
              1200
              atctataaag tttcaaacag attctcagga gttcctgaca ggtttagcgg aagcggatcg
              1260
              ggaacagatt tcacgctgaa aatctcacgc gttgaggctg aggatctcgg tatttacttt
              1320
              tgcagccaaa ctactcatgt gccaccgact tttgggggtg gaacgaaatt ggagataaag
              1380
              a             g               g       t            g            a
              1386
              <210>   14
              <211>   9
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   peptide
              <400>   14
              Gly Ser Leu Glu Gly Gly Ser Gly Gly
              1               5

              <210>   15
<removed-date>
              <211>   1875
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   polynucleotide
              <400> 15
              gacaacatgt ggagcacgac acacttgtct actccaaaaa tatcaaagat acagtctcag
<removed-apn>
              60
              aagaccaaag ggcaattgag acttttcaac aaagggtaat atccggaaac ctcctcggat
              120
              tccattgccc agctatctgt cactttattg tgaagatagt ggaaaaggaa ggtggctcct
              180
              acaaatgcca tcattgcgat aaaggaaagg ccatcgttga agatgcctct gccgacagtg
              240
              gtcccaaaga tggaccccca cccacgagga gcatcgtgga aaaagaagac gttccaacca
              300
              cgtcttcaaa gcaagtggat tgatgtgata acatggtgga gcacgacaca cttgtctact
              360
              ccaaaaatat caaagataca gtctcagaag accaaagggc aattgagact tttcaacaaa
              420
              gggtaatatc cggaaacctc ctcggattcc attgcccagc tatctgtcac tttattgtga
              480
              agatagtgga aaaggaaggt ggctcctaca aatgccatca ttgcgataaa ggaaaggcca
              540
              tcgttgaaga tgcctctgcc gacagtggtc ccaaagatgg acccccaccc acgaggagca
              600
              tcgtggaaaa agaagacgtt ccaaccacgt cttcaaagca agtggattga tgtgatatct
              660
              ccactgacgt aagggatgac gcacaatccc actatccttc gcaagaccct tcctctatat
              720

              aaggaagttc atttcatttg gagaggacgt cgagagttct caacacaaca tatacaaaac
<removed-date>
              780
              aaacgaatct caagcaatca agcattctac ttctattgca gcaatttaaa tcatttcttt
              840
              taaagcaaaa gcaattttct gaaaattttc accatttacg aacgatagcc atggccgtcg
              900
              acaactagtc cagatctgtg tccaagggcg aggagctgtt caccggggtg gtgcccatcc
<removed-apn>
              960
              tggtcgagct ggacggcgac gtaaacggcc acaagttcag cgtgtccggc gagggcgagg
              1020
              gcgatgccac ctacggcaag ctgaccctga agttcatctg caccaccggc aagctgcccg
              1080
              tgccctggcc caccctcgtg accaccctga cctacggcgt gcagtgcttc agccgctacc
              1140
              ccgaccacat gaagcagcac gacttcttca agtccgccat gcccgaaggc tacgtccagg
              1200
              agcgcaccat cttcttcaag gacgacggca actacaagac ccgcgccgag gtgaagttcg
              1260
              agggcgacac cctggtgaac cgcatcgagc tgaagggcat cgacttcaag gaggacggca
              1320
              acatcctggg gcacaagctg gagtacaact acaacagcca caacgtctat atcatggccg
              1380
              acaagcagaa gaacggcatc aaggtgaact tcaagatccg ccacaacatc gaggacggca
              1440
              gcgtgcagct cgccgaccac taccagcaga acacccccat cggcgacggc cccgtgctgc
              1500
              tgcccgacaa ccactacctg agcacccagt ccgccctgag caaagacccc aacgagaagc
              1560
              gcgatcacat ggtcctgctg gagttcgtga ccgccgccgg gatcactctc ggcatggacg
              1620

              agctgtacaa gtccggactc taagcttggg tctagagtcc gcaaaaatca ccagtctctc
<removed-date>
              1680
              tctacaaatc tatctctctc tatttttctc cagaataatg tgtgagtagt tcccagataa
              1740
              gggaattagg gttcttatag ggtttcgctc atgtgttgag catataagaa acccttagta
              1800
              tgtatttgta tttgtaaaat acttctatca ataaaatttc taattcctaa aaccaaaatc
<removed-apn>
              1860
              c a g    t   g   a   c   g   c   g                   g   c   c   g   c
              1875
              <210>   16
              <211>   712
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   polynucleotide
              <400> 16
              atggtgagca agggcgagga ggataacatg gccatcatca aggagttcat gcccttcaag
              60
              gtgcacatgg agggctccgt gaacggccac gagttcgaga tcgagggcga gggcgagggc
              120
              cgcccctacg agggcaccca gaccgccaag ctgaaggtga ccaagggtgg ccccctgccc
              180
              ttcgcctggg acatcctgtc ccctcagttc atgtacggct ccaaggccta cgtgaagcac
              240
              cccgccgaca tccccgacta cttgaagctg tccttccccg agggcttcaa gtgggagcgc
              300
              gtgatgaact tcgaggacgg cggcgtggtg accgtgaccc aggactcctc cctgcaggac
              360
              ggcgagttca tctacaaggt gaagctgcgc ggcaccaact tcccctccga cggccccgta
              420

              atgcagaaga agaccatggg ctgggaggcc tcctccgagc ggatgtaccc cgaggacggc
<removed-date>
              480
              gccctgaagg gcgagatcaa gcagaggctg aagctgaagg acggcggcca ctacgacgct
              540
              gaggtcaaga ccacctacaa ggccaagaag cccgtgcagc tgcccggcgc ctacaacgtc
              600
              aacatcaagt tggacatcac ctcccacaac gaggactaca ccatcgtgga acagtacgaa
<removed-apn>
              660
              cgcgccgagg    gccgccactc      caccggcggc   atggacgagc     tgtacaagat   aa
              712
              <210>   17
              <211>   21
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   polynucleotide
              <400> 17
              g t c g a c a a c t                 a g t c c a g a t c                 t
              21
              <210>   18
              <211>   28
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   polynucleotide
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (1)..(6)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, t or u
              <400>   18

              n n n n n n g t g t            c c a a g g g c g a      g g a g c t g t
              28
<removed-date>
              <210>   19
              <211>   28
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   polynucleotide
<removed-apn>
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (23)..(28)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, t or u
              <400> 19
              t t t a c g a a c g            a t a g c c a t g g      c c n n n n n n
              28
              <210>   20
              <211>   24
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   polynucleotide
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (1)..(2)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, t or u
              <400> 20
              n n g t c c a a g g               g c g a g g a g c t          g t t c
              24
              <210>   21
              <211>   24
              <212>   DNA

              <213>   Artificial sequence
<removed-date>
              <220>
              <223>   polynucleotide
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (23)..(24)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, t or u
<removed-apn>
              <400> 21
              a t t t a c g a a c              g a t a g c c a t g        g c n n
              24
              <210>   22
              <211>   27
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   polynucleotide
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (22)..(27)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, t or u
              <400> 22
              c a g c t c c t c g            c c c t t g g a g a     c n n n n n n
              27
              <210>   23
              <211>   27
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   polynucleotide
              <220>

              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (1)..(6)
<removed-date>
              <223>   n is a, c, g, t or u
              <400> 23
              n n n n n n g g c c            a t g g c t a t c g     t t c g t a a
              27
              <210>   24
              <211>   24
<removed-apn>
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   polynucleotide
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (23)..(24)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, t or u
              <400> 24
              g a a c a g c t c c              t c g c c c t t g g        a c n n
              24
              <210>   25
              <211>   24
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   polynucleotide
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (1)..(2)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, t or u
              <400> 25
              n n g c c a t g g c              t a t c g t t c g t        a a a t
              24

<removed-date>
              <210>   26
              <211>   21
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   polynucleotide
              <400> 26
<removed-apn>
              g a c t c t a a g c             t t g g g t c t a g        a
              21
              <210>   27
              <211>   24
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   polynucleotide
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (1)..(2)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <400> 27
              n n t c c g c a a a           a a t c a c c a g t     c t c t
              24
              <210>   28
              <211>   24
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   polynucleotide
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature

              <222>   (23)..(24)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
<removed-date>
              <400> 28
              g c a t g g a c g a           g c t g t a c a a g   t c n n
              24
              <210>   29
              <211>   24
              <212>   DNA
<removed-apn>
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   polynucleotide
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (23)..(24)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <400> 29
              a g a g a c t g g t           g a t t t t t g c g   g a n n
              24
              <210>   30
              <211>   24
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   polynucleotide
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (1)..(2)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <400> 30
              n n g a c t t g t a           c a g c t c g t c c   a t g c
              24

              <210>   31
<removed-date>
              <211>   22
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   polynucleotide
              <400> 31
              c t a t c c t t c g           c a a g a c c c t t   c c
<removed-apn>
              22
              <210>   32
              <211>   22
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   polynucleotide
              <400> 32
              t t a t c t t g t a           c a g c t c g t c c   a t
              22
              <210>   33
              <211>   22
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   polynucleotide
              <400> 33
              c c c t a t a a g a           a c c c t a a t t c   c c
              22
              <210>   34
              <211>   20
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence

              <220>
              <223>   polynucleotide
<removed-date>
              <400> 34
              a t g g t g a g c a                                 a g g g c g a g g a
              20
              <210>   35
              <211>   21
              <212>   DNA
<removed-apn>
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   polynucleotide
              <400> 35
              t t c t c a a g t c                 a t g a g c a a c t                 c
              21
              <210>   36
              <211>   28
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   polynucleotide
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (1)..(6)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <400> 36
              n n n n n n c t g t           g g g g c c a t a t          c c c a g a a c
              28
              <210>   37
              <211>   28
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence

              <220>
              <223>   polynucleotide
<removed-date>
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (23)..(28)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <400> 37
              g c g g g c a c c g           a g t t g t a t t g   t a n n n n n n
<removed-apn>
              28
              <210>   38
              <211>   28
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   polynucleotide
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (23)..(28)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <400> 38
              g t t c t g g g a t           a t g g c c c c a c   a g n n n n n n
              28
              <210>   39
              <211>   28
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   polynucleotide
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (1)..(6)

              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
<removed-date>
              <400> 39
              n n n n n n t a c a           a t a c a a c t c g       g t g c c c g c
              28
              <210>   40
              <211>   23
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
<removed-apn>
              <220>
              <223>   polynucleotide
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (1)..(2)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <400> 40
              n n g t g g g g c c               a t a t c c c a g a            a c t
              23
              <210>   41
              <211>   24
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   polynucleotide
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (23)..(24)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <400> 41
              a g c g g g c a c c              g a g t t g t a t t           g t n n
              24

              <210>   42
              <211>   24
<removed-date>
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   polynucleotide
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
<removed-apn>
              <222>   (1)..(2)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <400> 42
              n n a c a a t a c a           a c t c g g t g c c   c g c t
              24
              <210>   43
              <211>   23
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   polynucleotide
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (22)..(23)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <400> 43
              a g t t c t g g g a           t a t g g c c c c a    c n n
              23
              <210>   44
              <211>   22
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   polynucleotide

              <400> 44
<removed-date>
              g a g c t a g a t a            g c a g a t g c a g            a t
              22
              <210>   45
              <211>   22
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
<removed-apn>
              <220>
              <223>   polynucleotide
              <400> 45
              c t c c a g a a a a            t c c c t a g a a a            c a
              22
              <210>   46
              <211>   1988
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   polynucleotide
              <400> 46
              ggtgtctgac agcagaagat cctcgatgga gatggatggg gttctgcaag ccgcggatgc
              60
              caaggactgg gtttacaagg gggaaggcgc cgcgaatctc atcctcagct acaccggctc
              120
              gtcgccctcc atggtaagcg ctgagtaggt tcttactgag cgtgcacgca tcgatcactt
              180
              gactttaggg gctcaatgtg tgattcacgg gtgccgcggc gccattcgag ctccagatcc
              240
              agtaccgctc gagcaagtga taaaacatgg agcagggacg atcacgtggt cacttgaaaa
              300
              ttacgtgagg tccggggcga cgatgtacgg cgccggcgaa ctctcaaaca ctcacacaac
              360

              caaaaccgct tcgtgttcgt ctttgttcca agcgactgtg tgagtgtttg agagttcgcc
<removed-date>
              420
              agcgccgtac atcgtcgccc cggatctgac aaattaagct ttcgttgctt ttccatgatt
              480
              gtgcattttg tgagcatgca ctgaatacta tgatggatat gtttggagga agcattattc
              540
              caatttgatg ataagggtgt tatttacact tgttttcagc ttggcaaggt actgcggctc
<removed-apn>
              600
              aagaagattc taaaaaacaa gatgagcaag ggcgaggagc tgttcaccgg ggtggtgccc
              660
              atcctggtcg agctggacgg cgacgtaaac ggccacaagt tcagcgtgtc cggcgagggc
              720
              gagggcgatg ccacctacgg caagctgacc ctgaagttca tctgcaccac cggcaagctg
              780
              cccgtgccct ggcccaccct cgtgaccacc ctgacctacg gcgtgcagtg cttcagccgc
              840
              taccccgacc acatgaagca gcacgacttc ttcaagtccg ccatgcccga aggctacgtc
              900
              caggagcgca ccatcttctt caaggacgac ggcaactaca agacccgcgc cgaggtgaag
              960
              ttcgagggcg acaccctggt gaaccgcatc gagctgaagg gcatcgactt caaggaggac
              1020
              ggcaacatcc tggggcacaa gctggagtac aactacaaca gccacaacgt ctatatcatg
              1080
              gccgacaagc agaagaacgg catcaaggtg aacttcaaga tccgccacaa catcgaggac
              1140
              ggcagcgtgc agctcgccga ccactaccag cagaacaccc ccatcggcga cggccccgtg
              1200
              ctgctgcccg acaaccacta cctgagcacc cagtccgccc tgagcaaaga ccccaacgag
              1260

              aagcgcgatc acatggtcct gctggagttc gtgaccgccg ccgggatcac tctcggcatg
<removed-date>
              1320
              gacgagctgt acaagtaact caagcctatg cagtgcatgt tatgagccaa cacctgggtg
              1380
              ccaatcatgt cgatggtggg gtatggttca gattcagttc atttatgtcc tgttattgtg
              1440
              attttgattg gtaacatatt gacaacctcg acacttggga tcagattcag ttcacttatg
<removed-apn>
              1500
              gaagaaattg gagaattgtt ataatttatc tataatcacc cctactgaaa tagaaataac
              1560
              atggcatcaa tgtgcatgct attggatttt gacacgaata tgctttattc tatcatatgt
              1620
              tggtaattcc agcaggcagc aggcactact ctttggatcc acgtgacttg acaaagaaat
              1680
              catgccatct ttccacaatg caggtccgtg tacgtgtttc tagggatttt ctggagcttg
              1740
              tcgaaaagaa tgttcttagc agccgtcctg ctgggagagt aaatgcaagt tcaattgata
              1800
              acactgctga tgccgctctt ctaatagcag accactcttt attttctggt acgtactcta
              1860
              tccctcttct taccataatc tgaatcttgt taaggtttaa aatatatgat tgattaagta
              1920
              aaatccagag ctctattcat atctcatgca ctgatgtttt gatgaaacac ttgtagcaag
              1980
              a         c         g         g     t        t        g         c
              1988
              <210>   47
              <211>   2987
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence

              <220>
<removed-date>
              <223>   polynucleotide
              <400> 47
              ggtgtctgac agcagaagat cctcgatgga gatggatggg gttctgcaag ccgcggatgc
              60
              caaggactgg gtttacaagg gggaaggcgc cgcgaatctc atcctcagct acaccggctc
              120
<removed-apn>
              gtcgccctcc atggtaagcg ctgagtaggt tcttactgag cgtgcacgca tcgatcactt
              180
              gactttaggg gctcaatgtg tgattcacgg gtgccgcggc gccattcgag ctccagatcc
              240
              agtaccgctc gagcaagtga taaaacatgg agcagggacg atcacgtggt cacttgaaaa
              300
              ttacgtgagg tccggggcga cgatgtacgg cgccggcgaa ctctcaaaca ctcacacaac
              360
              caaaaccgct tcgtgttcgt ctttgttcca agcgactgtg tgagtgtttg agagttcgcc
              420
              agcgccgtac atcgtcgccc cggatctgac aaattaagct ttcgttgctt ttccatgatt
              480
              gtgcattttg tgagcatgca ctgaatacta tgatggatat gtttggagga agcattattc
              540
              caatttgatg ataagggtgt tatttacact tgttttcagc ttggcaaggt actgcggctc
              600
              aagaagattc taaaaaacaa gtaaatagta taaccggtca acatgtggag cacgacacac
              660
              ttgtctactc caaaaatatc aaagatacag tctcagaaga ccaaagggca attgagactt
              720
              ttcaacaaag ggtaatatcc ggaaacctcc tcggattcca ttgcccagct atctgtcact
              780
              ttattgtgaa gatagtggaa aaggaaggtg gctcctacaa atgccatcat tgcgataaag
              840

              gaaaggccat cgttgaagat gcctctgccg acagtggtcc caaagatgga cccccaccca
<removed-date>
              900
              cgaggagcat cgtggaaaaa gaagacgttc caaccacgtc ttcaaagcaa gtggattgat
              960
              gtgataacat ggtggagcac gacacacttg tctactccaa aaatatcaaa gatacagtct
              1020
              cagaagacca aagggcaatt gagacttttc aacaaagggt aatatccgga aacctcctcg
<removed-apn>
              1080
              gattccattg cccagctatc tgtcacttta ttgtgaagat agtggaaaag gaaggtggct
              1140
              cctacaaatg ccatcattgc gataaaggaa aggccatcgt tgaagatgcc tctgccgaca
              1200
              gtggtcccaa agatggaccc ccacccacga ggagcatcgt ggaaaaagaa gacgttccaa
              1260
              ccacgtcttc aaagcaagtg gattgatgtg atatctccac tgacgtaagg gatgacgcac
              1320
              aatcccacta tccttcgcaa gacccttcct ctatataagg aagttcattt catttggaga
              1380
              ggacgtcgag agttctcaac acaacatata caaaacaaac gaatctcaag caatcaagca
              1440
              ttctacttct attgcagcaa tttaaatcat ttcttttaaa gcaaaagcaa ttttctgaaa
              1500
              attttcacca tttacgaacg atagcatgag cccagaacga cgcccggccg acatccgccg
              1560
              tgccaccgag gcggacatgc cggcggtctg caccatcgtc aaccactaca tcgagacaag
              1620
              cacggtcaac ttccgtaccg agccgcagga accgcaggag tggacggacg acctcgtccg
              1680
              tctgcgggag cgctatccct ggctcgtcgc cgaggtggac ggcgaggtcg ccggcatcgc
              1740

              ctacgcgggc ccctggaagg cacgcaacgc ctacgactgg acggccgagt cgaccgtgta
<removed-date>
              1800
              cgtctccccc cgccaccagc ggacgggact gggctccacg ctctacaccc acctgctgaa
              1860
              gtccctggag gcacagggct tcaagagcgt ggtcgctgtc atcgggctgc ccaacgaccc
              1920
              gagcgtgcgc atgcacgagg cgctcggata tgccccccgc ggcatgctgc gggcggccgg
<removed-apn>
              1980
              cttcaagcac gggaactggc atgacgtggg tttctggcag ctggacttca gcctgccggt
              2040
              accgccccgt ccggtcctgc ccgtcaccga gatctgatcc cgatcgttca aacatttggc
              2100
              aataaagttt cttaagattg aatcctgttg ccggtcttgc gatgattatc atataatttc
              2160
              tgttgaatta cgttaagcat gtaataatta acatgtaatg catgacgtta tttatgagat
              2220
              gggtttttat gattagagtc ccgcaattat acatttaata cgcgatagaa aacaaaatat
              2280
              agcgcgcaaa ctaggataaa ttatcgcgcg cggtgtcatc tatgttacta gatcgggctc
              2340
              aagcctatgc agtgcatgtt atgagccaac acctgggtgc caatcatgtc gatggtgggg
              2400
              tatggttcag attcagttca tttatgtcct gttattgtga ttttgattgg taacatattg
              2460
              acaacctcga cacttgggat cagattcagt tcacttatgg aagaaattgg agaattgtta
              2520
              taatttatct ataatcaccc ctactgaaat agaaataaca tggcatcaat gtgcatgcta
              2580
              ttggattttg acacgaatat gctttattct atcatatgtt ggtaattcca gcaggcagca
              2640

              ggcactactc tttggatcca cgtgacttga caaagaaatc atgccatctt tccacaatgc
<removed-date>
              2700
              aggtccgtgt acgtgtttct agggattttc tggagcttgt cgaaaagaat gttcttagca
              2760
              gccgtcctgc tgggagagta aatgcaagtt caattgataa cactgctgat gccgctcttc
              2820
              taatagcaga ccactcttta ttttctggta cgtactctat ccctcttctt accataatct
<removed-apn>
              2880
              gaatcttgtt aaggtttaaa atatatgatt gattaagtaa aatccagagc tctattcata
              2940
              tctcatgcac      tgatgttttg    atgaaacact   tgtagcaaga    cggttgc
              2987
              <210>   48
              <211>   1672
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   polynucleotide
              <400> 48
              atggtcattt cttctggttc aagcatgaca tgaacaggca ataaataagt tgagattttg
              60
              atcacagtaa ctgatacttg aatcgaatca tttagatttt tttttttttt agtttacttg
              120
              tttagtaaat atgttgtcta tgtttgtcac aaaaacgtgg ctcagttctt gtatatatgg
              180
              agacaaaaaa atccattaaa agattgttga cattctcgga aatttagtgc caactgttat
              240
              tgcgagaact tactatagtt ttcctttggc gaaaagctaa taatcttaaa tcttgatttt
              300
              gtcctctttt ctctgagtta gattttctta aattccactt ccgacctatt aagaaatggg
              360

              cttttgcaaa gaagatccgc ttcactgagc ccgtatctcg aagaggataa tacaacaaca
<removed-date>
              420
              aagcaaaacg gcacgtagtt ttaattgtaa ccaaggattg catttcggtc ttgtttcaac
              480
              aaacgaaact tcctgaaatg ccaagaaaaa tctggtcatt tcaccacagt gatcattgtg
              540
              tatgtgttct aaagactcca agcgaaggtt ttagaaaaag gagcattttc tattctattc
<removed-apn>
              600
              aagaaactcg aagaacattc tctcttcatc ctctaacttc cctataaata tgtcctttgc
              660
              taatcagatc aaatcagcag gaaaatcaag aaccaaaagt ctcccgaaaa gcaacgaaca
              720
              atggatcctg atgatgttgt tgattcttct aaatcttttg tgatggaaaa cttttcttcg
              780
              taccacggga ctaaacctgg ttatgtagat tccattcaaa aaggtataca aaagccaaaa
              840
              tctggtacac aaggaaatta tgacgatgat tggaaagggt tttatagtac cgacaataaa
              900
              tacgacgctg cgggatactc tgtagataat gaaaacccgc tctctggaaa agctggaggc
              960
              gtggtcaaag tgacgtatcc aggactgacg aaggttctcg cactaaaagt ggataatgcc
              1020
              gaaactatta agaaagagtt aggtttaagt ctcactgaac cgttgatgga gcaagtcgga
              1080
              acggaagagt ttatcaaaag gttcggtgat ggtgcttcgc gtgtagtgct cagccttccc
              1140
              ttcgctgagg ggagttctag cgttgaatat attaataact gggaacaggc gaaagcgtta
              1200
              agcgtagaac ttgagattaa ttttgaaacc cgtggaaaac gtggccaaga tgcgatgtat
              1260

              gagtatatgg ctcaagcctg tgcaggaaat cgtgtcaggc gatctctttg tgaaggaacc
<removed-date>
              1320
              ttacttctgt ggtgtgacat aattggacaa actacctaca gagatttaaa gctctaagga
              1380
              tcccccgggc tgcaggaatt cgatccgcta gcatcgttca aacatttggc aataaagttt
              1440
              cttaagattg aatcctgttg ccggtcttgc gatgattatc atataatttc tgttgaatta
<removed-apn>
              1500
              cgttaagcat gtaataatta acatgtaatg catgacgtta tttatgagat gggtttttat
              1560
              gattagagtc ccgcaattat acatttaata cgcgatagaa aacaaaatat agcgcgcaaa
              1620
              ctaggataaa    ttatcgcgcg      cggtgtcatc   tatgttacta   gatcgctagc   gg
              1672
              <210>   49
              <211>   462
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   polypeptide
              <400>   49
              Met Pro Lys Lys Lys Arg Lys Val Val Lys Ser Glu Leu Glu Glu Lys
              1               5                   10                  15
              Lys Ser Glu Leu Arg His Lys Leu Lys Tyr Val Pro His Glu Tyr Ile
                          20                  25                  30
              Glu Leu Ile Glu Ile Ala Arg Asn Ser Thr Gln Asp Arg Ile Leu Glu
                      35                  40                  45

              Met Lys Val Met Glu Phe Phe Met Lys Val Tyr Gly Tyr Arg Gly Lys
                  50                  55                  60
<removed-date>
              His Leu Gly Gly Ser Arg Lys Pro Asp Gly Ala Ile Tyr Thr Val Gly
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Ser Pro Ile Asp Tyr Gly Val Ile Val Asp Thr Lys Ala Tyr Ser Gly
                              85                  90                  95
<removed-apn>
              Gly Tyr Asn Leu Pro Ile Gly Gln Ala Asp Glu Met Gln Arg Tyr Val
                          100                 105                 110
              Glu Glu Asn Gln Thr Arg Asn Lys His Ile Asn Pro Asn Glu Trp Trp
                      115                 120                 125
              Lys Val Tyr Pro Ser Ser Val Thr Glu Phe Lys Phe Leu Phe Val Ser
                  130                 135                 140
              Gly His Phe Lys Gly Asn Tyr Lys Ala Gln Leu Thr Arg Leu Asn His
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Ile Thr Asn Cys Asn Gly Ala Val Leu Ser Val Glu Glu Leu Leu Ile
                              165                 170                 175
              Gly Gly Glu Met Ile Lys Ala Gly Thr Leu Thr Leu Glu Glu Val Arg
                          180                 185                 190
              Arg Lys Phe Asn Asn Gly Glu Ile Asn Phe Gly Gly Ser Gly Gly Ser
                      195                 200                 205
              Asp Val Val Met Thr Gln Thr Pro Leu Ser Leu Pro Val Ser Leu Gly
                  210                 215                 220
              Asp Gln Ala Ser Ile Ser Cys Arg Ser Ser Gln Ser Leu Val His Ser

              225                 230                 235                 240
<removed-date>
              Asn Gly Asn Thr Tyr Leu Arg Trp Tyr Leu Gln Lys Pro Gly Gln Ser
                              245                 250                 255
              Pro Lys Val Leu Ile Tyr Lys Val Ser Asn Arg Phe Ser Gly Val Pro
                          260                 265                 270
<removed-apn>
              Asp Arg Phe Ser Gly Ser Gly Ser Gly Thr Asp Phe Thr Leu Lys Ile
                      275                 280                 285
              Ser Arg Val Glu Ala Glu Asp Leu Gly Val Tyr Phe Cys Ser Gln Ser
                  290                 295                 300
              Thr His Val Pro Trp Thr Phe Gly Gly Gly Thr Lys Leu Glu Ile Lys
              305                 310                 315                 320
              Ser Ser Ala Asp Asp Ala Lys Lys Asp Ala Ala Lys Lys Asp Asp Ala
                              325                 330                 335
              Lys Lys Asp Asp Ala Lys Lys Asp Gly Gly Val Lys Leu Asp Glu Thr
                          340                 345                 350
              Gly Gly Gly Leu Val Gln Pro Gly Arg Pro Met Lys Leu Ser Cys Val
                      355                 360                 365
              Ala Ser Gly Phe Thr Phe Ser Asp Tyr Trp Met Asn Trp Val Arg Gln
                  370                 375                 380
              Ser Pro Glu Lys Gly Leu Glu Trp Val Ala Gln Ile Arg Asn Lys Pro
              385                 390                 395                 400
              Tyr Asn Tyr Glu Thr Tyr Tyr Ser Asp Ser Val Lys Gly Arg Phe Thr
                              405                 410                 415

<removed-date>
              Ile Ser Arg Asp Asp Ser Lys Ser Ser Val Tyr Leu Gln Met Asn Asn
                          420                 425                 430
              Leu Arg Val Glu Asp Met Gly Ile Tyr Tyr Cys Thr Gly Ser Tyr Tyr
                      435                 440                 445
              Gly Met Asp Tyr Trp Gly Gln Gly Thr Ser Val Thr Val Ser
<removed-apn>
                  450                 455                 460
              <210>   50
              <211>   1389
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   polynucleotide
              <400> 50
              atgccgaaaa agaagaggaa ggtggtgaag agcgaactgg aggagaaaaa gtccgagctc
              60
              cgccacaagc tgaagtacgt cccgcacgag tacatcgaac tgatcgagat tgccaggaat
              120
              tccacccagg accgcatcct cgaaatgaag gtcatggaat tcttcatgaa ggtgtacggc
              180
              taccgcggga aacacctcgg cggcagcagg aagccagatg gcgcgatcta tacggtcggg
              240
              tccccgatcg actatggggt gatcgtcgac accaaagcgt acagcggcgg ctacaacctc
              300
              ccaattggcc aggcggacga gatgcagagg tatgtggagg agaaccagac ccgcaataag
              360
              cacatcaacc cgaacgagtg gtggaaggtg tacccaagct ccgtgaccga gttcaagttc
              420
              ctcttcgtgt ccgggcactt caagggcaat tacaaggccc agctgacgcg cctcaaccat
              480

              atcacgaatt gcaatggcgc cgtcctgtcc gtcgaagagc tgctcatcgg cggggagatg
<removed-date>
              540
              atcaaggcgg gcacgctgac gctggaggaa gtacgtagga aattcaacaa cggggaaatc
              600
              aatttcgggg gatccggggg cagcgatgtg gtgatgacgc agaccccact gtccctgcca
              660
              gtgtccctag gcgaccaagc gagcatctcc tgtcgcagca gccagtccct cgtgcactcc
<removed-apn>
              720
              aacggcaaca cgtatctccg ctggtatctc cagaagccgg ggcagtcccc gaaagtgctg
              780
              atctacaagg tctccaaccg cttctccggc gtcccggata ggtttagcgg cagcgggtcc
              840
              ggcaccgact ttaccctgaa aatctccagg gtggaggccg aggatctcgg ggtctacttt
              900
              tgcagccaga gcacgcacgt cccatggacc tttgggggcg gcacgaaact ggagattaaa
              960
              agcagcgctg acgatgccaa gaaggacgcg gcgaaaaagg acgacgccaa gaaagacgac
              1020
              gcgaaaaaag acggcggcgt caagctcgat gaaaccggcg gcgggctcgt gcaaccaggc
              1080
              cgcccgatga agcttagctg cgtggccagc gggttcacct tcagcgacta ctggatgaac
              1140
              tgggtccgcc aatccccgga aaagggcctg gagtgggtgg cccagatcag gaacaagcca
              1200
              tataactatg agacgtacta ctccgatagc gtgaaagggc gcttcaccat ctccagggac
              1260
              gacagcaagt cctccgtgta cctccagatg aacaacctac gcgtggagga tatgggcatc
              1320
              tactactgca ccgggagcta ctacggcatg gactactggg gccagggcac gtccgtcacc
              1380

              g         t           g      t         c         c     t        g         a
<removed-date>
              1389
              <210>   51
              <211>   21
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
<removed-apn>
              <223>   polynucleotide
              <400> 51
              g t c c t g c t a a                    g c c t t t g a a a                g
              21
              <210>   52
              <211>   28
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   polynucleotide
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (23)..(28)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <400> 52
              g c a t c c t t c c              g t a g t g c t c c         t c n n n n n n
              28
              <210>   53
              <211>   28
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   polynucleotide

              <220>
<removed-date>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (1)..(6)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <400> 53
              n n n n n n t t g t           a a t t g c t g g t   g c t g g t a t
              28
<removed-apn>
              <210>   54
              <211>   28
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   polynucleotide
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (1)..(6)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <400> 54
              n n n n n n g a g g           a g c a c t a c g g   a a g g a t g c
              28
              <210>   55
              <211>   24
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   polynucleotide
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (23)..(24)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <400>   55

              t g c a t c c t t c           c g t a g t g c t c   c t n n
              24
<removed-date>
              <210>   56
              <211>   24
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   polynucleotide
<removed-apn>
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (1)..(2)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <400> 56
              n n g t a a t t g c           t g g t g c t g g t   a t g t
              24
              <210>   57
              <211>   24
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   polynucleotide
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (1)..(2)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <400> 57
              n n a g g a g c a c           t a c g g a a g g a   t g c a
              24
              <210>   58
              <211>   24
              <212>   DNA

              <213>   Artificial sequence
<removed-date>
              <220>
              <223>   polynucleotide
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (23)..(24)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
<removed-apn>
              <400> 58
              a c a t a c c a g c           a c c a g c a a t t         a c n n
              24
              <210>   59
              <211>   1865
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   polynucleotide
              <400> 59
              aaattacgtt gagatgcatg gtctctctct actcaattaa ccaaataagg aaaagaatca
              60
              tatggtcatc aattcgtaaa tcaaaatttt aatttgtgtg gtatttaatc catctacatg
              120
              tttcgtaagc aacaaaagag cttggtctga aaaccaaaca agaccatatg ggcactcgaa
              180
              tactccattt tgttatcggc tacttccact agcctcctcc ttcgctgcgt ctcctgtttc
              240
              tctacttcac gattactcgc taggtaaaag ataagatact aaacaactac tatagcccct
              300
              ttaattcaag tccgtttttt tttgttcttc ttcttttcaa ttatgtgtta aagatacaaa
              360
              cttttgtctg atttgcttcc accggtttca cctaagatac tcaattttct tactttttgt
              420

              gtgttttgta attctaattc ttttatagct tcaattttta gattcattga agcagttgtg
<removed-date>
              480
              agttaagttg gagaaaatgg ttgtgtttgg gaatgtttct gcggcgaatt tgccttatca
              540
              aaacgggttt ttggaggcac tttcatctgg aggttgtgaa ctaatgggac atagctttag
              600
              ggttcccact tctcaagcgc ttaagacaag aacaaggagg aggagtactg ctggtccttt
<removed-apn>
              660
              gatggtgagc aagggcgagg aggataacat ggccatcatc aaggagttca tgcccttcaa
              720
              ggtgcacatg gagggctccg tgaacggcca cgagttcgag atcgagggcg agggcgaggg
              780
              ccgcccctac gagggcaccc agaccgccaa gctgaaggtg accaagggtg gccccctgcc
              840
              cttcgcctgg gacatcctgt cccctcagtt catgtacggc tccaaggcct acgtgaagca
              900
              ccccgccgac atccccgact acttgaagct gtccttcccc gagggcttca agtgggagcg
              960
              cgtgatgaac ttcgaggacg gcggcgtggt gaccgtgacc caggactcct ccctgcagga
              1020
              cggcgagttc atctacaagg tgaagctgcg cggcaccaac ttcccctccg acggccccgt
              1080
              aatgcagaag aagaccatgg gctgggaggc ctcctccgag cggatgtacc ccgaggacgg
              1140
              cgccctgaag ggcgagatca agcagaggct gaagctgaag gacggcggcc actacgacgc
              1200
              tgaggtcaag accacctaca aggccaagaa gcccgtgcag ctgcccggcg cctacaacgt
              1260
              caacatcaag ttggacatca cctcccacaa cgaggactac accatcgtgg aacagtacga
              1320

              acgcgccgag ggccgccact ccaccggcgg catggacgag ctgtacaagt aaggtatgtc
<removed-date>
              1380
              tacaacttca tttcttactg ctttgtttgg gatctgatgg aattaatgtt catgtgatga
              1440
              agttcttttg gctctcaaat aattgcagga ttggctggat tgtcaactgc aaagtacctg
              1500
              gctgatgcag gccacaaacc tctgttgctt gaagcaagag atgttcttgg tggaaaggta
<removed-apn>
              1560
              ctttgattgg tctcactttc cgaattactt attgttgttt gcatttctca ttcttatatg
              1620
              atttgctgat tcccaaaggc tgtaccaatt atgtttgtga gactacaagg tataactagt
              1680
              gtttagagtg ttacagctcc taggtaccca atgtatctgt cctgtttgtt gtattagtct
              1740
              tgtactgccc aatttgtttt ttattatgtt ctaatgtctt cagtcttgtg ctacacaccg
              1800
              cacaaccctt tccagtttct aggcttaatg tgaatcaaat atagagtagt ttactggaag
              1860
              a                t              a                   t           c
              1865
              <210>   60
              <211>   23
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   polynucleotide
              <400> 60
              t g g t t g t g t t           t g g g a a t g t t           t c t
              23

              <210>   61
              <211>   26
<removed-date>
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   polynucleotide
              <400> 61
              t a t c c a a a a g           a t a t c t t c c a             g t a a a c
              26
<removed-apn>
              <210>   62
              <211>   20
              <212>   RNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   polynucleoitde
              <400> 62
              u u c a c c u c u a                                 a c c g g g u g a g
              20
              <210>   63
              <211>   18
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   polypeptide
              <400>   63
              Gly Thr Ala Lys Ser Arg Tyr Lys Ala Arg Arg Ala Glu Leu Ile Ala
              1               5                   10                  15
              Glu Arg
              <210>   64

              <211>   21
              <212>   DNA
<removed-date>
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   polynucleotide
              <400> 64
              g g t c a a g t g c              c a c g t a g g a t              g
              21
<removed-apn>
              <210>   65
              <211>   21
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   polynucleotide
              <400> 65
              g g t c a a g t g g              c g c g c a g g a t              g
              21
              <210>   66
              <211>   194
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial polypeptide
              <220>
              <223>   polypeptide
              <400>   66
              Val Lys Ser Glu Leu Glu Glu Lys Lys Ser Glu Leu Arg His Lys Leu
              1               5                   10                  15
              Lys Tyr Val Pro His Glu Tyr Ile Glu Leu Ile Glu Ile Ala Arg Asn
                          20                  25                  30
              Ser Thr Gln Asp Arg Ile Leu Glu Met Lys Val Met Glu Phe Phe Met
                      35                  40                  45

<removed-date>
              Lys Val Tyr Gly Tyr Arg Gly Lys His Leu Gly Gly Ser Arg Lys Pro
                  50                  55                  60
              Asp Gly Ala Ile Tyr Thr Val Gly Ser Pro Ile Asp Tyr Gly Val Ile
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Val Asp Thr Lys Ala Tyr Ser Gly Gly Tyr Asn Leu Pro Ile Gly Gln
<removed-apn>
                              85                  90                  95
              Ala Asp Glu Met Gln Arg Tyr Val Glu Glu Asn Gln Thr Arg Asn Lys
                          100                 105                 110
              His Ile Asn Pro Asn Glu Trp Trp Lys Val Tyr Pro Ser Ser Val Thr
                      115                 120                 125
              Glu Phe Lys Phe Leu Phe Val Ser Gly His Phe Lys Gly Asn Tyr Lys
                  130                 135                 140
              Ala Gln Leu Thr Arg Leu Asn His Ile Thr Asn Cys Asn Gly Ala Val
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Leu Ser Val Glu Glu Leu Leu Ile Gly Gly Glu Met Ile Lys Ala Gly
                              165                 170                 175
              Thr Leu Thr Leu Glu Glu Val Arg Arg Lys Phe Asn Asn Gly Glu Ile
                          180                 185                 190
              Asn Phe
              <210>   67
              <211>   8
              <212>   PRT

              <213>   Artificial sequence
<removed-date>
              <220>
              <223>   peptide
              <400>   67
              Met Pro Lys Lys Lys Arg Lys Val
              1               5
<removed-apn>
              <210>   68
              <211>   225
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   polypeptide
              <400>   68
              Met Gly Thr Ala Lys Ser Arg Tyr Lys Ala Arg Arg Ala Glu Leu Ile
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ala Glu Arg Gly Gly Ser Gly Gly Val Lys Ser Glu Leu Glu Glu Lys
                          20                  25                  30
              Lys Ser Glu Leu Arg His Lys Leu Lys Tyr Val Pro His Glu Tyr Ile
                      35                  40                  45
              Glu Leu Ile Glu Ile Ala Arg Asn Ser Thr Gln Asp Arg Ile Leu Glu
                  50                  55                  60
              Met Lys Val Met Glu Phe Phe Met Lys Val Tyr Gly Tyr Arg Gly Lys
              65                  70                  75                  80
              His Leu Gly Gly Ser Arg Lys Pro Asp Gly Ala Ile Tyr Thr Val Gly
                              85                  90                  95

              Ser Pro Ile Asp Tyr Gly Val Ile Val Asp Thr Lys Ala Tyr Ser Gly
                          100                 105                 110
<removed-date>
              Gly Tyr Asn Leu Pro Ile Gly Gln Ala Asp Glu Met Gln Arg Tyr Val
                      115                 120                 125
              Glu Glu Asn Gln Thr Arg Asn Lys His Ile Asn Pro Asn Glu Trp Trp
                  130                 135                 140
<removed-apn>
              Lys Val Tyr Pro Ser Ser Val Thr Glu Phe Lys Phe Leu Phe Val Ser
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Gly His Phe Lys Gly Asn Tyr Lys Ala Gln Leu Thr Arg Leu Asn His
                              165                 170                 175
              Ile Thr Asn Cys Asn Gly Ala Val Leu Ser Val Glu Glu Leu Leu Ile
                          180                 185                 190
              Gly Gly Glu Met Ile Lys Ala Gly Thr Leu Thr Leu Glu Glu Val Arg
                      195                 200                 205
              Arg Lys Phe Asn Asn Gly Glu Ile Asn Phe Pro Lys Lys Lys Arg Lys
                  210                 215                 220
              Val
              225
              <210>   69
              <211>   678
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   polypeptide
              <400>   69

              atggggacgg ccaagtccag gtacaaggcg cgcagggccg aactgattgc ggagaggggc
              60
<removed-date>
              ggatccggcg gcgtcaaatc cgagctcgaa gagaagaaga gcgagctgag gcacaagctg
              120
              aagtacgtcc cgcacgagta catcgaactc atcgagatcg ccaggaactc cacccaggac
              180
              cgcatcctgg agatgaaggt gatggagttc ttcatgaagg tgtacggcta ccgtggcaaa
              240
<removed-apn>
              catctggggg gctccaggaa accggatggg gccatctaca ccgtggggag cccgatcgac
              300
              tacggcgtga tcgtggacac caaagcgtac tccggcggct acaacctccc gattggccag
              360
              gccgatgaaa tgcagcgcta cgtggaggag aaccagacgc gcaataagca catcaacccg
              420
              aacgagtggt ggaaggtgta cccgtcctcc gtgaccgagt tcaagttcct gttcgtgagc
              480
              ggccacttca aggggaacta caaggcccag ctgacccgcc tgaaccacat caccaactgc
              540
              aatggggcgg tgctctccgt ggaggaactc ctgatcggcg gcgagatgat caaggccggc
              600
              accctgaccc tggaagaggt acgtagaaag ttcaacaacg gcgagatcaa cttcccgaag
              660
              a a g a a g c g c a                             a g g t g t g a
              678
              <210>   70
              <211>   43
              <212>   RNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   polynucleotide

              <220>
<removed-date>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (21)..(21)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or u
              <400> 70
              uucaccucua       accgggugag   ngguacugau   gcuuuucagg   aaa
              43
<removed-apn>
              <210>   71
              <211>   43
              <212>   RNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   polynucleotide
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (23)..(23)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or u
              <400> 71
              auagcguccc       cauuguugcu   aunuucaccu   cuaaccgggu   gag
              43
              <210>   72
              <211>   43
              <212>   RNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   polynucleotide
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (23)..(23)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or u
              <400>   72

              uuuccugaaa        agcaucagua      ccnuucaccu   cuaaccgggu   gag
              43
<removed-date>
              <210>   73
              <211>   42
              <212>   RNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   polynucleotide
<removed-apn>
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (20)..(20)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or u
              <400> 73
              ucaccucuaa        ccgggugagn      auagcaacaa   uggggacgcu    au
              42
              <210>   74
              <211>   8
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   peptide
              <400>   74
              Gly Gly Ser Gly Gly Glu Ser Lys
              1               5
              <210>   75
              <211>   229
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   polypeptide

              <400>   75
<removed-date>
              Met Pro Lys Lys Lys Arg Lys Val Val Lys Ser Glu Leu Glu Glu Lys
              1               5                   10                  15
              Lys Ser Glu Leu Arg His Lys Leu Lys Tyr Val Pro His Glu Tyr Ile
                          20                  25                  30
              Glu Leu Ile Glu Ile Ala Arg Asn Ser Thr Gln Asp Arg Ile Leu Glu
<removed-apn>
                      35                  40                  45
              Met Lys Val Met Glu Phe Phe Met Lys Val Tyr Gly Tyr Arg Gly Lys
                  50                  55                  60
              His Leu Gly Gly Ser Arg Lys Pro Asp Gly Ala Ile Tyr Thr Val Gly
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Ser Pro Ile Asp Tyr Gly Val Ile Val Asp Thr Lys Ala Tyr Ser Gly
                              85                  90                  95
              Gly Tyr Asn Leu Pro Ile Gly Gln Ala Asp Glu Met Gln Arg Tyr Val
                          100                 105                 110
              Glu Glu Asn Gln Thr Arg Asn Lys His Ile Asn Pro Asn Glu Trp Trp
                      115                 120                 125
              Lys Val Tyr Pro Ser Ser Val Thr Glu Phe Lys Phe Leu Phe Val Ser
                  130                 135                 140
              Gly His Phe Lys Gly Asn Tyr Lys Ala Gln Leu Thr Arg Leu Asn His
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Ile Thr Asn Cys Asn Gly Ala Val Leu Ser Val Glu Glu Leu Leu Ile
                              165                 170                 175

              Gly Gly Glu Met Ile Lys Ala Gly Thr Leu Thr Leu Glu Glu Val Arg
<removed-date>
                          180                 185                 190
              Arg Lys Phe Asn Asn Gly Glu Ile Asn Phe Gly Gly Ser Gly Gly Glu
                      195                 200                 205
              Ser Lys Gly Thr Ala Lys Ser Arg Tyr Lys Ala Arg Arg Ala Glu Leu
                  210                 215                 220
<removed-apn>
              Ile Ala Glu Arg Arg
              225
              <210>   76
              <211>   690
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   polypeptide
              <400> 76
              atgccaaaga agaagagaaa ggttgttaag tctgaacttg aagaaaagaa gtctgaactt
              60
              agacataagc ttaagtatgt tccacatgaa tatattgaac ttattgaaat tgctagaaat
              120
              tctactcaag atagaattct tgaaatgaag gttatggaat tttttatgaa ggtttatgga
              180
              tatagaggaa agcatcttgg aggatctaga aagccagatg gagctattta tactgttgga
              240
              tctccaattg attatggagt tattgttgat actaaggctt attctggagg atataatctt
              300
              ccaattggac aagctgatga aatgcaaaga tatgttgaag aaaatcaaac tagaaataag
              360
              catattaatc caaatgaatg gtggaaggtt tatccatctt ctgttactga atttaagttt
              420

              ctttttgttt ctggacattt taagggaaat tataaggctc aacttactag acttaatcat
<removed-date>
              480
              attactaatt gtaatggagc tgttctttct gttgaagaac ttcttattgg aggagaaatg
              540
              attaaggctg gaactcttac tcttgaagaa gttagaagaa agtttaataa tggagaaatt
              600
              aattttggag gatctggagg agaatctaag ggaactgcta agtctagata taaggctaga
<removed-apn>
              660
              agagctgaac                    ttattgctga          aagaagataa
              690
              <210>   77
              <211>   42
              <212>   RNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   polynucleotide
              <400> 77
              uucaccucua       accgggugag       uacugaugcu   uuucaggaaa     cu
              42
              <210>   78
              <211>   42
              <212>   RNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   polynucleotide
              <400> 78
              gauagcgucc       ccauuguugc       uauucaccuc   uaaccgggug     ag
              42
              <210>   79
              <211>   42

              <212>   RNA
              <213>   Artificial
<removed-date>
              <220>
              <223>   polynucleotide
              <400> 79
              aguuuccuga       aaagcaucag   uauucaccuc   uaaccgggug    ag
              42
<removed-apn>
              <210>   80
              <211>   42
              <212>   RNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   polynucleotide
              <400> 80
              uucaccucua       accgggugag   uagcaacaau   ggggacgcua    uc
              42
              <210>   81
              <211>   43
              <212>   RNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   polynucleotide
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (21)..(21)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or u
              <400> 81
              uucaccucua       accgggugag   nucgguacug   augcuuuuca   gga
              43
              <210>   82
              <211>   43

              <212>   RNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
<removed-date>
              <220>
              <223>   polynucleotide
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (23)..(23)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or u
<removed-apn>
              <400> 82
              gcguccccau       uguugcuaua   acnuucaccu   cuaaccgggu   gag
              43
              <210>   83
              <211>   43
              <212>   RNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   polynucleotide
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (23)..(23)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or u
              <400> 83
              uccugaaaag       caucaguacc   ganuucaccu   cuaaccgggu   gag
              43
              <210>   84
              <211>   43
              <212>   RNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   polynucleotide

              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
<removed-date>
              <222>   (21)..(21)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or u
              <400> 84
              uucaccucua       accgggugag   nguuauagca      acaaugggga     cgc
              43
              <210>   85
<removed-apn>
              <211>   1995
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   polynucleotide
              <400> 85
              atggcggcgg ctgcggcggc tccatctccc tctttctcca aaaccctatc gtcctcctcc
              60
              tccaaatcct ccaccctcct ccctagatcc accttccctt tcccccacca cccccacaaa
              120
              accaccccac cacccctcca cctcaccccc acccacattc acagccaacg ccgtcgtttc
              180
              accatctcca atgtcatttc cactacccaa aaagtttccg agacccaaaa agccgaaact
              240
              ttcgtttccc gttttgcccc tgacgaaccc agaaagggtt ccgacgttct cgtggaggcc
              300
              ctcgaaagag aaggggttac ggacgttttt gcgtacccag gcggcgcttc catggagatt
              360
              caccaagctt tgacgcgctc aagcatcatc cgcaacgtgc taccacgtca cgagcagggt
              420
              ggtgtcttcg ccgctgaggg ttacgcacgc gccaccggct tccccggcgt ttgcattgcc
              480
              acctccggcc ctggcgccac caatctcgtc agtggcctcg cggacgccct actggatagc
              540

              gtccccattg ttgctataac cggtcaagtg ccacgtagga tgatcggtac tgatgctttt
<removed-date>
              600
              caggaaactc cgattgttga ggtaactaga tcgattacca agcataatta tctcgttatg
              660
              gacgtagagg atattcctag ggttgtacgt gaggcttttt tccttgcgag atcgggccgg
              720
              cctggccctg ttttgattga tgtacctaag gatattcagc aacaattggt gatacctgac
<removed-apn>
              780
              tgggatcagc caatgaggtt gcctggttac atgtctaggt tacctaaatt gcccaatgag
              840
              atgcttttag aacaaattgt taggcttatt tctgagtcaa agaagcctgt tttgtatgtg
              900
              gggggtgggt gttcgcaatc gagtgaggag ttgagacgat tcgtggagct caccggtatc
              960
              cccgtggcaa gtactttgat gggtcttgga gcttttccaa ctggggatga gctttccctt
              1020
              tcaatgttgg gtatgcatgg tactgtttat gctaattatg ctgtggacag tagtgattta
              1080
              ttgctcgcat ttggggtgag gtttgatgat agagttactg gaaagttaga agcttttgct
              1140
              agccgagcga aaattgttca cattgatatt gattcagctg agattggaaa gaacaagcag
              1200
              cctcatgttt ccatttgtgc ggatatcaag ttggcgttac agggtttgaa ttcgatattg
              1260
              gagagtaagg aaggtaaact gaagttggat ttttctgctt ggaggcagga gttgacggtg
              1320
              cagaaagtga agtacccgtt gaattttaaa acttttggtg atgctattcc tccgcaatat
              1380
              gctatccagg ttctagatga gttaactaat gggagtgcta ttataagtac cggtgttggg
              1440

              cagcaccaga tgtgggctgc tcaatattat aagtacagaa agccacgcca atggttgaca
<removed-date>
              1500
              tctggtggat taggagcgat gggatttggt ttgcccgctg ctattggtgc ggctgttgga
              1560
              agacctgatg aagttgtggt tgacattgat ggtgatggca gtttcatcat gaatgtgcag
              1620
              gagctagcaa ctattaaggt ggagaatctc ccagttaaga ttatgttact gaataatcaa
<removed-apn>
              1680
              cacttgggaa tggtggttca atgggaggat cggttctata aggctaacag agcacacaca
              1740
              tacctgggga atccttctaa tgaggcggag atctttccta atatgttgaa atttgcagag
              1800
              gcttgtggcg tacctgctgc gagagtgaca cacagggatg atcttagagc ggctattcaa
              1860
              aagatgttag acactcctgg gccatacttg ttggatgtga ttgtacctca tcaggaacat
              1920
              gttctaccta tgattcccag tggcggggct ttcaaagatg tgatcacaga gggtgacggg
              1980
              a g a    a   g   t   t   c   c   t                   a   t   t   g   a
              1995
              <210>   86
              <211>   1995
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   polynucleotide
              <400> 86
              atggcggcgg ctgcggcggc tccatctccc tctttctcca aaaccctatc gtcctcctcc
              60
              tccaaatcct ccaccctcct ccctagatcc accttccctt tcccccacca cccccacaaa
              120

              accaccccac cacccctcca cctcaccccc acccacattc acagccaacg ccgtcgtttc
<removed-date>
              180
              accatctcca atgtcatttc cactacccaa aaagtttccg agacccaaaa agccgaaact
              240
              ttcgtttccc gttttgcccc tgacgaaccc agaaagggtt ccgacgttct cgtggaggcc
              300
              ctcgaaagag aaggggttac ggacgttttt gcgtacccag gcggcgcttc catggagatt
<removed-apn>
              360
              caccaagctt tgacgcgctc aagcatcatc cgcaacgtgc taccacgtca cgagcagggt
              420
              ggtgtcttcg ccgctgaggg ttacgcacgc gccaccggct tccccggcgt ttgcattgcc
              480
              acctccggcc ctggcgccac caatctcgtc agtggcctcg cggacgccct actggatagc
              540
              gtcccaatag tagccataac tggtcaagtg gcgcgcagga tgatcggtac cgatgctttt
              600
              caggaaactc cgattgttga ggtaactaga tcgattacca agcataatta tctcgttatg
              660
              gacgtagagg atattcctag ggttgtacgt gaggcttttt tccttgcgag atcgggccgg
              720
              cctggccctg ttttgattga tgtacctaag gatattcagc aacaattggt gatacctgac
              780
              tgggatcagc caatgaggtt gcctggttac atgtctaggt tacctaaatt gcccaatgag
              840
              atgcttttag aacaaattgt taggcttatt tctgagtcaa agaagcctgt tttgtatgtg
              900
              gggggtgggt gttcgcaatc gagtgaggag ttgagacgat tcgtggagct caccggtatc
              960
              cccgtggcaa gtactttgat gggtcttgga gcttttccaa ctggggatga gctttccctt
              1020

              tcaatgttgg gtatgcatgg tactgtttat gctaattatg ctgtggacag tagtgattta
<removed-date>
              1080
              ttgctcgcat ttggggtgag gtttgatgat agagttactg gaaagttaga agcttttgct
              1140
              agccgagcga aaattgttca cattgatatt gattcagctg agattggaaa gaacaagcag
              1200
              cctcatgttt ccatttgtgc ggatatcaag ttggcgttac agggtttgaa ttcgatattg
<removed-apn>
              1260
              gagagtaagg aaggtaaact gaagttggat ttttctgctt ggaggcagga gttgacggtg
              1320
              cagaaagtga agtacccgtt gaattttaaa acttttggtg atgctattcc tccgcaatat
              1380
              gctatccagg ttctagatga gttaactaat gggagtgcta ttataagtac cggtgttggg
              1440
              cagcaccaga tgtgggctgc tcaatattat aagtacagaa agccacgcca atggttgaca
              1500
              tctggtggat taggagcgat gggatttggt ttgcccgctg ctattggtgc ggctgttgga
              1560
              agacctgatg aagttgtggt tgacattgat ggtgatggca gtttcatcat gaatgtgcag
              1620
              gagctagcaa ctattaaggt ggagaatctc ccagttaaga ttatgttact gaataatcaa
              1680
              cacttgggaa tggtggttca atgggaggat cggttctata aggctaacag agcacacaca
              1740
              tacctgggga atccttctaa tgaggcggag atctttccta atatgttgaa atttgcagag
              1800
              gcttgtggcg tacctgctgc gagagtgaca cacagggatg atcttagagc ggctattcaa
              1860
              aagatgttag acactcctgg gccatacttg ttggatgtga ttgtacctca tcaggaacat
              1920

              gttctaccta tgattcccag tggcggggct ttcaaagatg tgatcacaga gggtgacggg
<removed-date>
              1980
              a g a    a   g   t   t   c   c   t                      a   t   t   g   a
              1995
              <210>   87
              <211>   286
              <212>   PRT
<removed-apn>
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   polypeptide
              <400>   87
              Pro Ala Glu Lys Arg Lys Pro Ile Arg Val Leu Ser Leu Phe Asp Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ile Ala Thr Gly Leu Leu Val Leu Lys Asp Leu Gly Ile Gln Val Asp
                          20                  25                  30
              Arg Tyr Ile Ala Ser Glu Val Cys Glu Asp Ser Ile Thr Val Gly Met
                      35                  40                  45
              Val Arg His Gln Gly Lys Ile Met Tyr Val Gly Asp Val Arg Ser Val
                  50                  55                  60
              Thr Gln Lys His Ile Gln Glu Trp Gly Pro Phe Asp Leu Val Ile Gly
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Gly Ser Pro Cys Asn Asp Leu Ser Ile Val Asn Pro Ala Arg Lys Gly
                              85                  90                  95
              Leu Tyr Glu Gly Thr Gly Ala Leu Phe Phe Glu Phe Tyr Arg Leu Leu
                          100                 105                 110

              His Asp Ala Arg Pro Lys Glu Gly Asp Asp Arg Pro Phe Phe Trp Leu
<removed-date>
                      115                 120                 125
              Phe Glu Asn Val Val Ala Met Gly Val Ser Asp Lys Arg Asp Ile Ser
                  130                 135                 140
              Arg Phe Leu Glu Ser Asn Pro Val Met Ile Asp Ala Lys Glu Val Ser
              145                 150                 155                 160
<removed-apn>
              Ala Ala His Arg Ala Arg Tyr Phe Trp Gly Asn Leu Pro Gly Met Asn
                              165                 170                 175
              Arg Pro Leu Ala Ser Thr Val Asn Asp Lys Leu Glu Leu Gln Glu Cys
                          180                 185                 190
              Leu Glu His Gly Arg Ile Ala Lys Phe Ser Lys Val Arg Thr Ile Thr
                      195                 200                 205
              Thr Arg Ser Asn Ser Ile Lys Gln Gly Lys Asp Gln His Phe Pro Val
                  210                 215                 220
              Phe Met Asn Glu Lys Glu Asp Ile Leu Trp Cys Thr Glu Met Glu Arg
              225                 230                 235                 240
              Val Phe Gly Phe Pro Val His Tyr Thr Asp Val Ser Asn Met Ser Arg
                              245                 250                 255
              Leu Ala Arg Gln Arg Leu Leu Gly Arg Ser Trp Ser Val Pro Val Ile
                          260                 265                 270
              Arg His Leu Phe Ala Pro Leu Lys Glu Tyr Phe Ala Cys Val
                      275                 280                 285

              <210>   88
              <211>   557
<removed-date>
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   polypeptide
              <400>   88
              Met Pro Lys Lys Lys Arg Lys Val Asp Val Val Met Thr Gln Thr Pro
<removed-apn>
              1               5                   10                  15
              Leu Ser Leu Pro Val Ser Leu Gly Asp Gln Ala Ser Ile Ser Cys Arg
                          20                  25                  30
              Ser Ser Gln Ser Leu Val His Ser Asn Gly Asn Thr Tyr Leu Arg Trp
                      35                  40                  45
              Tyr Leu Gln Lys Pro Gly Gln Ser Pro Lys Val Leu Ile Tyr Lys Val
                  50                  55                  60
              Ser Asn Arg Phe Ser Gly Val Pro Asp Arg Phe Ser Gly Ser Gly Ser
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Gly Thr Asp Phe Thr Leu Lys Ile Ser Arg Val Glu Ala Glu Asp Leu
                              85                  90                  95
              Gly Val Tyr Phe Cys Ser Gln Ser Thr His Val Pro Trp Thr Phe Gly
                          100                 105                 110
              Gly Gly Thr Lys Leu Glu Ile Lys Ser Ser Ala Asp Asp Ala Lys Lys
                      115                 120                 125
              Asp Ala Ala Lys Lys Asp Asp Ala Lys Lys Asp Asp Ala Lys Lys Asp
                  130                 135                 140

              Gly Gly Val Lys Leu Asp Glu Thr Gly Gly Gly Leu Val Gln Pro Gly
<removed-date>
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Arg Pro Met Lys Leu Ser Cys Val Ala Ser Gly Phe Thr Phe Ser Asp
                              165                 170                 175
              Tyr Trp Met Asn Trp Val Arg Gln Ser Pro Glu Lys Gly Leu Glu Trp
                          180                 185                 190
<removed-apn>
              Val Ala Gln Ile Arg Asn Lys Pro Tyr Asn Tyr Glu Thr Tyr Tyr Ser
                      195                 200                 205
              Asp Ser Val Lys Gly Arg Phe Thr Ile Ser Arg Asp Asp Ser Lys Ser
                  210                 215                 220
              Ser Val Tyr Leu Gln Met Asn Asn Leu Arg Val Glu Asp Met Gly Ile
              225                 230                 235                 240
              Tyr Tyr Cys Thr Gly Ser Tyr Tyr Gly Met Asp Tyr Trp Gly Gln Gly
                              245                 250                 255
              Thr Ser Val Thr Val Ser Gly Ser Leu Glu Gly Gly Ser Gly Gly Pro
                          260                 265                 270
              Ala Glu Lys Arg Lys Pro Ile Arg Val Leu Ser Leu Phe Asp Gly Ile
                      275                 280                 285
              Ala Thr Gly Leu Leu Val Leu Lys Asp Leu Gly Ile Gln Val Asp Arg
                  290                 295                 300
              Tyr Ile Ala Ser Glu Val Cys Glu Asp Ser Ile Thr Val Gly Met Val
              305                 310                 315                 320

              Arg His Gln Gly Lys Ile Met Tyr Val Gly Asp Val Arg Ser Val Thr
                              325                 330                 335
<removed-date>
              Gln Lys His Ile Gln Glu Trp Gly Pro Phe Asp Leu Val Ile Gly Gly
                          340                 345                 350
              Ser Pro Cys Asn Asp Leu Ser Ile Val Asn Pro Ala Arg Lys Gly Leu
                      355                 360                 365
<removed-apn>
              Tyr Glu Gly Thr Gly Ala Leu Phe Phe Glu Phe Tyr Arg Leu Leu His
                  370                 375                 380
              Asp Ala Arg Pro Lys Glu Gly Asp Asp Arg Pro Phe Phe Trp Leu Phe
              385                 390                 395                 400
              Glu Asn Val Val Ala Met Gly Val Ser Asp Lys Arg Asp Ile Ser Arg
                              405                 410                 415
              Phe Leu Glu Ser Asn Pro Val Met Ile Asp Ala Lys Glu Val Ser Ala
                          420                 425                 430
              Ala His Arg Ala Arg Tyr Phe Trp Gly Asn Leu Pro Gly Met Asn Arg
                      435                 440                 445
              Pro Leu Ala Ser Thr Val Asn Asp Lys Leu Glu Leu Gln Glu Cys Leu
                  450                 455                 460
              Glu His Gly Arg Ile Ala Lys Phe Ser Lys Val Arg Thr Ile Thr Thr
              465                 470                 475                 480
              Arg Ser Asn Ser Ile Lys Gln Gly Lys Asp Gln His Phe Pro Val Phe
                              485                 490                 495
              Met Asn Glu Lys Glu Asp Ile Leu Trp Cys Thr Glu Met Glu Arg Val

                           500                505                   510
<removed-date>
              Phe Gly Phe Pro Val His Tyr Thr Asp Val Ser Asn Met Ser Arg Leu
                      515                 520                 525
              Ala Arg Gln Arg Leu Leu Gly Arg Ser Trp Ser Val Pro Val Ile Arg
                  530                 535                 540
<removed-apn>
              His Leu Phe Ala Pro Leu Lys Glu Tyr Phe Ala Cys Val
              545                 550                 555
              <210>   89
              <211>   1674
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   polynucleotide
              <400> 89
              atgcctaaga agaagagaaa ggttgatgtt gttatgactc aaactcctct ttctcttcct
              60
              gtttctcttg gagatcaagc ttctatttct tgtagatctt ctcaatctct tgttcattct
              120
              aatggaaata cttatcttag atggtatctt caaaagcctg gacaatctcc taaggttctt
              180
              atttataagg tttctaatag attttctgga gttcctgata gattttctgg atctggatct
              240
              ggaactgatt ttactcttaa gatttctaga gttgaagctg aagatcttgg agtttatttt
              300
              tgttctcaat ctactcatgt tccttggact tttggaggag gaactaagct tgaaattaag
              360
              tcttctgctg atgatgctaa gaaggatgct gctaagaagg atgatgctaa gaaggatgat
              420

              gctaagaagg atggaggagt taagcttgat gaaactggag gaggacttgt tcaacctgga
              480
<removed-date>
              agacctatga agctttcttg tgttgcttct ggatttactt tttctgatta ttggatgaat
              540
              tgggttagac aatctcctga aaagggactt gaatgggttg ctcaaattag aaataagcct
              600
              tataattatg aaacttatta ttctgattct gttaagggaa gatttactat ttctagagat
              660
<removed-apn>
              gattctaagt cttctgttta tcttcaaatg aataatctta gagttgaaga tatgggaatt
              720
              tattattgta ctggatctta ttatggaatg gattattggg gacaaggaac ttctgttact
              780
              gtttctggat ctcttgaagg aggatctgga ggacctgctg aaaagagaaa gcctattaga
              840
              gttctttctc tttttgatgg aattgctact ggacttcttg ttcttaagga tcttggaatt
              900
              caagttgata gatatattgc ttctgaagtt tgtgaagatt ctattactgt tggaatggtt
              960
              agacatcaag gaaagattat gtatgttgga gatgttagat ctgttactca aaagcatatt
              1020
              caagaatggg gaccttttga tcttgttatt ggaggatctc cttgtaatga tctttctatt
              1080
              gttaatcctg ctagaaaggg actttatgaa ggaactggag ctcttttttt tgaattttat
              1140
              agacttcttc atgatgctag acctaaggaa ggagatgata gacctttttt ttggcttttt
              1200
              gaaaatgttg ttgctatggg agtttctgat aagagagata tttctagatt tcttgaatct
              1260
              aatcctgtta tgattgatgc taaggaagtt tctgctgctc atagagctag atatttttgg
              1320

              ggaaatcttc ctggaatgaa tagacctctt gcttctactg ttaatgataa gcttgaactt
              1380
<removed-date>
              caagaatgtc ttgaacatgg aagaattgct aagttttcta aggttagaac tattactact
              1440
              agatctaatt ctattaagca aggaaaggat caacattttc ctgtttttat gaatgaaaag
              1500
              gaagatattc tttggtgtac tgaaatggaa agagtttttg gatttcctgt tcattatact
              1560
<removed-apn>
              gatgtttcta atatgtctag acttgctaga caaagacttc ttggaagatc ttggtctgtt
              1620
              cctgttatta   gacatctttt   tgctcctctt   aaggaatatt   ttgcttgtgt   ttaa
              1674
              <210>   90
              <211>   1896
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   polynucleotide
              <400> 90
              accggtcaac atgtggagca cgacacactt gtctactcca aaaatatcaa agatacagtc
              60
              tcagaagacc aaagggcaat tgagactttt caacaaaggg taatatccgg aaacctcctc
              120
              ggattccatt gcccagctat ctgtcacttt attgtgaaga tagtggaaaa ggaaggtggc
              180
              tcctacaaat gccatcattg cgataaagga aaggccatcg ttgaagatgc ctctgccgac
              240
              agtggtccca aagatggacc cccacccacg aggagcatcg tggaaaaaga agacgttcca
              300
              accacgtctt caaagcaagt ggattgatgt gataacatgg tggagcacga cacacttgtc
              360

              tactccaaaa atatcaaaga tacagtctca gaagaccaaa gggcaattga gacttttcaa
<removed-date>
              420
              caaagggtaa tatccggaaa cctcctcgga ttccattgcc cagctatctg tcactttatt
              480
              gtgaagatag tggaaaagga aggtggctcc tacaaatgcc atcattgcga taaaggaaag
              540
              gccatcgttg aagatgcctc tgccgacagt ggtcccaaag atggaccccc acccacgagg
<removed-apn>
              600
              agcatcgtgg aaaaagaaga cgttccaacc acgtcttcaa agcaagtgga ttgatgtgat
              660
              atctccactg acgtaaggga tgacgcacaa tcccactatc cttcgcaaga cccttcctct
              720
              atataaggaa gttcatttca tttggagagg acgtcgagag ttctcaacac aacatataca
              780
              aaacaaacga atctcaagca atcaagcatt ctacttctat tgcagcaatt taaatcattt
              840
              cttttaaagc aaaagcaatt ttctgaaaat tttcaccatt tacgaacgat agagatctcg
              900
              agctcaagct tcgaattctg cagtcgacgg taccgcgggc ccgggatcct gatggtgagc
              960
              aagggcgagg aggataacat ggccatcatc aaggagttca tgcccttcaa ggtgcacatg
              1020
              gagggctccg tgaacggcca cgagttcgag atcgagggcg agggcgaggg ccgcccctac
              1080
              gagggcaccc agaccgccaa gctgaaggtg accaagggtg gccccctgcc cttcgcctgg
              1140
              gacatcctgt cccctcagtt catgtacggc tccaaggcct acgtgaagca ccccgccgac
              1200
              atccccgact acttgaagct gtccttcccc gagggcttca agtgggagcg cgtgatgaac
              1260

              ttcgaggacg gcggcgtggt gaccgtgacc caggactcct ccctgcagga cggcgagttc
<removed-date>
              1320
              atctacaagg tgaagctgcg cggcaccaac ttcccctccg acggccccgt aatgcagaag
              1380
              aagaccatgg gctgggaggc ctcctccgag cggatgtacc ccgaggacgg cgccctgaag
              1440
              ggcgagatca agcagaggct gaagctgaag gacggcggcc actacgacgc tgaggtcaag
<removed-apn>
              1500
              accacctaca aggccaagaa gcccgtgcag ctgcccggcg cctacaacgt caacatcaag
              1560
              ttggacatca cctcccacaa cgaggactac accatcgtgg aacagtacga acgcgccgag
              1620
              ggccgccact ccaccggcgg catggacgag ctgtacaaga gatccacctg atctagagtc
              1680
              cgcaaaaatc accagtctct ctctacaaat ctatctctct ctatttttct ccagaataat
              1740
              gtgtgagtag ttcccagata agggaattag ggttcttata gggtttcgct catgtgttga
              1800
              gcatataaga aacccttagt atgtatttgt atttgtaaaa tacttctatc aataaaattt
              1860
              ctaattccta           aaaccaaaat       ccagtgacgc         ggccgc
              1896
              <210>   91
              <211>   28
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   polynucleotide
              <220>

              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (23)..(28)
<removed-date>
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <400> 91
              t c g a g c t c a a           g c t t c g a a t t       c t n n n n n n
              28
              <210>   92
              <211>   28
<removed-apn>
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   polynucleotide
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (1)..(6)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <400> 92
              n n n n n n g a t g           g t g a g c a a g g       g c g a g g a g
              28
              <210>   93
              <211>   17
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   peptide
              <400>   93
              Ser Gly Pro Arg Pro Arg Gly Thr Arg Gly Lys Gly Arg Arg Ile Arg
              1               5                   10                  15
              Arg

              <210>   94
<removed-date>
              <211>   31
              <212>   RNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   polynucleotide
              <400> 94
              uucagcucgu               guagcucauu        agcuccgagc    u
<removed-apn>
              31
              <210>   95
              <211>   31
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   polynucleotide
              <400> 95
              ttccatacag               tcagtatcaa        ttctggaaga    a
              31
              <210>   96
              <211>   22
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   polypeptide
              <400> 96
              a t c a a t t c t g            g a a g a a t t t c      c a
              22
              <210>   97
              <211>   22
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence

              <220>
              <223>   polynucleotide
<removed-date>
              <400> 97
              t c a t t a c a c c                 t g c a g c t c t c                a t
              22
              <210>   98
              <211>   53
              <212>   DNA
<removed-apn>
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   polynucleotide
              <400> 98
              uucagcucgu    guagcucauu      agcuccgagc   uaucaauucu     ggaagaauuu   cca
              53
              <210>   99
              <211>   53
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   polynucleotide
              <400> 99
              ucauuacacc    ugcagcucuc      auuucagcuc   guguagcuca     uuagcuccga   gcu
              53
              <210>   100
              <211>   55
              <212>   RNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   polynucleotide
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature

              <222>   (32)..(33)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or u
<removed-date>
              <400> 100
              uucagcucgu   guagcucauu      agcuccgagc   unnguaucaa   uucuggaaga   auuuc
              55
              <210>   101
              <211>   56
              <212>   DNA
<removed-apn>
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   polynucleotide
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (24)..(25)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, t or u
              <400> 101
              caaaaagaag   gucuucauua   cacnnuucag      cucguguagc   ucauuagcuc   cgagcu
              56
              <210>   102
              <211>   32
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   polynucleotide
              <400> 102
              tttccataca               gtcagtatca             attctggaag             aa
              32
              <210>   103
              <211>   31
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence

              <220>
              <223>   polynucleotide
<removed-date>
              <400> 103
              cagggtggaa               caagatggat             tatcaagtgt             c
              31
              <210>   104
              <211>   53
              <212>   DNA
<removed-apn>
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   polynucleotide
              <400> 104
              uucagcucgu    guagcucauu      agcuccgagc   uaagtccaat   ctatgacatc   aat
              53
              <210>   105
              <211>   53
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   polynucleotide
              <400> 105
              aagatcactt    tttatttatg      cauucagcuc   guguagcuca   uuagcuccga   gcu
              53
              <210>   106
              <211>   55
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   polynucleotide
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature

              <222>   (32)..(33)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, t or u
<removed-date>
              <400> 106
              uucagcucgu   guagcucauu   agcuccgagc   unnucaaguc   caaucuauga   cauca
              55
              <210>   107
              <211>   55
              <212>   DNA
<removed-apn>
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   polynucleotide
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (23)..(24)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, t or u
              <400> 107
              gaucacuuuu   uauuuaugca   cannuucagc   ucguguagcu   cauuagcucc   gagcu
              55
              <210>   108
              <211>   31
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   polynucleotide
              <400> 108
              atatctgtgg               gcttgtgaca          cggactcaag              t
              31
              <210>   109
              <211>   53
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence

              <220>
              <223>   polynucleotide
<removed-date>
              <400> 109
              uucagcucgu    guagcucauu      agcuccgagc    ugggctggtg    acccagtcag    agt
              53
              <210>   110
              <211>   53
              <212>   DNA
<removed-apn>
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   polynucleotide
              <400> 110
              ccgatccact    ggggagcagg      aauucagcuc    guguagcuca    uuagcuccga    gcu
              53
              <210>   111
              <211>   55
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   polynucleotide
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (32)..(33)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, t or u
              <400> 111
              uucagcucgu   guagcucauu    agcuccgagc      unnugggcug    gugacccagu    cagag
              55
              <210>   112
              <211>   55
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence

              <220>
              <223>   polynucleotide
<removed-date>
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (23)..(24)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, t or u
              <400> 112
              auccacuggg    gagcaggaaa   uannuucagc   ucguguagcu   cauuagcucc   gagcu
<removed-apn>
              55
              <210>   113
              <211>   7
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   peptide
              <400>   113
              Gly Ser Gly Gly Ser Gly Pro
              1               5
              <210>   114
              <211>   223
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   polypeptide
              <400>   114
              Met Pro Lys Lys Lys Arg Lys Val Val Lys Ser Glu Leu Glu Glu Lys
              1               5                   10                  15
              Lys Ser Glu Leu Arg His Lys Leu Lys Tyr Val Pro His Glu Tyr Ile
                          20                  25                  30

              Glu Leu Ile Glu Ile Ala Arg Asn Ser Thr Gln Asp Arg Ile Leu Glu
<removed-date>
                      35                  40                  45
              Met Lys Val Met Glu Phe Phe Met Lys Val Tyr Gly Tyr Arg Gly Lys
                  50                  55                  60
              His Leu Gly Gly Ser Arg Lys Pro Asp Gly Ala Ile Tyr Thr Val Gly
              65                  70                  75                  80
<removed-apn>
              Ser Pro Ile Asp Tyr Gly Val Ile Val Asp Thr Lys Ala Tyr Ser Gly
                              85                  90                  95
              Gly Tyr Asn Leu Pro Ile Gly Gln Ala Asp Glu Met Gln Arg Tyr Val
                          100                 105                 110
              Glu Glu Asn Gln Thr Arg Asn Lys His Ile Asn Pro Asn Glu Trp Trp
                      115                 120                 125
              Lys Val Tyr Pro Ser Ser Val Thr Glu Phe Lys Phe Leu Phe Val Ser
                  130                 135                 140
              Gly His Phe Lys Gly Asn Tyr Lys Ala Gln Leu Thr Arg Leu Asn His
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Ile Thr Asn Cys Asn Gly Ala Val Leu Ser Val Glu Glu Leu Leu Ile
                              165                 170                 175
              Gly Gly Glu Met Ile Lys Ala Gly Thr Leu Thr Leu Glu Glu Val Arg
                          180                 185                 190
              Arg Lys Phe Asn Asn Gly Glu Ile Asn Phe Gly Ser Gly Gly Ser Gly
                      195                 200                 205

              Pro Arg Pro Arg Gly Thr Arg Gly Lys Gly Arg Arg Ile Arg Arg
                  210                 215                 220
<removed-date>
              <210>   115
              <211>   672
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   polypeptide
<removed-apn>
              <400> 115
              atgcccaaga agaagagaaa ggtggtgaag agcgagctgg aggagaagaa gagcgagctg
              60
              agacacaagc tgaagtacgt gccccacgag tacatcgagc tgatcgagat cgccagaaac
              120
              agcacccagg acagaatcct ggagatgaag gtgatggagt tcttcatgaa ggtgtacggc
              180
              tacagaggca agcacctggg cggcagcaga aagcccgacg gcgccatcta caccgtgggc
              240
              agccccatcg actacggcgt gatcgtggac accaaggcct acagcggcgg ctacaacctg
              300
              cccatcggcc aggccgacga gatgcagaga tacgtggagg agaaccagac cagaaacaag
              360
              cacatcaacc ccaacgagtg gtggaaggtg taccccagca gcgtgaccga gttcaagttc
              420
              ctgttcgtga gcggccactt caagggcaac tacaaggccc agctgaccag actgaaccac
              480
              atcaccaact gcaacggcgc cgtgctgagc gtggaggagc tgctgatcgg cggcgagatg
              540
              atcaaggccg gcaccctgac cctggaggag gtgagaagaa agttcaacaa cggcgagatc
              600
              aacttcggca gcggcggcag cggccccaga cccagaggca ccagaggcaa gggcagaaga
              660

              a t     c   a   g   a   a   g   a   t                 a   a
<removed-date>
              672
              <210>   116
              <211>   7
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
<removed-apn>
              <223>   peptide
              <400>   116
              Gly Gly Ser Gly Gly Gly Pro
              1               5
              <210>   117
              <211>   31
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   polynucleotide
              <400> 117
              uucagcucgu                  guagcucauu   agcuccgagc       u
              31
              <210>   118
              <211>   31
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   polynucleotide
              <400> 118
              gcaaaacaat                  tatttggtta   tgccattttg       g
              31

              <210>   119
              <211>   53
<removed-date>
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   polynucleotide
              <400> 119
              uucagcucgu    guagcucauu      agcuccgagc   ucaaugaugg   auuucgcgcc   acg
              53
<removed-apn>
              <210>   120
              <211>   53
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   polynucleotide
              <400> 120
              uuagcuucgg    uuagagcaaa      gcuucagcuc   guguagcuca   uuagcuccga   gcu
              53
              <210>   121
              <211>   53
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   polynucleotide
              <400> 121
              uucagcucgu    guagcucauu      agcuccgagc   ugccaaugau   ggauuucgcg   cca
              53
              <210>   122
              <211>   53
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>

              <223>   polynucleotide
<removed-date>
              <400> 122
              agcuucgguu    agagcaaagc      ccuucagcuc   guguagcuca     uuagcuccga   gcu
              53
              <210>   123
              <211>   22
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
<removed-apn>
              <220>
              <223>   polynucleotide
              <400> 123
              a t g t t a g a a g                 g t g c a a a a t c                a a
              22
              <210>   124
              <211>   22
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   polynucleotide
              <400> 124
              c t a a c g g a c t                 t g g a a t a c g a                a t
              22
              <210>   125
              <211>   2833
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   polynucleotide
              <400> 125
              tgctgtacca tacagtcttt ccgcttaaag aattatattc tctctagcta cttcacagtg
              60

              tcctttcctt tcgcgtactc ctctgtcttt ttcctatctt ctctcttcta ttaccgagac
              120
<removed-date>
              ccgtacatac aaagatctag gtagctcatc tccttctaag aagtcagatc tccttcctat
              180
              attctataaa gaataagagc ccttcttaac ttcactcttt aattgtaaag agaggcctca
              240
              tttaggagcg ctgttttcat ccaactatca atctcgtaag agaataaagc gtggaaaaga
              300
<removed-apn>
              aaggttttga ttcgctttat aaagaagaaa gctttttccg gttctaacag gctaattaaa
              360
              ttagaaacgc gtctgttcac gtcaggtccg aagggatgtg gttgcttttc cttttttgcg
              420
              tcgagattgg gttggtgttc agtgtaccgc ttgtctagcc tatgctttgc atgaacatct
              480
              caatgtccaa gataaaaaga acgaggggaa gaatcgacga ggccagtgtt ctcgaagaga
              540
              aaatcgtgat ggaaaaagcg tgaggagaat tcgaaagtcg atatgttaga aggtgcaaaa
              600
              tcaatgggtg caggagctgc tacaatcgct tcagcgggag ctgctatcgg tattggaaac
              660
              gtccttagtt cctcgattca ttccgtgtta ggtatacaaa taacagactt acatcacgat
              720
              gtctttttct tcgttattct gattttggtt ttcgtatcat ggatcttggg tcgcgcttta
              780
              tggcatttcc actataaaaa aaatccaatc ccgcaaagga ttgttcatgg aactactatc
              840
              gagattcttc ggaccttatt tcttagtatc atccctatgt tcattgctat accatcattt
              900
              gccctgtatg ggtattcgga ctataacagt tccgatgaac agtcactcac ttttgacagt
              960

              tatacgattc cagaagatca tccagaattg ggtcaatcac gtttattaga agtcgacaat
              1020
<removed-date>
              agagtggttg taccagcaaa cagttctctc cgttttattg taacatctgc ggctgtacct
              1080
              tccttaggtg tcaaaggtga tgctgtgcct tccttaggtg tcaaaggtga tgctgtgcct
              1140
              tccttaggtg tcaaaggtga tgctgtgcct gggcctgggc gggtttttca gacttggacc
              1200
<removed-apn>
              cgagcttttg agcgtttggg cctgttgacg gttgcccatt gcgccggcac cggaacatca
              1260
              agctcgggct cggtagtcag tcttccacag gacgaaatat gggccgccct tgagggcgat
              1320
              ccccaggccc ttccggaaga cggccaattt cacgccgtcg cccctgaggg gaatccccag
              1380
              gcccttccgg aagacgggca atttcacgcc gtcccccctg aggggaatcc ccaggccctt
              1440
              ccggaagacg ggcaatttca ggccgtcgcc cctgagggga atccccaggc ccttccggaa
              1500
              gacgggcaat ttcacgccat cgcctttgac cctcttatag caacacggca agacgcgtgg
              1560
              aatacgctac ttgtcttgtt gcggcgcagc accaaaattg gcctaaggcc aattttgtta
              1620
              ctaaagcagg ggaagatctt ggtatagagg aggtcgactt taaaagcgaa cgaaaaacaa
              1680
              ttgcaaaagc agattgattt ttggcaacgt gaatttaggt tttggaagta aaataagttt
              1740
              tatttgataa aaattgctaa ttcagtataa ttaatattta cgaggtgaca taacgtatga
              1800
              aaaaatcaga ggattattcc tcctaaatat aaaaatttaa aatttaggag gaagttatat
              1860

              atgactttta atattattga attagaaaat tgggatagaa aagaatattt tgaacactat
              1920
<removed-date>
              tttaatcagc aaactactta tagcattact aaagaaattg atattacttt gtttaaagat
              1980
              atgataaaaa agaaaggata tgaaatttat ccctctttaa tttatgcaat tatggaagtt
              2040
              gtaaataaaa ataaagtgtt tagaacagga attaatagtg agaataaatt aggttattgg
              2100
<removed-apn>
              gataagttaa atcctttgta tacagttttt aataagcaaa ctgaaaaatt tactaacatt
              2160
              tggactgaat ctgataaaaa cttcatttct ttttataata attataaaaa tgacttgctt
              2220
              gaatataaag ataaagaaga aatgtttcct aaaaaaccga tacctgaaaa caccataccg
              2280
              atttcaatga ttccttggat tgattttagt tcatttaatt taaatattgg taacaatagc
              2340
              agctttttat tgcctattat tacgataggt aaattttata gtgagaataa taaaatttat
              2400
              ataccagttg ctctgcaact tcatcattct gtatgtgatg gttaccatgc ttcactattt
              2460
              atgaatgaat ttcaagatat aattcatagg gtagatgatt ggatttagtt tttagatttt
              2520
              gaaagtgaat ttaattttat acacgtaagt gatcaggagg gaagctaatg catcgtttgc
              2580
              cccaatgatg gcctttttga tctcattcgt attccaagtc cgttagtcat cgtttacggt
              2640
              gggtgggtaa gcaggagggg atccctgtgg ttagattaga gtaactggcc gagaaggtta
              2700
              gcgaggttcc agctatggtg aagtgaaaga tctttcactt cactatagtg ggaaagaaga
              2760

              caggtgggag cgagcggagc gagagcaaag caagctctag tggtgggttg tcttcgcggt
              2820
<removed-date>
              c c     c   a   t   t   t   c   a    t                                c    g   a
              2833
              <210>   126
              <211>   31
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
<removed-apn>
              <220>
              <223>   polynucleotide
              <400> 126
              agacttacat                  cacgatgtct                ttttcttcgt               t
              31
              <210>   127
              <211>   53
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   polynucleotide
              <400> 127
              uucagcucgu      guagcucauu          agcuccgagc   uguuauuugu   auaccuaaca   cgg
              53
              <210>   128
              <211>   53
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   polynucleotide
              <400> 128
              auacgaaaac      caaaaucaga          auuucagcuc   guguagcuca   uuagcuccga   gcu
              53

              <210>   129
<removed-date>
              <211>   53
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   polynucleotide
              <400> 129
              uucagcucgu    guagcucauu      agcuccgagc   ucuguuauuu   guauaccuaa   cac
<removed-apn>
              53
              <210>   130
              <211>   53
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   polynucleotide
              <400> 130
              acgaaaacca    aaaucagaau      aauucagcuc   guguagcuca   uuagcuccga   gcu
              53
              <210>   131
              <211>   2852
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   polynucleotide
              <400> 131
              tgctgtacca tacagtcttt ccgcttaaag aattatattc tctctagcta cttcacagtg
              60
              tcctttcctt tcgcgtactc ctctgtcttt ttcctatctt ctctcttcta ttaccgagac
              120
              ccgtacatac aaagatctag gtagctcatc tccttctaag aagtcagatc tccttcctat
              180

              attctataaa gaataagagc ccttcttaac ttcactcttt aattgtaaag agaggcctca
              240
<removed-date>
              tttaggagcg ctgttttcat ccaactatca atctcgtaag agaataaagc gtggaaaaga
              300
              aaggttttga ttcgctttat aaagaagaaa gctttttccg gttctaacag gctaattaaa
              360
              ttagaaacgc gtctgttcac gtcaggtccg aagggatgtg gttgcttttc cttttttgcg
              420
<removed-apn>
              tcgagattgg gttggtgttc agtgtaccgc ttgtctagcc tatgctttgc atgaacatct
              480
              caatgtccaa gataaaaaga acgaggggaa gaatcgacga ggccagtgtt ctcgaagaga
              540
              aaatcgtgat ggaaaaagcg tgaggagaat tcgaaagtcg atatgttaga aggtgcaaaa
              600
              tcaatgggtg caggagctgc tacaaatgct tcagcgggag ctgctatcgg tattggaaac
              660
              gtccttagtt cctcgattca ttccgtggcg cgaaatccat cattggcaaa acaattattt
              720
              ggttatgcca ttttgggctt tgctctaacc gaagctaatg catcgtttgc cccaatgatg
              780
              gcctttttga tctcattcgt attccaagtc cgttagagga ggtcgacttt aaaagcgaac
              840
              gaaaaacaat tgcaaaagca gattgatttt tggcaacgtg aatttaggtt ttggaagtaa
              900
              aataagtttt atttgataaa aattgctaat tcagtataat taatatttac gaggtgacat
              960
              aacgtatgaa aaaatcagag gattattcct cctaaatata aaaatttaaa atttaggagg
              1020
              aagttatata tgacttttaa tattattgaa ttagaaaatt gggatagaaa agaatatttt
              1080

              gaacactatt ttaatcagca aactacttat agcattacta aagaaattga tattactttg
              1140
<removed-date>
              tttaaagata tgataaaaaa gaaaggatat gaaatttatc cctctttaat ttatgcaatt
              1200
              atggaagttg taaataaaaa taaagtgttt agaacaggaa ttaatagtga gaataaatta
              1260
              ggttattggg ataagttaaa tcctttgtat acagttttta ataagcaaac tgaaaaattt
              1320
<removed-apn>
              actaacattt ggactgaatc tgataaaaac ttcatttctt tttataataa ttataaaaat
              1380
              gacttgcttg aatataaaga taaagaagaa atgtttccta aaaaaccgat acctgaaaac
              1440
              accataccga tttcaatgat tccttggatt gattttagtt catttaattt aaatattggt
              1500
              aacaatagca gctttttatt gcctattatt acgataggta aattttatag tgagaataat
              1560
              aaaatttata taccagttgc tctgcaactt catcattctg tatgtgatgg ttaccatgct
              1620
              tcactattta tgaatgaatt tcaagatata attcataggg tagatgattg gatttagttt
              1680
              ttagattttg aaagtgaatt taattttata cacgtaagtg atcaggagga aaaaatccaa
              1740
              tcccgcaaag gattgttcat ggaactacta tcgagattct tcggacctta tttcttagta
              1800
              tcatccctat gttcattgct ataccatcat ttgccctgta tgggtattcg gactataaca
              1860
              gttccgatga acagtcactc acttttgaca gttatacgat tccagaagat catccagaat
              1920
              tgggtcaatc acgtttatta gaagtcgaca atagagtggt tgtaccagca aacagttctc
              1980

              tccgttttat tgtaacatct gcggctgtac cttccttagg tgtcaaaggt gatgctgtgc
              2040
<removed-date>
              cttccttagg tgtcaaaggt gatgctgtgc cttccttagg tgtcaaaggt gatgctgtgc
              2100
              ctgggcctgg gcgggttttt cagacttgga cccgagcttt tgagcgtttg ggcctgttga
              2160
              cggttgccca ttgcgccggc accggaacat caagctcggg ctcggtagtc agtcttccac
              2220
<removed-apn>
              aggacgaaat atgggccgcc cttgagggcg atccccaggc ccttccggaa gacggccaat
              2280
              ttcacgccgt cgcccctgag gggaatcccc aggcccttcc ggaagacggg caatttcacg
              2340
              ccgtcccccc tgaggggaat ccccaggccc ttccggaaga cgggcaattt caggccgtcg
              2400
              cccctgaggg gaatccccag gcccttccgg aagacgggca atttcacgcc atcgcctttg
              2460
              accctcttat agcaacacgg caagacgcgt ggaatacgct acttgtcttg ttgcggcgca
              2520
              gcaccaaaat tggcctaagg ccaattttgt tactaaagca ggggaagatc ttggtatagg
              2580
              aagctaatgc atcgtttgcc ccaatgatgg cctttttgat ctcattcgta ttccaagtcc
              2640
              gttagtcatc gtttacggtg ggtgggtaag caggagggga tccctgtggt tagattagag
              2700
              taactggccg agaaggttag cgaggttcca gctatggtga agtgaaagat ctttcacttc
              2760
              actatagtgg gaaagaagac aggtgggagc gagcggagcg agagcaaagc aagctctagt
              2820
              ggtgggttgt          cttcgcggtc           ccatttcatc           ga
              2852

              <210>   132
<removed-date>
              <211>   399
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   polypeptide
              <400>   132
<removed-apn>
              Met Asp Lys Ala Glu Leu Ile Pro Glu Pro Pro Lys Lys Lys Arg Lys
              1               5                   10                  15
              Val Glu Leu Gly Thr Ala Ala Asn Phe Asn Gln Ser Gly Asn Ile Ala
                          20                  25                  30
              Asp Ser Ser Leu Ser Phe Thr Phe Thr Asn Ser Ser Asn Gly Pro Asn
                      35                  40                  45
              Leu Ile Thr Thr Gln Thr Asn Ser Gln Ala Leu Ser Gln Pro Ile Ala
                  50                  55                  60
              Ser Ser Asn Val His Asp Asn Phe Met Asn Asn Glu Ile Thr Ala Ser
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Lys Ile Asp Asp Gly Asn Asn Ser Lys Pro Leu Ser Pro Gly Trp Thr
                              85                  90                  95
              Asp Gln Thr Ala Tyr Asn Ala Phe Gly Ile Thr Thr Gly Met Phe Asn
                          100                 105                 110
              Thr Thr Thr Met Asp Asp Val Tyr Asn Tyr Leu Phe Asp Asp Glu Asp
                      115                 120                 125
              Thr Pro Pro Asn Pro Lys Lys Glu Gly Ser Leu Glu Gly Gly Ser Gly
                  130                 135                 140

<removed-date>
              Gly Asp Val Val Met Thr Gln Thr Pro Leu Ser Leu Pro Val Ser Leu
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Gly Asp Gln Ala Ser Ile Ser Cys Arg Ser Ser Gln Ser Leu Val His
                              165                 170                 175
              Ser Asn Gly Asn Thr Tyr Leu Arg Trp Tyr Leu Gln Lys Pro Gly Gln
<removed-apn>
                          180                 185                 190
              Ser Pro Lys Val Leu Ile Tyr Lys Val Ser Asn Arg Phe Ser Gly Val
                      195                 200                 205
              Pro Asp Arg Phe Ser Gly Ser Gly Ser Gly Thr Asp Phe Thr Leu Lys
                  210                 215                 220
              Ile Ser Arg Val Glu Ala Glu Asp Leu Gly Val Tyr Phe Cys Ser Gln
              225                 230                 235                 240
              Ser Thr His Val Pro Trp Thr Phe Gly Gly Gly Thr Lys Leu Glu Ile
                              245                 250                 255
              Lys Ser Ser Ala Asp Asp Ala Lys Lys Asp Ala Ala Lys Lys Asp Asp
                          260                 265                 270
              Ala Lys Lys Asp Asp Ala Lys Lys Asp Gly Gly Val Lys Leu Asp Glu
                      275                 280                 285
              Thr Gly Gly Gly Leu Val Gln Pro Gly Arg Pro Met Lys Leu Ser Cys
                  290                 295                 300
              Val Ala Ser Gly Phe Thr Phe Ser Asp Tyr Trp Met Asn Trp Val Arg
              305                 310                 315                 320

              Gln Ser Pro Glu Lys Gly Leu Glu Trp Val Ala Gln Ile Arg Asn Lys
<removed-date>
                              325                 330                 335
              Pro Tyr Asn Tyr Glu Thr Tyr Tyr Ser Asp Ser Val Lys Gly Arg Phe
                          340                 345                 350
              Thr Ile Ser Arg Asp Asp Ser Lys Ser Ser Val Tyr Leu Gln Met Asn
                      355                 360                 365
<removed-apn>
              Asn Leu Arg Val Glu Asp Met Gly Ile Tyr Tyr Cys Thr Gly Ser Tyr
                  370                 375                 380
              Tyr Gly Met Asp Tyr Trp Gly Gln Gly Thr Ser Val Thr Val Ser
              385                 390                 395
              <210>   133
              <211>   21
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   polynucleotide
              <400> 133
              g g g c a t c t g g              a c c c t c c t a c              c
              21
              <210>   134
              <211>   28
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   polynucleotide
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature

              <222>   (23)..(28)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, t or u
<removed-date>
              <400> 134
              a g g a t t g c t c            a a c a a c c a t g      c t n n n n n n
              28
              <210>   135
              <211>   28
              <212>   DNA
<removed-apn>
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   polynucleotide
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (1)..(6)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, t or u
              <400> 135
              n n n n n n t c t g            g t g a g c c c t c      t c c t g c c c
              28
              <210>   136
              <211>   24
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   polynucleotide
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (23)..(24)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, t or u
              <400> 136
              g g a g g a t t g c               t c a a c a a c c a          t g n n
              24

              <210>   137
<removed-date>
              <211>   24
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   polynucleotide
              <220>
<removed-apn>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (1)..(2)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, t or u
              <400> 137
              n n c t g g t g a g            c c c t c t c c t g     c c c g
              24
              <210>   138
              <211>   21
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   polynucleotide
              <400> 138
              t a c g t c t g t t              g c t a g a t t a t        c
              21
              <210>   139
              <211>   28
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   polynucleotide
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (23)..(28)

              <223>   n is a, c, g, t or u
<removed-date>
              <400> 139
              a t g c t t t t a t            t t t a c a g g t t      c t n n n n n n
              28
              <210>   140
              <211>   28
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
<removed-apn>
              <220>
              <223>   polynucleotide
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (1)..(6)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, t or u
              <400> 140
              n n n n n n g t c c            a a a a g t g t t a      a t g c c c a a
              28
              <210>   141
              <211>   24
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   polynucleotide
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (23)..(24)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, t or u
              <400> 141
              t c a t g c t t t t               a t t t t a c a g g          t t n n
              24

              <210>   142
              <211>   24
<removed-date>
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   polynucleotide
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
<removed-apn>
              <222>   (1)..(2)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, t or u
              <400> 142
              n n t c c a a a a g            t g t t a a t g c c     c a a g
              24
              <210>   143
              <211>   21
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   polynucleotide
              <400> 143
              c a g t t g a g a c              t c a g a a c t t g        g
              21
              <210>   144
              <211>   29
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   polynucleotide
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (24)..(29)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, t or u

              <400> 144
<removed-date>
              ggaattgagg                     aagactgtta              ctannnnnn
              29
              <210>   145
              <211>   34
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
<removed-apn>
              <220>
              <223>   polynucleotide
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (1)..(6)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, t or u
              <400> 145
              nnnnnnaagg               cctgcatcat          gatggccaat     tctc
              34
              <210>   146
              <211>   24
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   polynucleotide
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (23)..(24)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, t or u
              <400> 146
              g g a a t t g a g g              a a g a c t g t t a       c t n n
              24
              <210>   147

              <211>   24
              <212>   DNA
<removed-date>
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   polynucleotide
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (1)..(2)
<removed-apn>
              <223>   n is a, c, g, t or u
              <400> 147
              n n g g c c t g c a            t c a t g a t g g c            c a a t
              24
              <210>   148
              <211>   18
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   polynucleotide
              <400> 148
              c a t g c t t t t a                                  t t t t a c a g
              18
              <210>   149
              <211>   20
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   polynucleotide
              <400> 149
              c t g t g a c t t t                              c a c t g t a a t c
              20
              <210>   150

              <211>   21
              <212>   DNA
<removed-date>
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   polynucleotide
              <400> 150
              c a a t t g t g a a                  t t c a c a t a g a                a
              21
<removed-apn>
              <210>   151
              <211>   28
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   polynucleotide
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (23)..(28)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, t or u
              <400> 151
              g g t g t c a t a t            t a t a c a a t a t         t t n n n n n n
              28
              <210>   152
              <211>   28
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   polynucleotide
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (1)..(6)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, t or u

              <400> 152
              n n n n n n a a c a            t t a a a t t a t a      a t g t t t g a
<removed-date>
              28
              <210>   153
              <211>   24
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
<removed-apn>
              <223>   polynucleotide
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (23)..(24)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, t or u
              <400> 153
              t t g g t g t c a t               a t t a t a c a a t          a t n n
              24
              <210>   154
              <211>   24
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   polynucleotide
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (1)..(2)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, t or u
              <400> 154
              n n a c a t t a a a               t t a t a a t g t t          t g a c
              24
              <210>   155
              <211>   22

              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
<removed-date>
              <220>
              <223>   polynucleotide
              <400> 155
              c t t t g t t t a t            a a c t c t g a g a            a g
              22
<removed-apn>
              <210>   156
              <211>   22
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   polynucleotide
              <400> 156
              t c a a a a t g c t            t t t g a t g c c t            g a
              22
              <210>   157
              <211>   1200
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   polynucleotide
              <400> 157
              atggacaagg cagagttgat ccctgaacca cctaagaaaa agagaaaggt ggagctcgga
              60
              acagcagcta acttcaacca gtctggaaac attgcagact cttctttgtc ttttactttc
              120
              acaaattctt ctaatggacc aaacttgatt acaacacaga caaactcaca ggctttgtct
              180
              cagccaatcg cttcttctaa tgtgcacgac aacttcatga acaacgagat tacagcttca
              240

              aagatcgatg acggtaacaa ttctaagcct ctttctcctg gatggactga ccagactgca
              300
<removed-date>
              tacaacgcat tcggaatcac aacaggtatg ttcaacacaa ctactatgga tgatgtgtac
              360
              aattaccttt ttgatgacga ggacacacca ccaaacccaa agaaagaggg atcacttgag
              420
              ggtggatccg gaggagacgt ggtgatgaca cagacaccat tgtctttgcc tgtgtcccta
              480
<removed-apn>
              ggagaccagg catcaatctc atgcaggtca tctcagtctc ttgtgcactc taatggtaac
              540
              acttatttga ggtggtactt gcagaagcca ggtcagtctc caaaggtgct tatctataag
              600
              gtttctaaca gattctcagg agtgccagat aggttctcag gatcaggatc tggaacagac
              660
              tttacattga agatttcaag ggttgaggca gaggaccttg gagtgtactt ctgctctcag
              720
              tcaacacacg ttccatggac tttcggtgga ggaacaaaac ttgagattaa atctagcgct
              780
              gacgacgcta agaaggacgc tgctaagaag gatgacgcta aaaaggacga cgcaaagaag
              840
              gacggtggtg tgaagcttga cgagactgga ggtggtttgg tgcagcctgg aaggcctatg
              900
              aaactttcat gcgtggcttc tggattcaca ttctctgact actggatgaa ctgggttagg
              960
              cagtcacctg agaagggttt ggaatgggtg gctcagatca ggaacaagcc ttacaactat
              1020
              gagacttact actctgattc tgtgaaagga aggttcacta tctcaaggga cgattcaaag
              1080
              tcttctgttt accttcagat gaataactta cgcgtagaag acatgggtat ctattactgt
              1140

              actggatctt actacggtat ggactattgg ggacagggta catcagtgac agtgtcatga
              1200
<removed-date>
              <210>   158
              <211>   20
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   polynucleotide
<removed-apn>
              <400> 158
              t a g g g c g c t g                          g c a a g t g t a g
              20
              <210>   159
              <211>   20
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   polynucleotide
              <400> 159
              c a t a a c a c c c                          c t t g t a t t a c
              20
              <210>   160
              <211>   1120
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   polynucleotide
              <400> 160
              caggtggcac ttttcgggga aatgtgcgcg gaacccctat ttgtttattt ttctaaatac
              60
              attcaaatat gtatccgctc atgagacaat aaccctgata aatgcttcaa taatattgaa
              120

              aaaggaagag tatgagtatt caacatttcc gtgtcgccct tattcccttt tttgcggcat
              180
<removed-date>
              tttgccttcc tgtttttgct cacccagaaa cgctggtgaa agtaaaagat gctgaagatc
              240
              agttgggtgc acgagtgggt tacatcgaac tggatctcaa cagcggtaag atccttgaga
              300
              gttttcgccc cgaagaacgt tttccaatga tgagcacttt taaagttctg ctatgtggcg
              360
<removed-apn>
              cggtattatc ccgtattgac gccgggcaag agcaactcgg tcgccgcata cactattctc
              420
              agaatgactt ggttgagtac tcaccagtca cagaaaagca tcttacggat ggcatgacag
              480
              taagagaatt atgcagtgct gccataacca tgagtgataa cactgcggcc aacttacttc
              540
              tgacaacgat cggaggaccg aaggagctaa ccgctttttt gcacaacatg ggggatcatg
              600
              taactcgcct tgatcgttgg gaaccggagc tgaatgaagc cataccaaac gacgagcgtg
              660
              acaccacgat gcctgtagca atggcaacaa cgttgcgcaa actattaact ggcgaactac
              720
              ttactctagc ttcccggcaa caattaatag actggatgga ggcggataaa gttgcaggac
              780
              cacttctgcg ctcggccctt ccggctggct ggtttattgc tgataaatct ggagccggtg
              840
              agcgtgggtc tcgcggtatc attgcagcac tggggccaga tggtaagccc tcccgtatcg
              900
              tagttatcta cacgacgggg agtcaggcaa ctatggatga acgaaataga cagatcgctg
              960
              agataggtgc ctcactgatt aagcattggt aactgtcaga ccaagtttac tcatatatac
              1020

              tttagattga tttaaaactt catttttaat ttaaaaggat ctaggtgaag atcctttttg
              1080
<removed-date>
              ataatctcat            gaacaataaa          actgtctgct       tacataaaca
              1120
              <210>   161
              <211>   21
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
<removed-apn>
              <220>
              <223>   polynucleotide
              <400> 161
              t a t g a g t a t t                  c a a c a t t t c c                g
              21
              <210>   162
              <211>   28
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   polynucleotide
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (23)..(28)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, t or u
              <400> 162
              a a t a a t a t t g            a a a a a g g a a g         a g n n n n n n
              28
              <210>   163
              <211>   28
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>

              <223>   polynucleotide
<removed-date>
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (1)..(6)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, t or u
              <400> 163
              n n n n n n t g t c            g c c c t t a t t c   c c t t t t t t
              28
<removed-apn>
              <210>   164
              <211>   28
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   polynucleotide
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (1)..(6)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, t or u
              <400> 164
              n n n n n n c t c t            t c c t t t t t c a   a t a t t a t t
              28
              <210>   165
              <211>   28
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   polynucleotide
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (23)..(28)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, t or u

              <400> 165
<removed-date>
              a a a a a a g g g a            a t a a g g g c g a      c a n n n n n n
              28
              <210>   166
              <211>   24
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
<removed-apn>
              <220>
              <223>   polynucleotide
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (23)..(24)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, t or u
              <400> 166
              c a a t a a t a t t               g a a a a a g g a a          g a n n
              24
              <210>   167
              <211>   24
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   polynucleotide
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (1)..(2)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, t or u
              <400> 167
              n n t c g c c c t t               a t t c c c t t t t          t t g c
              24
              <210>   168

              <211>   24
              <212>   DNA
<removed-date>
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   polynucleotide
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (1)..(2)
<removed-apn>
              <223>   n is a, c, g, t or u
              <400> 168
              n n t c t t c c t t            t t t c a a t a t t   a t t g
              24
              <210>   169
              <211>   24
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   polynucleotide
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (23)..(24)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, t or u
              <400> 169
              g c a a a a a a g g            g a a t a a g g g c   g a n n
              24
              <210>   170
              <211>   21
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   polynucleotide

              <400> 170
              a g c a t t g g t a                  a c t g t c a g a c                c
<removed-date>
              21
              <210>   171
              <211>   28
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
<removed-apn>
              <223>   polynucloeitde
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (23)..(28)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, t or u
              <400> 171
              g a g a t a g g t g            c c t c a c t g a t         t a n n n n n n
              28
              <210>   172
              <211>   28
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   polynucleotide
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (1)..(6)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, t or u
              <400> 172
              n n n n n n a a g t            t t a c t c a t a t         a t a c t t t a
              28
              <210>   173
              <211>   28

              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
<removed-date>
              <220>
              <223>   polynucleotide
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (1)..(6)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, t or u
<removed-apn>
              <400> 173
              n n n n n n t a a t            c a g t g a g g c a   c c t a t c t c
              28
              <210>   174
              <211>   28
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   polynucleotide
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (23)..(28)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, t or u
              <400> 174
              t a a a g t a t a t            a t g a g t a a a c   t t n n n n n n
              28
              <210>   175
              <211>   24
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   polynucleotide

              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
<removed-date>
              <222>   (23)..(24)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, t or u
              <400> 175
              t g a g a t a g g t            g c c t c a c t g a   t t n n
              24
              <210>   176
<removed-apn>
              <211>   24
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   polynucleotide
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (1)..(2)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, t or u
              <400> 176
              n n g t t t a c t c            a t a t a t a c t t   t a g a
              24
              <210>   177
              <211>   24
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   polynucloeitde
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (1)..(2)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, t or u
              <400> 177
              n n a a t c a g t g            a g g c a c c t a t   c t c a
              24

<removed-date>
              <210>   178
              <211>   24
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   polynucleotide
<removed-apn>
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (23)..(24)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, t or u
              <400> 178
              t c t a a a g t a t            a t a t g a g t a a        a c n n
              24
              <210>   179
              <211>   1902
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   polynucleotide
              <400> 179
              gagtattcta tagtgtcacc taaatagctt ggcgtaatca tggtcatagc tgtttcctgt
              60
              gtgaaattgt tatccgctca caattccaca caacatacga gccggaagca taaagtgtaa
              120
              agcctggggt gcctaatgag tgagctaact cacattaatt gcgttgcgct cactgcccgc
              180
              tttccagtcg ggaaacctgt cgtgccagct gcattaatga atcggccaac gcgcggggag
              240
              aggcggtttg cgtattgggc gctcttccgc ttcctcgctc actgactcgc tgcgctcggt
              300

              cgttcggctg cggcgagcgg tatcagctca ctcaaaggcg gtaatacggt tatccacaga
              360
<removed-date>
              atcaggggat aacgcaggaa agaacatgaa ttaattctca tgtttgacag cttatcatcg
              420
              attagcttta atgcggtagt ttatcacagt taaattgcta acgcagtcag gcaccgtgta
              480
              tgaaatctaa caatgcgctc atcgtcatcc tcggcaccgt caccctggat gctgtaggca
              540
<removed-apn>
              taggcttggt tatgccggta ctgccgggcc tcttgcggga tatcgtccat tccgacagca
              600
              tcgccagtca ctatggcgtg ctgctagcgc tatatgcgtt gatgcaattt ctatgcgcac
              660
              ccgttctcgg agcactgtcc gaccgctttg gccgccgccc agtcctgctc gcttcgctac
              720
              ttggagccac tatcgactac gcgatcatgg cgaccacacc cgtcctgtgg attctctacg
              780
              ccggacgcat cgtggccggc atcaccggcg ccacaggtgc ggttgctggc gcctatatcg
              840
              ccgacatcac cgatggggaa gatcgggctc gccacttcgg gctcatgagc gcttgtttcg
              900
              gcgtgggtat ggtggcaggc cccgtggccg ggggactgtt gggcgccatc tccttacatg
              960
              caccattcct tgcggcggcg gtgctcaacg gcctcaacct actactgggc tgcttcctaa
              1020
              tgcaggagtc gcataaggga gagcgccgac cgatgccctt gagagccttc aacccagtca
              1080
              gctccttccg gtgggcgcgg ggcatgacta tcgtcgccgc acttatgact gtcttcttta
              1140
              tcatgcaact cgtaggacag gtgccggcag cgctctgggt cattttcggc gaggaccgct
              1200

              ttcgctggag cgcgacgatg atcggcctgt cgcttgcggt attcggaatc ttgcacgccc
              1260
<removed-date>
              tcgctcaagc cttcgtcact ggtcccgcca ccaaacgttt cggcgagaag caggccatta
              1320
              tcgccggcat ggcggccgac gcgctgggct acgtcttgct ggcgttcgcg acgcgaggct
              1380
              ggatggcctt ccccattatg attcttctcg cttccggcgg catcgggatg cccgcgttgc
              1440
<removed-apn>
              aggccatgct gtccaggcag gtagatgacg accatcaggg acagcttcaa ggatcgctcg
              1500
              cggctcttac cagcctaact tcgatcactg gaccgctgat cgtcacggcg atttatgccg
              1560
              cctcggcgag cacatggaac gggttggcat ggattgtagg cgccgcccta taccttgtct
              1620
              gcctccccgc gttgcgtcgc ggtgcatgga gccgggccac ctcgacctga atggaagccg
              1680
              gcggcacctc gctaacggat tcaccactcc aagaattgga gccaatcaat tcttgcggag
              1740
              aactgtgaat gcgcaaacca acccttgtat cggggaagaa cagtatgtcg agctattttt
              1800
              tgacttactg gggatcaagc ctgattggga gaaaataaaa tattatattt tactggatga
              1860
              attgttttag       tacctagatg    tggcgcaacg      atgccggcga     ca
              1902
              <210>   180
              <211>   204
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   polynucleotide

              <400> 180
              ggactgtaga ggttccgggt gacagccctc cgacgggtga cagccctccg acgggtgaca
<removed-date>
              60
              gccctccgaa ttctagagga tccgggtgac agccctccga cgggtgacag ccctccgacg
              120
              ggtgacagcc ctccgaattc gagctcggta cccggggatc tgtcgacctc gatcgagatc
              180
              t t c g c a a g a c           c c t t c c t c t a         t a t a
<removed-apn>
              204
              <210>   181
              <211>   1875
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   polynucleotide
              <400> 181
              gacaacatgt ggagcacgac acacttgtct actccaaaaa tatcaaagat acagtctcag
              60
              aagaccaaag ggcaattgag acttttcaac aaagggtaat atccggaaac ctcctcggat
              120
              tccattgccc agctatctgt cactttattg tgaagatagt ggaaaaggaa ggtggctcct
              180
              acaaatgcca tcattgcgat aaaggaaagg ccatcgttga agatgcctct gccgacagtg
              240
              gtcccaaaga tggaccccca cccacgagga gcatcgtgga aaaagaagac gttccaacca
              300
              cgtcttcaaa gcaagtggat tgatgtgata acatggtgga gcacgacaca cttgtctact
              360
              ccaaaaatat caaagataca gtctcagaag accaaagggc aattgagact tttcaacaaa
              420
              gggtaatatc cggaaacctc ctcggattcc attgcccagc tatctgtcac tttattgtga
              480

              agatagtgga aaaggaaggt ggctcctaca aatgccatca ttgcgataaa ggaaaggcca
<removed-date>
              540
              tcgttgaaga tgcctctgcc gacagtggtc ccaaagatgg acccccaccc acgaggagca
              600
              tcgtggaaaa agaagacgtt ccaaccacgt cttcaaagca agtggattga tgtgatatct
              660
              ccactgacgt aagggatgac gcacaatccc actatccttc gcaagaccct tcctctatat
<removed-apn>
              720
              aaggaagttc atttcatttg gagaggacgt cgagagttct caacacaaca tatacaaaac
              780
              aaacgaatct caagcaatca agcattctac ttctattgca gcaatttaaa tcatttcttt
              840
              taaagcaaaa gcaattttct gaaaattttc accatttacg aacgatagcc atggccgtcg
              900
              acaactagtc cagatctgtg tccaagggcg aggagctgtt caccggggtg gtgcccatcc
              960
              tggtcgagct ggacggcgac gtaaacggcc acaagttcag cgtgtccggc gagggcgagg
              1020
              gcgatgccac ctacggcaag ctgaccctga agttcatctg caccaccggc aagctgcccg
              1080
              tgccctggcc caccctcgtg accaccctga cctacggcgt gcagtgcttc agccgctacc
              1140
              ccgaccacat gaagcagcac gacttcttca agtccgccat gcccgaaggc tacgtccagg
              1200
              agcgcaccat cttcttcaag gacgacggca actacaagac ccgcgccgag gtgaagttcg
              1260
              agggcgacac cctggtgaac cgcatcgagc tgaagggcat cgacttcaag gaggacggca
              1320
              acatcctggg gcacaagctg gagtacaact acaacagcca caacgtctat atcatggccg
              1380

              acaagcagaa gaacggcatc aaggtgaact tcaagatccg ccacaacatc gaggacggca
<removed-date>
              1440
              gcgtgcagct cgccgaccac taccagcaga acacccccat cggcgacggc cccgtgctgc
              1500
              tgcccgacaa ccactacctg agcacccagt ccgccctgag caaagacccc aacgagaagc
              1560
              gcgatcacat ggtcctgctg gagttcgtga ccgccgccgg gatcactctc ggcatggacg
<removed-apn>
              1620
              agctgtacaa gtccggactc taagcttggg tctagagtcc gcaaaaatca ccagtctctc
              1680
              tctacaaatc tatctctctc tatttttctc cagaataatg tgtgagtagt tcccagataa
              1740
              gggaattagg gttcttatag ggtttcgctc atgtgttgag catataagaa acccttagta
              1800
              tgtatttgta tttgtaaaat acttctatca ataaaatttc taattcctaa aaccaaaatc
              1860
              c a g    t    g   a   c   g   c   g                         g   c   c   g   c
              1875
              <210>   182
              <211>   22
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   polynucleotide
              <400> 182
              a t c t c a a g t c                   t c t a g g a c t g               g t
              22
              <210>   183
              <211>   22
              <212>   DNA

              <213>   Artificial sequence
<removed-date>
              <220>
              <223>   polynucleotide
              <400> 183
              a t c t g t g a g c               a a a g g c g a g g         a g
              22
              <210>   184
<removed-apn>
              <211>   68
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   polynucleotide
              <400> 184
              ccatgggatc tcaagtctct aggactggtc ttcaaaatct ttctcactag tttctacgat
              60
              c         t           t       g        g         c      c       a
              68
              <210>   185
              <211>   62
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   polynucleotide
              <400> 185
              ccatgggatc tcaagtctct aggactggtc aaaatctttc tcactagttt ctacgctggc
              60
              c                                                               a
              62
              <210>   186
              <211>   56
              <212>   DNA

              <213>   Artificial sequence
<removed-date>
              <220>
              <223>   polynucleotide
              <400> 186
              ccatgggatc    tcaagtctct   aggactggta      atctttctca   ctagttacgc   tggcca
              56
              <210>   187
<removed-apn>
              <211>   53
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   polynucleotide
              <400> 187
              ccatgggatc    tcaagtctct      aggactggta    atctttcttg    atcagtctgg    cca
              53
              <210>   188
              <211>   52
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   polynucleotide
              <400> 188
              ccatgggatc    tcaagtctct      aggactggta     atctttcttg    atcagctggc    ca
              52
              <210>   189
              <211>   51
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   polynucleotide
              <400>   189

              ccatgggatc    tcaagtctct      aggactggta    atctttcttg   atcactggcc   a
              51
<removed-date>
              <210>   190
              <211>   50
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   polynucleotide
<removed-apn>
              <400> 190
              ccatgggatc     tcaagtctct      aggactggtc     tttctcacta   gttctggcca
              50
              <210>   191
              <211>   44
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   polynucleotide
              <400> 191
              ccatgggatc       tcaagtctct       aggactggtc      ttcactagtg     gcca
              44
              <210>   192
              <211>   37
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   polynucleotide
              <400> 192
              aggaagttca          tttcatttgg             rgaggacacg        ctgaacc
              37
              <210>   193
              <211>   720

              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
<removed-date>
              <220>
              <223>   polynucleotide
              <400> 193
              atggtgagca agggcgagga gctgttcacc ggggtggtgc ccatcctggt cgagctggac
              60
              ggcgacgtaa acggccacaa gttcagcgtg tccggcgagg gcgagggcga tgccacctac
<removed-apn>
              120
              ggcaagctga ccctgaagtt catctgcacc accggcaagc tgcccgtgcc ctggcccacc
              180
              ctcgtgacca ccctgaccta cggcgtgcag tgcttcagcc gctaccccga ccacatgaag
              240
              cagcacgact tcttcaagtc cgccatgccc gaaggctacg tccaggagcg caccatcttc
              300
              ttcaaggacg acggcaacta caagacccgc gccgaggtga agttcgaggg cgacaccctg
              360
              gtgaaccgca tcgagctgaa gggcatcgac ttcaaggagg acggcaacat cctggggcac
              420
              aagctggagt acaactacaa cagccacaac gtctatatca tggccgacaa gcagaagaac
              480
              ggcatcaagg tgaacttcaa gatccgccac aacatcgagg acggcagcgt gcagctcgcc
              540
              gaccactacc agcagaacac ccccatcggc gacggccccg tgctgctgcc cgacaaccac
              600
              tacctgagca cccagtccgc cctgagcaaa gaccccaacg agaagcgcga tcacatggtc
              660
              ctgctggagt tcgtgaccgc cgccgggatc actctcggca tggacgagct gtacaagtaa
              720
              <210>   194

              <211>   1809
              <212>   DNA
<removed-date>
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   polynucleotide
              <400> 194
              atgttacgtc ctgtagaaac cccaacccgt gaaatcaaaa aactcgacgg cctgtgggca
              60
<removed-apn>
              ttcagtctgg atcgcgaaaa ctgtggaatt gatcagcgtt ggtgggaaag cgcgttacaa
              120
              gaaagccggg caattgctgt gccaggcagt tttaacgatc agttcgccga tgcagatatt
              180
              cgtaattatg cgggcaacgt ctggtatcag cgcgaagtct ttataccgaa aggttgggca
              240
              ggccagcgta tcgtgctgcg tttcgatgcg gtcactcatt acggcaaagt gtgggtcaat
              300
              aatcaggaag tgatggagca tcagggcggc tatacgccat ttgaagccga tgtcacgccg
              360
              tatgttattg ccgggaaaag tgtacgtatc accgtttgtg tgaacaacga actgaactgg
              420
              cagactatcc cgccgggaat ggtgattacc gacgaaaacg gcaagaaaaa gcagtcttac
              480
              ttccatgatt tctttaacta tgccggaatc catcgcagcg taatgctcta caccacgccg
              540
              aacacctggg tggacgatat caccgtggtg acgcatgtcg cgcaagactg taaccacgcg
              600
              tctgttgact ggcaggtggt ggccaatggt gatgtcagcg ttgaactgcg tgatgcggat
              660
              caacaggtgg ttgcaactgg acaaggcact agcgggactt tgcaagtggt gaatccgcac
              720
              ctctggcaac cgggtgaagg ttatctctat gaactgtgcg tcacagccaa aagccagaca
              780

              gagtgtgata tctacccgct tcgcgtcggc atccggtcag tggcagtgaa gggccaacag
<removed-date>
              840
              ttcctgatta accacaaacc gttctacttt actggctttg gtcgtcatga agatgcggac
              900
              ttacgtggca aaggattcga taacgtgctg atggtgcacg accacgcatt aatggactgg
              960
              attggggcca actcctaccg tacctcgcat tacccttacg ctgaagagat gctcgactgg
<removed-apn>
              1020
              gcagatgaac atggcatcgt ggtgattgat gaaactgctg ctgtcggctt taacctctct
              1080
              ttaggcattg gtttcgaagc gggcaacaag ccgaaagaac tgtacagcga agaggcagtc
              1140
              aacggggaaa ctcagcaagc gcacttacag gcgattaaag agctgatagc gcgtgacaaa
              1200
              aaccacccaa gcgtggtgat gtggagtatt gccaacgaac cggatacccg tccgcaagtg
              1260
              cacgggaata tttcgccact ggcggaagca acgcgtaaac tcgacccgac gcgtccgatc
              1320
              acctgcgtca atgtaatgtt ctgcgacgct cacaccgata ccatcagcga tctctttgat
              1380
              gtgctgtgcc tgaaccgtta ttacggatgg tatgtccaaa gcggcgattt ggaaacggca
              1440
              gagaaggtac tggaaaaaga acttctggcc tggcaggaga aactgcatca gccgattatc
              1500
              atcaccgaat acggcgtgga tacgttagcc gggctgcact caatgtacac cgacatgtgg
              1560
              agtgaagagt atcagtgtgc atggctggat atgtatcacc gcgtctttga tcgcgtcagc
              1620
              gccgtcgtcg gtgaacaggt atggaatttc gccgattttg cgacctcgca aggcatattg
              1680

              cgcgttggcg gtaacaagaa agggatcttc actcgcgacc gcaaaccgaa gtcggcggct
<removed-date>
              1740
              tttctgctgc aaaaacgctg gactggcatg aacttcggtg aaaaaccgca gcagggaggc
              1800
              a        a       a        c     a       a       t       g       a
              1809
<removed-apn>
              <210>   195
              <211>   211
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   polynucleotide
              <400> 195
              gtccgcaaaa atcaccagtc tctctctaca aatctatctc tctctatttt tctccagaat
              60
              aatgtgtgag tagttcccag ataagggaat tagggttctt atagggtttc gctcatgtgt
              120
              tgagcatata agaaaccctt agtatgtatt tgtatttgta aaatacttct atcaataaaa
              180
              tttctaattc               ctaaaaccaa         aatccagtga          c
              211
              <210>   196
              <211>   24
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   polynucleotide
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (19)..(24)

              <223>   n is a, c, g, t or u
<removed-date>
              <400> 196
              c g g g t g a c a g            c c c t c c g a n n        n n n n
              24
              <210>   197
              <211>   24
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
<removed-apn>
              <220>
              <223>   polynucleotide
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (1)..(6)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, t or u
              <400> 197
              n n n n n n t c g g            a g g g c t g t c a        c c c g
              24
              <210>   198
              <211>   152
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   polynucleotide
              <400> 198
              tcttcgctat tacgccagct ggcgaaaggg ggatgtgctg caaggcgatt aagttgggta
              60
              acgccagggt tttcccagtc acgacgttgt aaaacgacgg ccagtgccac ccataatacc
              120
              cataatagct               gtttgccaac          cggttctata       ta
              152

              <210>   199
              <211>   37
<removed-date>
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   polynucleotide
              <400> 199
              aggaagttca          tttcatttgg       rgaggacacg         ctgaacc
              37
<removed-apn>
              <210>   200
              <211>   720
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   polynucleotide
              <400> 200
              atggtgagca agggcgagga gctgttcacc ggggtggtgc ccatcctggt cgagctggac
              60
              ggcgacgtaa acggccacaa gttcagcgtg tccggcgagg gcgagggcga tgccacctac
              120
              ggcaagctga ccctgaagtt catctgcacc accggcaagc tgcccgtgcc ctggcccacc
              180
              ctcgtgacca ccctgaccta cggcgtgcag tgcttcagcc gctaccccga ccacatgaag
              240
              cagcacgact tcttcaagtc cgccatgccc gaaggctacg tccaggagcg caccatcttc
              300
              ttcaaggacg acggcaacta caagacccgc gccgaggtga agttcgaggg cgacaccctg
              360
              gtgaaccgca tcgagctgaa gggcatcgac ttcaaggagg acggcaacat cctggggcac
              420
              aagctggagt acaactacaa cagccacaac gtctatatca tggccgacaa gcagaagaac
              480

              ggcatcaagg tgaacttcaa gatccgccac aacatcgagg acggcagcgt gcagctcgcc
<removed-date>
              540
              gaccactacc agcagaacac ccccatcggc gacggccccg tgctgctgcc cgacaaccac
              600
              tacctgagca cccagtccgc cctgagcaaa gaccccaacg agaagcgcga tcacatggtc
              660
              ctgctggagt tcgtgaccgc cgccgggatc actctcggca tggacgagct gtacaagtaa
<removed-apn>
              720
              <210>   201
              <211>   1809
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   polynucleotide
              <400> 201
              atgttacgtc ctgtagaaac cccaacccgt gaaatcaaaa aactcgacgg cctgtgggca
              60
              ttcagtctgg atcgcgaaaa ctgtggaatt gatcagcgtt ggtgggaaag cgcgttacaa
              120
              gaaagccggg caattgctgt gccaggcagt tttaacgatc agttcgccga tgcagatatt
              180
              cgtaattatg cgggcaacgt ctggtatcag cgcgaagtct ttataccgaa aggttgggca
              240
              ggccagcgta tcgtgctgcg tttcgatgcg gtcactcatt acggcaaagt gtgggtcaat
              300
              aatcaggaag tgatggagca tcagggcggc tatacgccat ttgaagccga tgtcacgccg
              360
              tatgttattg ccgggaaaag tgtacgtatc accgtttgtg tgaacaacga actgaactgg
              420
              cagactatcc cgccgggaat ggtgattacc gacgaaaacg gcaagaaaaa gcagtcttac
              480

              ttccatgatt tctttaacta tgccggaatc catcgcagcg taatgctcta caccacgccg
<removed-date>
              540
              aacacctggg tggacgatat caccgtggtg acgcatgtcg cgcaagactg taaccacgcg
              600
              tctgttgact ggcaggtggt ggccaatggt gatgtcagcg ttgaactgcg tgatgcggat
              660
              caacaggtgg ttgcaactgg acaaggcact agcgggactt tgcaagtggt gaatccgcac
<removed-apn>
              720
              ctctggcaac cgggtgaagg ttatctctat gaactgtgcg tcacagccaa aagccagaca
              780
              gagtgtgata tctacccgct tcgcgtcggc atccggtcag tggcagtgaa gggccaacag
              840
              ttcctgatta accacaaacc gttctacttt actggctttg gtcgtcatga agatgcggac
              900
              ttacgtggca aaggattcga taacgtgctg atggtgcacg accacgcatt aatggactgg
              960
              attggggcca actcctaccg tacctcgcat tacccttacg ctgaagagat gctcgactgg
              1020
              gcagatgaac atggcatcgt ggtgattgat gaaactgctg ctgtcggctt taacctctct
              1080
              ttaggcattg gtttcgaagc gggcaacaag ccgaaagaac tgtacagcga agaggcagtc
              1140
              aacggggaaa ctcagcaagc gcacttacag gcgattaaag agctgatagc gcgtgacaaa
              1200
              aaccacccaa gcgtggtgat gtggagtatt gccaacgaac cggatacccg tccgcaagtg
              1260
              cacgggaata tttcgccact ggcggaagca acgcgtaaac tcgacccgac gcgtccgatc
              1320
              acctgcgtca atgtaatgtt ctgcgacgct cacaccgata ccatcagcga tctctttgat
              1380

              gtgctgtgcc tgaaccgtta ttacggatgg tatgtccaaa gcggcgattt ggaaacggca
<removed-date>
              1440
              gagaaggtac tggaaaaaga acttctggcc tggcaggaga aactgcatca gccgattatc
              1500
              atcaccgaat acggcgtgga tacgttagcc gggctgcact caatgtacac cgacatgtgg
              1560
              agtgaagagt atcagtgtgc atggctggat atgtatcacc gcgtctttga tcgcgtcagc
<removed-apn>
              1620
              gccgtcgtcg gtgaacaggt atggaatttc gccgattttg cgacctcgca aggcatattg
              1680
              cgcgttggcg gtaacaagaa agggatcttc actcgcgacc gcaaaccgaa gtcggcggct
              1740
              tttctgctgc aaaaacgctg gactggcatg aacttcggtg aaaaaccgca gcagggaggc
              1800
              a        a       a        c     a       a       t       g       a
              1809
              <210>   202
              <211>   211
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   polynucloeitde
              <400> 202
              gtccgcaaaa atcaccagtc tctctctaca aatctatctc tctctatttt tctccagaat
              60
              aatgtgtgag tagttcccag ataagggaat tagggttctt atagggtttc gctcatgtgt
              120
              tgagcatata agaaaccctt agtatgtatt tgtatttgta aaatacttct atcaataaaa
              180
              tttctaattc               ctaaaaccaa         aatccagtga          c
              211

<removed-date>
              <210>   203
              <211>   28
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   polynucleotide
<removed-apn>
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (23)..(28)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, t or u
              <400> 203
              g c c a g g g t t t            t c c c a g t c a c   g a n n n n n n
              28
              <210>   204
              <211>   28
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   polynucleotide
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (1)..(6)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, t or u
              <400> 204
              n n n n n n t c g t            g a c t g g g a a a   a c c c t g g c
              28
              <210>   205
              <211>   238
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial sequence

              <220>
              <223>   polypeptide
<removed-date>
              <400>   205
              Met His Ser Arg Ser Ala Leu Leu Tyr Arg Phe Leu Arg Pro Ala Ser
              1               5                   10                  15
              Arg Cys Phe Ser Ser Ser Ser Val Lys Ser Glu Leu Glu Glu Lys Lys
                          20                  25                  30
<removed-apn>
              Ser Glu Leu Arg His Lys Leu Lys Tyr Val Pro His Glu Tyr Ile Glu
                      35                  40                  45
              Leu Ile Glu Ile Ala Arg Asn Ser Thr Gln Asp Arg Ile Leu Glu Met
                  50                  55                  60
              Lys Val Met Glu Phe Phe Met Lys Val Tyr Gly Tyr Arg Gly Lys His
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Leu Gly Gly Ser Arg Lys Pro Asp Gly Ala Ile Tyr Thr Val Gly Ser
                              85                  90                  95
              Pro Ile Asp Tyr Gly Val Ile Val Asp Thr Lys Ala Tyr Ser Gly Gly
                          100                 105                 110
              Tyr Asn Leu Pro Ile Gly Gln Ala Asp Glu Met Gln Arg Tyr Val Glu
                      115                 120                 125
              Glu Asn Gln Thr Arg Asn Lys His Ile Asn Pro Asn Glu Trp Trp Lys
                  130                 135                 140
              Val Tyr Pro Ser Ser Val Thr Glu Phe Lys Phe Leu Phe Val Ser Gly
              145                 150                 155                 160

              His Phe Lys Gly Asn Tyr Lys Ala Gln Leu Thr Arg Leu Asn His Ile
                              165                 170                 175
<removed-date>
              Thr Asn Cys Asn Gly Ala Val Leu Ser Val Glu Glu Leu Leu Ile Gly
                          180                 185                 190
              Gly Glu Met Ile Lys Ala Gly Thr Leu Thr Leu Glu Glu Val Arg Arg
                      195                 200                 205
<removed-apn>
              Lys Phe Asn Asn Gly Glu Ile Asn Phe Gly Ser Gly Gly Ser Gly Pro
                  210                 215                 220
              Arg Pro Arg Gly Thr Arg Gly Lys Gly Arg Arg Ile Arg Arg
              225                 230                 235
              <210>   206
              <211>   717
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   polynucleotide
              <400> 206
              atgcattcta gatctgctct tctttataga tttcttagac cagcttctag atgtttttct
              60
              tcttcttctg ttaagtctga acttgaagaa aagaagtctg aacttagaca taagcttaag
              120
              tatgttccac atgaatatat tgaacttatt gaaattgcta gaaattctac tcaagataga
              180
              attcttgaaa tgaaggttat ggaatttttt atgaaggttt atggatatag aggaaagcat
              240
              cttggaggat ctagaaagcc agatggagct atttatactg ttggatctcc aattgattat
              300
              ggagttattg ttgatactaa ggcttattct ggaggatata atcttccaat tggacaagct
              360

              gatgaaatgc aaagatatgt tgaagaaaat caaactagaa ataagcatat taatccaaat
<removed-date>
              420
              gaatggtgga aggtttatcc atcttctgtt actgaattta agtttctttt tgtttctgga
              480
              cattttaagg gaaattataa ggctcaactt actagactta atcatattac taattgtaat
              540
              ggagctgttc tttctgttga agaacttctt attggaggag aaatgattaa ggctggaact
<removed-apn>
              600
              cttactcttg aagaagttag aagaaagttt aataatggag aaattaattt tggatctgga
              660
              ggatctggac   caagaccaag   aggaactaga   ggaaagggaa   gaagaattag   aagataa
              717
              <210>   207
              <211>   43
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   polynucleotide
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (21)..(21)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, t or u
              <400> 207
              uucaccucua       accgggugag      nuccaagggc         gaggagcugu      uca
              43
              <210>   208
              <211>   43
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>

              <223>   polynucleotide
<removed-date>
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (23)..(23)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, t or u
              <400> 208
              accauuuacg       aacgauagcc    aunuucaccu   cuaaccgggu   gag
              43
<removed-apn>
              <210>   209
              <211>   43
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   polynucleotide
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (21)..(21)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, t or u
              <400> 209
              uucaccucua       accgggugag    nauggcuauc   guucguaaau   ggu
              43
              <210>   210
              <211>   43
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   polynucleotide
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (23)..(23)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, t or u

              <400> 210
<removed-date>
              ugaacagcuc       cucgcccuug     ganuucaccu           cuaaccgggu      gag
              43
              <210>   211
              <211>   24
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
<removed-apn>
              <220>
              <223>   polynucleoitde
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (1)..(2)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, t or u
              <400> 211
              n n t g t c c a a g            g g c g a g g a g c                t g t t
              24
              <210>   212
              <211>   24
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   polynucleotide
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (23)..(24)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, t or u
              <400> 212
              c a t t t a c g a a            c g a t a g c c a t                g g n n
              24
              <210>   213

              <211>   24
              <212>   DNA
<removed-date>
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   polynucleotide
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (1)..(2)
<removed-apn>
              <223>   n is a, c, g, t or u
              <400> 213
              n n c c a t g g c t            a t c g t t c g t a   a a t g
              24
              <210>   214
              <211>   24
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   polynucleotide
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (23)..(24)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, t or u
              <400> 214
              a a c a g c t c c t            c g c c c t t g g a   c a n n
              24
              <210>   215
              <211>   6
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   peptide

              <400>   215
<removed-date>
              Ala Cys Thr Ala Gly Thr
              1               5
              <210>   216
              <211>   6
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial sequence
<removed-apn>
              <220>
              <223>   peptide
              <400>   216
              Thr Gly Ala Thr Cys Ala
              1               5
              <210>   217
              <211>   28
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   polynucleotide
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (23)..(28)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, t or u
              <400> 217
              a t a c c a g c a c            c a g c a a t t a c   a a n n n n n n
              28

