                                MORPHINAN COMPOUNDS
                                           Abstract
        This disclosure relates to novel morphinan compounds and their derivatives,
  pharmaceutically acceptable salts, solvates, and hydrates thereof. This disclosure also
5 provides compositions comprising a compound of this disclosure and the use of such
  compositions in methods of treating diseases and conditions that are beneficially treated
  by administering a al1 receptor agonist that also has NMDA antagonist activity.

                                      Morphiman Compounds
                     CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATION
[1]      The ultimate parent of this application claims the benefit of priority under 35 U.S.C. §
 119 to US. Provisional Application Se. Nos. 60/915,130, filed May 1, 2007, 60/916,662, filed
May 8, 2007, and 60/976,004, filed September 28, 2007, the entire contents of which are
incorporated by reference in their entirety herein. This application is a divisional of Australian
Patent Application No. <removed-apn>, the entire contents of which are incorporated by reference
in its entirety herein.
                                        BACKGROUND
 [2]      This disclosure relates to novel norphinan compounds and their derivatives,
 pharmaceutically acceptable salts, solvates, and hydrates thereof. This disclosure also
 provides compositions comprising a compound of this disclosure and the use of such
 compositions in methods of treating diseases and conditions that are beneficially treated
 by administering a ci receptor agonist that also has NMDA antagonist activity.
 131      Dextromethorphan is currently one of the most widely used antitussives. Also
 known by the chemical name (+)-3-methoxy-17.-methyl-(9a,13a,14a)-morTphian,
 dextromethorphan is marketed as Zen-via* and Neuo dex* in the form of a product
 comprising dextomethorphan hydrobromide and quinidine sulfate.
  (4]     In addition to the physiological activity noted above, dextromethorphan also is an
  agonist of the o2 receptor, an N-methyl-D-aspartate (NDMA) antagonist, and an x3p4
  nicotinic receptor antagonist. Dextromethorphan inhibits neurotransmitters, such as
  glutanate, from activating receptors in the brain. Uptake of dopamine and serotonin are
  also inhibited.
  [5]     Dextromethorphan is approved for use in over the counter cough suppressant
  products. It is currently in Phase I clinicaltrials for treating subjects with voice spasms,
  and Phase III clinical studies for treating Rett Syndrome (http://www. clinicaltrials.gov).
  Dextromiefiorphan is being studied with other drugs in a Phase II clinical trial
  characterizing pain processing mechanisms in subjects with irritable bowel syndrome
  (http://www.clinicaltrials.gov/). Dextromethorphan is also in Phase I clinical trials for
  treating hyperalgesia in methadone-maintained subjects (http://www.cinicaltrials.gov/).

[6]      In addition, a combination of dextromethorphan hydrobromide and quinidine
sulfate is currently in Phase III clinical trials for treating diabetic neuropathy pain.
(http://www.clinicaltrials.gov). This drug combination is also in Phase III clinical trials
for treating Involuntary Emotional Expression Disorder (IEED), also known as
pseudobulbar affect, in subjects suffering from Alzheimer's disease, stroke, Parkinson's
disease and traumatic brain injury (http://www.clinicaltrials.gov).
[7]      Dextromethorphan is metabolized in the liver. Degradation begins with 0- and
N-demethylation to form primary metabolites dextrorphan and 3-methoxy-morphinan,
both of which are further N- and 0- demethylated respectively to 3-hydroxy-morphinan.
These three metabolites are believed to be therapeutically active. A major metabolic
catalyst is the cytochrome P450 enzyme 2D6 (CPY2D6), which is responsible for the 0
 demethylation reactions of dextromethorphan and 3-methoxymorphinan. The N
 demethylation dextromethorphan and dextrorphan are catalyzed by enzymes in the
related CPY3A family. Conjugates of dextrorphan and 3-hydroxymorphinan can be
 detected in human plasma and urine within hours of ingestion.
 [8]      Dextromethorphan abuse has been linked to its active metabolite, dextrorphan.
 The PCP-like effects attributed to dextromethorphan are more reliably produced by
 dextrorphan and thus abuse potential in humans may be attributable to dextromethorphan
 metabolism to dextrorphan. (Miller, SC et al., Addict Biol, 2005, 10(4): 325-7.,
 Nicholson, KL et al., Psychopharmacology (Bert), 1999 Sep 1, 146(1): 49-59., Pender,
 ES et al., Pediatr Emerg Care, 1991, 7: 163-7). One study on the psychotropic effects of
 dextromethorphan found that extensive metabolizers (EM's) reported a greater abuse
 potential compared to poor metabolizers (PM's) providing evidence that dextrorphan
 contributes to dextromethorphan abuse potential (Zawertailo LA, et al., J Clin
 Psychopharmacol, 1998 Aug, 18(4): 332-7).
  [9]     A significant fraction of the population has a functional deficiency in the
 CYP2D6 enzyme. Thus, because the major metabolic pathway for dextromethorphan
 requires CYP2D6, the decreased activity results in much greater duration of action and
  greater drug effects in CYP2D6-deficient subjects. In addition to intrinsic functional
  deficiency, certain medications, such as antidepressants, are potent inhibitors of the
                                                   2

CYP2D6 enzyme. With its slower metabolism in some people, dextromethorphan,
especially in combination with other medication(s), can lead to serious adverse events.
[10]     A longer than recommended duration of a drug in the body may provide
continued beneficial effects, but it may also create or prolong undesired side effects.
Undesirable side effects at recommended doses of dextromethorphan therapy include
nausea, loss of appetite, diarrhea, drowsiness, dizziness, and impotence.
 [11]    Accordingly, it is desirable to provide a compound that has the beneficial
activities of dextromethorphan and may also have other benefits, e.g., reduced adverse
side effects, with a decreased metabolic liability, to further extend its pharmacological
 effective life, enhance subject compliance, and, potentially, to decrease population
 pharmacokinetic variability and/or decrease its potential for dangerous drug-drug
 interactions or decrease the likelihood of dextromethorphan abuse due to the formation of
 metabolities such as dextrorphan.
                      BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
  [121    Figure 1 depicts the stability over time of various compounds of the disclosure in
 cynomolgus monkey liver microsomes.
  [13]     Figure 2 depicts the stability over time of various compounds of the disclosure in
  human liver microsomes.
  [141    Figure 3 depicts the stability over time of various compounds of the disclosure in
  2D6 Supersomes TM.
  [15]    Figure 4 depicts plasma levels of Compound 101, dextromethorphan, as well as
  deuterated dextrorphan isotopologues and dextrorphan, in monkeys in the absence of
  quinidine co-dosing.
   [161   Figure 5 depicts plasma levels of Compound 101, dextromethorphan, as well as
   deuterated dextrorphan isotopologues and dextrorphan, in monkeys co-dosed with
   quinidine.
   [17]    Figure 6 depicts urine levels of Compound 101, dextromethorphan, as well as
   deuterated dextrorphan isotopologues and dextrorphan., as a function of quinidine
   concentration in monkeys
                                                  3

                                 DETAILED DESCRIPTION
Definitions
[18]     The terms "ameliorate" and "treat" are used interchangeably and include
therapeutic and/or prophylactic treatment. Both terms mean decrease, suppress,
attenuate, diminish, arrest, or stabilize the development or progression of a disease (e.g.,
a disease or disorder delineated herein).
 [191     "Disease" means any condition or disorder that damages or interferes with the
normal function of a cell, tissue, or organ.
 [20]     It will be recognized that some variation of natural isotopic abundance occurs in a
 synthesized compound depending upon the origin of chemical materials used in the
 synthesis. Thus, a preparation of dextromethorphan will inherently contain small
 amounts of deuterated and/or 1 3C-containing isotopologues. The concentration of
 naturally abundant stable hydrogen and carbon isotopes, notwithstanding this variation, is
 small and immaterial as compared to the degree of stable isotopic substitution of
 compounds of this disclosure. See, for instance, Wada E et al, Seikagaku 1994, 66:15;
 Ganes LZ et al, Comp Biochem Physiol A Mol Integr Physiol 1998, 119:725. In a
 compound of this disclosure, when a particular position is designated as having
 deuterium, it is understood that the abundance of deuterium at that position is
 substantially greater than the natural abundance of deuterium, which is 0.015%. A
 position designated as having deuterium typically has a minimum isotopic enrichment
  factor of at least 3000 (45% deuterium incorporation) at each atom designated as
  deuterium in said compound.
  [211     The term "isotopic enrichment factor" as used herein means the ratio between the
  isotopic abundance and the natural abundance of a specified isotope.
   [221    In other embodiments, a compound of this disclosure has an isotopic enrichment
  factor for each designated deuterium atom of at least 3500 (52.5% deuterium
  incorporation at each designated deuterium atom), at least 4000 (60% deuterium
   incorporation), at least 4500 (67.5% deuterium incorporation), at least 5000 (75%
   deuterium incorporation), at least 5500 (82.5% deuterium incorporation), at least 6000
   (90% deuterium incorporation), at least 6333.3 (95% deuterium incorporation), at least
                                                  4

6466.7 (97% deuterium incorporation), at least 6600 (99% deuterium incorporation), or at
least 6633.3 (99.5% deuterium incorporation).
[23]      In the compounds of this disclosure any atom not specifically designated as a
particular isotope is meant to represent any stable isotope of that atom. Unless otherwise
stated, when a position is designated specifically as "H" or "hydrogen", the position is
understood to have hydrogen at its natural abundance isotopic composition.
 [24]      The term "isotopologue" refers to a species that has the same chemical structure
 and formula as a specific compound of this disclosure, with the exception of the isotopic
                                                                                          from a
 composition at one or more positions, e.g., H vs. D. Thus an isotopologue differs
 specific compound of this disclosure in the isotopic composition thereof.
  [25]     The term "compound," as used herein, is also intended to include any salts,
 solvates or hydrates thereof.
  1261     A salt of a compound of this disclosure is formed between an acid and a basic
  group of the compound, such as an amino functional group, or a base and an acidic group
  of the compound, such as a carboxyl functional group. According to another
  embodiment, the compound is a pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salt.
   [271    The term "pharmaceutically acceptable," as used herein, refers to a component
  that is, within the scope of sound medical judgment, suitable for use in contact with the
  tissues of humans and other mammals without undue toxicity, irritation, allergic response
   and the like, and are commensurate with a reasonable benefit/risk ratio. A
   "pharmaceutically acceptable salt" means any non-toxic salt that, upon administration to
   a recipient, is capable of providing, either directly or indirectly, a compound of this
   disclosure. A "pharmaceutically acceptable counterion" is an ionic portion of a salt that
   is not toxic when released from the salt upon administration to a recipient.
    [28]    Acids commonly employed to form pharmaceutically acceptable salts include
    inorganic acids such as hydrogen bisulfide, hydrochloric acid, hydrobromic acid,
    hydroiodic acid, sulfuric acid and phosphoric acid, as well as organic acids such as'para
    toluenesulfonic acid, salicylic acid, tartaric acid, bitartaric acid, ascorbic acid, maleic
    acid, besylic acid, fumaric acid, gluconic acid, glucuronic acid, formic acid, glutamic
    acid, methanesulfonic acid, ethanesulfonic acid, benzenesulfonic acid, lactic acid, oxalic
    acid, para-bromophenylsulfonic acid, carbonic acid, succinic acid, citric acid, benzoic
                                                    5

acid and acetic acid, as well as related inorganic and organic acids. Such
pharmaceutically acceptable salts thus include sulfate, pyrosulfate, bisulfate, sulfite,
bisulfite, phosphate, monohydrogenphosphate, dihydrogenphosphate, metaphosphate,
pyrophosphate, chloride, bromide, iodide, acetate, propionate, decanoate, caprylate,
acrylate, formate, isobutyrate, caprate, heptanoate, propiolate, oxalate, malonate,
succinate, suberate, sebacate, fumarate, maleate, butyne- 1,4-dioate, hexyne-l,6-dioate,
benzoate, chlorobenzoate, methylbenzoate, dinitrobenzoate, hydroxybenzoate,
methoxybenzoate, phthalate, terephthalate, sulfonate, xylene sulfonate, phenylacetate,
phenylpropionate, phenylbutyrate, citrate, lactate, p-hydroxybutyrate, glycolate, maleate,
tartrate, methanesul fonate, propanesulfonate, naphthalene- 1-sulfonate, naphthalene-2
 sulfonate, mandelate and other salts. In one embodiment, pharmaceutically acceptable
 acid addition salts include those formed with mineral acids such as hydrochloric acid and
 hydrobromic acid, and especially those formed with organic acids such as maleic acid.
 [291     As used herein, the term "hydrate" means a compound which further includes a
 stoichiometric or non-stoichiometric amount of water bound by non-covalent
 intermolecular forces.
 [30]     As used herein, the term "solvate" means a compound which further includes a
 stoichiometric or non-stoichiometric amount of solvent such as water, acetone, ethanol,
 methanol, dichloromethane, 2-propanol, or the like, bound by non-covalent
 intermolecular forces.
  [31]     The compounds of the present disclosure (e.g., compounds of Formula I), may
  contain an asymmetric carbon atom, for example, as the result of deuterium substitution
  or otherwise. As such, compounds of this disclosure can exist as either individual
  enantiomers, or mixtures of the two enantiomers. Accordingly, a compound of the
  present disclosure will include both racemic mixtures, and also individual respective
  stereoisomers that are substantially free from another possible stereoisomer. The term
  "substantially free of other stereoisomers" as used herein means less than 25% of other
   stereoisomers, preferably less than 10% of other stereoisomers, more preferably less than
   5% of other stereoisomers and most preferably less than 2% of other stereoisomers, or
   less than "X"% of other stereoisomers (wherein X is a number between 0 and 100,
   inclusive) are present. Methods of obtaining or synthesizing an individual enantiomer for
                                                 6

a given compound are well known in the art and may be applied as practicable to final
compounds or to starting material or intermediates.
[32]     The term "stable compounds," as used herein, refers to compounds which possess
stability sufficient to allow for their manufacture and which maintain the integrity of the
compound for a sufficient period of time to be useful for the purposes detailed herein
(e.g., formulation into therapeutic products, intermediates for use in production of
therapeutic compounds, isolatable or storable intermediate compounds, treating a disease
or condition responsive to therapeutic agents).
 [331    "D" refers to deuterium.
 [341    "Stereoisomer" refers to both enantiomers and diastereomers.
 [351    Throughout this specification, a variable may be referred to generally (e.g.,"each
                                                  1     2
R") or may be referred to specifically (e.g., R or R ). Unless otherwise indicated, when
 a variable is referred to generally, it is meant to include all specific embodiments of that
 particular variable.
 Therapeutic Compounds
  [36]    The present disclosure provides a compound of Formula I, including
 pharmaceutically acceptable salts, solvates, and hydrates thereof:
                                                          /R2
                                               / \
                                        R 1 'O
  wherein
          R1 is selected from CH 3 , CH 2 D, CHD 2, CD 3 , CHF 2 , and CF 3; and
          R 2is selected from CH 3 , CH 2 D, CHD 2, and CD 3 .
  In certain embodiments, when R' is CH 3, then R2 is not CH 3 or CD 3. In other
   embodiments, when R1 is CD 3 , then R2 is not CH 3 .
   [371   In one embodiment, R' is selected from CH 2D, CHD 2, CD 3 , CHF 2, and
                                                   7

CF 3 . In another embodiment, R1 is selected from CH 2 D, CHD 2 , and CD 3 . In a further
embodiment, R1 is CD 3 . In another embodiment, R' is CF 3. In a further embodiment, R'
is CHF2 .
         In one embodiment, R 2 is CH 3 , CHD 2 or CD 3 . In another embodiment, R is CH 3 .
                                                                                    2
[38]
In another embodiment, R2 is CD 3.
[39]     In yet another embodiment, the compound is selected from any one of the
compounds set forth in Table 1.
                       Table 1: Exemplary Compounds of Formula I
       Compound No.                        R'                                 R
              100                          CD 3                              CH 3
              101                          CD 3                               CD 3
              102                         CD 2H                               CD 3
              103                          CD 3                              CD 2H
              104                          CF 3                               CH 3
               105                         CF 3                               CD 3
               106                        CHF2                                CH 3
               107                        CHF 2                               CD 3
               108                         CH 3                               CD 3
 [401     In another set of embodiments, any atom not designated as deuterium in any of
 the embodiments set forth above is present at its natural isotopic abundance.
 [411     In another set of embodiments, the compound of Formula I is isolated or purified,
 e.g., the compound of Formula I is present at a purity of at least 50% by weight (e.g., at
 least 55%, 60%, 65%, 70%, 75%, 80%, 85%, 90%, 95%, 97%, 98%, 98.5%, 99%, 99.5%
 or 99.9%) of the total amount of isotopologues of Formula I present, respectively. Thus,
  in some embodiments, a composition comprising a compound of Formula I can include a
  distribution of isotopologues of the compound, provided at least 50% of the
  isotopologues by weight are the recited compound.
  [421     In some embodiments, any position in the compound of Formula I designated as
  having D has a minimum deuterium incorporation of at least 45% (e.g., at least 52.5%, at
  least 60%, at least 67.5%, at least 75%, at least 82.5%, at least 90%, at least 95%, at least
  97%, at least 99%, or at least 99.5%) at the designated position(s) of the compound of
  Formula I. Thus, in some embodiments, a composition comprising a compound of
                                                 8

Formula I can include a distribution of isotopologues of the compound, provided at least
45% of the isotopologues include a D at the designated position(s).
[43]     In some embodiments, a compound of Formula I is "substantially free of' other
isotopologues of the compound, e.g., less than 50%, less than 25%, less than 10%, less
than 5%, less than 2%, less than 1%, or less than 0.5% of other isotopologues are present.
[441     The synthesis of compounds of Formula I can be readily achieved by synthetic
chemists of ordinary skill. Relevant procedures and intermediates are disclosed, for
instance in Kim HC et al., Bioorg Med Chem Lett 2001, 11:1651 and Newman AH et al.,
J Med Chem 1992, 35:4135.
 [451     Such methods can be carried out utilizing corresponding deuterated and
 optionally, other isotope-containing reagents and/or intermediates to synthesize the
 compounds delineated herein, or invoking standard synthetic protocols known in the art
 for introducing isotopic atoms to a chemical structure.
 Exemplary Synthesis
  [46]    A convenient method for synthesizing compounds of Formula I substitutes the
 appropriate deuterated intermediates and reagents in synthesis methods utilized for the
 preparation of dextromethorphan. Compounds of Formula I may be prepared from one of
 the known intermediates X, XI, and XII shown below, and from related intermediates that
  may be readily obtained from known procedures.
                             H                       /Me                        /CHO
                                                     HH
                            H
          MeO                        HO                        HO
                      X                         XI                         XII
                                                9

[47]    Scheme 1 shows a general route to the compounds of Formula 1.
         HBr      /CH 3                                     /CH 3
              F-iN H-iN   H NH
                                                                        K2CO3
                                                                       acetyl chloride
                             4 0H
                          CHCI 3                                        CHCl 3
 MeO                                           MeO
          10                                            10b
                           DIEA                              H            BBr3
                           Ethylchloroformate      /                      DCM
                           CHC13
 MeO                                           MeO
            11                                           12
                  N              K 2 CO3                      1N                  LAH(D)
                    H            R1-l                              H              THF
                                 DMF
  HO                                                   0
                                                   R1-
           13                                                        14
  R1-O
           Formula I
  [481    Scheme 1 shows a general route for preparing compounds of Formula I wherein
  R' is not CH 3 . The HBr salt, 10, after treatment with NH 40H, is N-demethylated to yield
  11. Acylation of the amine 11 using the ethylchloroformate provides the carbamate 12
  which is then 0-demethylated using BBr3 to yield the alcohol 13. Compound 13 is
  treated, in the presence of base, with an appropriately deuterated iodomethane to yield the
  ether 14, which is reduced using either lithium aluminum deuteride (LAD) to yield
  compounds of Formula I wherein R =CD 3 or lithium aluminum hydride (LAH) to yield
                                         2
   compounds of Formula I wherein R =CH 3. For those compounds of Formula I wherein
                                         2
                                                 10

                                                                                         2
R1 is CH 3, carbamate 12 is directly treated with LAD to produce a compound where R is
CD 3 .
[49]     Various R' groups (as defined in Formula I) may be introduced by 0-alkylation of
the appropriate phenol intermediate using an R-alkylating agent, such as an alkyl halide
                                                                                       2
(for example, iodo-R1 ), according to methods generally known in the art. Various R
groups (as defined in Formula 1) may be introduced by N-alkylation using an R2_
alkylating agent (for example, iodo-R ), or by reduction of the N-formyl group with a
                                         2
deuterated reagent, such as deuteroborane according to methods generally known in the
art.
 [50]     The specific approaches and compounds shown above are not intended to be
 limiting. The chemical structures in the schemes herein depict variables that are hereby
 defined commensurately with chemical group definitions (moieties, atoms, etc.) of the
 corresponding position in the compound formulae herein, whether identified by the same
 variable name (i.e., R' or R2 ) or not. The suitability of a chemical group in a compound
 structure for use in the synthesis of another compound is within the knowledge of one of
 ordinary skill in the art.
  [51]    Additional methods of synthesizing compounds of Formula I and their synthetic
 precursors, including those within routes not explicitly shown in schemes herein, are
 within the means of chemists of ordinary skill in the art. Synthetic chemistry
 transformations and protecting group methodologies (protection and deprotection) useful
  in synthesizing the applicable compounds are known in the art and include, for example,
  those described in Larock R, Comprehensive Organic Transformations, VCH Publishers
  (1989); Greene TW et al., Protective Groups in Organic Synthesis, 3 rd Ed., John Wiley
  and Sons (1999); Fieser L et al., Fieser and Fieser's Reagents for Organic Synthesis, John
  Wiley and Sons (1994); and Paquette L, ed., Encyclopedia of Reagents for Organic
  Synthesis, John Wiley and Sons (1995) and subsequent editions thereof.
   [521    Combinations of substituents and variables envisioned by this disclosure are only
   those that result in the formation of stable compounds.
                                                  11

Compositions
[53]     The disclosure also provides pyrogen-free compositions comprising an effective
amount of a compound of Formula I (e.g., including any of the formulae herein), or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt, solvate, or hydrate of said compound; and an acceptable
carrier. Preferably, a composition of this disclosure is formulated for pharmaceutical use
("a pharmaceutical composition"), wherein the carrier is a pharmaceutically acceptable
carrier. The carrier(s) are "acceptable" in the sense of being compatible with the other
ingredients of the formulation and, in the case of a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier,
not deleterious to the recipient thereof in an amount used in the medicament.
 [541     Pharmaceutically acceptable carriers, adjuvants and vehicles that may be used in
the pharmaceutical compositions of this disclosure include, but are not limited to, ion
 exchangers, alumina, aluminum stearate, lecithin, serum proteins, such as human serum
 albumin, buffer substances such as phosphates, glycine, sorbic acid, potassium sorbate,
 partial glyceride mixtures of saturated vegetable fatty acids, water, salts or electrolytes,
 such as protamine sulfate, disodium hydrogen phosphate, potassium hydrogen phosphate,
 sodium chloride, zinc salts, colloidal silica, magnesium trisilicate, polyvinyl pyrrolidone,
 cellulose-based substances, polyethylene glycol, sodium carboxymethylcellulose,
 polyacrylates, waxes, polyethylene-polyoxypropylene-block polymers, polyethylene
  glycol and wool fat.
  [55]    If required, the solubility and bioavailability of the compounds of the present
  disclosure in pharmaceutical compositions may be enhanced by methods well-known in
  the art. One method includes the use of lipid excipients in the formulation. See "Oral
  Lipid-Based Formulations: Enhancing the Bioavailability of Poorly Water-Soluble Drugs
  (Drugs and the Pharmaceutical Sciences)," David J. Hauss, ed. Informa Healthcare, 2007;
  and "Role of Lipid Excipients in Modifying Oral and Parenteral Drug Delivery: Basic
  Principles and Biological Examples," Kishor M. Wasan, ed. Wiley-Interscience, 2006.
   [56]    Another known method of enhancing bioavailability is the use of an amorphous
   form of a compound of this disclosure optionally formulated with a poloxamer, such as
   LUTROL TM and PLURONIC TM (BASF Corporation), or block copolymers of ethylene
                                                  12

oxide and propylene oxide. See United States patent 7,014,866; and United States patent
publications 2006/0094744 and 2006/0079502.
[57]     The pharmaceutical compositions of the disclosure include those suitable for oral,
rectal, nasal, topical (including buccal and sublingual), vaginal or parenteral (including
subcutaneous, intramuscular, intravenous and intradermal) administration. In certain
embodiments, the compound of the formulae herein is administered transdermally (e.g.,
using a transdermal patch or iontophoretic techniques). Other formulations may
 conveniently be presented in unit dosage form, e.g., tablets, sustained release capsules,
 and in liposomes, and may be prepared by any methods well known in the art of
 pharmacy. See, for example, Remington's Pharmaceutical Sciences, Mack Publishing
 Company, Philadelphia, PA (17th ed. 1985).
 [581    Such preparative methods include the step of bringing into association with the
 molecule to be administered ingredients such as the carrier that constitutes one or more
 accessory ingredients. In general, the compositions are prepared by uniformly and
 intimately bringing into association the active ingredients with liquid carriers, liposomes
 or finely divided solid carriers, or both, and then, if necessary, shaping the product.
 [59]     In certain embodiments, the compound is administered orally. Compositions of
 the present disclosure suitable for oral administration may be presented as discrete units
 such as capsules, sachets, or tablets each containing a predetermined amount of the active
 ingredient; a powder or granules; a solution or a suspension in an aqueous liquid or a
 non-aqueous liquid; an oil-in-water liquid emulsion; a water-in-oil liquid emulsion;
 packed in liposomes; or as a bolus, etc. Soft gelatin capsules can be useful for containing
  such suspensions, which may beneficially increase the rate of compound absorption.
  [60]     In the case of tablets for oral use, carriers that are commonly used include lactose
  and corn starch. Lubricating agents, such as magnesium stearate, are also typically
  added. For oral administration in a capsule form, useful diluents include lactose and
  dried cornstarch. When aqueous suspensions are administered orally, the active
  ingredient is combined with emulsifying and suspending agents. If desired, certain
  sweetening and/or flavoring and/or coloring agents may be added.
  [61]     Compositions suitable for oral administration include lozenges comprising the
  ingredients in a flavored basis, usually sucrose and acacia or tragacanth; and pastilles
                                                   13

comprising the active ingredient in an inert basis such as gelatin and glycerin, or sucrose
and acacia.
[62]     Compositions suitable for parenteral administration include aqueous and non
aqueous sterile injection solutions which may contain anti-oxidants, buffers, bacteriostats
and solutes which render the formulation isotonic with the blood of the intended
recipient; and aqueous and non-aqueous sterile suspensions which may include
suspending agents and thickening agents. The formulations may be presented in unit
dose or multi-dose containers, for example, sealed ampules and vials, and may be stored
in a freeze dried lyophilizedd) condition requiring only the addition of the sterile liquid
carrier, for example water for injections, immediately prior to use. Extemporaneous
injection solutions and suspensions may be prepared from sterile powders, granules and
tablets.
 [631    Such injection solutions may be in the form, for example, of a sterile injectable
 aqueous or oleaginous suspension. This suspension may be formulated according to
techniques known in the art using suitable dispersing or wetting agents (such as, for
 example, Tween 80) and suspending agents. The sterile injectable preparation may also
 be a sterile injectable solution or suspension in a non-toxic parenterally-acceptable
 diluent or solvent, for example, as a solution in 1,3-butanediol. Among the acceptable
 vehicles and solvents that may be employed are mannitol, water, Ringer's solution and
 isotonic sodium chloride solution. In addition, sterile, fixed oils are conventionally
 employed as a solvent or suspending medium. For this purpose, any bland fixed oil may
 be employed including synthetic mono- or diglycerides. Fatty acids, such as oleic acid
 and its glyceride derivatives are useful in the preparation of injectables, as are natural
 pharmaceutically-acceptable oils, such as olive oil or castor oil, especially in their
 polyoxyethylated versions. These oil solutions or suspensions may also contain a long
 chain alcohol diluent or dispersant.
  [641   The pharmaceutical compositions of this disclosure may be administered in the
 form of suppositories for rectal administration. These compositions can be prepared by
 mixing a compound of this disclosure with a suitable non-irritating excipient which is
 solid at room temperature but liquid at the rectal temperature and therefore will melt in
                                                14

the rectum to release the active components. Such materials include, but are not limited
to, cocoa butter, beeswax and polyethylene glycols.
[651      The pharmaceutical compositions of this disclosure may be administered by nasal
aerosol or inhalation. Such compositions are prepared according to techniques well
known in the art of pharmaceutical formulation and may be prepared as solutions in
saline, employing benzyl alcohol or other suitable preservatives, absorption promoters to
enhance bioavailability, fluorocarbons, and/or other solubilizing or dispersing agents
known in the art. See, e.g.: Rabinowitz JD and Zaffaroni AC, US Patent 6,803,031,
assigned to Alexza Molecular Delivery Corporation.
 [66]     Topical administration of the pharmaceutical compositions of this disclosure is
 especially useful when the desired treatment involves areas or organs readily accessible
by topical application. For topical application topically to the skin, the pharmaceutical
 composition should be formulated with a suitable ointment containing the active
 components suspended or dissolved in a carrier. Carriers for topical administration of the
 compounds of this disclosure include, but are not limited to, mineral oil, liquid
 petroleum, white petroleum, propylene glycol, polyoxyethylene polyoxypropylene
 compound, emulsifying wax, and water. Alternatively, the pharmaceutical composition
 can be formulated with a suitable lotion or cream containing the active compound
 suspended or dissolved in a carrier. Suitable carriers include, but are not limited to,
 mineral oil, sorbitan monostearate, polysorbate 60, cetyl esters wax, cetearyl alcohol, 2
 octyldodecanol, benzyl alcohol, and water. The pharmaceutical compositions of this
 disclosure may also be topically applied to the lower intestinal tract by rectal suppository
  formulation or in a suitable enema formulation. Topically-transdermal patches and
  iontophoretic administration are also included in this disclosure.
  [67]    Application of the subject therapeutics may be local, so as to be administered at
  the site of interest. Various techniques can be used for providing the subject
  compositions at the site of interest, such as injection, use of catheters, trocars, projectiles,
  pluronic gel, stents, sustained drug release polymers or other device which provides for
  internal access.
   [681    Thus, according to yet another embodiment, the compounds of this disclosure
  may be incorporated into compositions for coating an implantable medical device, such
                                                 15

as prostheses, artificial valves, vascular grafts, stents, or catheters. Suitable coatings and
the general preparation of coated implantable devices are known in the art and are
exemplified in US Patents 6,099,562; 5,886,026; and 5,304,121. The coatings are
typically biocompatible polymeric materials such as a hydrogel polymer,
polymethyldisiloxane, polycaprolactone, polyethylene glycol, polylactic acid, ethylene
vinyl acetate, and mixtures thereof. The coatings may optionally be further covered by a
suitable topcoat of fluorosilicone, polysaccharides, polyethylene glycol, phospholipids or
combinations thereof to impart controlled release characteristics in the composition.
 Coatings for invasive devices are to be included within the definition of pharmaceutically
 acceptable carrier, adjuvant or vehicle, as those terms are used herein.
 [69]     According to another embodiment, the disclosure provides a method of coating an
 implantable medical device comprising the step of contacting said device with the coating
 composition described above. It will be obvious to those skilled in the art that the coating
 of the device will occur prior to implantation into a mammal.
 [70]     According to another embodiment, the disclosure provides a method of
 impregnating an implantable drug release device comprising the step of contacting said
 drug release device with a compound or composition of this disclosure. Implantable drug
 release devices include, but are not limited to, biodegradable polymer capsules or bullets,
 non-degradable, diffusible polymer capsules and biodegradable polymer wafers.
  [711    According to another embodiment, the disclosure provides an implantable
  medical device coated with a compound or a composition comprising a compound of this
  disclosure, such that said compound is therapeutically active.
  [72]    According to another embodiment, the disclosure provides an implantable drug
  release device impregnated with or containing a compound or a composition comprising
  a compound of this disclosure, such that said compound is released from said device and
  is therapeutically active.
   [73]    Where an organ or tissue is accessible because of removal from the subject, such
  organ or tissue may be bathed in a medium containing a composition of this disclosure, a
   composition of this disclosure may be painted onto the organ, or a composition of this
   disclosure may be applied in any other convenient way.
                                                  16

[741     In another embodiment, a composition of this disclosure further comprises a
second therapeutic agent. The second therapeutic agent may be selected from any
compound or therapeutic agent known to have or that demonstrates advantageous
properties when administered with a compound having the same mechanism of action as
dextromethorphan. Such agents include those indicated as being useful in combination
with dextromethorphan, including but not limited to, those described in U.S. Patent Nos.
4,316,888; 4,446,140; 4,694,010; 4,898,860; 5,166,207; 5,336,980; 5,350,756; 5,366,980;
5,863,927; RE38,115; 6,197,830; 6,207,164; 6,583,152; and 7,114,547; as well as in US
patent publications 2001/0044446; 2002/0103109; 2004/0087479; 2005/0129783;
2005/0203125; and 2007/0191411.
 [75]     Preferably, the second therapeutic agent is an agent useful in the treatment or
prevention of a disease or condition selected from emotional lability; pseudobulbar
 affect; autism; neurological disorders and neurodegenerative diseases, such as, e.g.,
 dementia, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS, also known as Leu Gehrig's disease),
 Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, and multiple sclerosis; disturbances of
 consciousness disorders; brain injuries, such as, e.g., stroke, traumatic brain injury,
 ischemic event, hypoxic event and neuronal death; disturbances of consciousness
 disorders; cardiovascular diseases, such as, e.g., peripheral vascular diseases, myocardial
 infarctions, and atherosclerosis; glaucoma, tardive dyskinesia; diabetic neuropathy;
 retinopathic diseases; diseases or disorders caused by homocysteine-induced apoptosis;
  diseases or disorders caused by elevated levels of homocysteine; chronic pain; intractable
 pain; neuropathic pain, sympathetically mediated pain, such as, allodynia, hyperpathia,
  hyperalgesia, dysesthesia, paresthesia, deafferentation pain, and anesthesia dolorosa pain;
  pain associated with gastrointestinal dysfunction, including, e.g., irritable bowel
  syndrome; mouth pain; epileptic seizures; tinnitus; sexual dysfunction; intractable
  coughing; dermatitis; addiction disorders, such as, e.g., addiction to or dependence on
  stimulants, nicotine, morphine, heroine, other opiates, amphetamines, cocaine, and
  alcohol; Rett syndrome (RTT); voice disorders due to uncontrolled laryngeal muscle
  spasms, including e.g., abductor spasmodic dysphonia, adductor spasmodic dysphonia,
  muscular tension dysphoria, and vocal tremor; methotrexate neurotoxicity; and fatigue
  caused by cancer.
                                                17

[761     In one embodiment, the second therapeutic agent is selected from quinidine,
quinidine sulfate, LBH589 (Novartis), oxycodone, and gabapentin.
[771     In another embodiment, the disclosure provides separate dosage forms of a
compound of this disclosure and one or more of any of the above-described second
therapeutic agents, wherein the compound and second therapeutic agent are associated
with one another. The term "associated with one another" as used herein means that the
separate dosage forms are packaged together or otherwise attached to one another such
that it is readily apparent that the separate dosage forms are intended to be sold and
administered together (within less than 24 hours of one another, consecutively or
simultaneously).
 [781     In the pharmaceutical compositions of the disclosure, the compound of the present
 disclosure is present in an effective amount. As used herein, the term "effective amount"
 refers to an amount which, when administered in a proper dosing regimen, is sufficient to
 reduce or ameliorate the severity, duration or progression of the disorder being treated,
 prevent the advancement of the disorder being treated, cause the regression of the
 disorder being treated, or enhance or improve the prophylactic or therapeutic effect(s) of
 another therapy.
  [79]     The interrelationship of dosages for animals and humans (based on milligrams per
 meter squared of body surface) is described in Freireich et al., (1966) Cancer Chemother.
  Rep 50: 219. Body surface area may be approximately determined from height and
  weight of the subject. See, e.g., Scientific Tables, Geigy Pharmaceuticals, Ardsley, N.Y.,
  1970, 537.
  [801     In one embodiment, an effective amount of a compound of this disclosure can
  range from 0.4 mg to 400 mg, from 4.0 mg to 350 mg, from 10 mg to 90 mg, or from 30
  mg to 45 mg, inclusive.
   [81]     Effective doses will also vary, as recognized by those skilled in the art,
   depending on the diseases treated, the severity of the disease, the route of administration,
  the sex, age and general health condition of the subject, excipient usage, the possibility of
   co-usage with other therapeutic treatments such as use of other agents and the judgment
   of the treating physician. For example, guidance for selecting an effective dose can be
   determined by reference to the prescribing information for dextromethorphan.
                                                  18

[821    The compounds of the present disclosure and the pharmaceutical compositions
that comprise them demonstrate a longer clearance and produce a higher plasma exposure
level 12 hours post-dosing as compared to a pharmaceutical composition comprising the
same amount of dextromethorphan on a mole basis ("molar equivalent dextromethorphan
composition"). Thus, in one embodiment, the disclosure provides a pharmaceutical
composition comprising an effective amount of a compound of Formula I, the
administration of which to a subject results in a plasma exposure level that is greater than
the plasma exposure level of a molar equivalent dextromethorphan composition that is
 administered using the same dosing regimen.
 [83]    In another embodiments, the plasma exposure level is at least 110%, 115%, 120%
 125%, 130%, 135%, 140%, 145%, or more of the plasma exposure level of
 dextromethorphan produced by a molar equivalent dextromethorphan composition that is
 administered to an equivalent subject.
 [841    In another embodiment, the disclosure provides a pharmaceutical composition
 comprising 10-60 mg of a compound of Formula I, wherein the administration of the
 pharmaceutical composition to a subject results in a plasma exposure level in the range of
 250-750 nanograms (ng)-hour (h)/mL (AUC).
  [851    In another embodiment, the disclosure provides a pharmaceutical composition
 comprising 10-60 mg of a compound of Formula I, wherein the administration of the
 pharmaceutical composition to a subject results in a plasma exposure level in the range of
  400-1600 ng-h/mL (AUC).
  [86]    In another embodiment, the disclosure provides a pharmaceutical composition
  comprising 10-60 mg of a compound of Formula I, wherein the administration of the
  pharmaceutical composition to a subject results in a plasma exposure level in the range of
  500-1500 ng-h/mL (AUC).
   [87]    In another embodiment, the disclosure provides a pharmaceutical composition
   comprising 10-60 mg of a compound of Formula I, wherein the administration of the
  pharmaceutical composition to a subject results in a plasma exposure level in the range of
   1000-1500 ng-h/mL (AUC).
   [88]    In another embodiment, the disclosure provides a pharmaceutical composition
   comprising an effective amount of a compound of Formula I, the administration of which
                                               19

to a subject results in a decrease in rate and amount of metabolite production as compared
to a molar equivalent dextromethorphan composition that is administered using the same
dosing regimen.
 [891      In another embodiment, the disclosure provides a pharmaceutical composition
 comprising 10-60 mg of a compound of Formula I, the administration of which to a
 subject results in a plasma exposure level of deuterated dextrorphan isotopologues less
 than or equal to 1000 ng-h/mL.
 1901      In another embodiment, the disclosure provides a pharmaceutical composition
 comprising 10-60 mg of a compound of Formula 1, the administration of which to a
 subject results in a plasma exposure level of deuterated dextrorphan isotopologues less
 than or equal to 750 ng-h/mL.
  [911      In another embodiment, the disclosure provides a pharmaceutical composition
  comprising 10-60 mg of a compound of Formula I, the administration of which to a
  subject results in a plasma exposure level of deuterated dextrorphan isotopologues less
  than or equal to 500 ng-h/mL.
   [921     In another embodiment, the disclosure provides a pharmaceutical composition
  comprising an effective amount of a compound of Formula I, the administration of which
  to a subject results in both an increase in the plasma exposure level of a compound of
   Formula I and a decrease in the plasma exposure level of dextromethorphan metabolite
   isotopologues, particularly deuterated dextrorphan isotopologues, as compared to the
   plasma exposure levels of dextromethorphan and dextrorphan produced from a molar
   equivalent dextromethorphan composition that is administered in the same dosing
   regimen.
    [931     In another embodiment, the disclosure provides a pharmaceutical composition
    comprising 10-60 mg of a compound of Formula I, said composition providing a plasma
    exposure level of a compound of Formula I of from about 1750 to about 250 ng-h/mL
    after repeated administration to a subject every 12 hours through steady-state conditions.
    [941 For pharmaceutical compositions that comprise a second therapeutic agent, an
    effective amount of the second therapeutic agent is between about 0.01 % to 100% of the
    dosage normally utilized in a monotherapy regime using just that agent. The normal
    monotherapeutic dosages of these second therapeutic agents are well known in the art.
                                                  20

See, e.g., Wells et al., eds., Pharmacotherapy Handbook, 2nd Edition, Appleton and
Lange, Stamford, Conn. (2000); PDR Pharmacopoeia, Tarascon Pocket Pharmacopoeia
2000, Deluxe Edition, Tarascon Publishing, Loma Linda, Calif. (2000), each of which are
incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.
[951     It is expected that some of the second therapeutic agents referenced above will act
synergistically with the compounds of this disclosure. When this occurs, it will allow the
effective dosage of the second therapeutic agent and/or the compound of this disclosure
to be reduced from that required in a monotherapy. This has the advantage of minimizing
toxic side effects of either the second therapeutic agent of a compound of this disclosure,
synergistic improvements in efficacy, improved ease of administration or use and/or
reduced overall expense of compound preparation or formulation.
 [96]    Thus, in one embodiment, the disclosure provides a pharmaceutical composition
 comprising 10-60 mg of a compound of Formula I and 2.5-30 mg quinidine, said
 composition providing a maximum plasma exposure level after repeated administration
 every 12 to 24 hours through steady-state conditions of a compound of Formula I in a
 subject of from about 1750 to about 250 ng-h/mL, wherein the administration of said
 composition to a subject results in a reduction in the plasma exposure level of deuterated
 dextrorphan isotopologues as compared to the same molar amount of a compound of
 Formula I administered without the quinidine.
  [97]    In another embodiment, the disclosure provides a pharmaceutical composition
  comprising 10-60 mg of a compound of Formula I and 2.5-20 mg quinidine, said
  composition providing a maximum plasma exposure level after repeated administration
  every 12 to 24 hours through steady-state conditions of a compound of Formula I in a
  subject of from about 1750 to about 250 ng-h/mL, wherein the administration of said
  composition to a subject results in a reduction in the plasma exposure level of deuterated
  dextrorphan isotopologues as compared to the same molar amount of a compound of
  Formula I administered without the quinidine.
   [98]    In another embodiment, the disclosure provides a pharmaceutical composition
  comprising 10-60 mg of a compound of Formula I and 2.5-10 mg quinidine, said
  composition providing a maximum plasma exposure level after repeated administration
   every 12 to 24 hours through steady-state conditions of a compound of Formula I in a
                                                21

subject of from about 1750 to about 250 ng-h/mL, wherein the administration of said
composition to a subject results in a reduction in the plasma exposure level of deuterated
dextrorphan isotopologues as compared to the same molar amount of a compound of
Formula I administered without the quinidine.
[99]    In another embodiment, the disclosure provides a pharmaceutical composition
comprising a 15-45 mg of a compound of Formula I and 2.5-30 mg quinidine, said
composition providing a maximum plasma exposure level after repeated administration
every 12 to 24 hours through steady-state conditions of a compound of Formula I in a
subject of from about 1750 to about 250 ng-h/mL, wherein the administration of said
composition to a subject results in a reduction in the plasma exposure level of deuterated
dextrorphan isotopologues as compared to the same molar amount of a compound of
Formula I administered without the quinidine.
 1100] In another embodiment, the disclosure provides a pharmaceutical composition
comprising a 20-35 mg of a compound of Formula I and 2.5-30 mg quinidine, said
composition providing a maximum plasma exposure level after repeated administration
every 12 to 24 hours through steady-state conditions of a compound of Formula I in a
subject of from about 1750 to about 250 ng-h/mL, wherein the administration of said
composition to a subject results in a reduction in the plasma exposure level of deuterated
 dextrorphan isotopologues as compared to the same molar amount of a compound of
 Formula I administered without the quinidine.
 [101]   In another embodiment, the disclosure provides a pharmaceutical composition
 comprising a compound of Formula I and quinidine, said composition providing lower
 urine concentrations of a compound of Formula I and higher urine concentrations of
 deuterated dextrorphan isotopologues in a subject as compared to urine concentrations of
 dextromethorphan and dextrorphan in an equivalent subject resulting from the
 administration of a molar equivalent dextromethorphan composition additionally
 comprising the same amount of quinidine and administered according to the same dosing
 regimen.
                                               22

Methods of Treatment
[1021    In another embodiment, the disclosure provides a method of modulating the
activity of the (-2 receptor, N-methyl-D-aspartate (NDMA), or the activity of the a3P4
nicotinic receptor in a cell, comprising contacting a cell with one or more compounds of
Formula I.
[1031    In another embodiment, the disclosure provides a method of inhibiting
neurotransmitters, such as glutamate, from activating receptors in the brain and/or
inhibiting the uptake of dopamine and serotonin by administering a compound of
Formula I.
[104]    According to another embodiment, the disclosure provides a method of treating a
subject suffering from, or susceptible to, a disease that is beneficially treated by
dextromethorphan comprising the step of administering to said subject an effective
amount of a compound of Formula I wherein R' is selected from CH 3 , CH 2D, CHD 2 ,
 CD 3 , CHF 2 , and CF 3 ; and R2 is selected from CH 3 , CH 2D, CHD 2 , and CD 3 or a
 composition comprising such a compound. Such diseases are well known in the art and
 are disclosed in, but not limited to, those described in U.S. Patent Nos. 4,316,888;
 4,446,140; 4,694,010; 4,898,860; 5,166,207; 5,336,980; 5,350,756; 5,366,980; 5,863,927;
 RE38,115; 6,197,830; 6,207,164; 6,583,152; and 7,114,547; as well as in US patent
 publications 2001/0044446; 2002/0103109; 2004/0087479; 2005/0129783;
 2005/0203125; and 2007/0191411.
 [1051    Such diseases include, but are not limited to, emotional lability; pseudobulbar
 affect; autism; neurological disorders and neurodegenerative diseases, such as, e.g.,
 dementia, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS, also known as Leu Gehrig's disease),
 Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's, and multiple sclerosis; disturbances of consciousness
 disorders; brain injuries, such as, e.g., stroke, traumatic brain injury, ischemic event,
 hypoxic event and neuronal death; disturbances of consciousness disorders;
  cardiovascular diseases, such as, e.g., peripheral vascular diseases, strokes, myocardial
  infarctions, and atherosclerosis; glaucoma, tardive dyskinesia; diabetic neuropathy;
  retinopathic diseases; diseases or disorders caused by homocysteine-induced apoptosis;
  diseases or disorders caused by elevated levels of homocysteine; chronic pain; intractable
  pain; neuropathic pain, sympathetically mediated pain, such as, allodynia, hyperpathia,
                                                  23

hyperalgesia, dysesthesia, paresthesia, deafferentation pain, and anesthesia delorosa pain;
pain associated with gastrointestinal dysfunction, including, e.g., irritable bowel
syndrome; mouth pain; epileptic seizures; tinnitus; sexual dysfunction; intractable
coughing; dermatitis; addiction disorders, such as, e.g., addiction to or dependence on
stimulants, nicotine, morphine, heroine, other opiates, amphetamines, cocaine, and
alcohol; Rett syndrome (RTT); voice disorders due to uncontrolled laryngeal muscle
spasms, including e.g., abductor spasmodic dysphonia, adductor spasmodic dysphonia,
muscular tension dysphonia, and vocal tremor; methotrexate neurotoxicity; and fatigue
caused by cancer.
 [1061    In one particular embodiment, the method of this disclosure is used to treat a
subject suffering from or susceptible to a disease or condition selected from diabetic
neuropathy, Rett syndrome (RTT); voice disorders due to uncontrolled laryngeal muscle
 spasms, including e.g., abductor spasmodic dysphonia, adductor spasmodic dysphonia,
 muscular tension dysphonia, and vocal tremor; methotrexate neurotoxicity; and fatigue
 caused by cancer.
 [107]     In one particular embodiment, the compound of Formula I, wherein R' is selected
 from CH 3 , CH 2D, CHD 2, CD 3 , CHF 2 , and CF 3; and R 2 is selected from CH 3 , CH 2D,
 CHD 2 , and CD 3 or a composition comprising such compound is used to treat a subject
 suffering from or susceptible neuropathic pain. In another embodiment, the compound is
 used to treat a subject suffering from pseudobulbar affect.
  [108]    Methods delineated herein also include those wherein the subject is identified as
  in need of a particular stated treatment. Identifying a subject in need of such treatment
  can be in the judgment of a subject or a health care professional and can be subjective
  (e.g. opinion) or objective (e.g. measurable by a test or diagnostic method).
  [109]     In the methods delineated herein, a pharmaceutical composition comprising an
  effective amount of a compound of Formula I is adminstered to a subject, resulting in a
  plasma exposure level that is greater than the plasma exposure level of a molar equivalent
  dextromethorphan composition that is administered using the same dosing regimen. The
  plasma exposure level is at least 110%, 115%, 120% 125%, 130%, 135%, 140%, 145%,
  or more of the plasma exposure level of dextromethorphan produced by a molar
   equivalent dextromethorphan composition that is administered to an equivalent subject.
                                                 24

                                                                                   a disease in
[110]      In another embodiment, the disclosure provides a method for treating
                                                                                      subject a
a subject in need of such treatment, said method comprising adminstering to the
                                                                      of Formula I, wherein
pharmaceutical composition comprising 10-60 mg of a compound
the administration of the pharmaceutical composition to the subject results in a plasma
exposure level in the range of 250-750 nanograms (ng)-hour (h)/mL (AUC).
                                                                          treating a disease in
 [111] In another embodiment, the disclosure provides a method for
                                                                                                a
 a subject in need of such treatment, said method comprising adminstering to the subject
                                                                       of Formula I, wherein
 pharmaceutical composition comprising 10-60 mg of a compound
 the administration of the pharmaceutical composition to the subject results in a plasma
 exposure level in the range of 400-1600 ng-h/mL (AUC).
                                                                      for treating a disease in
  [1121 In another embodiment, the disclosure provides a method
                                                                                       subject a
  a subject in need of such treatment, said method comprising adminstering to the
                                                                        of Formula I, wherein
  pharmaceutical composition comprising 10-60 mg of a compound
  the administration of the pharmaceutical composition to the subject results in a plasma
  exposure level in the range of 500-1500 ng-h/mL (AUC).
                                                                       for treating a disease in
   [1131 In another embodiment, the disclosure provides a method
   a subject in need of such treatment, said method comprising administering to the subject
                                                                                        I,
   a pharmaceutical composition comprising 10-60 mg of a compound of Formula
                                                                                              a
   wherein the administration of the pharmaceutical composition to the subject results in
   plasma exposure level in the range of 1000-1500 ng-h/mL (AUC).
                                                                       for treating a disease in
    [1141 In another embodiment, the disclosure provides a method
   a subject in need of such treatment, said method comprising administering to the subject
    a pharmaceutical composition comprising an amount of a compound of Formula I,
                                                                                           molar
    effective to decrease in rate and amount of metabolite production as compared to a
    equivalent dextromethorphan composition that is administered using the same dosing
    regimen.
                                                                                     a disease in
     [1151   In another embodiment, the disclosure provides a method for treating
                                                                                                  a
     a subject in need of such treatment, said method comprising adminstering to the subject
     pharmaceutical composition comprising 10-60 mg of a compound of Formula I, the
     administration of which to a subject results in a plasma exposure level of deuterated
     dextrorphan isotopologues less than or equal to 1000 ng-h/mL.
                                                   25

[116]   In another embodiment, the disclosure provides a method for treating a disease in
a subject in need of such treatment, said method comprising adminstering to the subject a
pharmaceutical composition comprising 10-60 mg of a compound of Formula I, the
administration of which to a subject results in a plasma exposure level of deuterated
dextrorphan isotopologues less than or equal to 750 ng-h/mL.
[117]    In another embodiment, the disclosure provides a method for treating a disease in
a subject in need of such treatment, said method comprising adminstering to the subject a
pharmaceutical composition comprising 10-60 mg of a compound of Formula I, the
administration of which to a subject results in a plasma exposure level of deuterated
dextrorphan isotopologues less than or equal to 500 ng-h/mL.
 [118]   In another embodiment, the disclosure provides a method for treating a disease in
a subject in need of such treatment, said method comprising adminstering to the subject a
pharmaceutical composition comprising 10-60 mg of a compound of Formula I, the
 administration of which to a subject results in both an increase in the plasma exposure
 level of a compound of Formula I and a decrease in the plasma exposure level of
 dextromethorphan metabolite isotopologues, particularly deuterated dextrorphan
 isotopologues, as compared to the plasma exposure levels of dextromethorphan and
 dextrorphan produced from a molar equivalent dextromethorphan composition that is
 administered in the same dosing regimen.
  [1191   In another embodiment, the disclosure provides a method for treating a disease in
 a subject in need of such treatment, said method comprising adminstering to the subject a
 pharmaceutical composition comprising 10-60 mg of a compound of Formula I, said
  composition providing a plasma exposure level of a compound of Formula I of from
  about 1750 to about 250 ng-h/mL after repeated administration to a subject every 12
  hours through steady-state conditions.
  [120]    In another embodiment, any of the above methods of treatment comprises the
  further step of co-administering to the subject one or more second therapeutic agents.
  The choice of second therapeutic agent may be made from any second therapeutic agent
  known to be useful for co-administration with dextromethorphan. The choice of second
  therapeutic agent is also dependent upon the particular disease or condition to be treated.
  Examples of second therapeutic agents that may be employed in the methods of this
                                                26

disclosure are those set forth above for use in combination compositions comprising a
compound of this disclosure and a second therapeutic agent.
[121]    In particular, the combination therapies of this disclosure include co
administering to a subject in need thereof a compound of Formula 1, wherein R' is
selected from CH 3 , CH 2 D, CHD 2, CD 3 , CHF 2, and CF 3 ; and R 2 is selected from CH 3,
CH 2D, CHD 2 , and CD 3 or a composition comprising such compound; and quinidine
sulfate wherein the subject is suffering from or susceptible to diabetic neuropathy.
[1221    In another embodiment the disclosure provides a method of treating a subject
suffering from non-small cell lung cancer or malignant pleural mesothelioma by co
administering to the subject in need thereof a compound of Formula I, wherein Ri is
selected from CH 3 , CH 2 D, CHD 2, CD 3, CHF 2, and CF 3; and R is selected from CH 3 ,
CH 2D, CHD 2 , and CD 3 or a composition comprising such compound; and LBH589.
 [123]    The term "co-administered" as used herein means that the second therapeutic
 agent may be administered together with a compound of this disclosure as part of a single
 dosage form (such as a composition of this disclosure comprising a compound of the
 disclosure and an second therapeutic agent as described above) or as separate, multiple
 dosage forms. Alternatively, the additional agent may be administered prior to,
 consecutively with, or following the administration of a compound of this disclosure. In
 such combination therapy treatment, both the compounds of this disclosure and the
 second therapeutic agent(s) are administered by conventional methods. The
 administration of a composition of this disclosure, comprising both a compound of the
 disclosure and a second therapeutic agent, to a subject does not preclude the separate
  administration of that same therapeutic agent, any other second therapeutic agent or any
  compound of this disclosure to said subject at another time during a course of treatment.
  [1241   Effective amounts of these second therapeutic agents are well known to those
  skilled in the art and guidance for dosing may be found in patents and published patent
  applications referenced herein, as well as in Wells et al., eds., Pharmacotherapy
  Handbook, 2nd Edition, Appleton and Lange, Stamford, Conn. (2000); PDR
  Pharmacopoeia, Tarascon Pocket Pharmacopoeia 2000, Deluxe Edition, Tarascon
  Publishing, Loma Linda, Calif. (2000), and other medical texts. However, it is well
                                                27

within the skilled artisan's purview to determine the second therapeutic agent's optimal
effective-amount range.
[125]     In one embodiment of the disclosure, where a second therapeutic agent is
administered to a subject, the effective amount of the compound of this disclosure is less
than its effective amount would be where the second therapeutic agent is not
administered. In another embodiment, the effective amount of the second therapeutic
agent is less than its effective amount would be where the compound of this disclosure is
not administered. In this way, undesired side effects associated with high doses of either
agent may be minimized. Other potential advantages (including without limitation
 improved dosing regimens and/or reduced drug cost) will be apparent to those of skill in
the art.
 [1261     In yet another aspect, the disclosure provides the use of a compound of Formula I
 alone or together with one or more of the above-described second therapeutic agents in
 the manufacture of a medicament, either as a single composition or as separate dosage
 forms, for treatment or prevention in a subject of a disease, disorder or symptom set forth
 above. Another aspect of the disclosure is a compound of Formula I for use in the
 treatment or prevention in a subject of a disease, disorder or symptom thereof delineated
 herein.
  [127]     Thus, in another embodiment, the disclosure provides a method of treating a
  disease in a subject in need of such treatment, the method comprising co-administering
  10-60 mg of a compound of Formula I and 2.5-30 mg quinidine, so that the composition
  provides a maximum plasma exposure level after repeated administration every 12 to 24
  hours through steady-state conditions of a compound of Formula I in a subject of from
  about 1750 to about 250 ng-h/mL, wherein the administration of said composition to a
  subject results in a reduction in the plasma exposure level of deuterated dextrorphan
   isotopologues as compared to the same molar amount of a compound of Formula I
   administered without the quinidine.
   [1281    Thus, in another embodiment, the disclosure provides a method of treating a
   disease in a subject in need of such treatment, the method comprising co-administering
    10-60 mg of a compound of Formula I and 2.5-20 mg quinidine, so that the composition
   provides a maximum plasma exposure level after repeated administration every 12 to 24
                                                  28

hours through steady-state conditions of a compound of Formula I in a subject of from
about 1750 to about 250 ng-h/mL, wherein the administration of said composition to a
subject results in a reduction in the plasma exposure level of deuterated dextrorphan
isotopologues as compared to the same molar amount of a compound of Formula I
administered without the quinidine.
 [1291   Thus, in another embodiment, the disclosure provides a method of treating a
disease in a subject in need of such treatment, the method comprising co-administering
 10-60 mg of a compound of Formula I and 2.5-10 mg quinidine, so that the composition
provides a maximum plasma exposure level after repeated administration every 12 to 24
 hours through steady-state conditions of a compound of Formula I in a subject of from
 about 1750 to about 250 ng-h/mL, wherein the administration of said composition to a
 subject results in a reduction in the plasma exposure level of deuterated dextrorphan
 isotopologues as compared to the same molar amount of a compound of Formula I
 administered without the quinidine.
  [1301 Thus, in another embodiment, the disclosure provides a method of treating a
 disease in a subject in need of such treatment, the method comprising co-administering
  15-45 mg of a compound of Formula I and 2.5-30 mg quinidine, so that the composition
 provides a maximum plasma exposure level after repeated administration every 12 to 24
  hours through steady-state conditions of a compound of Formula I in a subject of from
  about 1750 to about 250 ng-h/mL, wherein the administration of said composition to a
  subject results in a reduction in the plasma exposure level of deuterated dextrorphan
  isotopologues as compared to the same molar amount of a compound of Formula I
  administered without the quinidine.
  [131]   Thus, in another embodiment, the disclosure provides a method of treating a
  disease in a subject in need of such treatment, the method comprising co-administering
  20-35 mg of a compound of Formula I and 2.5-30 mg quinidine, so that the composition
  provides a maximum plasma exposure level after repeated administration every 12 to 24
   hours through steady-state conditions of a compound of Formula I in a subject of from
   about 1750 to about 250 ng-h/mL, wherein the administration of said composition to a
   subject results in a reduction in the plasma exposure level of deuterated dextrorphan
                                                 29

isotopologues as compared to the same molar amount of a compound of Formula I
administered without the quinidine.
 [132]    Thus, in another embodiment, the disclosure provides a method of treating a
disease in a subject in need of such treatment, the method comprising co-administering a
 compound of Formula I and quinidine, so that the composition provides lower urine
 concentrations of a compound of Formula I and higher urine concentrations of deuterated
 dextrorphan isotopologues in a subject as compared to urine concentrations of
 dextromethorphan and dextrorphan in an equivalent subject resulting from the
 administration of a molar equivalent dextromethorphan composition additionally
 comprising the same amount of quinidine and administered according to the same dosing
 regimen.
 Diagnostic Methods and Kits
  [1331   The compounds and compositions of this disclosure are also useful as reagents in
  methods for determining the concentration of dextromethorphan in solution or biological
  sample such as plasma, examining the metabolism of dextromethorphan and other
  analytical studies.
  [134]    According to one embodiment, the disclosure provides a method of determining
  the concentration, in a solution or a biological sample, of dextromethorphan, comprising
  the steps of:
           a) adding a known concentration of a compound of Formula I to the solution of
  biological sample;
           b) subjecting the solution or biological sample to a measuring device that
   distinguishes dextromethorphan from a compound of Formula I;
           c) calibrating the measuring device to correlate the detected quantity of the
   compound of Formula I with the known concentration of the compound of Formula I
   added to the biological sample or solution; and
           d) measuring the quantity of dextromethorphan in the biological sample with said
   calibrated measuring device; and
                                                  30

        e) determining the concentration of dextromethorphan in the solution of sample
using the correlation between detected quantity and concentration obtained for a
compound of Formula I.
[135]   Measuring devices that can distinguish dextromethorphan from the corresponding
compound of Formula I include any measuring device that can distinguish between two
compounds that differ from one another only in isotopic abundance. Exemplary
measuring devices include a mass spectrometer, NMR spectrometer, or IR spectrometer.
[136]   In another embodiment, a method for determining the amount of
dextromethorphan in a solution or a biological sample is provided, comprising:
        a) adding a known amount of a compound of Formula I to the solution or
biological sample;
        b) detecting at least one signal for a compound of Formula I and at least one
signal for dextromethorphan in a measuring device that is capable of distinguishing the
two compounds;
         c) correlating the at least one signal detected for a compound of Formula I with
the known amount of the compound of Formula I added to the solution or the biological
 sample; and
         d) determining the amount of dextromethorphan in the solution or biological
 sample using the correlation between the at least one signal detected of the compound of
 Formula I and the amount added to the solution or biological sample of a compound of
 Formula I.
 [137]   In another embodiment, the disclosure provides a method of evaluating the
 metabolic stability of a compound of Formula I comprising the steps of contacting the
 compound of Formula I with a metabolizing enzyme source for a period of time and
 comparing the amount of the compound of Formula I with the metabolic products of the
 compound of Formula I after the period of time.
 [138]   In a related embodiment, the disclosure provides a method of evaluating the
 metabolic stability of a compound of Formula I in a subject following administration of
 the compound of Formula I. This method comprises the steps of obtaining a serum,
 blood, tissue, urine or feces sample from the subject at a period of time following the
 administration of the compound of Formula I to the subject; and comparing the amount of
                                                 31

the compound of Formula I with the metabolic products of the compound of Formula I in
the serum, blood, tissue, urine or feces sample.
 [1391 The present disclosure also provides kits for use to treat diabetic neuropathy, Rett
syndrome (RTT); voice disorders due to uncontrolled laryngeal muscle spasms, including
e.g., abductor spasmodic dysphonia, adductor spasmodic dysphoria, muscular tension
dysphonia, and vocal tremor; methotrexate neurotoxicity; and fatigue caused by cancer.
These kits comprise (a) a pharmaceutical composition comprising a compound of
Formula I or a salt, hydrate, or solvate thereof, wherein said pharmaceutical composition
 is in a container; and (b) instructions describing a method of using the pharmaceutical
 composition to treat pseudobulbar affect; diabetic neuropathy; Rett syndrome (RTT);
 voice disorders due to uncontrolled laryngeal muscle spasms, including e.g., abductor
 spasmodic dysphonia, adductor spasmodic dysphonia, muscular tension dysphoria, and
 vocal tremor; methotrexate neurotoxicity; and fatigue caused by cancer.
 [140]    The container may be any vessel or other sealed or sealable apparatus that can
 hold said pharmaceutical composition. Examples include bottles, ampules, divided or
 multi-chambered holders bottles, wherein each division or chamber comprises a single
 dose of said composition, a divided foil packet wherein each division comprises a single
 dose of said composition, or a dispenser that dispenses single doses of said composition.
 The container can be in any conventional shape or form as known in the art which is
 made of a pharmaceutically acceptable material, for example a paper or cardboard box, a
  glass or plastic bottle or jar, a re-sealable bag (for example, to hold a "refill" of tablets for
  placement into a different container), or a blister pack with individual doses for pressing
  out of the pack according to a therapeutic schedule. The container employed can depend
  on the exact dosage form involved, for example a conventional cardboard box would not
  generally be used to hold a liquid suspension. It is feasible that more than one container
  can be used together in a single package to market a single dosage form. For example,
  tablets may be contained in a bottle, which is in turn contained within a box. In on
  embodiment, the container is a blister pack.
  [1411    The kits of this disclosure may also comprise a device to administer or to measure
  out a unit dose of the pharmaceutical composition. Such device may include an inhaler if
  said composition is an inhalable composition; a syringe and needle if said composition is
                                                   32

an injectable composition; a syringe, spoon, pump, or a vessel with or without volume
markings if said composition is an oral liquid composition; or any other measuring or
delivery device appropriate to the dosage formulation of the composition present in the
kit.
[142]    In certain embodiment, the kits of this disclosure may comprise in a separate
vessel of container a pharmaceutical composition comprising a second therapeutic agent,
such as one of those listed above for use for co-administration with a compound of this
disclosure.
                                         EXAMPLES
 [143]   Example 1. Syntheses of Compounds 100, 101, and 108.
 [144]    Each of the steps and numbered intermediates described below refer to the
 corresponding steps and intermediates in Scheme 1, supra.
 [1451    (+)-3-methoxy-1 7-methyl-(9a,13a,14a)-morphinan (10b). To a reaction vessel
 was added (+)-3-methoxy-17-methyl-(9a.,13a,14a)-morphinan, HBr salt (3.00g, 8.5
 mmol), NH 3 in CH 30H (2.0 M, 8.5 mL, 17.0 mmol), and a stir bar. The reaction mixture
 was stirred at RT for 1 h. The resulting material was concentrated on a rotary evaporator,
 then diluted with CHCl3 (50 mL) and H2 0 (50 mL). The layers were separated and the
 water layer was extracted with CHC13 (50 mL). The combined organic layers were dried
 over magnesium sulfate, filtered and concentrated on a rotary evaporator to yield 2.88 g
 of 10b as a fluffy white solid.
  [1461   'H-NMR (300 MHz, CDCl 3 ): 8 1.12 (ddd, J1=24.7, Jt-12.6,J3=3.8, 1H), 1.23
  1.43 (m, 5H), 1.49-1.52 (m, 1H), 1.62-1.65 (m, IH), 1.72 (td, J1 =12.6,J2=4.9, 1H), 1.81
  (dt, J1=12.6, J2=3.3, 1H), 2.07 (td, J1=12.6, J2=3.3, 1H), 2.33-2.47 (m, 5H), 2.57 (dd,
 J1=18.1, J2=5.5, 1H), 2.79 (dd, J=5.5, J 2=3.3, 1H), 2.98 (d, J=18.1, 1H), 6.68 (dd,
  J1=8.2, J2=2.7, 1H), 6.80 (d, J=2.7, 1H), 7.02 (d, J=8.8, 1H).
   [147]   (+)-3-methoxy-(9a,13a,14a)-morphinan(11). The solid 10b (6.79 g, 25.1 mmol)
  was placed in a reaction vessel with CHCl 3 and a stir bar. K2 C0 3 (13.85 g, 100.2 mmol)
  was added and the mixture was stirred at RT under an atmosphere of N 2 for 10 min
  before the addition of acetyl chloride (7.866 g, 100.2 mmol). The resulting reaction
   mixture, still under an atmosphere of N 2, was stirred under reflux conditions for 7 h, then
                                                 33

filtered through a pad of celite. The organic filtrate was concentrated on a rotary
evaporator and the resulting crude material was dissolved in CH 30H then stirred under
reflux conditions for 1 h. The solution was concentrated on a rotary evaporator then
dried under vacuum to yield 6.78 g of 11 as an off-white solid.
[1481     'H-NMR (300 MHz, CDCl 3):      8 1.04-1.13 (in, 1H), 1.19-1.29 (m, IH), 1.37-1.66
(in, 6H), 2.37 (d, J=13.5, 2H), 2.54 (bs, IH), 2.80 (s, 2H), 2.95-2.99 (in, 1H), 3.12-3.18
(in, 2H), 3.48 (s, 1H), 3.71 (s, 3H), 6.76 (dd, J=8.3, J 2=2.6, 1H), 6.80 (d, J=2.3, 1H),
7.07 (d, J=8.3, 1H).
 [1491    (+)-I7-ethylcarbamate-3-methoxy-(9a,I3a,14a)-morphinan(12). To a reaction
vessel fit with a stirbar was added 11 (6.025g, 2.48 mmol) dissolved in CHC13 (100 mL).
 Diisopropylethylamine (DIEA; 16.32 g, 126.3 mmol) was added and the mixture was
 stirred for 10 min at room temperature under nitrogen before the addition of
 ethylchloroformate (13.094 g, 76.8 mmol). The reaction mixture was stirred under reflux
 conditions under nitrogen for 3 h, at which point tlc (20% ethylacetate/hexane) showed
 complete consumption of starting material, 11. The organic layer was removed and
 washed first with 1M HCI, and then with saturated NaHCO 3. The aqueous layers from
 each wash were combined and back extracted with 50 mL of CHCl3 . The organic layer
 from the back extraction was combined with the organic layer from the washes and the
 combined organic layers were dried over NaS04. The organic solution was then filtered,
 concentrated on a rotary evaporator then was purified via automated flash column
  chromatography (0-30% ethylacetate/hexane) to yield 5.37 g of 12 as a clear light yellow
 oil.
                                                           2 5 . 3 , J2=12.6, J3=3.8, 1H), 1.21
  [150]    'H-NMR (300 MHz, CDCl 3): 6 1.06 (ddd, J=
  1.39 (m, 7H), 1.45-1.60 (m, 3H), 1.65-1.70 (m, 2H), 2.34-2.37 (m, 1H), 2.54-2.69 (m,
  2H), 3.04-3.12 (in, 1H), 3.78 (s, 3H), 3.86 (ddd, Jr=42.3, J2=13.7, 13=3.8, 1H), 4.12 (q,
  J=7.14, 2H), 4.31 (dt, Jr=5 6.6, J2=4.3, 1H), 6.71 (dd, JI=8.8, J =2.2, I1H), 6.82 (d, J =2.7,
  1H), 7.00 (apparent t, J=8.2, 1H).
  [1511     (+)-l 7-ethylcarbamate-3-hydroxy-(9a,13a,14a)-morphinan(13). In a reaction
  vessel fit with a stirbar the carbamate 12 (2.43 g, 7.4 mmol) was dissolved in DCM (20
  mL) and the resulting solution was cooled to 0 'C. BBr 3 (9.24 g, 36.9 mmol) was added
  and the reaction mixture was stirred under an atmosphere of N 2 at 0 'C for 20 min (at
                                                 34

which time tlc in 20% ethylacetate/hexane showed the reaction to be complete). A
solution of 27% NH 40H in ice was placed in a beaker with a stir bar and the reaction
mixture was slowly added with stirring. The resulting mixture was stirred for 20 min
then was extracted with 4:1 CHCl 3/CH 30H (200 mL). The organic layer was dried over
                                                                                       was
Na 2 SO 4, filtered, then concentrated on a rotary evaporator. The crude material
                                                                                                  ,
purified via automated flash column chromatography (CH 30H with 1% NH 40H / CHCl 3
0-10%). The pure fractions were concentrated on a rotary evaporator to yield 1.48 g of
 13 as a white solid.
 [1521    'H-NMR (300 MHz, CDCl 3): 6 1.04-1.12 (m, 1H), 1.22-1.36 (in, 7H), 1.45-1.59
 (in, 3H), 1.63-1.67 (in, 2H), 2.30-2.33 (m, 1H), 2.52-2.66 (in, 2H), 3.06 (dt, J=18.4,
 J =5.9, 1H), 3.84 (ddd, JJ=35.8, Jz=13.8, J3=6.1, iH), 4.10-4.18 (m, 2H), 4.31 (dt,
   2
 J1 =53.9,J 2=3.1, 1H), 6.64 (m, IH), 6.78 (s, IH), 6.93 (apparent t, J=7.8, 1H).
 [1531 (+)-17-ethylcarbamate-3-d3-methoxy-(9a,I3a,I4a)-morphinan(14; R'=CD3 ).
                                                                                         vessel fit
 The product 13 (1.48 g, 4.7 mmol) was dissolved in DMF (20 mL) in a reaction
 with a stir bar. To this solution was added K2 CO 3 (2.97 g, 21.5 mmol). The mixture was
  stirred under an atmosphere of N 2 at RT for 10 min before the addition of CD 3I (1.02 g,
  7.0 mmol). The resulting reaction mixture was stirred overnight at RT at which time tIc
  (20% ethylacetate/hexane) showed complete reaction. The mixture was diluted with H2 0
  then was extracted with ethyl ether (3 x 30 mL). The combined organic layers were dried
  over Na 2 SO 4 , filtered, and the filtrate concentrated on a rotary evaporator to a clear
  yellow oil. Purification via automated flash column chromatography (0-20%
                                                                                         afforded
   ethylacetate/hexane) and concentration of pure fractions on a rotary evaporator
   793 mg of product.
   [154]   'H-NMR (300 MHz, CDCl 3 ): 6 1.01-1.11 (m, 1H), 1.22-1.39 (in, 7H), 1.45-1.59
   (m, 3H), 1.62-1.70 (in, 2H), 2.34-2.37 (in, 1H), 2.54-2.69 (in, 2H), 3.04-3.12 (m, 1H),
   3.84 (ddd, Jz=43.2, J2=13.8, Js=4.8, 1H), 4.09-4.17 (in, 2H), 4.31 (dt, Jr=56.4, J2=3.4,
   1H), 6.71 (dd, Jt=8.4, J 2=2.5, 1H), 6.82 (d, J=2.7, 1H), 7.00 (apparent t, J=8.2, 1H).
                                                                                              To a
   [1551 (+)-3-ds-methoxy-I7-ds-methyl-(9a,13a,14a)-morphinan(Compound 101).
   reaction vessel fit with a stir bar, was added THF (5 mL) and LAD (100 mg, 2.4 mmol).
   The slurry was cooled to 0 'C followed by the addition of a solution of product 14
    (R'=CD3 , 397 mg, 1.2 mmol) in THF (5 mL). The reaction mixture was stirred under an
                                                     35

atmosphere of N2 for 2 h at which time tic (20% ethylacetate/hexane) showed the reaction
to be complete. The mixture was then quenched by the addition of magnesium sulfate
heptahydrate until cessation of gas evolution. Ethyl ether (25 mL) was added to the flask,
the slurry was filtered, and the organic filtrate was concentrated on a rotary evaporator to
an oil. The crude product was purified via automated flash column chromatography
(CH 3 0H with 1% NH 40H / CHCl 3, 0-10%), concentrated on a rotary evaporator, then
dissolved in a saturated solution of HBr in dioxane. The mixture was stirred for 10 min,
was concentrated on a rotary evaporator, then dried under vacuum for 3 d to yield 204 mg
of Compound 101.
 [1561    'H-NMR (300 MHz, CDCl 3 ): 6 1.08 (ddd, J1 =25.1, J 2=12.6, J=3.3, 1H), 1.22
 1.32 (in, 1H), 1.35-1.48 (in, 4H), 1.60 (dd, Jj=39.0, J2=12.6, 2H), 2.02 (dt, J=13.2,
J 2=4.0, IH), 2.17 (d, J=11.9, IH), 2.34 (t, J=13.5, 2H), 2.75-2.80 (in, 1H), 2.88 (dd,
J,=18.8, J 2=5.3, 1H), 3.01 (d, J=18.5, 1H), 3.15 (s, 1H), 6.73 (d, J=8.6, IH), 6.81 (s, 1H),
 7.05 (d, J=8.6, 1H). HPLC (method: 150 mm C18-RP column - gradient method 5
 95% ACN; Wavelength: 254 nm): retention time: 6.74 min. MS (M+H'): 278.4.
  [1571   (+)-3-d 3-methoxy-17-methyl-(9a,]3a,14a)-morphinan (Compound 100). To a
 reaction vessel fit with a stir bar, was added THF (5 mL) and LAH (91 mg, 2.4 mmol).
 The slurry was cooled to 0 'C followed by the addition of product 14 (R=CD3, 397 mg,
  1.2 mmol) dissolved in THF (5 mL). The reaction mixture was stirred under an
  atmosphere of N2 for 2 h at which time tIc (20% ethylacetate/hexane) showed the reaction
  to be complete. The mixture was then quenched by the addition of magnesium sulfate
  heptahydrate until cessation of gas evolution. Ethyl ether (25 mL) was added to the flask,
  the slurry was filtered, and the organic filtrate was concentrated on a rotary evaporator to
  an oil. The crude product was purified via automated flash column chromatography
  (CH 30H with 1%NH 4 0H / CHCl 3, 0-10%), concentrated on a rotary evaporator, then
  dissolved in a saturated solution of HBr in dioxane. The mixture was stirred for 10 min,
  was concentrated on a rotary evaporator, then dried under vacuum for 3 d to yield 200 mg
  of Compound 100.
   [158]   'H-NMR (300 MHz, CDCl-): 6 1.07-1.16 (in, iH), 1.22-1.32 (in, lH), 1.34-1.46
   (in, 4H), 1.59 (dd, J=41.0, J2=12.6, 2H), 1.94 (t, J=12.6, 1H), 2.06 (d, J= 12.9, 1H), 2.26
   (t, J=12.6, 1H), 2.36 (d, J=13.2, 1H), 2.53 (s, 3H), 2.67 (d, J=12.2, 1H), 2.78 (dd,
                                                  36

JI= 18.8, J2=5.0, 1H), 3.06 (d, J=19.2, 2H), 6.72 (d, J=8.3, 1H), 6.81 (s, 1H), 7.05 (d, J
=8.6, 1H). HPLC (method: 150 mm C18-RP column - gradient method 5-95% ACN;
Wavelength: 254 nm): retention time: 6.86 min. MS (M+H*): 275.2.
[159]     (+)-3-methoxy-17-d 3-methyl-(9a,13a,14a)-morphinan(Compound 108). To a
reaction vessel fit with a stir bar, was added THF (2 mL) and LAD (99 mg, 2.4 mmol).
The slurry was cooled to 0 'C followed by the gradual addition of carbamate 12 (195 mg,
6.0 mmol) dissolved in THF (3 mL). The reaction mixture was stirred under an
 atmosphere of N2 for 10 min at which time tlc (20% ethylacetate/hexane) showed the
reaction to be complete. The mixture was then quenched by the addition of magnesium
 sulfate heptahydrate until cessation of gas evolution. The resulting solid was washed
 with ethyl ether, filtered, and the organic filtrate was concentrated on a rotary evaporator
 to an oil. The crude product was purified via automated flash column chromatography
 (CH 30H with 1% NH 40H / CHCl3, 90%), concentrated on a rotary evaporator, and then
 dissolved in a saturated solution of HBr in dioxane. The mixture was stirred for 10 min,
 and then concentrated on a rotary evaporator to yield 74 mg of product.
  [1601    'H-NMR (300 MHz, CDCl 3 ): 5 0.96 (ddd, J=25.4, J2=12.7, J3=3.9, IH), 1.08
  1.18 (m, 1H), 1.24-1.36 (m, 2H), 1.43-1.52 (m, 3H), 1.62 (d, J=12.7, IH), 1.78 (td,
 JI=13.7, J 2=4.4, 1H), 1.96 (d, J=12.2, 1H), 2.41-2.47 (in, 2H), 2.97 (dd, J,=19.5, J 2=5.9,
  1H), 3.10-3.18 (m, 2H), 3.60-3.63 (m, 1H), 3.73 (s, 3H), 6.81-6.84 (in, 2H), 7.13 (d, J
  =9.3, 1H), 9.60 (bs, I H). HPLC (method: 150 mm C18-RP column - gradient method
  5-95% ACN; Wavelength: 280 nm): retention time: 6.91 min. MS (M+H*): 275.7.
   [161]    Example 2. Microsomal Assays.
   [162]    Certain in vitro liver metabolism studies have been described previously in the
  following references, each of which is incorporated herein in their entirety: Obach, RS
  Drug Metab Disp 1999, 27:1350; Houston, JB et al, Drug Metab Rev 1997, 29:891;
   Houston, JB Biochem Pharmacol 1994, 47:1469; Iwatsubo, T et al, Pharmacol Ther
   1997, 73:147; and Lave, T et al, Pharm Res 1997, 14:152.
   [1631    The objectives of this study were to determine the metabolic stability of the test
   compounds in pooled human and chimpanzee liver microsomal incubations. Samples of
   the test compounds, exposed to pooled human or chimp liver microsomes, were analyzed
                                                  37

using HPLC-MS (or MS/MS) detection. For determining metabolic stability, multiple
reaction monitoring (MRM) was used to measure the disappearance of the test
compounds.
 [1641    Experimental Procedures:Human liver and Cynomolgus monkey liver
microsomes were obtained from XenoTech, LLC (Lenexa, KS). The incubation mixtures
were prepared as follows:
 Reaction Mixture Composition
 Liver Microsomes                                  0.5, 1.0 or 2.0 mg/mL
 NADPH                                            I1mM
 Potassium Phosphate, pH 7.4                       100 mM
 Magnesium Chloride                                10 mM
 Test Compound (Dextromethorphan,                  0.10, 0.25, 1 ptM
 Compound 100, Compound 101,
 Compound 108)
  [1651   Incubation of Test Compounds with Liver Microsomes: The reaction mixture,
  minus cofactors, was prepared. An aliquot of the reaction mixture (without cofactors)
  was incubated in a shaking water bath at 37 'C for 3 minutes. Another aliquot of the
  reaction mixture was prepared as the negative control. The test compound was added
  into both the reaction mixture and the negative control at a final concentration of 0.10,
  0.25, or 1 tM. An aliquot of the reaction mixture was prepared as a blank control, by the
  addition of plain organic solvent (no test compound is added). The reaction was initiated
  by the addition of cofactors (not added to the negative controls), and then incubated in a
   shaking water bath at 37 'C. Aliquots (200 gL) were withdrawn in triplicate at multiple
   time points and combined with 800 pL of ice-cold 50/50 acetonitrile/dH 20 to terminate
   the reaction. The positive controls, testosterone and propranolol, as well as
   dextromethorphan, were each run simultaneously with the test compounds in separate
   reactions.
    [1661  All samples were analyzed using LC-MS (or MS/MS). An LC-MRM-MS/MS
   method is used for metabolic stability. For testing in cynomolgus monkey liver
    microsomes, a final concentration of 1 M of each compound and 0.5 mg/mL of
    microsomes were used. Figure 1 demonstrates that Compound 100 and Compound 101
                                                  38

had greater stability than dextromethorphan in monkey liver microsomes. The stability
of Compound 108 in monkey liver microsomes was similar to that of dextromethorphan.
[167] Similar results were obtained using human liver microsomes. Figure 2
demonstrates that approximately 45% of Compound 101 and 42% of Compound 100
remained intact after 30 minutes of incubation or 0.25ptM of each compound with 2
mg/mL human liver microsomes. In contrast, only about 33% of dextromethorphan was
still intact after the same period of time. Compound 108 demonstrated similar stability to
 dextromethorphan.
 [168]    The relative stability of Compounds 100 and 101 as compared to
 dextromethorphan in human liver microsomes remained the same even at a low (0.1 pM)
 concentration of compound (data not shown). Decreasing the concentration of human
 liver microsomes slows down the metabolism of all test compounds. After a 30 minute
 exposure to 0.5 mg/mL approximately 75% of Compound 101 and 71% of Compound
  100 remained intact. Dextromethorphan showed a higher lability with only about 65%
 remaining after the 30 minute incubation.
  [169]   Example 3: Evaluation of Metabolic Stability in CYP2D6 SUPERSOMESTM.
  [1701   Human CYP2D6 + P450 Reductase SUPERSOMESTM were purchased from
  GenTest (Woburn, MA, USA). A 1.0 mL reaction mixture containing 25 pmole of
  SUPERSOMES TM, 2.0mM NADPH, 3.0mM MgCl, and 0.1p M of various compounds of
  Formula I (Compounds 100, 101, and 108) in 100mM potassium phosphate buffer (pH
  7.4) was incubated at 37 'C in triplicate. Positive controls contained 0.1 [tM
   dextromethorphan instead of a compound of Formula I. Negative controls used Control
   Insect Cell Cytosol (insect cell microsomes that lacked any human metabolic enzyme)
   purchased from GenTest (Woburn, MA, USA). Aliquots (50 pL) were removed from
   each sample and placed in wells of a multi-well plate at 0, 2, 5, 7, 12, 20, and 30 minutes
   and to each was added 50pL of ice cold acetonitrile with 3p.M haloperidol as an internal
   standard to stop the reaction.
    [171]  Plates containing the removed aliquots were then placed in -20 'C freezer for 15
   minutes to cool. After cooling, 100 tL of deionized water was added to all wells in the
   plate. Plates were then spun in the centrifuge for 10 minutes at 3000 rpm. A portion of
                                                39

the supernatant (100 [IL) was then removed, placed in a new plate and analyzed using
Mass Spectrometry.
[172]     Figure 3 shows the results of the Supersomes experiment. Once again
Compounds 100 and 101 were much more stable to metabolism than dextromethorphan
or Compound 108. Approximately 47% of Compound 101 and 40% of Compound 100
                                                                          TM
remained intact after a 30 minute incubation with the 2D6 Supersomes . In contrast, no
 intact dextromethorphan could be detected at the 20 minute time point.
 [173]    The above results all suggest that the presence of deuterium at the R' position in
 the compounds of this disclosure imparts greater metabolic stability to the compound as
 compared to dextromethorphan.
  [174]   Example 4: Evaluation Of Pharmacokinetics Of Test Articles C20148, and
  C10003 In Cynomolgus Monkeys Following Oral Administration in Combination
  with Quinidine
  [1751    OBJECTIVE-The objective of this study was to collect plasma samples from
  Cynomolgus Monkeys at various time points following oral administration of test articles
  in combination. The samples were used for the determination of plasma drug levels by
  LC/MS/MS for estimating pharmacokinetic parameters. This study was conducted in
   accordance with Shanghai Medicilon Inc. Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs).         The
   Sponsor provided the test compounds and internal standard compound.
   [1761 Animal Husbandry-The animals used were cynomolgus monkeys, who at the
   age of initiation of treatment, were 3-4 years of age, and weighed between 4-6 kg.
   [1771 Environment and Acclimation-Environmental controls for the animal room
   were set to maintain a temperature of 23 + 2 'C, humidity of 50 - 70%, and a 12-hour
   light/12-hour dark cycle. As needed, the 12-hour dark cycle was temporarily interrupted
   to accommodate study procedures. Animals were previously acclimated to study
   procedures prior to initial dose administration.
    [1781  Food and Water-SL-M1 (Shanghai Shilin Biotech Incorporation) were provided
   ad libitum throughout the in-life portion of the study. Water was available ad libitum.
    There were no known contaminants in the food or water that interfered with this study.
                                                  40

[179]     Animal Selection and Fasting-Animals to be used on test were selected based on
overall health and acclimation to caging. Oral arm was be fasted overnight.
[180] Justification-Studies using common mammalian laboratory animals such as
mice, rats, dogs, and monkeys are essential and routinely used for the evaluation of the
pharmacokinetic characteristics of new chemical entities. The number of animals in each
 group is the minimum number needed for the assessment of variability between test
 animals.
 [1811    EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN-Four Cynomolgus Monkeys were used in this
 study.
              No of
            Animals                                                        Treatment
                 Female                 Dose Level*    Dose Conc*               Dose Volume       vehicle           Dosing        Collect
                                          (mg/kg)         (mg/mL)                   (mL/kg)                          Route
                                           I each            leach
                             Dexa       compound         compound                      1 each         H20
                        &Compound 101      4 each           4 each                 compound                        PO, BID       Plasma,
                                                                                                                compound
            1       0                                    2compound
                                                                1, 0                                                 (12 H)        urine
                                                                                    l(Vehicle
                           Quinidine           0                 051                           DM. :ETOH.PG
                                                        .................................     ......... -......... ..       ...........
                              Dexa          l each           I each                        1          H20
                         &Compound 101   compound         compound                                                  PO BID        Plasma,
      2      1       0                                                                                               (12 H)         urine
                            Quinidine         0.5               05                        1    DMI:ETOH PG
                                             1 each           I each
                             zDexa                                                                    H20
                                                                                                                                  Plasma,
                         &Compound 101   compound          compound                                                 PG BID
      4      1       0         - - - -    - - - -                                                                    (12 H)         urine
                            Quinidine          165               165                       1    DMI:ETOH:PG
                        a       trh m
                              Dex            1 each z         I eachxo                     I   z       H20        z
   *  Each test article will be dissolved at a concentration of 2 mg/mL and dosed at 1 mg/kg
   **The formulation will consist of: 10% dimethyl isosorbide, 15% ethanol, 35%
   propylene glycol (v:v:v) in D5W
    [182]   Dosing Preparation and Administration-Compound 101 and dextromethorphan
   were each dissolved in water up to 2 mg/mL. The combination dose was prepared by
                                                     41

mixing both by 1:1 to yield a concentration of 1 mg/mL for each compound. The
concentration of each compound in the dosing solution was re-confirmed by HPLC.
Quinidine was prepared in DMI : EtOH : PG : water (10:15:35:40, v/v/v/v) at 3 mg/mL
and dosed separately. The doses were given BID orally with an interval of 12 hours.
Dosing volume of the dextromethorphan/Compound 100 mixture was 1 mL/kg. Dosing
volume of Quinidine was determined based on the dose each animal was getting. Dose
volumes for each test animal was determined based on individual body weight. Body
weights were taken on each day of dose administration and were be recorded.
 (1831    Blood Sample Collection-Blood sampling tOOK place on Day 6 after oral
administration of the last dose (Dose 11). Blood (approximately 1 mL) was collected via
femoral vein into tubes containing sodium heparin anticoagulant at 0.25, 0.5, 1, 1.5, 2,
                                                                                     0C
 3.5, 6 and 8 hours. The plasma was separated via centrifugation and stored in -20
before analysis.
 [1841    Urine Sample Collection-Urine samples in between two doses on Day 5 (for 12
 hours between doses 9 and 10) were collected in a plate and quantified by volume. After
 collection, the urine samples were be stored in -20 'C and then shipped back to client.
  [185]   Acceptable Time Ranges-Blood samples for each time point were collected
 within 10% for the time points before the first hour and within ±5 minutes for the time
 points after 1 hour.
  [1861   Sample Handling and Storage-Blood was stored on ice, or at approximately 5 'C
  prior to centrifugation to obtain plasma samples. Centrifugation took place within 30
  minutes of blood collection to harvest plasma (maximum volume). Plasma samples were
  stored on dry ice or at approximately -20 'C until analysis.
  [187]    Antemortem Observations-During dosing and at the times of blood collections,
  animals were observed for any clinically relevant abnormalities including food
  consumption, weight, injection postion, activity, or feces and urine, for example.
   [1881   Sample Analysis-Analyses of plasma samples was conducted by the
  Bioanalytical Group of Medicilon/MPI Inc. The concentrations of both parent
   compounds (dextromethorphan and Compound 100) and 2 metabolites (Dextrorphan and
   Dextrorphan-D3) in plasma & urine were determined using a high performance liquid
   chromatography/mass spectrometry (HPLC/MS/MS API 3000) method. Dilution using
                                               42

cynomolgus monkey plasma blank were applied if the sample concentration was over the
ULOQ of calibration standard curve. The data acquisition and control system was created
using Analyst 1.4 software from ABI Inc.
[1891    The results are summarized in Figures 4, 5, and 6. Figure 4 depicts the plasma
levels of Compound 101 and deuterated dextrorophan compared to dextromethorphan
and dextrorphan without quinidine co-administration. Figure 4 demonstrates that higher
plasma concentration levels of Compound 101 are observed compared to
dextromethorphan when Compound 101 and dextromethophan are administered to
monkeys at the same dose (4 mg). Figure 4 also shows that metabolism of Compound
 101 to deuterated dextrorphan isotopologues is reduced relative to metabolism of
dextromethorphan to dextrorphan.       As indicated in the Background section of this
application, the abuse potential of dextromethorphan are more reliably attributable to
dextrorphan, and abuse potential in humans of dextromethorphan metabolism to
 dextromethorphan. Figure 4 thus suggests that the compounds of the disclosure may be
 useful in reducing metabolism of dextromethorphan isotopologues to dextrorphan
 isotopologues, and thus in reducing the abuse potential of such compounds.
 [190]   Figure 5 summarizes codosing data. The results indicate that Compound 101
 plasma levels are greater than dextromethorphan plasma levels when each compound is
 co administered with the same amount of quindine. The relative effect of increasing
 quinidiine dose has a greater effect on the plasma level of Compound 101 than it has on
 dextromethorphan.
  [1911   Figure 6 depicts urine levels of Compound 101, and dextromethorphan, as well as
 deuterated dextrorphan isotopologues and dextrorphan as a function of quinidine
  concentration in monkeys. Compound 101 and dextromethorphan levels are affected by
  increasing quinidine concentration. At the same quinidine concentration, there is less
  Compound 101 in the urine than dextromethorphan. Quinidine concentration also affects
  metabolite levels in the urine. The data indicate that there is less deuterated dextrorphan
  isotopologues than dextrorphan in the urine for a given quinidine concentration.
   [1921  Example 5: Radioligand Assay Data Measuring Binding of Compounds to
  NMDA (PCP) and the Sigma-1 Receptor
                                                43

[1931   The assays were run by MDS Pharma Services according to the following
references, the contents of which are incorporated herein: Siegel BW, Sreekrishna K and
Baron BM (1996) Binding of the radiolabeled glycine site antagonist [3H]MDS105,519
to homomeric NMDA-NRla receptors. Eur J Pharmacol. 312(3):357-365; Goldman ME,
Jacobson AE, Rice KC and Paul SM (1985); and Differentiation of [.H] phencyclidine
and (+)-[.H]SKF-10047 binding sites in rat cerebral cortex. FEBS Lett. 190:333-336.
Ganapathy ME, Prasad PD, Huang W, Seth P, Leibach FH and Ganapathy V (1999)
 Molecular and ligand-binding characterization of the s-receptor in the Jurkat human T
 lymphocyte cell line. J Pharmacol Exp Ther. 289: 251-260.
 [194]  Assay Methods:
        Glutamate, NMDA, Glycine
         Source:                       Wistar rat cerebral cortex
         Ligand:                       0.33 nM [3H] MDL-105519
        Vehicle:                        1% DMSO
         Incubation Time/Temp:         30 minutes @ 4 0C
         Incubation Buffer:             50 mM HEPES, pH 7.7
         Non-specific   Ligand:         10 pM MDL-105519
         KD:                            6 nM *
         BMAX:                          3.7 pmole/mg Protein*
         Specific Binding:              85% *
         Quantitation Method:           Radioligand Binding
         Significance Criteria:         > 50% of max stimulation or inhibition
          Glutamate, NMDA, Phencyclidine
          Source:                       Wistar rat cerebral cortex
          Ligand:                       4 nM [3H] TCP
          Vehicle:                       1% DMSO
          Incubation  Time/Temp:        45  minutes @ 25 0C
          Incubation Buffer:             10 mM Tris-HCI, pH 7.4
          Non-specific Ligand:           1 pMv\Dizolcipine ((+)-MK-801)
          KD:                            8.4 nM *
          BMAX:                          0.78 pmole/mg Protein*
           Specific Binding:             94% *
           Quantitation Method:          Radioligand Binding
           Significance Criteria:        > 50% of max stimulation or inhibition
           Sigma al
           Source:                       Human Jurkat cells
           Ligand:                       8 nM [3H] Haloperidol
                                               44

         Vehicle:                        1% DMSO
         Incubation Time/Temp:           4 hours @ 25 'C
         Incubation Buffer:              5 mM Potassium Phosphate, pH 7.5
         Non-specific Ligand:            10 pM Haloperidol
         KD:                             5.8 nM *
         BMAX:                           0.71 pmole/mg Protein*
         Specific Binding:               80% *
         Quantitation Method:            Radioligand Binding
         Significance Criteria:          > 50% of max stimulation or inhibition
          *Historical Value
[195]     Results.
[1961     The binding results are summarized in the following table for Compound 101
compared to dextromethorphan.
                                 Dextromethorphan                  Compound 101
NMDA (PCP)                       2.79 ± 0.39 uM                    3.46 ± 0.34 uM
Sigma a1                         3.55 ± 0.19 uM                    2.02 + 0.24 uM
 [197]    Without further description, it is believed that one of ordinary skill in the art can,
using the preceding description and the illustrative examples, make and utilize the
compounds of the present disclosure and practice the claimed methods. It should be
understood that the foregoing discussion and examples merely present a detailed
 description of certain preferred embodiments. It will be apparent to those of ordinary
 skill in the art that various modifications and equivalents can be made without departing
 from the spirit and scope of the disclosure. All the patents, journal articles and other
 documents discussed or cited above are herein incorporated by reference.
                                                  45

                                                 46
Forms of the Invention
      1.     A compound of formula 1:
                                                    I?'
                                    RI--                  (I),
or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, wherein:
       R' is selected from CH3, CH 2D, CHD2, CD 3, CHF2, and CF 3; and
       R2 is selected from CH3, CH 2D, CHD 2 , and CD3;
provided that when R' is CH3, then Rs is not CH3 ;
for use in treating a patient suffering from or susceptible to diabetic neuropathic pain.
      2.     The compound or pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof of form 1, wherein R' is
CD3 and R2 is CH3.
      3.     The compound or pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof of form 1, wherein R is
CD3 and R2 is not CH3.
      4.     The compound or pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof ofany ofthe preceding
fonns, wherein any atom not designated as deuterium is present at its natural isotopic abundance.
      5.     A pyrogen-free composition comprising the compound or pharmaceutically
acceptable salt thereof of any of the preceding fonns and an acceptable carrier.
      6.     The composition of form 5 formulated for pharmaceutical administration and
wherein the carrier is a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.
      7.     The composition of form 5 or 6, father comprising a second therapeutic agent
selected from quinidine, quinidine sulfate, oxycodone, and gabapentin.
      8.     The composition of form 7, wherein the second therapeutic agent is quinidine sulfate.
      9.     Separate dosage forms of:
      (i)    a compound, pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof or composition according to
      any of forms 1-6; and
      (ii)   a second therapeutic agent selected from quinidine, quinidine sulfate, oxycodone,
      and gabapentin,

                                                47
      wherein said compound, pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof or composition and
second therapeutic agent are associated with one another.
      10.   Separate dosage forms according to form 9, wherein said second therapeutic agent is
quinidine sulfate.
      11.  A package comprising separate dosage forms according to form 9 or 10.
      12.   Separate dosage forms or a package according to any of forms 9-11, wherein said
second agent is for simultaneous administration.
      13.   Separate dosage forms or a package according to any of forms 9-11, wherein said
second agent is for separate administration.
      14.   The composition, separate dosage forms or package according to any of forms 7-13,
comprising 10-60 mg of the compound of Formula I or pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof,
and 2.5-30 mg quinidine.
      15.   The use of a compound of formula I according to any one of forms I to 4 in the
manufacture of a medicament for the treatment of diabetic neuropathic pain.
      16.   The use of form 15, together with a second therapeutic agent selected from quinidine,
quinidine sulfate, oxycodone, and gabapentin.
17.   The use of form 16, wherein the second therapeutic agent is quinidine sulfate.
      18.   The use of form 16 or 17, wherein the dosage amount of the compound of Formula I
or pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof is 10-60 mg, and the dosage amount of quinidine is
2.5-30 mg.

                                                  48
      19.    A compound of formula 1:
                                                     ,R2
or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, wherein:
      R' is CD3 ; and
      R 2 is CH 3;
for use in treating a subject suffering from or susceptible to a disease or condition
selected from emotional lability; pseudobulbar affect; autism; neurological disorders;
neurodegenerative diseases; brain injury; disturbances of consciousness disorders;
cardiovascular diseases; glaucoma; tardive dyskinesia; diabetic neuropathy; retinopathik
diseases; diseases or disorders caused by homocysteine-induced apoptosis; diseases or
disorders caused by elevated levels of homocysteine; chronic pain; intractable pain;
neuropathic pain sympathetically mediated pain; pain associated with gastrointestinal
dysfunction; epileptic seizures; tinnitus; sexual dysfunction; intractable coughing;
                                                                                         to
dermatitis; addiction disorders; Rett syndrome (RTT); voice disorders due
uncontrolled laryngeal muscle spasms; methotrexate neurotoxicity; and fatigue caused
by cancer.
       20.   The compound or pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof of form 19, wherein any
 atom not designated as deuterium is present at its natural isotopic abundance.
       21.   A pyrogen-free composition comprising the compound or pharmaceutically
 acceptable salt thereof of any of the preceding forms and an acceptable carrier.
       22.   The composition of form 21 formulated for pharmaceutical administration and
 wherein the carrier is a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.
       23.   A compound, pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof or composition according to
 form 22, for use in treatment of neuropathic pain or pseudobulbar affect.
       24.   A compound, pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof or composition according to
 form 23, for use in treatment of pseudobulbar affect.

                                                  49
        25.     The composition of any of forms 21 to 24, further comprising a second
                                                                                      selected
  therapeutic agent useful in the treatment or prevention of a disease or condition
  from       emotional  lability; pseudobulbar   affect;   autism;  neurological    disorders;
  neurodegenerative diseases; brain injury; disturbances of consciousness disorders;
   cardiovascular diseases; glaucoma; tardive dyskinesia; diabetic neuropathy; retinopathic
                                                                                   diseases or
   diseases; diseases or disorders caused by homocysteine-induced apoptosis;
   disorders caused by elevated levels of homocysteine; chronic pain; intractable pain;
   neuropathic pain; sympathetically mediated pain; pain associated with gastrointestinal
   dysfunction; epileptic seizures; tinnitus; sexual dysfunction; intractable coughing;
   dermatitis; addiction disorders; Rett syndrome (RTT); voice disorders due to
                                                                           and fatigue caused
   uncontrolled laryngeal muscle spasms; methotrexate neurotoxicity;
   by cancer.
  26.   The composition of form 27, wherein the second therapeutic agent is selected from
  quinidine, quinidine sulfate, oxycodone, and gabapentin.
        27.     Separate dosage forms of:
         (i)    a compound, pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof or composition according to
  any of forms 19 to 22; and
       (ii)    a second therapeutic agent useful in the treatment or prevention of a disease
or condition selected from emotional lability; pseudobulbar affect; autism; neurological
disorders; neurodegenerative diseases; brain injury; disturbances of consciousness
disorders; cardiovascular diseases; glaucoma; tardive dyskinesia; diabetic neuropathy;
retinopathic diseases; diseases or disorders caused by homocysteine-induced apoptosis;
diseases or disorders caused by elevated levels of homocysteine; chronic pain;
intractable pain; neuropathic pain; sympathetically mediated pain; pain associated with
gastrointestinal dysfunction; epileptic seizures; tinnitus; sexual dysfunction; intractable
coughing; dermatitis; addiction disorders; Rett syndrome (RT); voice disorders due to
uncontrolled laryngeal muscle spasms; methotrexate neurotoxicity; and fatigue caused
by cancer,
wherein said compound, pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof or composition and
 second therapeutic agent are associated with one another.

                                                  50
       28.   Separate dosage forms according to form 27, wherein said second therapeutic agent
is selected from quinidine, quinidine sulfate, oxycodone, and gabapentin.
       29.   A package comprising separate dosage forms according to form 27 to 28.
       30.   Separate dosage forms or a package according to any of forms 27 to 29, wherein said
second agent is for simultaneous administration.
       31    Separate dosage forms or a package according to any of forms 27 to 29, wherein said
second agent is for separate administration.
       32.   The composition, separate dosage form or package according to any of forms 25 to
3 L for use in treating a subject suffering from or susceptible to diabetic neuropathy, wherein the
second agent is quinidine sulfate.
       33.   The composition, separate dosage forms or package according to any of forms 25 to
32, comprising 10-60 mg of the compound of Formula I or pharmaceutically acceptable salt
thereof, and 25-30 mg quinidine.
       34.   The use ofacompoundofformula 1:
                                                           R2
                                           RMO                 (F)

                                                   51
 or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, wherein:
         R' is CD3 ; and
         R2 is CH3;
 in the manufacture of a medicament for the treatment of a subject suffering from or
  susceptible to a disease or condition selected from emotional lability; pseudobulbar
  affect; autism; neurological disorders; neurodegenerative diseases; brain injury;
  disturbances of consciousness disorders; cardiovascular diseases; glaucoma; tardive
  dyskinesia; diabetic neuropathy; retinopathic diseases; diseases or disorders caused by
  homocysteine-induced apoptosis; diseases or disorders caused by elevated levels of
  homocysteine; chronic pain; intractable pain; neuropathic pain; sympathetically
  mediated pain; pain associated with gastrointestinal dysfunction; epileptic seizures;
  tinnitus; sexual dysfunction; intractable coughing; dermatitis; addiction disorders; Rett
   syndrome (RTT); voice disorders due to uncontrolled laryngeal muscle spasms;
   methotrexate neurotoxicity; and fatigue caused by cancer.
         35.   The use of form 34, wherein any atom not designated as deuterium is present at its
  natural isotopic abundance.
         36.   The use according to forms 34 or 35, wherein the disease or condition is neuropathic
  pain or pseudobulbar affect.
         37.   The use according to form 36, wherein the disease or condition is pseudobulbar
  affect.
         38.   The use of any of forms 34 to 37, together with a second therapeutic agent
useful in the treatment or prevention of a disease or condition selected from emotional
lability; pseudobulbar affect; autism; neurological disorders; neurodogenerative
diseases; brain injury; disturbances of consciousness disorders; cardiovascular diseases;
glaucoma; tardive dyskinesia; diabetic neuropathy; retinopathic diseases; diseases or
disorders caused by homocysteine-induced apoptosis; diseases or disorders caused by

                                                 52
elevated levels of homocysteine; chronic pain; intractable pain; neuropathic pain;
sympathetically mediated pain; pain associated with gastrointestinal dysfunction;
epileptic seizures; tinnitus; sexual dysfunction;         intractable coughing; dermatitis;
addiction disorders; Rett syndrome (RTT); voice disorders due to uncontrolled
laryngeal muscle spasms; methotrexate neurotoxicity; and fatigue caused by cancer.
        39.  The use of form 38, wherein the second therapeutic agent is selected from quinidine,
 quinidine sulfate, oxycodone, and gabapentin.
       40.   The use of form 38 or 39, wherein the second agent is qunidine, and wherein the
 dosage amount of the compound of Formula I or pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof is 10
 60 mg, and the dosage amount of qunidine is 2.5-30 mg.
       41.   A method for treatment of a patient suffering from or susceptible to diabetic
 neuropathic pain, the method comprising administration to said patient of a compound of
 Formula I according to any one of forms 1 to 4 or a composition according to any one of forms 5
 to 8 or dosage forms or a package according to any one of forms 9 to 13.
42.       A method for the treatment of a subject suffering from or susceptible to a disease
or condition selected from emotional lability; pseudobulbar affect; autism; neurological
disorders; neurodegenerative diseases; brain injury; disturbances of consciousness
disorders: cardiovascular diseases; glaucoma; tardive dyskine sia; diabetic neuropathy;
retinopathic diseases; diseases or disorders caused by homocysteine-induced apoptosis;
diseases or disorders caused by elevated levels of homocysteine; chronic pain; intractable
pain; neuropathic pain; sympathetically mediated pain; pain associated with
gastrointestinal dysfunction; epileptic seizures; tinnitus; sexual dysfunction; intractable
coughing; dernatitis; addiction disorders: Rett syndrome (RTT); voice disorders due to
uncontrolled laryngeal muscle spasms; niethotrexate neurotoxicity; and fatigue caused by
cancer, comprising administering to the subject a compound according to formula I:

                                                   53
                     /R2
           /     (H
 R'O                     (I), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof. wherein:
            R is CD 3 ; and
            R 2 is CH 3.
       43.     The method of form 1, wherein any atom not designated as deuterium is present at its
natural isotopic abundance.
       44.     The method according to form 1 or 2, wherein the disease or condition is neuropathic
pain or pseudobulbar affect.
       45.     The method according to form 3, wherein the disease or condition is pseudobulbar
affect.
       46.     The method according to form 1 or 2, further comprising administering a second
therapeutic agent useful in the treatment or prevention of a disease or condition selected
from emotional lability; pseudobulbar affect; autism; neurological disorders:
neurodegenerative diseases; brain injury; disturbances of consciousness disorders;
cardiovascular diseases; glaucoma; tardive dyskinesia; diabetic neuropathy; retinopathic
diseases; diseases or disorders caused by hoiocysteine-induced apoptosis; diseases or
disorders caused by elevated levels of homocysteine; chronic pain; intractable pain;
neuropathic pain; sympathetically mediated pain; pain associated with gastrointestinal
dysfunction; epileptic seizures; tinnitus; sexual dysfunction: intractable coughing;
dermatitis; addiction disorders; Rett syndrome (RTT); voice disorders due to uncontrolled
laryngeal muscle spasms: methotrexate neurotoxicity; and fatigue caused by cancer.
       47.     The method of form 5, wherein the second therapeutic agent is selected from
quinidine, quinidine sulfate, oxycodone, and gabapentin.
       48.     Separate dosage forms of

                                                     54
  (i)       a compound of formula I:
                     /R2
                 Ir\H
   SR-O                  (I), or a phannaceutically acceptable salt thereof, wherein:
            R' is CD 3. and
            R 2 isCH3:
            or a composition comprising a compound of formula I or pharmaceutically
  acceptable salt thereof fonnulated for phanaceutical administration and a
  pharmaceutically acceptable carrier; and
  (ii)      a second therapeutic agent useful in the treatment or prevention of a disease or
  condition selected from emotional lability; pseudobulbar affect; autism; neurological
  disorders: neurodegenerative diseases: brain injury; disturbances of consciousness
  disorders: cardiovascular diseases: glaucoma: tardive dyskinesia: diabetic neuropathy.
  retinopathic diseases: diseases or disorders caused by homocysteine-induced apoptosis;
  diseases or disorders caused by elevated levels of homocysteine: chronic pain: intractable
  pain; neuropathic pain; sympathetically mediated pain; pain associated with
  gastrointestinal dysfunction; epileptic seizures: tinnitus; sexual dysfunction; intractable
  coughing: dermatitis: addiction disorders: Rett syndrome (RTT); voice disorders due to
  uncontrolled laryngeal muscle spasms; methotrexate nernotoxicity: and fatigue caused by
  cancer,
  wherein said compound, phannaceutically acceptable salt thereof or composition and
  second therapeutic agent are associated with one another.
       49.     The separate dosage forms of form 7, wherein any atom not designated as deuterium
is present at its natural isotopic abundance in the compound or pharmaceutically acceptable salt
thereof.
        50.    Separate dosage forms according to form 7, wherein the second therapeutic agent is
selected from quinidine, quinidine sulfate, oxycodone, and gahapentin.
        51.    Separate dosage forms according to form 7, wherein the second agent is quinidine
sulfate.
        52.    Separate dosage forms according to form 7 comprising 10-60 mg of the compound of
Formula I or pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, and 2.5-30 mg quinidine.

       EDITORIAL NOTE
          <removed-apn>
There are 2 pages in claims only.

                                                   55
CLAIMS
           1. A compound of formula I
                             R2
            Ri(1)
          or a phanmaceutically acceptable salt thereof. wherein:
          Ri is selected from CH3 CH 2D, CHD 2. CD3, CHF, and
          CF3;: and
          R2 is selected from CH 3. CH 2D. C1)2, and CD3:
          provided that when R1 is CH3, then R2 is not CH3.
          2. The compound of claim 1, wherein R is CD3 and R2 is CH3
          3. The compound of claim 1, wherein R is CD3 , and R2 is not CH3.
          4. The compound of any one of claims 1-3. wherein any atom not designated as
          deuterium is present at its natural isotopic abundance.
          5. A composition comprising a compound of claim 1 or a pharmaceutically acceptable
  salt thereof.
          6. A composition comprising a compound of claim 1 or a pharmaceutically acceptable
  salt thereof and a second therapeutic agent selected from quinidine, quinidine sulfate. oxycodone,
  and gabapentin.
          7. The composition of claim 6. wherein the second therapeutic agent is quinidine sulfate.
          8. The composition of claim 6 or 7. wherein the dosage amount of the compound of
  Formula I or pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof is 10-60 mg, and the dosage amount of
  quinidine is 2.5-30 mg.

         9. The composition of claim 5 or 6, wherein in the compound of formula I or
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, R1 is CD 3, and R 2 is CH 3 .
         10. The composition of claim 5 or 6, wherein in the compound of formula I or
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, R' is CD 3, and R 2 is not CH 3 .
         11. Use of the compound of claim 1 or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof in the
manufacture of a medicament for treating Alzheimer's disease or ischemic events.
         12. Use of the compound of claim 1 or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof in the
manufacture of a medicament for inhibiting (i) neurotransmitters from activating receptors in the
brain, (ii) the uptake of dopamine and serotonin, or (iii) the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor.
         13. Use of the compound of claim 1 or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof in the
manufacture of a medicament for activating the sigma-I receptor or the sigma-2 receptor.
         14. Use of the compound of claim 1 or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof in the
manufacture of a medicament for inhibiting (i) the alpha-3 beta-4 nicotinic receptor, (ii) the
glutamate receptor, (iii) the dopamine receptor, or (iv) the serotonin receptor.
                                      Concert Pharmaceuticals Inc.
                          Patent Attorneys for the Applicant/Nominated Person
                                        SPRUSON & FERGUSON

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
