                                             Abstract
A prosthesis includes an enclosure. A flexible support structure is situated at least partially within
the enclosure and is removable therefrom. The flexible support structure occupies a total
circumferential area and has a stiffness that is sufficient to allow the prosthesis to assume a
deployed (e.g., generally planar) configuration. A tab is adjoined with the flexible support structure
and extends external to the enclosure. Pulling the tab directionally away from the prosthesis causes
a reconfiguration of the flexible support structure sufficient to enable the flexible support structure
to pass through an opening in the prosthesis having a total circumferential area that is less than the
total circumferential area occupied by the flexible support structure when the prosthesis is in the
deployed (e.g., generally planar) configuration, enabling removal of the flexible support structure
from the enclosure.

 WO 2013/148839                                                                PCT/US2013/034107
                                                   -1
        REMOVABLE DEPLOYMENT DEVICE, SYSTEM, AND METHOD FOR
                                IMPLANTABLE PROSTHESES
     RELATED APPLICATION
 5
             This application claims priority to, and the benefit of, co-pending United
     States Provisional Application No. 61/616,150, filed March 27, 2012, for all subject
     matter common to both applications. The disclosure of said provisional application is
     hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.
10
     FIELD OF THE INVENTION
             The present invention relates to deployment devices, systems, and methods
    suitable for medical applications, such as open and laparoscopic ventral hernia repairs
15  and small hernia repair (e.g., repair of umbilical or epigastric defects). More
    particularly, the present invention relates to a removable deployment device
    configured to fit within an enclosure of a prosthesis and serve as a surgical aid in the
    deployment, positioning, and fixation of the prosthesis.
20

 WO 2013/148839                                                                  PCT/US2013/034107
                                                    -2
     BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
              Prostheses often are implanted during surgical or other medical procedures to
     aid in repair of defects, reinforcement of a target site, delivery of therapeutic, or to
 5   serve other medical purposes. For example, hernia patches or other similar prostheses
     are commonly implanted using open or laparoscopic techniques. Such techniques can
     be useful in treating central hernias as well as small hernias, e.g., umbilical or
     epigastral defects.
10           For instance, open procedures are performed by making a single incision
    through which a hernia patch is inserted for implantation to the target site. Typically,
    the hernia patch is rolled up or otherwise compacted prior to insertion so as to enable
    greater ease of passage through the single incision and to the site of the defect. Once
    the hernia patch is appropriately positioned within the body (e.g., in the abdominal
15  cavity, in the pre-peritoneal space, etc.), it can be unfolded, unrolled, un-collapsed, or
    otherwise caused to assume a deployed, generally planar configuration.
             However, deploying the hernia patch in this manner is a cumbersome task that
    requires skillful manual manipulation. Even then, it is often difficult for an adept
20  surgeon given that such a task is performed under several layers of tissue.
    Furthermore, manipulation of the hernia patch can prove to be an even greater
    challenge in the case of laparoscopic procedures, since trocars used to implant the
    hernia patch provide limited range of motion, thereby requiring the surgeon to utilize
    small instruments and graspers.
25
             Several existing mesh patches provide a base layer of mesh with second or
    third layers that form pockets, aprons, or other enclosures intended to aid in the
    manipulation and fixation of the mesh. Furthermore, among these, some mesh
    patches include a rigidified perimeter and/or a rigid ring or frame attached near a
30  perimeter of the patch to cause the patch to assume a deployed, generally planar
    configuration once inserted into a patient. In some instances, the ring or frame is
    constructed from biodegradable material that can be absorbed over time. These
    absorbable rings or frames tend to lack sufficient strength or can potentially interfere

 WO 2013/148839                                                                 PCT/US2013/034107
                                                     -3
      with the intended functionality of the patch, e.g., tissue in-growth or reinforcement.
      In other instances, the ring or frame is formed of non-absorbable material (e.g.,
      polypropylene, PTFE, etc.) and thus remains a permanent structure within the body.
      These patches tend to exhibit greater strength, but consequently may interfere with the
   5  functionality of the patch. For example, permanent rings can form additional contours
      that can create points of tension at particularly undesirable positions on the surface of
      the patch. Still other attempts to facilitate deployment provide a monofilament or
      wire ring that is crimped or sintered in order to adjoin the ends, which create yet
      additional weak points that historically have been associated with higher risk of
 10   failure, health complications, and even death after implantation.
      SUMMARY
               There is a need for a deployment device capable of providing suitable
 15  structural reinforcement to deploy a patch or other prosthesis, without sacrificing
     performance of the patch or prosthesis due to prolonged or permanent occupancy in a
     body. There is also a need for a deployment device that results in less foreign
     material being permanently implanted in the patient. The present invention is directed
     toward further solutions to address this and other needs, in addition to having other
20   desirable characteristics that will be appreciated by one of skill in the art upon reading
     the present specification.
              In accordance with an example embodiment of the present invention, a
     deployment device includes a flexible support structure configured in generally planar
25   form having a total circumferential area in a deployed configuration, and configured
     to independently apply a radial deployment force to achieve the deployed
     configuration. A separation line in the flexible support structure extends in a
     generally serpentine shape from a central portion of the flexible support structure to a
     perimeter of the flexible support structure. A through-cut is disposed at and an
30   innermost end of the separation line at the central portion of the flexible support
     structure. A first strap is coupled with the flexible support structure in the central
     portion and proximal the through-cut. A second strap is coupled with the flexible
     support structure in the central portion and more distal from the through-cut than the

 WO 2013/148839                                                                    PCT/US2013/034107
                                                     -4
      first strap. A pulling force applied to the first strap can initiate separation along the
      separation line beginning at the through-cut. The second strap is configured and
     positioned in such a way that a pulling force applied to the second strap does not
      initiate separation along the separation line beginning at the through-cut, thereby
  5  making the second strap a useful positioning tool for positioning the flexible support
     structure.
               In accordance with aspects of the present invention, the flexible support
     structure can be configured to be removed through an opening in a prosthesis having a
 10  total circumferential area that is less than the total circumferential area occupied by
     the flexible support structure when in the deployed configuration. The deployment
     device can include the separation line, and the deployment device further can further
     include a removable connector piece coupling the portions of the flexible support
     structure across the separation line. An additional strap can be coupled to the
 15  removable connector piece for removing the removable connector piece.
               In accordance with aspects of the present invention, the deployment device
     can include the separation line, wherein the separation line includes a plurality of
     through-holes or a continuous strip of material. The deployment device can include
20   the separation line in the flexible support structure. The separation line can include an
     inner portion having a first thickness and an outer portion having a second thickness,
     the first thickness being greater than the second thickness.
               In accordance with aspects of the present invention, the first strap and the
25  second strap can be coupled together at ends proximal the flexible support structure.
    The first strap and the second strap can be a continuous elongate strap. The first strap
    and the second strap can be adapted to lock together at ends distal from the flexible
    support structure forming a positioning tool suitable for positioning the device. The
    first strap and the second strap can be adapted to lock together at locations distal from
30  the flexible support structure, and when in a locked configuration form a positioning
    tool for positioning the device, and when in an unlocked configuration form a removal
    tool enable the pulling force applied to the first strap to initiate the separation along
    the separation line beginning at the through-cut.

WO 2013/148839                                                                 PCT/US2013/034107
                                                    -5
             In accordance with aspects of the present invention, the total circumferential
     area of the flexible support structure configured in generally planar form in the
     deployed configuration can be sized and dimensioned to fit within and completely
  5 expand and deploy a prosthesis into which the device is positioned, the prosthesis
     comprising a top layer and a bottom layer coupled together and forming an enclosure
    therebetween into which the device is configured for placement. Separation along the
    separation line can terminate at a ring configuration formed by the outer perimeter of
    the flexible support structure. A reinforcing lip can be disposed along the separation
 10  line.
             In accordance with an embodiment of the present invention, a system includes
    a prosthesis comprising a top layer and a bottom layer coupled together and forming
    an enclosure therebetween, the top layer having an aperture opening to the enclosure,
15  wherein a circumferential area of the aperture is less than a circumferential area of the
    top layer in which the aperture is disposed. A deployment device is removably
    disposed within the enclosure. The deployment device includes a flexible support
    structure configured in generally planar form having a total circumferential area in a
    deployed configuration, and configured to independently apply a radial deployment
20  force to achieve the deployed configuration when positioned within the enclosure of
    the prosthesis. A separation line in the flexible support structure extends in a
    generally serpentine shape from a central portion of the flexible support structure to a
    perimeter of the flexible support structure. A first strap coupled with the flexible
    support structure in the central portion extends through the aperture and external to
25  the prosthesis. A second strap coupled with the flexible support structure in the
    central portion extends through the aperture and external to the prosthesis. A pulling
    force applied to the first strap can initiate separation along the separation line. The
    second strap can be positioned in such a way that a pulling force applied to the second
    strap does not initiate separation along the separation line. Wherein if a pulling force
30  is applied to the first strap, separation occurs along the separation line the flexible
    support structure reconfigures from the generally planar form to an elongate
    continuous strip and continued pulling force causes the elongate continuous strip to

 WO 2013/148839                                                                PCT/US2013/034107
                                                   -6
     pass through the aperture in such a way that the flexible support structure is ultimately
     removed from the prosthesis.
              In accordance with aspects of the present invention, a through-cut can be
  5  disposed at and an innermost end of the separation line at the central portion of the
     flexible support structure. The first strap can be disposed proximal the through-cut.
     The second strap can be disposed more distal from the through-cut than the first strap.
             In accordance with aspects of the present invention, portions of the flexible
 10  support structure along the separation line can be coupled together prior to removal
     and are configured to separate for removal of the deployment device from the
     prosthesis. The deployment device can include the separation line, and the separation
     line can include a plurality of through-holes or a continuous strip of material. The
     deployment device further can include a stress relief hole or opening situated in and
15   through the flexible support structure proximate to an inner end of the separation line.
             In accordance with aspects of the present invention, the separation line can
     include an inner portion having a first thickness and an outer portion having a second
     thickness, the first thickness being greater than the second thickness. The first strap
20   and the second strap can be adapted to assume a locked configuration forming a
     positioning tool and an unlocked configuration forming a deployment device removal
    tool. The first strap and the second strap can be coupled together at ends proximal the
     flexible support structure. The first strap and the second strap can be a continuous
    elongate strap.
25
             In accordance with aspects of the present invention, the flexible support
    structure can have an elasticity that generates a force sufficient to cause the prosthesis
    to assume a deployed configuration from a non-deployed configuration. The total
    circumferential area of the flexible support structure configured in generally planar
30  form in the deployed configuration can be sized and dimensioned in such a way that
    the structure fits within and completely expands and deploys the prosthesis,
    Separation along the separation line can terminate at a ring configuration formed by

 WO 2013/148839                                                                  PCT/US2013/034107
                                                     -7
      the outer perimeter of the flexible support structure. A reinforcing lip can be disposed
      along the separation line.
               In accordance with an embodiment of the present invention, a kit includes a
   5  prosthesis comprising a top layer and a bottom layer coupled together and forming an
      enclosure therebetween, the top layer having an aperture opening to the enclosure,
      wherein a circumferential area of the aperture is less than a circumferential area of the
      top layer in which the aperture is disposed. A deployment device provided in the kit
      can include a flexible support structure configured in generally planar form having a
 10   total circumferential area in a deployed configuration, and configured to
      independently apply a radial deployment force to achieve the deployed configuration
      when positioned within the enclosure of the prosthesis. A separation line in the
      flexible support structure extends in a generally serpentine shape from a central
      portion of the flexible support structure to a perimeter of the flexible support
 15  structure. A first strap couples with the flexible support structure in the central
     portion. A second strap couples with the flexible support structure in the central
     portion. A pulling force applied to the first strap initiates separation along the
     separation line. The second strap can be positioned in such a way that a pulling force
     applied to the second strap does not initiate separation along the separation line. If a
20   pulling force is applied to the first strap, separation can occur along the separation line
     the flexible support structure reconfigures from the generally planar form to an
     elongate continuous strip capable of passing through the aperture of the prosthesis.
               In accordance with an example embodiment of the present invention, a
25   prosthesis can be diagrammatically parsable into first, second, third, and fourth
     quadrants having substantially equal areas. The prosthesis can include an enclosure
     extending substantially to a perimeter of the prosthesis at least once in at least two of
     the first, second, third, and fourth quadrants. A flexible support structure can be
     removably disposed at least partially within the enclosure and can occupy a total
30   circumferential area. The flexible support structure can have an elasticity that
     generates a force sufficient to cause the prosthesis to assume a deployed configuration
     from a non-deployed configuration. A tab can be adjoined with the flexible support
     structure and extending external to the enclosure. The flexible support structure can

 WO 2013/148839                                                                PCT/US2013/034107
                                                    -8
     be configured in such a way that pulling the tab directionally away from the prosthesis
     causes a reconfiguration of the flexible support structure sufficient to enable the
     flexible support structure to pass through an opening in the prosthesis having a total
     circumferential area that is less than the total circumferential area occupied by the
  5  flexible support structure when the prosthesis is in the deployed configuration,
     thereby enabling removal of the flexible support structure from the enclosure.
              In accordance with aspects of the present invention, the flexible support
     structure can include at least one flexible sheet member. The flexible sheet member
 10  can include two or more portions that do or do not overlap in a deployed state,
     depending on the embodiment. The flexible support structure can include a flexible
    sheet member having one or more slits or openings disposed therethrough. The one
    or more slits or openings can enable the flexible support structure to reconfigure
    during removal of the flexible support structure into a different shape having a
 15 peripheral edge that delineates a reduced effective diameter. The reconfiguration of
    the flexible support structure during removal of the flexible support structure can
    result in at least one of a reduced length of the flexible support structure, a reduced
    width of the flexible support structure, or a reduced effective diameter of the flexible
    support structure. The flexible support structure can be a flexible framework. The
20  flexible support structure can be configured to apply a generally radially outward
    force on a radially outermost surface of the enclosure.
             In accordance with aspects of the present invention, the tab can extend through
    the opening in the prosthesis. The opening in the prosthesis further can be disposed in
25  and through a layer or surface of the prosthesis, in such a way that the central opening
    provides access to the enclosure. The opening in the prosthesis can be an outer
    opening disposed in and completely through the outer surface of the enclosure. The
    tab can extend through the outer opening in the outer surface of the enclosure. The
    tab can include one or more elongate straps.
30
             In accordance with aspects of the present invention, the flexible support
    structure further can include a separation line extending in a generally serpentine
    shape from a central portion of the flexible support structure to a perimeter of the

 WO 2013/148839                                                                  PCT/US2013/034107
                                                     -9
      flexible support structure. The serpentine separation line can follow along a
      continuous strip of material. The serpentine separation line can include a plurality of
      through-holes. The flexible support structure further can include a stress relief hole
      situated at an inner end of the separation line. The tab can include one or more straps,
  5   and the flexible support structure further can include two or more slots for receiving
      the one or more straps.
              An edge can extend in a generally serpentine shape from a central portion of
     the flexible support structure to a perimeter of the flexible support structure. A
 10   removable connector piece can be coupled to the flexible support structure, and the
      removable connector piece can securely connect portions of the flexible support
     structure abutting along the edge to each other. The removable connector piece can
      include a central portion and one or more elongate portions coupled to the central
     portion, and the flexible support structure further can include a plurality of slits for
 15  receiving the one or more elongate portions. The tab can include one or more straps,
     and the flexible support structure further can include two or more slots for receiving
     the one or more straps. A stress relief hole can be situated at an inner end of the edge.
              In accordance with an example embodiment of the present invention, an
20   implantable prosthesis deployment device can include a flexible support structure for
     removable insertion at least partially within an enclosure of an implantable prosthesis.
     The flexible support structure can occupy a total circumferential area and can have an
     elasticity sufficient to generate a force sufficient to cause the prosthesis to assume a
     deployed configuration when placed in the prosthesis and after being flexed to a non
25   deployed configuration. A tab can be adjoined with the flexible support structure and
     can have a length sufficient to extend external to the enclosure when the flexible
     support structure is in a deployed configuration in the prosthesis, The flexible support
    structure can be configured in such a way that pulling the tab directionally away from
    the prosthesis when the flexible support structure is inserted in the prosthesis causes a
30  reconfiguration of the flexible support structure sufficient to enable the flexible
    support structure to pass through an opening in the prosthesis having a total
    circumferential area that is less than the total circumferential area occupied by the

 WO 2013/148839                                                                PCT/US2013/034107
                                                   -10
     flexible support structure when the prosthesis is in the deployed configuration,
     thereby enabling removal of the flexible support structure from the enclosure.
              In accordance with aspects of the present invention, the flexible support
  5  structure can include at least one flexible sheet member. The flexible sheet member
     can include two or more portions that do or do not overlap in a deployed state,
     depending on the embodiment. The flexible support structure can include a flexible
     sheet member having one or more slits or openings disposed therethrough. The one
     or more slits or openings can enable the flexible support structure to reconfigure
 10  during removal of the flexible support structure into a different shape having a
     peripheral edge that delineates a reduced effective diameter. The reconfiguration of
     the flexible support structure during removal of the flexible support structure can
     result in a reduced cross-sectional length of the flexible support structure, a reduced
     cross-sectional width of the flexible support structure, or both. The flexible support
15   structure comprises a flexible framework. The flexible support structure can be
     configured to apply a generally radially outward force on a radially outermost surface
     of the enclosure.
              In accordance with aspects of the present invention, the tab can extend through
20   the opening in the prosthesis, and the opening can be disposed in and through a layer
     or surface of the prosthesis, in such a way that the central opening provides access to
    the enclosure. The opening can include an outer opening disposed in and completely
    through the outer surface of the enclosure. The tab can extend through the outer
    opening in the outer surface of the enclosure. The tab can include one or more
25  elongate straps.
              In accordance with aspects of the present invention, the flexible support
    structure further can include a separation line extending in a generally serpentine
    shape from a central portion of the flexible support structure to a perimeter of the
30  flexible support structure. The serpentine separation line can follow along a
    continuous strip of material. The serpentine separation line can include a plurality of
    through-holes. The flexible support structure further comprises a stress relief hole
    situated at an inner end of the separation line. The tab can include one or more straps,

WO 2013/148839                                                                PCT/US2013/034107
                                                   -l 1.
     and the flexible support structure further can include two or more slots for receiving
     the one or more straps.
             In accordance with aspects of the present invention, an edge can extend in a
  5  generally serpentine shape from a central portion of the flexible support structure to a
     perimeter of the flexible support structure. A removable connector piece can couple
     portions of the flexible support structure along the edge to each other. The removable
     connector piece comprises a central portion and one or more elongate portions
     coupled to the central portion, and wherein the flexible support structure further
 10  comprises a plurality of slits for receiving the one or more elongate portions. The tab
     can include one or more straps, and the flexible support structure further can include
    two or more slots for receiving the one or more straps. A stress relief hole can be
     situated at an inner end of the edge.
 15          In accordance with an example embodiment of the present invention, a kit can
     include a prosthesis that is diagrammatically parsable into first, second, third, and
    fourth quadrants having substantially equal areas. The prosthesis can include an
    enclosure extending substantially to a perimeter of the prosthesis at least once in at
    least two of the first, second, third, and fourth quadrants. The kit can include a
20  flexible support structure for removable insertion at least partially within the
    enclosure. The flexibly support structure can occupy a total circumferential area
    when in a deployed configuration, and the flexibility support structure can have a
    stiffness sufficient to cause the prosthesis to assume a deployed configuration when
    placed in the prosthesis. A tab can be adjoined with the flexible support structure and
25  can have a length sufficient to extend external to the enclosure when the flexible
    support structure is in a deployed configuration in the prosthesis. The flexible support
    structure can be configured in such a way that pulling the tab directionally away from
    the prosthesis when the flexible support structure is inserted in the prosthesis causes a
    reconfiguration of the flexible support structure sufficient to enable the flexible
30  support structure to pass through an opening in the prosthesis having a total
    circumferential area that is less than the total circumferential area occupied by the
    flexible support structure when the prosthesis is in the deployed configuration,
    thereby enabling removal of the flexible support structure from the enclosure.

 WO 2013/148839                                                                 PCT/US2013/034107
                                                   -12
              In accordance with an example embodiment of the present invention, a system
     can include a deployment device and a prosthesis. The prosthesis can include a first
     layer and a second layer forming an enclosure. The deployment device can include a
  5  flexible support structure configured as a sheet and removably situated at least
     partially within the enclosure. The flexible support structure can occupy a total
     circumferential area and can have an elasticity sufficient to cause the prosthesis to
     independently assume a deployed configuration. An edge or a tear line can extend in
     a generally serpentine shape from a central portion of the flexible support structure to
 10  a perimeter of the flexible support structure. A strap can extend from the flexible
     support structure and external to the enclosure. Portions of the flexible support
     structure along the edge or tear line can be coupled together prior to removal and can
     be configured to separate for removal of the deployment device from the prosthesis.
15            In accordance with aspects of the present invention, the flexible support
    structure can be configured to be removed through an opening in the prosthesis
     having a total circumferential area that is less than the total circumferential area
    occupied by the flexible support structure when the prosthesis is in the deployed
    configuration. The deployment device can include the edge, and the deployment
20  device further can include a removable connector piece coupling the portions of the
    flexible support structure along the edge. An additional strap can be coupled to the
    removable connector piece for removing the removable connector piece. The
    deployment device can include the tear line, and the tear line can include a plurality of
    through-holes or a continuous strip of material. A stress relief hole or opening can be
25  situated in and through the flexible support structure proximate to an inner end of the
    edge or tear line. The edge or a tear line can include one or more branches connected
    to one another and each terminating at least one position on the flexible support
    structure.
30           In accordance with aspects of the present invention, the deployment device
    can include the separation line in the flexible support structure. The separation line
    can include an inner portion having a first thickness and an outer portion having a
    second thickness, and the first thickness can be greater than the second thickness. A

 WO 2013/148839                                                                 PCT/US2013/034107
                                                  -13
     serpentine through-cut can be situated in the flexible support structure and can extend
     from an inner portion of the flexible support structure to an inner edge of the
     separation line. The strap can include two strap appendages adapted to assume a
     locked configuration forming a positioning tool and an unlocked configuration
  5  forming a deployment device removal tool.
             In accordance an embodiment of the present invention, a method of removing
     a deployment device from a prosthesis includes grasping a flexible support structure
     forming the deployment device that is removably disposed at least partially within an
 10  enclosure of a prosthesis and occupying a total circumferential area, the flexible
     support structure having an elasticity that generates a force sufficient to cause the
     prosthesis to assume a deployed configuration from a non-deployed configuration.
    The user then pulls the tab of the flexible support structure directionally away from
    the prosthesis, thereby reconfiguring the flexible support structure to enable the
 15 flexible support structure to pass through an opening in the prosthesis having a total
    circumferential area that is less than the total circumferential area occupied by the
    flexible support structure when the prosthesis is in the deployed configuration. With
    continued pulling, the tab of the flexible support structure is removed from the
    enclosure through the opening.
20
    BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE FIGURES
            These and other characteristics of the present invention will be more fully
    understood by reference to the following detailed description in conjunction with the
25  attached drawings, in which:
            FIG. 1A depicts a perspective view of an example deployment device,
    according to aspects of the present invention;
30          FIG. 1B depicts a top view of the example deployment device of FIG. 1A,
    according to aspects of the present invention;

 WO 2013/148839                                                              PCT/US2013/034107
                                                  -14
              FIG. 1C depicts a side view of the example deployment device of FIG. IA,
      according to aspects of the present invention;
             FIG. 2A depicts an exploded perspective view of an example prosthesis,
  5  according to aspects of the present invention;
             FIG. 2B depicts a perspective view of the example prosthesis of FIG. 2A,
     according to aspects of the present invention;
 10          FIG. 2C depicts a side view of the example prosthesis of FIG. 2A, according
     to aspects of the present invention;
             FIG. 3A depicts a perspective view of an example system including the
     example deployment device of FIG. 1A positioned in a deployed (e.g., generally
 15  planar) configuration within the example prosthesis of FIG. 2A, according to aspects
     of the present invention;
             FIG. 3B depicts a top view of the example system of FIG. 3A when in the
     deployed (e.g., generally planar) configuration, according to aspects of the present
20   invention;
             FIG. 3C depicts a perspective view of the system of FIG. 3A during removal
    of the example deployment device from the example prosthesis, according to aspects
    of the present invention;
25
             FIG. 3D depicts a side view of the system of FIG. 3A when in the deployed
    (e.g., generally planar) configuration, according to aspects of the present invention;
             FIG. 4A depicts a top view of an example prosthesis and a circle delineating a
30  total circumferential area of the example prosthesis, according to aspects of the
    present invention;

 WO 2013/148839                                                               PCT/US2013/034107
                                                   -15
              FIG. 4B depicts a top view of the example prosthesis of FIG. IA and a circle
      delineating a total circumferential area of the example prosthesis, according to aspects
     of the present invention;
  5          FIG. 5A depicts a perspective view of another example deployment device
     having slits or openings, according to aspects of the present invention.
             FIG. 5B depicts a perspective view of another example system including the
     example deployment device of FIG. 5A positioned in a deployed (e.g., generally
 10  planar) configuration in the example prosthesis of FIG. 2A, according to aspects of
     the present invention;
             FIG. 5C depicts a perspective view of the example system of FIG. 5B during
     removal of the example deployment device from the example prosthesis, according to
 15  aspects of the present invention;
             FIG. 6A depicts a perspective view of another example deployment device
     including one or more overlapping portions, according to aspects of the present
     invention;
20
             FIG. 6B depicts an exploded view of the example deployment device of FIG.
    6A, illustrating the overlapping portions, according to aspects of the present
     invention;
25           FIG. 6C depicts a perspective view of the example deployment device of
    FIG. 6A positioned in a deployed (e.g., generally planar) configuration in the
    example prosthesis of FIG. 2A, according to aspects of the present invention;
             FIGS. 7A through 7C depict top views of example deployment devices having
30  overlapping portions, according to aspects of the present invention;
             FIGS. 7D through 7F depicts top views of example deployment devices
    forming frameworks, according to aspects of the present invention;

 WO 2013/148839                                                             PCT/US2013/034107
                                                 -16
             FIG. 8 depicts a side view of another example deployment device including
     two portions that are operationally connected by a tab including an elongate strap,
     according to aspects of the present invention;
 5
             FIG. 9 depicts a perspective view of another example prosthesis, according to
     aspects of the present invention;
             FIG. 10A depicts a perspective view of another example embodiment of a
10   deployment device forming a framework and adapted for the example prosthesis of
     FIG. 9, according to aspects of the present invention;
             FIG. 1OB depicts a perspective view of an example system including the
    example deployment device of FIG. 1OA positioned in a deployed (e.g., generally
15  planar) configuration in the example prosthesis of FIG. 9, according to aspects of the
    present invention;
            FIG. 11A depicts a perspective view of another example deployment device
    forming a framework and having two tabs each forming a protruding segment,
20  according to aspects of the present invention;
            FIG. I1B depicts a perspective view of an example system including the
    example deployment device of FIG. 11A positioned in a deployed (e.g., generally
    planar) configuration in the example prosthesis of FIG. 9, according to aspects of the
25  present invention;
            FIG. 11C depicts a side view of the example system of FIG. 11B when in the
    deployed (e.g., generally planar) configuration, according to aspects of the present
    invention;
30
            FIG. 11D depicts a perspective view of the example system of FIG. 11B
    during removal of the example deployment device from the example prosthesis,
    according to aspects of the present invention;

 WO 2013/148839                                                              PCT/US2013/034107
                                                  -17
              FIG. 12A depicts a top view of another example deployment device forming a
     framework and including an insertion device, according to aspects of the present
     invention;
 5
              FIG. 12B depicts a perspective view of an example system including the
     example deployment device of FIG. 12A inserted in a non-deployed (e.g., rolled up
     or non-planar) configuration in the example prosthesis of FIG. 9, according to aspects
     of the present invention;
10
              FIG. 12C depicts a perspective view of the example system of FIG. 12B in a
     deployed (e.g., generally planar) configuration, according to aspects of the present
     invention;
15            FIG. 13 depicts a kit according to embodiments of the present invention;
             FIG. 14 depicts a top view of a flexible support structure having a serpentine
    separation line extending from an inner portion thereof to a perimeter thereof,
    according to embodiments of the present invention;
20
             FIG. 15 depicts a removable connector piece for operationally adjoining
    portions of the flexible support structure of FIG. 14 along the serpentine separation
     line, according to aspects of the present invention;
25           FIG. 16A depicts a top view of the flexible support structure of FIG. 14 with
    the removable connector piece of FIG. 15 situated therein, according to embodiments
    of the present invention;
             FIG. 16B depicts a bottom view of the flexible support structure of FIG. 14
30  with the removable connector piece of FIG. 15 situated therein, according to
    embodiments of the present invention;

 WO 2013/148839                                                                PCT/US2013/034107
                                                  -18
             FIG. 17 depicts a perspective view of a strap for use in removing the flexible
     support structure FIGS. 16A and 16B, according to aspects of the present invention;
             FIG. 18 depicts the removable connector piece of FIG. 15 with an additional
  5  strap for use in removal of the removable connector piece from the flexible support
     structure of FIG. 15, according to aspects of the present invention;
             FIG. 19A depicts a top perspective view of a deployment device incorporating
     the components of FIGS. 14 through 18, according to aspects of the present
 10  invention;
             FIG. 19B depicts a bottom perspective view of the deployment device of FIG.
     19A, according to embodiments of the present invention;
 15          FIG. 20 depicts a perspective view of the deployment device of FIGS. 19A
     and 19B positioned within the prosthesis of FIGS. 2A through 2C;
             FIG. 21A depicts a perspective view of a deployment device having a
     serpentine separation line that includes a plurality of perforations, according to
20  embodiments of the present invention;
             FIG. 21B depicts a perspective view of a deployment device having a
    serpentine separation line that has been separated to form a serpentine edge;
25           FIG. 22 depicts a close-up view of a central portion of the deployment device
    of FIG. 21, according to aspects of the present invention;
             FIG. 23 depicts the deployment device of FIG. 21, further including a stress
    relief hole at an inner end of the serpentine separation line, according to embodiments
30  of the present invention;

 WO 2013/148839                                                               PCT/US2013/034107
                                                  -19
             FIG. 24 depicts a perspective view of a deployment device having a
    serpentine separation line that includes a continuous strip of material, according to
    embodiments of the present invention;
  5          FIG. 25A depicts a perspective view of the deployment device of FIG. 24
    situated within the prosthesis of FIGS. 2A through 2C;
             FIG. 25B depicts a perspective view of the deployment device of FIG. 25A
    assuming a helix (e.g., a conventional serpentine staircase) configuration during
 10 removal from a defect or opening in an artificial muscle wall, according to aspects of
    the present invention;
             FIGS. 26A, 26B, and 26C depict a perspective view, a side view, and a close
    up view, respectively, of a cross section of reinforcing lips abutting the serpentine
15  separation line, according to aspects of the present invention;
             FIGS. 27A and 27B depict a perspective view and a bottom view,
    respectively, of the flexible support structure of FIGS. 26A through 26C, according
    to embodiments of the present invention;
20
             FIG. 28 depicts a perspective view of a deployment device having a
    serpentine separation line that includes two contiguous portions of unequal
    thicknesses, according to embodiments of the present invention;
25           FIG. 29A depicts a top view of a flexible support structure having an
    alternative serpentine separation line with a plurality of branches, according to
    embodiments of the present invention;
             FIG. 29B depicts a top view of a flexible support structure having yet another
30  alternative serpentine separation line with a plurality of branches, according to
    embodiments of the present invention;

 WO 2013/148839                                                                 PCT/US2013/034107
                                                    -20
             FIG. 30 depicts a strap in an unassembled (e.g., substantially flat)
     configuration that is adapted to serve as both a positioning device and deployment
     device removal tool, according to an example embodiment of the present invention;
  5          FIG. 31A depicts the strap of FIG. 30 in a deployment device situated in a
     prosthesis, and in a locked position forming a positioning tool, according to aspects of
     the present invention; and
             FIG. 31B depicts the strap of FIG. 31A in an unlocked position forming a
 10  deployment device removal tool, according to aspects of the present invention.
     DETAILED DESCRIPTION
             An illustrative embodiment of the present invention relates to a deployment
 15 device capable of deploying a prosthesis, such as a hernia patch, with a more elegant
     and efficient design than other conventional deployment devices. The deployment
    device includes a flexible support structure that fits at least partially within an
    enclosure of the prosthesis, such as one or more pockets in the prosthesis formed by
    two stacked layers adjoined at a peripheral edge thereof. The flexible support
20  structure has an elasticity that is sufficient to cause the prosthesis to deploy after
     implantation (e.g., by causing the prosthesis to independently assume a deployed, e.g.,
    generally planar, shape after being implanted in a rolled or otherwise deformed
    configuration) and a flexibility sufficient to enable bending, folding, or otherwise
    assuming a collapsed or distorted configuration for removal from the prosthesis. In
25  particular, the flexible support structure can have a flexibility sufficient to enable the
    flexible support structure to pass through an opening in the prosthesis that has a total
    circumferential area that is smaller than a total circumferential area of the deployment
    device. The deployment device additionally can include a tab that extends external to
    the enclosure and that, when pulled in a direction away from the prosthesis, causes the
30  flexible support structure to reconfigure in a manner sufficient for removal of the
    flexible support structure.

 WO 2013/148839                                                                   PCT/US2013/034107
                                                    -21
              Accordingly, the deployment device according to the illustrative embodiment
     of the present invention can have an elasticity that is sufficient for causing the
     prosthesis to assume a deployed (e.g., generally planar and non-collapsed)
     configuration at a target site even after being collapsed, compressed, or distorted in
  5  some manner (e.g., for implantation), and a flexibility sufficient for being removed
     from the prosthesis.
              As utilized herein, the term "flexibility" adopts its conventional meaning in
     the art of the pliability of an object or extent to which an object permits bending.
 10  Flexibility thus includes bending due to different types of deformation, e.g., elastic
     deformation, plastic deformation, etc.
              The term "elasticity" generally refers to the ability of an object to reversibly
     deform under stress, as is well known in the art. Elasticity thus endows an object with
 15  the ability to return to its original shape after the removal of stress (e.g., one or more
     external forces) that produced deformation of the object. Elasticity encompasses the
     ability of an object to return to a shape subsequent to deformation produced by
     expansion (e.g., elongation) and deformation produced by compression (e.g., as
     caused by folds, bends, etc. in an object).
20
              FIGS. I through 31B, wherein like parts are designated by like reference
     numerals throughout, illustrate example embodiments of a deployment device
     according to the present invention. Although the present invention will be described
     with reference to the example embodiments illustrated in the figures, it should be
25   understood that many alternative forms can embody the present invention. One of
     skill in the art will appreciate many different ways to alter the parameters of the
    embodiments disclosed, such as the size, shape, or type of elements or materials, in a
    manner still in keeping with the spirit and scope of the present invention.
30            FIG. 1A depicts a perspective view of an example embodiment of a
    deployment device 100 according to the present invention. FIG. 1B further depicts
    the example deployment device 100 from a top view, and FIG. IC further depicts a
    side view thereof. The deployment device 100 includes a flexible support structure

 WO 2013/148839                                                               PCT/US2013/034107
                                                   -22
      102 and one or more tabs 104. The flexible support structure 102 can include any of a
     wide variety of different shapes, forms, portions, and members. In the example
     embodiment of FIG. 1A, the flexible support structure 102 is generally circular in
     shape and forms a substantially flat sheet member having two portions 106. The two
  5  portions 106 each include a radially distal end 108 and a radially proximal end I 10.
     The two portions 106 are adjoined at the radially proximal end 110. Alternatively, the
     two (or more) portions 106 can be adjoined at other positions or ends thereof. Both
     the flexible support structure 102 and the one or more tabs 104 can possess a
     substantially uniform thickness, or can have a thickness that varies across different
 10  positions thereon.
              The one or more tabs 104 can be any protruding portion or member. As
     illustrative, non-limiting examples, the one or more tabs 104 can include elongate
     straps, flaps, strips of material, appendages, protuberances, any other protruding
 15  portion or member, portions thereof, or combinations thereof. As depicted in FIG.
     1A, the tabs 104 of the first example embodiment include two elongate straps
     adjoined with the flexible support structure 102 at or near the proximal end 110. The
     flexible support structure 102 and the tabs 104 can be constructed of extruded
     polypropylene, low density polyethylene (LDPE), other plastic material,
20   monofilament material, sheet material, or any other suitable biodegradable or non
     biodegradable material, as would be appreciated by one of skill in the art upon
     reading the present specification.
              FIG. 2A depicts an exploded view of an example prosthesis 112. The
25  example prosthesis 112 is further illustrated in FIG. 2B from a perspective view and
     in FIG. 2C from a cross-sectional side view. The example prosthesis 112 can be
    formed of two or more stacked layers. The two or more stacked layers can include a
    first (e.g., top) layer 114 and a second (e.g., bottom) layer 116. The first layer 114
    and the second layer 16 each can be a flexible sheet mesh. As non-limiting
30  examples, the mesh can be constructed from polytetrafluoroethylene (PTFE), other
    suitable fluoropolymer materials, or any other suitable material. The first layer 114
    and the second layer 116 can be adjoined (e.g., affixed, coupled, adhered, fastened,
    sewn, stitched, or otherwise joined together) at a seam (e.g., the outer perimeter 118

  WO 2013/148839                                                                 PCT/US2013/034107
                                                   -23
      of the first layer 114). In illustrative embodiments depicted herein, the first layer 114
      and the second layer 116 can be adjoined at or near the outer perimeter 118 of the first
      layer 114, so as allow for the formation of an enclosure 124 that extends substantially
     to the outer perimeter 118 of the first layer 114, substantially to the outer perimeter
  5   120 of the second layer 116, or both (as depicted in the example embodiment of FIG.
     2A through 2C).
              The prosthesis 112 can include a portion 126 between the outer perimeter of
     the first layer 114 and the outer perimeter of the second layer 116 for serving as a flap
 10  for suturing the prosthesis 112 during fixation, e.g., in laparoscopic repairs.
     Alternatively, fixation can be performed by affixing (tacking, suturing, etc.) the first
     layer 114, e.g., during open hernia repairs. In general, the present invention is not
     limited to any particular fixation procedure. Rather, one of skill in the art will
     appreciate a wide variety of ways to affix the prosthesis 112, depending on the
15   particular type of surgical procedure.
              Furthermore, it should be appreciated that the example prosthesis 112 of
     FIGS. 2A through 2C is not intended to limit embodiments of the present invention.
     Thus, although the example embodiments described herein make repeated reference
20   to the exemplary prostheses of the figures (e.g., hernia patches), embodiments of the
     present invention can be adapted for and utilized in any conventional, known, or
     otherwise suitable prosthesis, as would be appreciated by one of skill in the art upon
     reading the present specification.
25            The first layer 114 can include an aperture or opening 122 disposed therein
     and therethrough, e.g., for enabling access to the enclosure 124. The opening 122 can
     form an inner perimeter 134 on the prosthesis 112. As illustrated in FIGS. 2A
     through 2C, the opening 122 can consist of an inner opening in the first layer 114, i.e.,
     contained entirely within the outer perimeter 118 of the first layer 114. Furthermore,
30   the opening 122 can be a central opening, i.e., substantially centered in the first layer
      114. Alternatively, the opening 122 can be situated elsewhere on the first layer 114 or
     on the second layer 116, and/or can extend to an edge thereof. While the opening 122
     is depicted as generally circular in shape, the opening 122 can have any desired shape,

 WO 2013/148839                                                               PCT/US2013/034107
                                                   -24
     including (as non-limiting examples) a general shape of an oblong, a polygon, an
    oval, a star, a triangle, a rectangle, a pentagon, a hexagon, etc. Furthermore, the
    opening 122 can be shaped to mimic the shape of the flexible support structure 102, or
    to mimic one or more portions of the flexible support structure 102. Alternatively, the
  5 opening 122 may be tailored and/or trimmed (e.g., to mimic the shape of the flexible
    support structure 102) by a surgeon immediately prior to placement of the prosthesis
     112, as would be appreciated by one of skill in the art upon reading the present
    specification.
 10          FIG. 3A depicts an example system that includes the prosthesis 112 of FIGS.
    2A through 2C and the deployment device 100 of FIGS. IA through IC inserted into
    the prosthesis 112. The tabs 104 extend external to the enclosure 124, e.g., protrude
    beyond an outer edge of the enclosure 124. The flexible support structure 102
    extends substantially to an outer perimeter of the prosthesis 112 (in this case, extends
 15 substantially to both the outer perimeter 118 of the first layer 114 and the outer
    perimeter 120 of the second layer 116). In some embodiments, the flexible support
    structure 102 extends to and is in contact with a radially outermost surface 125 of the
    enclosure 124 when the flexible support structure 102 is in a deployed (e.g., generally
    planar) configuration. Accordingly, the flexible support structure 102 can be
20  configured to apply a generally radially outward force on the radially outermost
    surface 125 of the enclosure 124 when in the deployed (e.g., generally planar)
    configuration.
            As depicted in FIG. 3A, the deployment device 100 can assume a deployed
25  (e.g., generally planar) configuration within the prosthesis 112. More specifically, in
    the example embodiment of FIG. 3A, the deployed (e.g., generally planar)
    configuration of the deployment device 100 is characterized by an absence of folds,
    creases, bends, buckling, and the like in the flexible support structure 102. The
    deployed (e.g., generally planar) configuration can cause the prosthesis 112 to
30  similarly assume a deployed (e.g., generally planar) configuration. For example, the
    size and/or shape of the flexible support structure 102 can be sufficient to cause the
    prosthesis 112 to deploy when the flexible support structure 102 is in a deployed (e.g.,
    generally planar) configuration.

 WO 2013/148839                                                                     PCT/US2013/034107
                                                     -25
             FIG. 3B further depicts a top view of the system of FIG. 3A of the
     deployment device 100 and the prosthesis 112. For clarity, the tabs 104 are not
     shown. FIG. 3B illustrates that the prosthesis 112 can be diagrammatically parsed
  5  into four quadrants of substantially equal areas, quadrant I, quadrant II, quadrant III,
    and quadrant IV. The four quadrants 1, II, III, and IV are divided by a horizontal axis
     130 and a vertical axis 128 that pass through a center point 132 of the prosthesis 112.
    In illustrative embodiments, the enclosure 124 (not visible in the top view of FIG.
    3B) can be formed in such a way as to extend substantially to a perimeter of the
 10 prosthesis 112 (e.g., outer perimeter 118 of the first layer 114 or outer perimeter 120
    of the second layer 116) at least once in at least two of the four quadrants 1, 11, III, and
    IV. Furthermore, the enclosure 124 can extend to a perimeter of the prosthesis 112 at
    least once in at least one, in at least three, or in all four of the quadrants I, 11, II1, and
    IV. The enclosure 124 can form a closed loop around the center point 132, e.g., can
15  extend around the inner perimeter 134 formed by the opening 122, as depicted in the
    example embodiment of FIGS. 3A through 3C.
             Additionally, the flexible support structure 102 can extend into the enclosure
     124 in at least one, in at least two, in at least three, or in all four of the quadrants I, II,
20  111, and IV. In illustrative embodiments, and as depicted in FIG. 3B, the flexible
    support structure 102 extends substantially to an outer perimeter of the prosthesis 112
    (e.g., the outer perimeter 118 and/or the outer perimeter 120) at least once in at least
    two of the four quadrants I, II, III, and IV. In further illustrative embodiments, the
    flexible support structure 102 extends substantially to an outer perimeter of the
25  prosthesis 112 (e.g., the outer perimeter 118 and/or the outer perimeter 120) at least
    once in at least three of the four quadrants 1, II, 111, and IV. In yet further illustrative
    embodiments, the flexible support structure 102 extends substantially to an outer
    perimeter of the prosthesis 112 (e.g., the outer perimeter 118 and/or the outer
    perimeter 120) at least once in all four of the four quadrants I, II, III, and IV.
30
             Continuing with FIG. 3A, the tabs 104 can extend external to the enclosure
    124. For example, as illustrated, both of the tabs 104 extend out of the opening 122
    when the deployment device 100 is situated in the prosthesis 112. (Alternatively, the

 WO 2013/148839                                                                 PCT/US2013/034107
                                                    -26
     tabs 104 can be configured to extend below the opening, as described in a later
     embodiment depicted with reference to FIG. 10B.) In such embodiments where the
     tabs 104 extend out of the opening 122, the tabs 104 can assume a non-flat
     configuration, e.g., as depicted in FIG. 3A. However, the tabs 104 further can be
  5  configured to assume a flat configuration, as depicted in the example embodiment of
     FIG. 3D. For instance, the tabs 104 can be coupled to the flexible support structure
     102 by a hinge or can otherwise be enabled to hinge or pivot relative to the flexible
     support structure 102. This can enable the deployment device 100 to assume a
     substantially flat configuration that may be useful in reducing the size of packaging
 10  required to sell the deployment device 100. Accordingly, in such embodiments where
     the tabs 104 are packaged in a flat configuration, the tabs 104 subsequently can be
     moved into a more usable non-flat configuration (e.g., as depicted in FIG. 3A) after
     removal from the packaging,
 15          The tabs 104 can be constructed of a material that is rigid (e.g., that is stiffer
    than the flexible support structure 102), to facilitate intraoperative maneuvering by a
    surgeon of the prosthesis 112 when the deployment device 100 is positioned in the
    prosthesis 112. Alternatively, the tabs 104 can be constructed of material that is more
    flexible than the flexible support structure 102. In general, one of skill in the art will
20  appreciate a wide variety of suitable materials that can be utilized in making the tabs
     104.
             The flexible support structure 102 can be formed of a material having an
    elasticity that is sufficient to cause the flexible support structure 102 to independently
25  assume a deployed (e.g., generally planar) configuration, e.g., in the absence of an
    external collapsing force applied by a surgeon or other operator handling the
    deployment device 100. For example, the elasticity of the material of the flexible
    support structure 102 can be sufficient to cause the flexible support structure 102 to
    independently return to a deployed (e.g., generally planar) configuration after being
30  rolled, etc. for insertion into a patient. Accordingly, after inserting the flexible
    support structure 102 into the prosthesis 112 and implanting the prosthesis 112 (e.g.,
    in a rolled or folded configuration), the elasticity of the flexible support structure 102

 WO 2013/148839                                                                 PCT/US2013/034107
                                                    -27
     causes the flexible support structure 102 and the prosthesis 112 to "spring" back into
     (or otherwise assume) the deployed (e.g., generally planar) configuration.
              The flexible support structure 102 can be provided with a particular thickness
 5   and material type that results in the desired values of flexibility and elasticity. For
     example, in some embodiments of the present invention implemented for open hernia
     repairs, the flexible support structure 102 is constructed of extruded polyester or
     polypropylene having a substantially uniform thickness of about 0.0075 inches to
     about 0.010 inches. One of skill in the art will appreciate that this thickness value
10   represents a device that is substantially thinner than existing prior art deployment
     devices utilizing permanent rings or frame members.
              Furthermore, the flexibility of the flexible support structure 102 can be
     sufficiently high to enable the flexible support structure 102 to assume a collapsed
15   configuration (e.g., folded, bent, etc.) during removal of the deployment device 100
     from the prosthesis 112, e.g., while the prosthesis 112 is being held in place. For
     example, an upward tensile force exerted by a surgeon on the flexible support
     structure 102 by pulling the tabs 104 in a direction away from the affixed prosthesis
     112 can initiate the bending, folding, collapsing, or other reconfiguration in shape of
20  the flexible support structure 102 necessary to liberate the flexible support structure
     102 from the enclosure 124 of the prosthesis 112. This is depicted in FIG. 3C, which
     illustrates the deployment device 100 of FIG. 3A during removal from the prosthesis
     112.
25            As one example, the deployment device 100 can be removed by holding the
    prosthesis 112 in a fixed position (e.g., using sutures or tacks to secure the prosthesis
     in place against tissue, muscle wall, etc.) and simultaneously pulling the tabs 104 in a
    direction away from the prosthesis 112, such as an upward direction 140 (see FIG.
    3C). During such a process, the flexible support structure 102 experiences an upward
30  force at the position where the tabs 104 are joined with the flexible support structure
     102. The upward force causes the flexible support structure 102 to lift up off the
    second layer 116 and encounter the first layer 114, The lifting motion can cause the
    enclosure 124 to expand in height, as the first layer 114 similarly lifts in response to

 WO 2013/148839                                                                 PCT/US2013/034107
                                                   -28
     contact with the flexible support structure 102. As the upward pull continues,
     portions of the flexible support structure 102 contacting the first layer 114 experience
     a downward force resisting the upward motion, while other portions not covered by
     the first layer 14 (e.g., positioned directly beneath the opening 122) do not
 5   experience such resistance. The difference in applied forces causes the flexible
    support structure 102 to undergo a reconfiguration (e.g., a deformation in shape,
     orientation, or both) sufficient to enable the flexible support structure 102 to reduce its
    effective cross-sectional area and pass through the opening 122 in the prosthesis 112.
    For example, the reconfiguration of the flexible support structure 102 can include at
10   least one bend, fold, crease, buckle, or other collapsing action or state.
              The size and/or orientation of the flexible support structure 102 can be
    different from the shape and/or size of the opening 122. In illustrative embodiments,
    the flexible support structure 102 is larger in size (e.g., in one or more dimensions, in
15  area, in volume occupied, effective cross-sectional area, or the like) than the opening
     112. For instance, in embodiments where the flexible support structure 102 has a
    generally circular top profile shape, the flexible support structure 102 can have an
    effective diameter that is greater than a diameter of the opening 122. In embodiments
    where the flexible support structure 102 has a generally non-circular top profile shape,
20  the flexible support structure 102 can have a length or a width that is greater than a
    length or width of the opening 122. Stated differently, the flexible support structure
     102, when positioned in the prosthesis 112 in a deployed (e.g., generally planar)
    configuration, generally can have a top profile shape that extends beyond a top profile
    shape of the opening 112.
25
              Additionally, the opening 122 can have a total circumferential area that is less
    than a total circumferential area occupied by the flexible support structure 102 when
    the prosthesis 112 and the flexible support structure 102 are in the deployed (e.g.,
    generally planar) configuration (as depicted in FIG. 3A). In further embodiments, the
30  opening 122 can have a total circumferential area that is substantially less than the
    total circumferential area occupied by the flexible support structure 102 when the
    prosthesis 112 and the flexible support structure 102 are in the deployed (e.g.,
    generally planar) configuration. In yet further embodiments, the opening 122 can

 WO 2013/148839                                                                   PCT/US2013/034107
                                                  -29
     have a total circumferential area that is significantly less than the total circumferential
     area occupied by the flexible support structure 102 when the prosthesis 112 and the
     flexible support structure 102 are in the deployed (e.g., generally planar)
     configuration. As some examples, and depending on the particular shape of the
 5  prosthesis 112, the flexible support structure 102 (when in a deployed (e.g., generally
    planar) configuration in the prosthesis 112) can have a total circumferential area that
     is about 5% more, about 10% more, about 15% more, about 20% more, about 25%
    more, about 30% more, about 35% more, about 40% more, about 45% more, about
     50% more, about 55% more, about 60% more, about 65% more, about 70% more,
10  about 75% more, about 80% more, about 85% more, about 90% more, about 95%
    more, about 100% more, about 105% more, about 110% more, about 115% more,
    about 120% more, about 125% more, about 130% more, about 135% more, about
     140% more, about 145% more, about 150% more, about 155% more, about 160%
    more, about 165% more, about 170% more, about 175% more, about 180% more,
15  about 185% more, about 190% more, or about 195% more, about 200% more, or
    greater than about 200% more (or some intermediate value lying therebetween) than a
    total circumferential area occupied by the opening 122.
             The total circumferential area of the flexible support structure 102 generally
20  can be defined as the area of the smallest theoretical circle that can be constructed to
    fully contain, on or inside its perimeter, the entire profile of the flexible support
    structure 102 when viewed from the directly above (e.g., from the top view of FIG.
    3B). For example, FIG. 4A depicts another example of a flexible support structure
     102 having a plurality of adjoined appendages 136, which can have different lengths.
25  Each appendage 136 includes a distal end 108 and a proximal end 110. A theoretical
    circle 138 is illustrated in bold, dashed lines, which encloses the entire profile of the
    flexible support structure 102 when viewed from above. The theoretical circle 138 is
    the smallest possible theoretical circle that can be constructed around the prosthesis
     102, since the theoretical circle 138 contains (in or on its perimeter) the entire profile
30  of the flexible support structure 102 and since the perimeter of the flexible support
    structure 102 intersects with at least three points on theoretical circle 138.
    Accordingly, FIG. 4B depicts the smallest theoretical circle 138 containing (in or on
    its perimeter) the entire top view profile of the flexible support structure 102 of FIGS.

 WO 2013/148839                                                                PCT/US2013/034107
                                                  -30
     1A through 1C. Similarly, the total circumferential area of the opening 122 also can
    be determined in this way.
             Accordingly, during removal, the flexible support structure 102 can assume a
 5  reconfiguration wherein the flexible support structure 102 possesses an increased
    height, e.g., as compared to a height of the flexible support structure 102 in a
    deployed (e.g., generally planar) configuration. Additionally, during removal, the
    flexible support structure 102 can assume a reconfiguration characterized by a
    reduced total circumferential area. For example, this is illustrated in FIG. 3C, which
10  shows the flexible support structure 102 during removal having a three-dimensional
    shape generally resembling that of a cone possessing a height that is greater than the
    height of the sheet members forming the portions 106 of the deployed (e.g., generally
    planar) flexible support structure 102 depicted in FIG. 3A. For example, in
    illustrative embodiments adapted for open hernia repair, the flexible support structure
15   102 can be transformed from a nearly contiguous flat circle having a diameter of
    about 2.6 inches to a configuration suitable for fitting through a circular orifice area
    having a diameter of about 0.5 inches. One of skill in the art will appreciate that these
    values are illustrative and do not limit the present invention.
20           In illustrative embodiments, the flexible support structure 102 can be disposed
    within the enclosure 124 of the prosthesis 112 and can occupy a total circumferential
    area therein in such a way that causes the prosthesis 112 to be in a deployed (e.g.,
    generally planar) configuration, e.g., as depicted in FIG. 3A.
25           Although FIGS. 1A through 1C depict the example flexible support structure
    102 as having only two portions 106, the flexible support structure 102 can have more
    or less such portions. For instance, FIG. 5A depicts another example embodiment of
    the deployment device 100 that consists of four such portions 106. The four portions
    106 are divided into substantially equal areas and have substantially similar shapes
30  and dimensions. In alternative embodiments, the shapes, areas, and dimensions of the
    various portions 106 can vary, e.g., based on the shape of the prosthesis 112 into
    which the flexible support structure 102 will fit. Some or all of the portions 106 can
    be separated from one another by thin elongate openings, such as the slits 142. The

 WO 2013/148839                                                                PCT/US2013/034107
                                                   -31
    slits 142 can enable the flexible support structure 102 to reconfigure during removal
    from the prosthesis 112 into a different shape having a peripheral edge that delineates
    a reduced diameter or effective diameter, i.e., a diameter that is less than the diameter
    of the peripheral edge of the flexible support structure 102 when in a deployed (e.g.,
 5  generally planar) configuration in the prosthesis 112. FIG. 5B depicts the
    deployment device 100 positioned in the prosthesis 112 in a deployed (e.g., generally
    planar) configuration, and FIG. 5C further depicts the deployment device 100 during
    removal from the prosthesis 1 2.
10           When in a deployed (e.g., generally planar) configuration, one or more of the
    portions 106 can be non-overlapping, e.g., as illustrated in FIGS. 3A and 5B.
    Alternatively, one or more of the portions 106 can be overlapping. For example,
    FIG. 6A illustrates another example embodiment that includes three portions 106a,
     106b, and 106c, each of which overlaps with its two adjacent portions. This can be
15  seen in FIG. 6B, which depicts the three portions 106a, 106b, and 106c from an
    exploded view. The portion 106b includes a flap 144b that is covered by the portion
     106a when in the deployed (e.g., generally planar) configuration. Similarly, the
    portion 106c includes a flap 144c that is covered by the portion 106b when in the
    deployed (e.g., generally planar) configuration. Furthermore, the portion 106a
20  includes a flap 144a that is covered by the portion 106c when in the deployed (e.g.,
    generally planar) configuration. FIG. 6C further depicts the deployment device of
    FIG. 6A positioned within the prosthesis 112.
             The portions 106 of the flexible support structure 102 generally can take on a
25  wide range of other shapes, relative dimensions, and/or sizes. For example, FIGS. 7A
    through 7F depict additional embodiments of flexible support structure 102. One of
    skill in the art will appreciate that these examples are provided for purposes of further
    illustration and are not intended as limiting. Rather, a wide variety of different
    flexible support structures 102 and openings 122 having still other shapes, sizes,
30  relative dimensions, and/or orientations, and combinations thereof, are possible and
    contemplated by the present invention.

 WO 2013/148839                                                              PCT/US2013/034107
                                                -32
             FIG. 7A depicts a flexible support structure 102 according to one example
     embodiment of the present invention, which includes six overlapping portions 106
     each generally shaped to resemble a distorted rectangle. FIG. 7B depicts a flexible
     support structure 102 according to another example embodiment of the present
  5  invention, which includes six overlapping portions 106 each generally shaped to
    resemble a circle, FIG. 7C depicts a flexible support structure 102 according to yet
    another example embodiment of the present invention, which includes six overlapping
    portions 106 each generally shaped to resemble a distorted triangle.
10           Furthermore, while embodiments provided herein include a flexible support
    structure 102 generally formed from sheet members, other embodiments are possible
    having different shapes and forms. For instance, the flexible support structure 102
    can take the form of a framework, as depicted in the example embodiments of FIGS.
    7D through 7F depict. More specifically, FIG. 7D depicts a flexible support structure
15   102 according to another example embodiment of the present invention, which forms
    a framework having three portions 106 adjoined by a proximal ring 146. FIG. 7E
    depicts a flexible support structure 102 according to another example embodiment of
    the present invention, which forms a framework having four appendages 136 adjoined
    by a central portion 106. FIG. 7F depicts a flexible support structure 102 according
20  to another example embodiment of the present invention, which forms a framework
    having two portions 106 each generally shaped as a semicircle, e.g., which mimics in
    shape an edge of the enclosure 124 on the prosthesis 112. Yet other types and
    placements of portions connecting one or more of appendages 136 are possible.
25           Although the example embodiments of flexible support structures 102
    depicted herein generally include various portions 106 that are connected to one
    another on the flexible support structure 102, other embodiments of flexible support
    structure 102 can include two or more portions 106 that are not connected on the
    flexible support structure. For instance, FIG. 8 depicts a side view of an alternative
30  embodiment of a deployment device 100 that includes two portions 106 that are
    operationally connected to one another by the tab 104. In particular, the tab 104
    forms a U-shaped elongate strap that extends away from the flexible support structure
    102 and is folded at its distal end 148. The tab 104 joins with each of the portions

 WO 2013/148839                                                                   PCT/US2013/034107
                                                   -33
     106, e.g., is formed integral therewith, is affixed thereto, is sewn thereto, is stitched
     thereto, is coupled thereto, is fastened thereto, is adhered thereto, or is otherwise
    joined therewith.
 5            The example embodiments of FIGS. 1A through 8 are adapted for a generally
     circularly shaped prosthesis 112. However, embodiments of the present invention
     alternatively can be implemented for prostheses 112 having other (e.g., non-circular)
     shapes. In such alternative embodiments, the deployment device 100 can include the
     flexible support structure 102 of any of FIGS. 1A through 8, e.g., adjusted such that it
10   has an outer perimeter that mimics the shape of the outer perimeter 118 of the first
     layer 114, the outer perimeter 120 of the second layer 116, or both.
              For example, FIG. 9 depicts an additional example embodiment of the
     prosthesis 112, wherein the first layer 114 and the second layer 116 are both generally
15   shaped as a rectangle (more specifically, a rectangle having rounded corners). The
     first layer 114 and the second layer 116 are adjoined and enable formation of an
     enclosure 124 therebetween, as with the example prosthesis 112 of FIGS. 2A through
     2C. FIG. 1OA depicts an illustrative embodiment of the deployment device 100
     adapted for the prosthesis 112 of FIG. 10A. As illustrated, the deployment device
20   102 includes a framework having a generally rectangular shape (e.g., generally bulged
     rectangular shape or generally rectangular shape with rounded edges). The tab 104 is
     a protruding flap that extends from one side of the flexible support structure 102
     toward another (e.g., opposite) side of the flexible support structure 102. The tab 102
     can have a length sufficient to enable the tab 102 to be grasped and pulled for
25   removal.
              FIG. 1OB depicts the deployment device 100 of FIG. 1OA placed in the
     prosthesis 112 of FIG. 9. As with the example embodiments of FIGS. 1A through 8,
     the one or more tabs 104 can extend external to the enclosure 124 (e.g., can protrude
30   beyond an outer edge of the enclosure 124). Furthermore, the flexible support
     structure 102 extends into the enclosure 124 in at least one, in at least two, in at least
     three, or in all four of the substantially equal-area quadrants 1, 11, 111, and IV into
     which the prosthesis 112 can be diagrammatically parsed. Furthermore, in illustrative

 WO 2013/148839                                                                 PCT/US2013/034107
                                                  -34
     embodiments, and as depicted in FIG. 1OB, the flexible support structure 102 extends
     substantially to an outer perimeter of the prosthesis 112 (e.g., the outer perimeter 118
    and/or the outer perimeter 120) at least once in at least two of the four quadrants I, 11,
     III, and IV. In further illustrative embodiments, the flexible support structure 102
  5  extends substantially to an outer perimeter of the prosthesis 112 (e.g., the outer
    perimeter 118 and/or the outer perimeter 120) at least once in at least three of the four
    quadrants 1,11, 111, and IV. In yet further illustrative embodiments, the flexible
    support structure 102 extends substantially to an outer perimeter of the prosthesis 112
    (e.g., the outer perimeter 118 and/or the outer perimeter 120) at least once in all four
 10 of the four quadrants I, II, III, and IV.
             The tab 104 can be located at a position on the flexible support structure 102
    that divides a length 152 of the flexible support structure 102 in two equal halves, as
    depicted in FIG. 10B. Alternatively, the tab 104 can be located elsewhere on the
 15 flexible support structure 102. The tab 104 can extend across some percentage of a
     length 150 of the opening 122. As illustrative examples, the tab 104 can extend
    across about 5%, about 10%, about 15%, about 20%, about 25%, about 30%, about
    35%, about 40%, about 45%, about 50%, about 55%, about 60%, about 65%, about
    70%, about 75%, about 80%, about 85%, about 90%, about 95%, or about 100% of
20  the length 150 of the opening 122, or at another amount, e.g., which is sufficient to
    enable the tab 104 to be gripped for removal of the deployment device 100 from the
    prosthesis 112.
             Furthermore, although certain embodiments described and depicted herein
25  provide that the one or more tabs 104 protrude through or beneath the opening 112,
    the tabs 104 alternatively or additionally can be configured to protrude through
    different openings disposed in and through other portions of the prosthesis 112. For
    example, FIG. I1A depicts an alternative embodiment of the deployment device 100,
    which includes two tabs 104 that are adjoined with the flexible support structure 102
30  and which extend from one or more connection points in an outward direction away
    from a center point of the flexible support structure 102, e.g., which extend beyond an
    outer edge of the flexible support structure 102. Each of the two tabs 104 in the
    example embodiment of FIG. 11A include a protruding segment that deviates from

 WO 2013/148839                                                                PCT/US2013/034107
                                                 -35
     and extends beyond the generally rectangular shape (as non-limiting examples,
     generally bulged rectangular shape, or generally rectangular shape with rounded
     edges) of the flexible support structure 102. FIG. IB depicts the deployment device
     100 disposed within the prosthesis 112. As can be seen from FIG. IB, the tabs 104
  5  extend transversally beyond an outer edge of the prosthesis 112.
             Accordingly, the tabs 104 can extend through an opening 154 disposed in and
    through a side of the prosthesis 112. Although the opening 154 is not visible from the
     perspective view of FIG. 11B, the position of the opening 154 is referenced, for
 10 clarity. As just one non-limiting example, the opening 154 in the prosthesis 112 can
    be formed in stitching that connects the first layer 114 and the second layer 116. The
    tabs 104 can extend over the second layer 116, through the opening 154, and beyond
    the outer perimeter 120 of the second layer 116 (e.g., beyond the perimeter of the
    prosthesis 112), as illustrated in FIG. 11B. The opening 154 is further depicted from
15  a side view in FIG. 11C.
            As described previously with regard to the example embodiments of FIGS.
     1A through 8, the size and/or orientation of the flexible support structure 102 can be
    different from the shape and/or size of the opening 154 through which the one or
20  more tabs 104 extend. In illustrative embodiments, the flexible support structure 102
    is larger in size (e.g., in one or more dimensions, in area, in volume occupied, or the
    like) than the opening 154. For instance, in some embodiments, the flexible support
    structure 102 has a length 152 that is greater than a length 158 of the opening 154. As
    another example, the flexible support structure 102, when positioned in the prosthesis
25   112 and when in a deployed (e.g., generally planar) configuration therein, can have a
    profile (as viewed from above, e.g., the top view of FIG. 3B) that includes at least
    one portion that is non-overlapping with a corresponding profile (as viewed from
    above) of the opening 112.
30          Furthermore, the opening 112 can have a total circumferential area that is less
    than a total circumferential area occupied by the flexible support structure 102 when
    the prosthesis 112 and the flexible support structure 102 are in the deployed (e.g.,
    generally planar) configuration (as depicted in FIG. 3A). In further embodiments, the

 WO 2013/148839                                                                 PCT/US2013/034107
                                                   -36
    opening 154 can have a total circumferential area that is substantially less than the
    total circumferential area occupied by the flexible support structure 102 when the
    prosthesis 112 and the flexible support structure 102 are in the deployed (e.g.,
    generally planar) configuration. In yet further embodiments, the opening 154 can
 5  have a total circumferential area that is significantly less than the total circumferential
    area occupied by the flexible support structure 102 when the prosthesis 112 and the
    flexible support structure 102 are in the deployed (e.g., generally planar)
    configuration. As some examples, and depending on the particular shape of the
    prosthesis 112, the flexible support structure 102 (when in a deployed, e.g., generally
10  planar, configuration in the prosthesis 112) can have a total circumferential area that
    is about 5% more, about 10% more, about 15% more, about 20% more, about 25%
    more, about 30% more, about 35% more, about 40% more, about 45% more, about
    50% more, about 55% more, about 60% more, about 65% more, about 70% more,
    about 75% more, about 80% more, about 85% more, about 90% more, about 95%
15  more, about 100% more, about 105% more, about 110% more, about 115% more,
    about 120% more, about 125% more, about 130% more, about 135% more, about
     140% more, about 145% more, about 150% more, about 155% more, about 160%
    more, about 165% more, about 170% more, about 175% more, about 180% more,
    about 185% more, about 190% more, or about 195% more, about 200% more, or
20  greater than about 200% more (or some intermediate value lying therebetween) than a
    total circumferential area occupied by the opening 122.
             FIG. 11D depicts the deployment device 100 of FIGS. I1A through 11C
    during removal from the prosthesis 112 through the opening 154. As illustrated, the
25  flexible support structure 102 can assume a collapsed configuration, e.g., which
    includes at least one bend, fold, or other collapsed state. The collapsed configuration
    can allow the flexible support structure 102 to pass through the opening 154 and
    thereby retreat from the enclosure 124. As with the embodiments of FIGS. 1A
    through 8, removal of the deployment device 100 can result in an enlargement of the
30  enclosure 124, which can be caused by pulling one or both of the tabs 104 in a
    direction away from the prosthesis 112. As non-limiting examples, the reconfiguration
    (e.g., in shape, orientation, or both) of the flexible support structure 102 can be caused

 WO 2013/148839                                                                PCT/US2013/034107
                                                  -37
     by pulling one of the tabs 104 in any one of example directions 140a, 140b, 140c, or
     in another direction away from the prosthesis 112.
             Still other embodiments are possible. For example, the tab 104 can include
  5  one or more additional components, such as an insertion device, a positioning device,
    or another device or component. FIG. 12A depicts the deployment device 100
     according to an additional embodiment of the present invention, wherein the tab 104
     includes a protruding portion 164 and an insertion device 160. For instance, the
     insertion device 160 can be an elongate, generally tubular, hollow rod inside which
 10 the flexible support structure 102 (and the protruding portion 164) can be movably
    positioned. The insertion device 160 can be coupled to or otherwise joined with the
    deployment device 100 (e.g., at the tabs 104, on some portion of the flexible support
    structure, on additional slack that remains within the insertion device 160, etc.). The
     insertion device 160 can be constructed from metal, plastic, or any other suitable
 15 material.
             As illustrated in FIG. 12B, the insertion device 160 can be inserted into the
    prosthesis 112 through the opening 154, e.g., along with the flexible support structure
     102 contained therein but unexposed at an open distal end 162. Once positioned
20  appropriately (for instance, across at least the entire width of the opening 122), the
    insertion device 160 can be removed through the opening 154 so that it is no longer
    positioned in the prosthesis 112, thereby enabling the flexible support structure 102 to
    assume a deployed (e.g., generally planar) configuration, as depicted in the example
    deployed (e.g., generally planar) configuration of FIG. 12C. Once the prosthesis 112
25  is suitably affixed or implanted at a target site of an anatomical defect, the tab 104
    (e.g., the insertion device 160 and/or the protruding portion 164) can be pulled in a
    direction away from the prosthesis 112, thereby enabling reconfiguration of the
    flexible prosthesis 102 and removal of the deployment device 100.
30           Alternatively, the insertion device 160 can be unconnected to and initially
    separate from the deployment device 100. For example, the insertion device 160 can
    be inserted into the prosthesis 112 prior to placing the deployment device 100 therein.
    Once the insertion device 160 is inserted and properly positioned in the prosthesis

 WO 2013/148839                                                                 PCT/US2013/034107
                                                  -38
     112, a surgeon or other operator handling the deployment device 100 can "feed" the
     deployment device 100 through the insertion device 160 such that it moves through
     the tubular length of the insertion device 160 and out the open distal end 162.
     Simultaneously or subsequently, the insertion device 160 can be pulled away and
  5  removed from the prosthesis 112, thereby exposing the flexible support structure 102
    and enabling it to assume a deployed (e.g., generally planar) configuration. Once
     prepared for removal, the protruding portion 164 of the tab 104 can be used to cause
    the deployment device 100 to reconfigure in order to retreat from the enclosure 124 of
    the implanted prosthesis 112.
 10
             Furthermore, the insertion device 160 additionally can serve as a tool for
    inserting the prosthesis 112. For example, once the insertion device 160 is positioned
    as depicted in FIG. 12B (e.g., with the flexible support structure 102 contained within
    the insertion device 160), the prosthesis 112 can be wrapped around the insertion
15  device 160. Next, the insertion device 160, along with the prosthesis 112 wrapped
    therearound, can be inserted into a body at the target site of the anatomical defect.
    The prosthesis 112 can be allowed to unroll at the target site, and the insertion device
     160 can be pulled away and removed from the prosthesis 112, as depicted in FIG.
     12C. In some instances, the insertion device 160 can remain in the prosthesis 112 at a
20  perimeter of the enclosure 124 while the flexible support structure 102 is deployed.
    This can be beneficial in ensuring that the flexible support structure 102 fully deploys
    in the prosthesis 112.
             Accordingly, for these and other embodiments, the flexible support structure
25   102 further can be sufficiently flexible to assume a collapsed configuration sufficient
    for insertion into the body, e.g., with an insertion, positioning, or other device.
             Furthermore, prostheses and deployment devices, according to embodiments
    described and depicted herein, can be packaged and sold in kits. For example, kits
30  according to some embodiments of the present invention each include one or more
    deployment devices each being inserted into a prosthesis, e.g., in a rolled or other
    collapsed configuration, or alternatively in a non-collapsed configuration. In other
    embodiments of the present invention, the kits each can include one or more

 WO 2013/148839                                                                PCT/US2013/034107
                                                    -39
      prostheses and one or more deployment devices that are not inserted into the one or
      more prostheses. For example, such a kit 200 is depicted in FIG. 13. One of skill in
     the art will appreciate that there is no limit on the number of deployment devices 100
     and prostheses 112 that are included in the kit 200. For example, the kit 200 can
  5   include a first prosthesis 112?, a second prosthesis 1122, up through an nth prosthesis
      112. Similarly, the kit 200 can include a first deployment device 1001, a second
     deployment device 1002, up through an nth deployment device I00n. The number of
     prostheses 112 and deployment devices 100 in the kit 200 need not be the same.
     Furthermore, as alternatives, one or both of the prosthesis 112 and the deployment
 10  device 102 can be packaged and/or sold separately.
              Still other embodiments are possible. FIG. 14 depicts an example
     embodiment of a flexible support structure 102 having a serpentine configuration. In
     particular, the flexible support structure 102 includes a serpentine edge 172. A
 15  "serpentine edge" herein refers to an arrangement of one or more connected edges
     that extend from an inner (e.g., central) portion of the flexible support structure 102 to
     one or more points on the perimeter of the flexible support structure 102. In
     illustrative embodiments, the serpentine edge 172 sweeps out a full 360 degrees (e.g.,
     by making at least one complete revolution). Furthermore, in illustrative
20   embodiments, the serpentine edge 172 is a spiral edge. As depicted in FIG. 14, the
     serpentine edge 172 includes an inner end proximate to the center of the flexible
     support structure 102 and an outer end at a point on the perimeter of the flexible
     support structure 102. Abutting portions of the flexible support structure 102 along
     the serpentine edge 172 are discontinuous and physically unconnected along the
25   serpentine edge 172. The discontinuous and physically unconnected portions formed
     by the serpentine edge 172 are held in place by a removable connector piece.
              For example, FIG. 15 depicts an illustrative embodiment of such a removable
    connector piece 168, which includes four rectangular elongate portions 170 adjoined
30  at a central portion 171 and forming a cross-like shape. In some embodiments, the
    removable connector piece 168 includes a protective film that is not easily penetrated
    by tacks or sutures. For example, the protective film can be a component that is
    independent from the removable connector piece 168 and that slips over the

 WO 2013/148839                                                                 PCT/US2013/034107
                                                   -40
    removable connector piece 168 prior to insertion into the flexible support structure
     102. This can be useful in providing protective measures that aid in preventing
    unintentional fixation by a surgeon at undesirable positions (e.g., on the deployment
    device 100 and/or a patient's viscera). The protective film can include two slits that
  5 are aligned (positioned in-line) with the strap slots 174. Accordingly, the protective
    film can be positioned over (e.g., slid over) the strap 176 and the additional strap 182
    such that both the strap 176 and the additional strap 182 pass through the protective
    film.
 10          Continuing with the example embodiment of FIG. 14, the flexible support
    structure 102 can include a plurality of slits 166 (e.g., relatively thin openings) in its
    surface for receiving the removable connector piece 168, e.g., in a threaded (repeating
    over-and-under) fashion. Accordingly, the slits 166 can be arranged in a straight line
    as depicted in FIG. 14, so as to ease in the removal of the removable connector piece
 15  168 therefrom.
             One of skill in the art will appreciate that other receiving mechanisms besides
    the slits 166 can be included for receiving (e.g., releasably) the removable connector
    piece 168. For example, as additions or alternatives to the slits 166, the flexible
20  support structure 102 can include loops, straps, large openings, and any other suitable
    receiving mechanism. Furthermore, the slits 166 or alternative receiving mechanisms
    can be arranged in other shapes and configurations besides the straight lines depicted
    in FIG. 14. In some embodiments, only one such slit 166 or receiving mechanism is
    included, rather than the plurality depicted in FIG. 14. Furthermore, one of skill in
25  the art will readily appreciate that other mechanisms having different shapes can be
    included as alternatives or additions to the elongate portions 170. Additionally, the
    number of elongate portions 170 or equivalent mechanisms included in the removable
    connector piece 168 can be different from the embodiment depicted in FIG. 15. For
    example, the removable connector piece 168 can include one, two, three, four, five,
30  six, etc. appendages or distinctly shaped portions. One of skill in the art will
    appreciate yet other alternatives upon reading the present specification. The present
    invention is not limited to the illustrative examples provided herein. All alternatives
    and modifications are contemplated within the scope of the present invention.

 WO 2013/148839                                                                PCT/US2013/034107
                                                   -41
             The flexible support structure 102 and the removable connector piece 168
     each can include one or more strap slots 174 for enabling one or more strap
    components to fit therethrough. In the illustrative embodiment of FIG. 14, each of
  5 the flexible support structure 102 and the removable connector piece 168 includes two
    such strap slots 174. However, more or less strap slots 174 can be included therein.
    The strap slots 174 can be any suitable openings sized to receive one or more straps.
    The strap slots 174 can be positioned on both the flexible support structure 102 and
    the removable connector piece 168 such that placing the removable connector piece
 10  168 atop the flexible support structure 102 and aligning the center points of the
    removable connector piece 168 and the flexible support structure 102 also results in
    the strap slots 174 being aligned, e.g., to form a through-opening. Accordingly, in
    this manner, the strap slots 174 on the flexible support structure 102 can have the
    same positions on the flexible support structure 102 as on the strap slots 174 on the
 15 removable connector piece 168.
             FIGS. 16A and 16B depict a top view and a bottom view, respectively, of the
    removable connector piece 168 of FIG. 15 threaded in the slits 166 of the flexible
    support structure 102 of FIG. 14. As depicted, the elongate portions 170 pass
20  successively through the slits 166, thereby forming in an alternating pattern of
    visibility on each side of the flexible support structure 102. The removable connector
    piece 168 has a stiffness that is sufficient to maintain the positions of abutting
    portions of the flexible support structure 102 along the serpentine edge 172 (e.g.,
    prevent folding and overlap of the abutting portions), thereby structurally reinforcing
25  the flexible support structure 102 and providing it with suitable deployment
    characteristics. In the illustrative embodiment of FIG. 15, the removable connector
    piece 168 further is sufficiently flexible to allow the removable connector piece 168
    to bend so that it may be received by the flexible support structure 102 and removed
    therefrom.
30
             In addition, FIGS. 16A and 16B illustrative that the strap slots 174 of the
    flexible support structure 102 and of the removable connector piece 168 align when
    the removable connector piece 168 is received by the flexible support structure 102.

 WO 2013/148839                                                                PCT/US2013/034107
                                                  -42
    Said differently, the strap slots 174 of the flexible support structure 102 overlap with
    the strap slots 174 of the removable connector piece 168. Thus, one or more straps
    are enabled to easily pass through the overlapping strap slots 174 of FIGS. 16A and
     16B, thereby passing through both the flexible support structure 102 and the
 5  removable connector piece 168.
             For example, FIG. 17 depicts a strap 176 that includes two strap appendages
     178 and a strap base 180. The strap appendages 178 are sized to fit through the strap
    slots 174 of both the flexible support structure 102 and the removable connector piece
10   168. When received by the strap slots 174 of the flexible support structure 102 and
    the removable connector piece 168, the strap base 180 sits below a central portion of
    the flexible support structure 102. Accordingly, the strap appendages 178 are
    included to facilitate removal of the flexible support structure 102 from a prosthesis,
    such as the prosthesis 112 of FIG. 2A through 2C. Similar to the methods described
15  previously herein, pulling the strap 176 (e.g., pulling the strap appendages 178) in a
    direction away from the prosthesis 112 causes the strap base 180 to produce an
    upward force against the center of the flexible support structure 102, which causes the
    flexible support structure 102 to be removed by contacting the mouth of the opening
     122 and reconfiguring into a shape enabling its passage through the opening 122.
20
             For the flexible support structure 102 to reconfigure into a shape suitable for
    passage through the opening 122 of the prosthesis 112, the removable connector piece
     168 first must be removed. Accordingly, in addition to the strap 176, one or more
    additional straps can be coupled to or received by the removable connector piece 168
25  to facilitate removal of the removable connector piece 168. For example, FIG. 18
    depicts an additional strap 182 that includes a continuous elongate member (e.g.,
    formed of a single piece of material) passing through a first strap slot 174, passing
    below the central portion 171 of the removable connector piece 168, and passing
    through a second strap slot 174. For embodiments such as that depicted in FIG. 18
30  where the additional strap 182 passes through the strap slots 174 of the removable
    connector piece 168, the additional strap 182 does not pass through the strap slots 174
    of the flexible support structure 102. Said differently, the additional strap 182 for
    enabling the removable connector piece 168 to be removed from the flexible support

 WO 2013/148839                                                                  PCT/US2013/034107
                                                    -43
     structure 102 is not received by the flexible support structure 102. Accordingly,
     gripping the additional strap 182 on each end and pulling upward causes the
     removable connector piece 168 to retreat from the slits 166 and bend in manner
     enabling its removal from the flexible support structure 102.
 5
              The task of removing the removable connector piece 168 is performed without
     causing the flexible support structure 102 to be removed from the prosthesis 112.
     This is due to the removable connector piece 168 being provided with a suitable
     elasticity and flexibility and the fact that the additional strap 182 is not received by
10  the flexible support structure 102. In addition, the removable connector piece 168 and
    the flexible support structure 102 each can be constructed from a material having a
     low coefficient of friction. For example, in some embodiments, the removable
    connector piece 168 and the flexible support structure 102 both are constructed from
    extruded polyester, polyethylene, or polypropylene, e.g., with smooth surface finishes.
15
              The portion of the additional strap 182 of FIG. 18 passing beneath the central
    portion 171 of the removable connector piece 168 can be affixed (e.g., with adhesive,
    stitching, etc.) to the underside of the removable connector piece 168. Alternatively,
    the additional strap 182 can be slidable through the strap slots 174 of the removable
20  connector piece 168. In alternative embodiments, the additional strap 182 is not
    adjoined to the removable connector piece 168 via the strap slots 174 and does not
    pass through the strap slot 174. Instead, in such alternative embodiments, the
    removable connector piece 168 can be affixed (e.g., as two separate strap appendages)
    to the upward-facing surface of the removable connector piece 168. In yet another
25  embodiment, the additional strap 182 includes a single strap appendage adjoined with
    the removable connector piece at its center. One of skill in the art will appreciate a
    wide variety of other suitable ways and positions at which to adjoin the additional
    strap 182 with the removable connector piece 168. The present invention is not
    limited to the illustrative examples described herein. Rather, all such alternatives and
30  modifications are contemplated as within the scope of the present invention.
              FIGS. 19A and 19B depict a perspective view and a bottom view,
    respectively, of the deployment device 100 including the components depicted in

 WO 2013/148839                                                                PCT/US2013/034107
                                                  -44
    FIGS. 14 through 18. Specifically, the deployment device 100 of FIGS. 19A and
     19B includes: (a) the flexible support structure 102 of FIG. 14, (b) the removable
    connector piece 168 of FIG. 15 threaded through the slits (as depicted in FIGS. 16A
    and 16B), (c) the strap 176 of FIG. 17 received through the strap slots 174 of both the
 5  flexible support structure 102 and the removable connector piece 168, and (d) the
    additional strap 182 of FIG. 18 received by the strap slots 174 of the removable
    connector piece 168 (and not received by the strap slots 174 of the flexible support
    structure 102). In such embodiments, the strap 176 forms the tab 104. Accordingly,
    the tab 104 is received by the flexible support structure 102 rather than affixed to the
10  flexible support structure 102. However, it should be appreciated that the strap 176
    alternative can be affixed to the flexible support structure 102 in the example
    embodiment of FIGS. 19A and 19B.
             FIG. 20 depicts a perspective view of the deployment device 100 of FIGS.
15  19A and 19B situated in the prosthesis 112 of FIGS. 2A through 2C. For purposes of
    clarity, the serpentine separation line 173 is not illustrated. In the embodiment of
    FIG. 20, as with previous illustrative embodiments of the present invention, the
    flexible support structure 102 of the deployment device 100 extends to a perimeter of
    the prosthesis 112, allowing the flexible support structure 102 to sit securely within
20  the prosthesis 112 without any need for an attachment mechanism, such as adhesive
    or stitching. For example, as depicted in FIG. 20, the flexible support structure 102
    can extend substantially to the outer perimeter 118 of the first layer 114 and/or the
    outer perimeter 120 of the second layer 116. In some embodiments, the flexible
    support structure 102 extends to and is in contact with a radially outermost surface
25  125 of the enclosure 124 when the flexible support structure 102 is in a deployed
    (e.g., generally planar) configuration, as depicted and described previously herein
    with reference to FIG. 2C. The deployment device 100 of FIG. 20 is removed from
    the prosthesis 112 in a stepwise fashion, first by pulling on the additional strap 182 to
    remove the removable connector piece 168, and then by pulling on the strap 176
30  (forming the tab 104) to remove the flexible support structure 102,
             As can be seen from FIG. 20, the additional strap 182 is positioned within the
    strap 176. Thus, a surgeon is enabled to remove the removable connector piece 168

 WO 2013/148839                                                                 PCT/US2013/034107
                                                   -45
     by pulling upward on the additional strap 182. The surgeon further is enabled to
     remove the flexible support structure 102 by pulling upward on the strap 176. In
     addition to allowing the surgeon to remove the flexible support structure 102, the
     strap 176 also can be used to assist the surgeon in positioning the prosthesis 112. For
  5 example, in the system depicted in FIG. 20, manipulating the strap 176 prior to
    release of the removable connector piece 168 from the flexible support structure 102
    causes the flexible support structure 102 and the prosthesis 112 to move together.
    Thus, the strap 176 can provide additional handling assistance to the surgeon during
    use of the deployment device 100.
 10
              In some embodiments, the removable connector piece 168 is not included. For
    example, FIG. 21 depicts an additional embodiment of the deployment device 100 in
    which the flexible support structure 102 include a serpentine separation line 173.       A
    ''serpentine separation line" herein refers to an arrangement of one or more connected
 15 separation lines that extend from an inner (e.g., central) portion of the flexible support
    structure 102 to one or more points on the perimeter of the flexible support structure
     102. The term "serpentine" can include straight lines, jagged lines, curved lines, and
    the like. As utilized herein, a "separation line" generally refers to any straight,
    curved, jagged, etc. pathway situated in one or more materials that is adapted to be
20  torn (e.g., without separating abutting portions in the one or more materials that are
    away from the separation line). A separation line can extend across one material or
    multiple different materials and can extend across one or multiple types of objects. In
    illustrative embodiments, the serpentine separation line 173 travels some angular
    distance relative to its inner endpoint (e.g., does not follow a straight line). In further
25  illustrative embodiments, the serpentine separation line 173 travels an angular
    distance of at least 360 degrees (e.g., by making at least one complete revolution).
    Furthermore, in illustrative embodiments, the serpentine separation line 173 is a spiral
    separation line. The serpentine separation line 173 can include and be implemented
    by a series of through-holes, a thin or weaker material, or any other type of separation
30  line. One of skill in the art will appreciate yet other materials, implementations,
    shapes, and the like for the serpentine separation line 173. All such alternatives are
    contemplated within the scope of the present invention.

 WO 2013/148839                                                                 PCT/US2013/034107
                                                   -46
             In the example embodiment of FIG. 21A, the serpentine separation line 173 is
    formed of a series of through-holes 184 extending through an entirety of the flexible
    support structure. Accordingly, upon separating the series of through-holes 184 along
    the serpentine separation line 173, portions of the flexible support structure 102
 5  abutting along the serpentine separation line 173 are released and a serpentine edge
     172 is formed (see FIG. 21B, see also FIG. 25B). FIG. 22 depicts a close-up view of
    the deployment device 100 at a central portion thereof. The series of through-holes
    184 (represented by a dashed line) are sized and spaced to maintain some limited
    structural reinforcement between abutting portions along the serpentine separation
10  line 173 and create a nearly-contiguous surface with minimal void space, but are also
    designed to create a separation path, e.g., in response to a user tugging or pulling up
    on the strap 176, For example, the serpentine separation line 173 can be constructed
    by forming a series of perforations in the flexible support structure 102 in a serpentine
    pattern. Accordingly, the series of through-holes 184 and the serpentine separation
15  line 173 extend from a central portion of the flexible support structure 102 to a point
    on a perimeter of the flexible support structure 102. As with the serpentine edge 172
    (which is formed by separating the serpentine separation line 173), the serpentine
    separation line 173 includes an inner end proximate to the center of the flexible
    support structure 102 and an outer end at a position on the perimeter of the flexible
20  support structure 102.
             Furthermore, the deployment device 100 can include a stress relief hole 186.
    The stress relief hole 186 is a through-hole disposed at the innermost end of the
    serpentine separation line 173 (e.g., the start point for forming a separation in the
25  serpentine separation line 173), as depicted in the example embodiment of FIG. 23.
    In the example embodiment of FIG. 23, the stress relief hole 186 is generally circular
    and is situated near a center of the flexible support structure 102. Functionally, the
    stress relief hole 186 is a hole situated at the beginning of the serpentine separation
    line 173 to effectively distribute the stress in this region and thereby reduce the
30  likelihood of propagation of unintended separations in the flexible support structure
    102 at non-perforated positions away from the serpentine separation line 173 (e.g., as
    might be caused by a sharp pull on the strap 176). In this manner, the stress relief
    hole 186 can aid in initiating a separation in the serpentine separation line 173 based

 WO 2013/148839                                                                 PCT/US2013/034107
                                                  -47
    on a pulling force on the strap 176serpentine. As a result, a sharp pull and subsequent
    steady pull force on the strap 176 causes the series of through-holes 184 to separation
    along the serpentine separation line 173. In this manner, the serpentine edge 172 is
    formed and abutting portions along the serpentine separation line 173 become
 5  unconnected to one another, enabling them to collapse (i.e., fold and deform) during
    removal of the deployment device 100 from the prosthesis 112 (e.g., the prosthesis of
    FIGS. 2A through 2C).
             In the example embodiment of FIG. 23, the strap 176 used for separating
10  along the series of through-holes 184 in the serpentine edge 172 can be a single
    continuous elongate member (e.g., formed of a single piece of material) that passes in
    one of the strap slots 174, beneath a central portion of the flexible support structure
    102, and through another of the strap slots 174. As with all other straps provided
    herein, the strap 176 generally can be flexible or rigid (e.g., allowing it to be used as a
15  positioning device or handling device during deployment and/or fixation).
             Alternatively or additionally to providing the series of through-holes 184
    between abutting portions of the flexible support structure 102 along the serpentine
    separation line 173, a relatively weaker (e.g., relatively thinner) strip of material can
20  be disposed continuously in a serpentine along the flexible support structure 102 for
    forming the serpentine separation line 173. For example, FIG. 24 depicts one
    example embodiment of such a continuous strip 188 of material forming the
    serpentine separation line 173. The continuous strip 188 of material can be weaker
    (e.g., thinner) relative to a remainder of the flexible support structure 102. For
25  example, the continuous strip 188 of material along the serpentine separation line 173
    can be formed by directing a laser (e.g., at a particular power level) at the flexible
    support structure 102 and moving the laser in a serpentine path (or moving the
    flexible support structure 102 in a serpentine path relative to the laser), thereby
    thinning the material of the flexible support structure 102 at points contacted by the
30  laser (a technique commonly referred to as "kiss cutting"). The depth of the cut can
    be selected to ensure easy separation mechanics along the serpentine separation line
    173 as would be appreciated by one of skill in the art upon reading the present
    specification, e.g., based on material properties of the material being used (density,

 WO 2013/148839                                                                   PCT/US2013/034107
                                                   -48
    etc.), the size of the material (thickness, etc.), and the like. In addition, laser cuts can
    be implemented in such a way that is optimized to be thick enough to resist fracture
    during compression/folding of the flexible support structure 102, yet thin enough to
    enable easy separation/removal along the serpentine separation line 173.
 5  Alternatively to laser cutting, the continuous strip 188 of material can be formed by
    "kiss cutting" sheet stock with a steel rule die, as would be appreciated by one of skill
    in the art. Any other suitable methods of manufacturing the continuous strip 188 of
    material also may be used, such as micro-molding, injection molding, and other
    alternative manufacturing methods.
10
             In some embodiments, the kiss cuts can be performed at varying thicknesses,
    such that some regions of the serpentine separation line 173 are more difficult to
    separation than other regions. For example, by using a more shallow kiss cut to form
    the serpentine separation line 173 at a central portion of the flexible support structure
15   102, the serpentine separation line 173 can be sufficiently strong and durable to
    withstand use of the straps 178 as rigid handles for intraoperative positioning and
    maneuvering of the prosthesis 112. Additionally, forming the serpentine separation
    line 173 of a deeper kiss cut at outer portions of the flexible support structure 102
    allows the serpentine separation line 173 to be more easily torn during removal from
20  the prosthesis 112. In addition, kiss cuts can be implemented in such a way that is
    optimized to be thick enough to resist fracture during compression/folding of the
    flexible support structure 102, yet thin enough to enable easy separation/removal
    along the serpentine separation line 173.
25           In the example embodiment of the deployment device 100 depicted in FIG.
    24, the serpentine separation line 173 forms about four and a half revolutions.
    However, it should be understood that more or less revolutions can be included based
    on the intended medical applications and the particular implementation of the
    deployment device 100 (e.g., based on the size of the deployment device 100, the
30  thickness of the flexible support structure 102, etc.). The particular number of
    revolutions formed by the serpentine separation line 173 can be selected to ensure that
    the flexible support structure 102 has a flexibility that is sufficient to allow the

 WO 2013/148839                                                                 PCT/US2013/034107
                                                  -49
    flexible support structure 102 to reconfigure and pass through the opening 122 in the
    prosthesis 112.
             Furthermore, the invention is not limited to any particular value of density,
 5  thickness, etc. of the flexible support structure 102. For example, the flexible support
    structure 120 can be constructed of low density polyethylene, low density
    polypropylene, and the like. Rather, a wide variety of combinations of specific
    materials and structural properties (e.g., including number of revolutions of the
    serpentine separation line 173) can be selected to provide the flexible support
10  structure 102 with a flexibility sufficient to reconfigure and pass through the opening
     122 in the prosthesis 112. FIG. 25A depicts the deployment device 100 of FIG. 24
    situated in the prosthesis 112 of FIGS. 2A through 2C. The deployment device 100
    is removed by providing a sharp pull on the strap 176 to begin separating the
    continuous strip 188 of material at the stress relief hole 186, then by steadily pulling
15  on the strap 176 in an upward direction away from the prosthesis 112 to progressively
    separate the remainder of the continuous strip 188 of material extending out from the
    stress relief hole 186. In this manner, abutting portions along the continuous strip 188
    of material of the flexible support structure 102 become unconnected and are enabled
    to release upward so as to assume a reconfigured (e.g., bent, folded, buckled,
20  overlapping, etc.) shape, e.g., resembling a helix or a conventional spiral staircase.
    The reconfigured shape allows the flexible support structure 102 to pass through the
    opening 122, which has a smaller total circumferential area than the total
    circumferential area of the flexible support structure 102 in the deployed (e.g.,
    generally planar) state. For example, the flexible support structure 102 is depicted in
25  a helix configuration in FIG. 25B. Specifically, FIG. 25B illustrates a perspective
    view of a surgeon 190 removing the flexible support structure 102 through a hole or
    defect 192 in an artificial muscle wall 194. The step shown in FIG. 25B occurs after
    implanting the prosthesis (not visible in FIG. 25B) through the hole or defect 192 and
    affixing it to the artificial muscle wall 194 (e.g., with tacks or sutures). The ability of
30  the flexible support structure 102 to reconfigure into a helix affords the deployment
    device 100 great versatility. For example, this feature is particularly advantageous for
    the reason that it allows the deployment device 100 to reconfigure in a manner
    enabling extraction through nearly any size defect or orifice.

 WO 2013/148839                                                                PCT/US2013/034107
                                                 -50
             It should be noted that the continuous strip 188 that results from the flexible
    support structure 102 being reconfigured to enable removal of the structure can
     include the continuous strip 188 terminating in a loop or ring configuration.
  5  Specifically, referring back to FIG. 21B, the flexible support structure 102 is shown
    after having been reconfigured by separating the structure along the serpentine
    separation line, with a loop or ring 181. As shown and configured, the ring 181 is
    formed by the outer most perimeter of the original flexible support structure 102. As
    the flexible support structure is removed from the prosthesis, the ring 181 is
 10 maintained at the end of the elongate continuous strip 188 to signal to the surgeon that
    the entire flexible support structure 102 has been removed from the prosthesis (once
    the surgeon sees the ring 181 exiting from the prosthesis). Those of skill in the art
    will appreciate other ways to provide a signal or indication to the user of the last
    remaining portion of the flexible support structure 102 that is removed from the
 15 prosthesis, including the ring 181 or some other structure variation, or a color or label
    indicator, or other visual representation indicating the end of the device.
             In some embodiments of the present invention, the flexible support structure
     102 includes one or more reinforcing lips situated beside (e.g., adjacent to and/or
20  contiguous with) the path of the serpentine separation line 173. For example, FIGS.
    26A, 26B, and 26C depict a perspective view, a side view, and a close-up view,
    respectively, of a cross section of two such reinforcing lips 204a, 204b that can be
    formed in the flexible support structure 102. As depicted in FIGS. 26A through 26C,
    the flexible support structure 102 is depicted right-side up (upright and erect). In the
25  example embodiments of FIGS. 26A through 26C, the reinforcing lips 204a, 204b are
    formed on both sides of the serpentine separation line 173. Each reinforcing lip 204a,
    204b is contiguous with the serpentine separation line 173 at its respective side. The
    serpentine separation line 173 of the example embodiment of FIGS. 26A through
    26C is defined by a thinner region in the material of the flexible support structure 102,
30  e.g., formed as a depression in the flexible support structure 102. Each reinforcing lip
    204a, 204b forms a slight elevation or wall on one side of the depression forming the
    serpentine separation line 173. The reinforcing lip 204a follows along the path of the
    separation line 173 on an inner side of the separation line 173. The reinforcing lip

 WO 2013/148839                                                                PCT/US2013/034107
                                                   -51
     204b follows along the path of the separation line 173 on an outer side of the
     separation line 173. In other embodiments, however, the reinforcing lips 204a, 204b
     are not included.
 5            In one example embodiment, the flexible support structure 102 of FIGS. 26A
    through 26C is constructed from low-density polyethylene and has a thickness of
     about 0.020 inches, a density of about 0.92 g/crn3 , a melt flow index (MFI) of about
     1.8 g/l 0 min, and an Elmendorf separation strength determined through various
     mechanical tests, e.g., of about 400 g in the machine direction (MD) and of about 280
10  g in the transverse direction (TD). One of skill in the art will appreciate that these
    dimensions and material properties are in no way limiting to the scope of the present
     invention. Rather, the dimensions and material properties provided herein are
    exemplary and described merely for purposes of illustration. Embodiments of the
    present invention can assume a wide variety of sizes, dimensions, shapes, material
15  properties, and the like, as would be appreciated by one of skill in the art upon reading
    the present specification. The specific values can be selected based on the intended
    applications (e.g., the intended target site, the intended medical applications, etc.).
             FIGS. 27A and 27B further depict the flexible support structure 102 of FIGS.
20  26A through 26C from a perspective view and a bottom view, respectively. As can
    be seen, the serpentine separation line 173 and the reinforcing lips 204a, 204b
    collectively form a serpentine path extending in revolutions from an inner position on
    the flexible support structure 102 to an outer position of the flexible support structure
     102 (e.g., on a perimeter thereof).
25
             As described previously herein, the serpentine separation line 173 can include
    multiple regions characterized by different thicknesses. For example, FIG. 28 depicts
    an additional embodiment of the deployment device 100 in which the serpentine line
     173 includes an inner portion 173a (indicated in the figure by a green line) and an
30  outer portion I73b (indicated in the figure by a red line). The inner portion 173a has a
    thickness that is greater than a thickness of the outer portion 173b, e.g., to promote
    easier separating/release along the outer portion 173b (e.g., when a surgeon truly
    intends to remove the deployment device 100), and more difficult separating/release

 WO 2013/148839                                                                PCT/US2013/034107
                                                  -52
    along the inner portion 173a (e.g., to provide greater durability enabling a surgeon to
    manipulate the straps 176 as positioning/handling mechanisms), The inner portion of
    the serpentine separation line 173a and the outer portion of the serpentine separation
    line 173b can be continuous with one another, as depicted in the example embodiment
 5  of FIG. 28.
             Furthermore, as depicted in FIG. 28, the serpentine separation line 173 can be
    preceded at its innermost end by a serpentine through-cut 196. The serpentine
    through-cut 196 can be a slit-like or slot-like opening situated in and extending
10  entirely through the flexible support structure 102 (i.e., passing from a top surface of
    the flexible support structure 102 to a bottom surface of the flexible support structure
    102). The serpentine through-cut 196 can follow a path that forms an extrapolation of
    the serpentine path followed by the serpentine separation line 173. Accordingly,
    including the through-cut 196 effectively forms a flap that, when pulled upward,
15  initiates release of the serpentine separation line 173. At an innermost end, the
    serpentine through-cut 196 can terminate at the stress relief hole 186. At an
    outermost end, the serpentine through-cut 196 can terminate at a gap 202 of material
    on the flexible support structure 102 between the serpentine through-cut 196 and the
    innermost end of the serpentine separation line 173. For example, the gap 202 can
20  have a thickness that is substantially equal to as the thickness of the majority of the
    flexible support structure 102 (e.g., can have a thickness equal to the thickness of
    portions situated between the revolutions of the serpentine separation line 173 with
    the reinforcing walls 204a, 204b).
25           In the example embodiment of FIG. 28, the strap slots 174a, 174b can be
    distinguished based on proximity to the serpentine through-cut 196. Accordingly, the
    ends 177a, 177b of the strap 176 similarly can be distinguished based on which strap
    slot 174a, 174b each passes through and extends from. In the example embodiment of
    FIG. 28, by providing the serpentine through-cut 196 in a position displaced from the
30  center of the flexible support structure 102, the two strap ends 177a, 177b can be used
    for different functions by a surgeon during intraoperative handling and manipulation.
    The strap end 177a, being more proximate to the through-cut 196 and less proximate
    to the thicker inner portion 173a, will more effectively break the gap 202 of material

 WO 2013/148839                                                                  PCT/US2013/034107
                                                     -53
     and initiate release of the separation line 173 in response to a moderate tug or pull by
     the surgeon. Stated differently, tugging upward on the strap end 177a causes the
     semi-circular flap formed by the through-cut 196 to lift upward and eventually
     distribute enough tension on the gap 202 to separation the gap 202 and thereby initiate
 5   release of the spiral separation line 173. On the other hand, the strap end 177b, being
     less proximate to the through-cut 196 (i.e, more distal from the through-cut 196) and
     more proximate to the thicker inner portion 173a, will more effectively serve as a
     positioning tool which can better distribute tensile forces due to tugs and pulls without
     initiating release of the separation line 173.
10
              It should be noted that the serpentine separation line 173 and the serpentine
     edge 172 can assume other types of serpentine shapes besides the exemplary smoothly
    curved serpentines and spirals depicted in the figures. For example, the serpentine
    separation line 173 and/or the serpentine edge 172 can be shaped as square
15  serpentines/spirals, other shaped serpentines/spirals, or combinations thereof. As yet
    further examples, FIGS. 29A and 29B depict the flexible support structure 102 with
    alternative serpentine separation lines 173, according to embodiments of the present
     invention. As depicted in FIGS. 29A and 29B, the serpentine separation line 173 can
     include a plurality (e.g., two, three, four, five, etc.) of branches 179 that each
20  terminates at one or more positions on the flexible support structure 102 and which
    are continuous with and connected to one another. As depicted in FIGS. 29A and
    29B, the branches 179 of the serpentine separation line 173 can terminate at a position
     inward from the perimeter of the flexible support structure 102,
25            FIG. 30 depicts the strap 176 according a further example embodiment of the
    present invention. As described previously, in such embodiments where the strap 176
    is included, the strap 176 can form the tab 104. A medial portion 208 is slightly
    displaced from the center of the strap 176. The medial portion 208 thus divides the
    strap 176 into a longer appendage 178a and a shorter appendage 178b (relative to one
30  another). As depicted in FIG. 30, the strap 176 is depicted in an unassembled form,
    such that the appendages 178a, 178b are aligned along the same plane. To assemble
    the strap 176, the appendages 178a, 178b are bent at the outer edges of the medial
    portion 208, such that the appendages 178a, 178b are erect and upright. A finger

 WO 2013/148839                                                                  PCT/US2013/034107
                                                  -54
     support ring 206 is adapted to receive the finger of a user and is situated at the end
     177a of the longer appendage 178a. The base portion 180 is not included in the strap
     176 of the example embodiment of FIG. 30. Each appendage 178a, 178b includes
     one or more barb mechanisms 214 extending therefrom that, once slid through the
  5  strap slots 174, act as mechanical stops that prevent the appendages 178a, 178b from
     sliding through the strap slots 174 in either direction. A slit 210 is situated in and
    through the end 177a of the longer appendage 178a, slightly inward of the finger
     support ring 206. The slit 210 is sized, shaped, and dimensioned to receive a
     protuberance 212 formed on the end 177b of the shorter appendage 178b. The
 10  protuberance 212 is sized, shaped, and dimensioned to pass through the slit 210 and
    subsequently lock in place by turning. The protuberance 212 is released by turning in
    the opposite direction to unlock. In illustrative embodiments, the strap 176 is formed
    of polypropylene, PETG (polyethylene terephthalate glycol-modified), or any other
    suitable (e.g., medical-grade) material. One of skill in the art will appreciate a variety
 15 of other materials herein that can be used to form the strap 176. All such alternatives
    and modifications are contemplated within the scope of the present invention.
             FIG. 31A depicts the strap 176 of FIG. 30 coupled to the flexible support
    structure 102 of the deployment device 100 depicted in FIG. 28. The deployment
20  device 100 is situated within the prosthesis 112 of FIGS. 2A through 2C. The longer
    appendage 178a is adapted to be affixed to the flexible support structure 102 on the
    semi-circular flap formed by the serpentine through-cut 196. The shorter appendage
     178b is adapted to be affixed at a location not on the semi-circular flap formed by the
    serpentine through-cut 196. The medial portion 208 of the strap 176 is situated on top
25  of the flexible support structure 102, such that the barb mechanisms 214 pass down
    through the strap slots 174 to fixedly latch onto the flexible support structure 102. As
    shown in FIG. 31A, the strap 176 is in a locked configuration. When in the locked
    configuration of FIG. 31A, the strap 176 forms and serves as a positioning tool, as
    described previously herein with reference to FIG. 28. Specifically, due to the
30  differences in length, the shorter appendage 178b is taught, whereas the longer
    appendage 178a is bent and includes some slack. Thus, forces on the finger support
    ring 206 are distributed along the shorter appendage 178b when the strap 176 is in the
    locked configuration. Given that the appendage 178b is not affixed on the semi-

 WO 2013/148839                                                                 PCT/US2013/034107
                                                   -55
     circular flap formed by the serpentine through-cut 196, forces on the finger support
     ring 206 are distributed more evenly across flexible support structure 102 in a manner
     that tends to avoid initiating release of the serpentine separation line 173 when the
     strap 176 is in the locked configuration.
 5
               FIG. 31B depicts the strap 176 in an unlocked configuration. In the unlocked
     configuration, forces on the finger support ring 206 are distributed along the longer
     appendage 178a. Thus, the resulting tensile forces on the flexible support structure
     102 are distributed on the semi-circular flap formed by the serpentine through-cut
10   196. This focusing of tensile forces on the semi-circular flap formed by the
     serpentine through-cut 196 enables the semi-circular flap to be lifted in such a way as
    to separation the gap 202 and initiate separation of the serpentine separation line 173.
     Accordingly, when the strap 176 is in a locked configuration, the strap 176 effectively
     serves as a positioning device, whereas when the strap 176 is in an unlocked
15   configuration, the strap 176 effectively serves as the tab 104 for removing the
     deployment device 100 from the prosthesis 112.
               Deployment devices 100 according to embodiments of the present invention
     can significantly improve prosthesis deployment for surgeons by easing the process of
20   positioning a prosthesis during and after implantation. Moreover, deployment devices
     100 according to embodiments of the present invention can eliminate the requirement
     for stitches or other fixation apparatuses used to secure a wire frame to a prosthesis.
     This can significantly reduce surgical time and operating room time, while providing
     a significantly easier mechanism for removing the deployment device 100. Rather
25  than cutting or removing stitches at the periphery of a prosthesis, the deployment
     device 100 can be easily and immediately removed simply by pulling the tab 104
     (e.g., straps, protruding segments, and any other tab described herein). As such,
    embodiments of the present invention eliminate risk of harm to a patient caused by
    cutting devices, etc.
30
              Furthermore, deployment devices 100 utilizing a flexible support structure 102
    forming a solid sheet or relatively solid sheet of material provide additional protection
    to a patient while a surgeon is affixing the prosthesis with tacks or sutures. The solid

 WO 2013/148839                                                               PCT/US2013/034107
                                                 -56
    sheet layer prevents suture needles or tacks from being improperly placed therein,
    which helps a surgeon avoid accidental punctures to organs. For example, misplacing
    suture needles or tacks at an undesirable peripheral position on the prosthesis could
    result in a surgeon unintentionally piercing an organ below the prosthesis 112 that is
 5  hidden from view. Certain embodiments of the present invention overcome such risks
    by providing a deployment device 100 that is to be removed and thus is not to be
    affixed to surrounding tissue, etc.
             Embodiments as depicted in FIGS. 24 through 31B that include a serpentine
10  separation line 173 (e.g., formed of a continuous strip 188 of material) may be
    particularly beneficial for certain medical application. For example, embodiments
    having a continuous strip 188 of material create a surface for fixation guidance that
    can be wholly and entirely void of any openings or gaps, thereby presenting a surface
    for fixation guidance that is smooth and continuous prior to separating along the
15  serpentine separation line 173. Furthermore, such continuous strips 188 of material
    create less risk of material being dispelled from the deployment device 100 during or
    after separating along the separation line 173. In addition, unlike the series of
    through-holes 184, separating the continuous strips 188 of material does not result in
    sharp or jagged edges being formed that could potentially create scrapes or scratches
20  during removal, which may be beneficial in certain applications.
             In providing a deployment device that is removable, embodiments of the
    present invention achieve a deployment device 100 that can greatly reduce dangerous
    post-operative complications and failures of a prosthesis caused by permanent rings or
25  frame members currently used in prior art devices In embodiments of the present
    invention, the full and complete removal of the deployment device 100 allows the
    prosthesis to be placed in the body without any additional rings or frame members
    permanently remaining therein. This creates a smooth surface in the prosthesis, which
    eliminates undesired surface tensions in the prosthesis that can cause failure and
30  patient discomfort. By having less foreign material remain in the body,
    immunological complications can be minimized as well.

 WO 2013/148839                                                                 PCT/US2013/034107
                                                    -57
              Furthermore, the deployment device 100 also functions as a barrier to prevent
     undesirable contact between the lower layer of mesh or underlying visceral tissue
    (e.g., bowel, etc.) and fixation elements (e.g., suture needles, tacks, etc.). The absence
    of voids across the smooth contiguous surface of the deployment device 100, which in
 5   illustrative embodiments spans across the entire interior of the prosthesis 112, can
    offer a solution to the potential problem of inadvertent surgical contact with
    surrounding tissue during the surgical procedure.
              Notably, deployment devices 100 according to embodiments of the present
10   invention achieve greater cost-effectiveness than existing prosthesis deployment
    devices, such as hernia patch deployment devices. For example, various component
    parts (e.g., including the flexible support structure 102) can be manufactured by
    cutting from a flat sheet of material, Accordingly, embodiments of the present
    invention enable greater manufacturing simplicity, thereby achieving improved cost
15  savings. One of skill in the art will appreciate yet additional benefits not specifically
    mentioned herein upon reading the present specification.
              Numerous modifications and alternative embodiments of the present invention
    will be apparent to those skilled in the art in view of the foregoing description.
20  Accordingly, this description is to be construed as illustrative only and is for the
    purpose of teaching those skilled in the art the best mode for carrying out the present
    invention. Details of the structure may vary substantially without departing from the
    spirit of the present invention, and exclusive use of all modifications that come within
    the scope of the appended claims is reserved. Within this specification embodiments
25  have been described in a way which enables a clear and concise specification to be
    written, but it is intended and will be appreciated that embodiments may be variously
    combined or separated without parting from the invention. It is intended that the
    present invention be limited only to the extent required by the appended claims and
    the applicable rules of law.
30
              It is also to be understood that the following claims are to cover all generic
    and specific features of the invention described herein, and all statements of the scope
    of the invention which, as a matter of language, might be said to fall therebetween.

                                                       58
                                                   CLAIMS
         1.      A system, comprising:
         a prosthesis diagrammatically parsable into first, second, third, and fourth quadrants
having substantially equal areas, the prosthesis comprising an enclosure extending substantially
to a perimeter of the prosthesis at least once in at least two of the first, second, third, and fourth
quadrants;
         a flexible support structure removably disposed at least partially within the enclosure and
occupying a total circumferential area, the flexible support structure having an elasticity that
generates a force sufficient to cause the prosthesis to assume a deployed configuration from a
non-deployed configuration; and
         a tab adjoined with the flexible support structure and extending external to the enclosure,
wherein the flexible support structure is configured in such a way that pulling the tab
directionally away from the prosthesis causes a reconfiguration of the flexible support structure
sufficient to enable the flexible support structure to pass through an opening in the prosthesis
having a total circumferential area that is less than the total circumferential area occupied by the
flexible support structure when the prosthesis is in the deployed configuration, thereby enabling
removal of the flexible support structure from the enclosure;
         wherein the flexible support structure comprises at least one flexible sheet member
having two or more portions that overlap each other when in a deployed configuration.
         2.      The system of claim 1, wherein the flexible sheet member comprises one or more
slits or openings disposed therethrough.
         3.      The system of claim 2, wherein the one or more slits or openings enable the
flexible support structure to reconfigure during removal of the flexible support structure into a
different shape having a peripheral edge that delineates a reduced effective diameter.
         4.      The system of claim 1, wherein the reconfiguration of the flexible support
structure during removal of the flexible support structure results in at least one of a reduced
length of the flexible support structure, a reduced width of the flexible support structure, or a

                                                       59
reduced effective diameter of the flexible support structure.
        5.      The system of claim 1, wherein the flexible support structure is configured to
apply a generally radially outward force on a radially outermost surface of the enclosure.
        6.      The system of claim 1, wherein the tab extends through the opening, and further
wherein the opening is disposed in and through a layer or surface of the prosthesis, in such a way
that a central opening provides access to the enclosure.
        7.      The system of claim 1, wherein the opening comprises an outer opening disposed
in and completely through the outer surface of the enclosure; and wherein the tab extends
through the outer opening in the outer surface of the enclosure.
        8.      The system of claim 1, wherein the tab comprises one or more elongate straps.
        9.      The system of claim 1, wherein the flexible support structure comprises a flexible
framework.
        10.     A kit, comprising:
        a prosthesis diagrammatically parsable into first, second, third, and fourth quadrants
having substantially equal areas, the prosthesis comprising an enclosure extending substantially
to a perimeter of the prosthesis at least once in at least two of the first, second, third, and fourth
quadrants;
        a flexible support structure for removable insertion at least partially within the enclosure,
the flexibly support structure occupying a total circumferential area and having a stiffness
sufficient to cause the prosthesis to assume a deployed configuration when placed in the
prosthesis; and
        a tab adjoined with the flexible support structure and having a length sufficient to extend
external to the enclosure when the flexible support structure is in a deployed configuration in the
prosthesis;
        wherein the flexible support structure is configured in such a way that pulling the tab

                                                       60
directionally away from the prosthesis when the flexible support structure is inserted in the
prosthesis causes a reconfiguration of the flexible support structure sufficient to enable the
flexible support structure to pass through an opening in the prosthesis having a total
circumferential area that is less than the total circumferential area occupied by the flexible
support structure when the prosthesis is in the deployed configuration, thereby enabling removal
of the flexible support structure from the enclosure; and
        wherein the flexible support structure comprises a sheet member having two or more
portions that overlap when in a deployed configuration.
         11.    A system, comprising:
        a prosthesis diagrammatically parsable into a plurality of portions each having
substantially equal areas, the prosthesis comprising an enclosure extending substantially to a
perimeter of the prosthesis at least once in at least two portions;
        a flexible support structure removably disposed at least partially within the enclosure and
occupying a total circumferential area, the flexible support structure having an elasticity that
generates a force sufficient to cause the prosthesis to assume a deployed configuration from a
non-deployed configuration; and
        a tab adjoined with the flexible support structure, the tab having a length sufficient to
enable the tab to be grasped and pulled for removing the flexible support structure from the
prosthesis, wherein the flexible support structure is configured in such a way that pulling the tab
directionally away from the prosthesis causes a reconfiguration of the flexible support structure
sufficient to enable the flexible support structure to pass through an opening in the prosthesis
having a total circumferential area that is less than the total circumferential area occupied by the
flexible support structure when the prosthesis is in the deployed configuration, thereby enabling
removal of the flexible support structure from the enclosure;
        wherein the flexible support structure comprises at least one flexible sheet member
having two or more portions that overlap each other when in a deployed configuration.
         12.    The system of claim 11, wherein the flexible sheet member comprises one or
more slits or openings disposed therethrough.

                                                     61
        13.     The system of claim 12, wherein the one or more slits or openings enable the
flexible support structure to reconfigure during removal of the flexible support structure into a
different shape having a peripheral edge that delineates a reduced effective diameter.
        14.     The system of claim 11, wherein the reconfiguration of the flexible support
structure during removal of the flexible support structure results in at least one of a reduced
length of the flexible support structure, a reduced width of the flexible support structure, or a
reduced effective diameter of the flexible support structure.
        15.     The system of claim 11, wherein the flexible support structure is configured to
apply a generally radially outward force on a radially outermost surface of the enclosure.
        16.     The system of claim 11, wherein the tab extends through the opening, and further
wherein the opening is disposed in and through a layer or surface of the prosthesis, in such a way
that a central opening provides access to the enclosure.
        17.     The system of claim 11, wherein the opening comprises an outer opening
disposed in and completely through the outer surface of the enclosure; and wherein the tab
extends through the outer opening in the outer surface of the enclosure.
        18.     The system of claim 11, wherein the tab comprises one or more elongate straps.
        19.     The system of claim 11, wherein the flexible support structure comprises a
flexible framework.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
