                                   ABSTRACT
       The present invention is directed to a process for the preparation of
opioid compounds such as buprenorphine, naltrexone, naloxone, nalbuphone,
nalbuphine, and the like.

           PROCESS FOR THE PREPARATION OF OPIOID COMPOUNDS
                 CROSS REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
           This application claims the benefit of U. S. Provisional Application
 5 61/988,523, filed on May 05, 2015, which is incorporated by reference herein in
   its entirety.
                                FIELD OF THE INVENTION
           The present invention is directed to a process for the preparation of
10 opioid compounds such as buprenorphine, naltrexone, naloxone, nalbuphone,
   nalbuphine, and the like.
                          BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
            Buprenorphine is a semi-synthetic opioid derivative of thebaine that is
15 used to treat opioid addiction in higher dosages (>2 mg), to control moderate
   acute pain in non-opioid-tolerant individuals in lower dosages (-200 pg), and to
   control moderate chronic pain in dosages ranging from 20-70 pg/hour. It is
   available in a variety of formulations: SUBUTEX, SUBOXONE, ZUBSOLV
   (buprenorphine HCI and naloxine HCI; typically used for opioid addiction),
20 TEMGESIC (sublingual tablets for moderate to severe pain), BUPRENEX
   (solutions for injection often used for acute pain in primary-care settings),
   NORSPAN and BUTRANS (transdermal preparations used for chronic pain).
           As an opioid, buprenorphine lends itself to some uses for which it has
   not been approved by the drug regulatory agency of the country in which it is
25 used (such as the U.S. FDA). One such off-label use (perhaps the most
   common) is the use of SUBUTEX or SUBOXONE, a formulation intended
   solely for the treatment of opioid abuse, in palliation of severe pain with no
   neuralgic component or when the neuralgia is otherwise treated, such as with
   pregabalin. Niche pain indications for which SUBUTEX or SUBOXONE may be
30 a medication of choice include obstruction of the small bowel; continuous
   nasogastric suction; oesophageal fistula; malignancy in the head or neck; and
   other cases where the patient is unable to swallow or this is difficult.
   Additionally, SUBUTEX or SUBOXONE may be an interesting alternative to
                                             1

   sustained-release opioids such as morphine (MS CONTIN) and oxycodone
   (TARGIN).
           Furthermore, buprenorphine is somewhat sleep-inducing, and may be of
   particular help when pain leads to sleeplessness. Other prototypical opioid
 5 side-effects may prove beneficial in the management of chronic pain, such as
   its characteristic euphoria (to alleviate depression due to pain, or in cases
   where the patient cannot tolerate or is resistant to conventional thymoleptic
   antidepressants), as well as its anxiolytic effects. These effects manifest
   themselves chiefly when buprenorphine is used in patients not tolerant to
10 opioids; use of a partial agonist such as buprenorphine in those tolerant or
   dependent will simply lead to precipitated withdrawal (if a different opioid is
   used concomitantly) or relief of withdrawal (if used as monotherapy).
           Naltrexone is an opioid receptor antagonist used primarily in the
15 management of alcohol dependence and opioid dependence. The main use of
   naltrexone is for the treatment of alcohol dependence. It is marketed in generic
   form as its hydrochloride salt, naltrexone hydrochloride, and marketed under
   the trade names REVIA and DEPADE. In some countries including the United
   States, a once-monthly extended-release injectable formulation is marketed
20 under the trade name VIVITROL.
           Naloxone is an opioid antagonist used to counter the effects of opiate
   overdose, for example heroin or morphine. Naloxone is specifically used to
   counteract life-threatening depression of the central nervous system and
   respiratory system. Naloxone is also experimentally used in the treatment of
25 congenital insensitivity to pain with anhidrosis (CIPA), an extremely rare
   disorder (1 in 125 million) that renders one unable to feel pain, or differentiate
   temperatures. Naloxone is marketed under various trademarks including
   NARCAN, NALONE and NARCANTI.
           Nalbuphine is a semi-synthetic opioid, available under the trade name of
30 NUBAIN for the treatment of moderate to severe pain. It can also be used as a
   supplement to balanced anesthesia, for preoperative and postoperative
   analgesia, and for obstetrical analgesia during labor and deliver. Nalbuphine is
   a semi-synthetic opioid agonist-antagonist analgesic of the phenanthrene
                                              2

   series, and is chemically related to the widely used opioid antagonists,
   naloxone and naltrexone, and the potent opioid analgesic, oxymorphone.
           HAMADA, T., et a., in US Patent 8,273,889 B2, issued September 25,
 5 2012 disclose a method for producing 2-azaadamantane, which process
   includes cyclizing in the presence of an acid.
           KALOTA, D.J., in US Patent 8,232,398 B2, issued July 31, 2012
   discloses a recycling process for increasing the yield of opiate alkaloid
   derivatives, by introducing at least one recycling step.
10         WANG, P.X., et al., in US Patent 8,080,661 B2, issued December 20,
   2011 disclose processes for the synthesis of tertiary amines by directed N
   alkylation, co-mediated by an alkylating agent and a protic solvent or a mixture
   of a protic solvent and an aprotic solvent.
           ALLEN, B.E., in US Patent 8,227,608 B2, issued July 24, 2012 discloses
15 processes for increasing the yield of opiate alkaloid derivatives.
           JARVI, E.T., et al., in US Patent 8,293,906 B2, issued October 23, 2013
   disclose processes for the alkylation of norbuprenorphine with reduced impurity
   formation.
           BENTLEY, K.W., in US Patent 3,433,791, issued March 18, 1969
20 discloses endoethano nor-oripavines and nor-thebanes.
           HUDSON, E.C., et al., in US Patent Publication 2010/0210843 Al,
   published August 19, 2010 disclose a process for the reductive alkylation of
   normorphinans by a carboxaldehyde in the presence of a reducing agent.
           HUANG, B-S. in US Patent Publication 2008/0125592 Al, published
25 May 29, 2008 discloses a process for preparing oxymorphone, naltrexone and
   buprenorphine.
           HUANG, B-S., in US Patent Publication 2012/0156290 Al, published
   June 21, 2012 discloses a process for preparing oxymorphone, naltrexone, and
   buprenorphine.
30
           ARCHER, N., et al., in PCT Publication WO 2013/050748 A2, published
   April 11, 2013 disclose a process for preparing buprenorphine, comprising 0
   demthylation followed by N-alkylation with cyclopropylmethyl bromide.
                                             3

           There remains a need for a process for the preparation of opioids which
   is suitable for large scale / commercial manufacture, preferably a process
   which has fewer steps and / or fewer distillations and / or fewer isolation steps
 5 than current processes; while maintaining high yields and / or high purity in the
   final product.
                            SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
           The present invention is directed to a process for the preparation of
10 opioid compounds, opioid derivatives, and pharmaceutically acceptable salts
   thereof. More particularly, the present invention is directed to processes
   comprising N-alkylation in the presence of an inorganic base, wherein the
   inorganic base is selected to be a base which does not form water when
   reacted with or contacted with an acid; and wherein the inorganic base is
15 preferably selected to be a base which selectively, does not protonate free
   phenol group(s) (i.e. a phenolic OH group(s)), if present; followed by optional
   de-methylation, preferably without isolation of the N-alkylated intermediate.
           In an embodiment, the present invention is directed to a process for the
20 preparation of a compound of formula (1)
                              HO
                                                  N
                                  (R     S)   (R)  N
                                     (R)
                                  HO
                                                            (1)
           or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof; comprising
                                            4

                                                              0
        ((R)    (s) s) (R)  NH                                 0        (8)(R)     N
           (R)                            (VI)
                                                              O   (R)
        HO
                            (V)
                                                                                   (VII)
             reacting a compound of formula (V) with a compound of formula (VI),
   wherein Ll is a leaving group; in the presence of an inorganic base; wherein
   the inorganic base does not form water when reacted with or contacted with an
 5 acid; in a first organic solvent; at a temperature in the range of from about 400C
   to about 70'C; to yield the corresponding compound of formula (VII); and
       O                                                   HO
        0,0
                              N                                                    N
         (R)(        R)                                       (R)     (        (R)
            (R)                                                 (R)
          HO        "IHO
                             (VII)                                                 )
             reacting the compound of formula (VII) with a demethylating agent
   (preferably an O-demethylating agent); in the presence of a base; in a second
10 organic solvent; at a temperature in the range of from about 110 C to about
    1500C; under an inert atmosphere; to yield the corresponding compound of
   formula (1).
             The present invention is further directed to a process for the preparation
15 of a compound of formula (1)
                                               5

                                 HO
                                                       N
                                             S     (R)
                                    (R)
                                  O    (R)
                                    HO
                                                           (I)
           or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof; comprising
                      0                                  HO
          O                       H                                             NH
          (R)"
                 (S     (R)       H(R)                               S
                                                                    (S)
                                                                           (R)
             (R)                                              (R)
          HO        ""HO                                                 I
                                (V)                                             (Vill)
           reacting a formula (V), with a demethylating agent (preferably an 0
5 demethylating agent); in the presence of a base; in a first organic solvent; at a
  temperature in the range of from about 110 C to about 1500C; under an inert
  atmosphere; to yield the corresponding compound of formula (Vill);
    HO                                                    HO
                         NH                L1o"N
      (R)     (     (R)  N                                            (S)3  (R)
                                              (VI)
        (R)                                                     (R)
      HO                                                      HO
                         (VIll)                                                  (1)
                                                  6

           reacting the compound of formula (VIII) with a compound of formula (VI),
   wherein Ll is a leaving group; in the presence of an inorganic base; wherein
   the inorganic base does not form water when reacted with or contacted with an
   acid, and wherein the inorganic base is preferably a base which selectively
 5 does not protonate the free phenol (i.e. the phenolic OH group) on the
   compound of formula (VIlI); in a second organic solvent; at a temperature in the
   range of from about 400C to about 70'C; to yield the corresponding compound
   of formula (1).
10         In another embodiment, the present invention is directed to a process for
   the preparation of a compound of formula (II)
                                               R1
                                             N
                                               (R)OH
                                     /\      (S)
                                              (S)
                                                  R
                                  HO       0      H    0(Ii)
          wherein R1 is selected from the group consisting of -CH 2-(cyclopropyl),
   CH 2-(cyclobutyl) and -CH 2-CH=CH 2 ; or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt
15 thereof, comprising
                                                                        R1
                          H
                          N                                          N
                            (R)OH                                       (R)   H
                  /\      (S)
                           ()
                                          2(S)
                                         L-R1                       (s)
                             (s)                     g                  (S)
                  __            R         WR
          HO           0        H  0                    HO        0         H   O
                     (IX)                                          (1I)
           reacting a compound of formula (IX) with a compound of formula (X),
   wherein L2 is a leaving group; in the presence of an inorganic base; wherein
   the inorganic base does not form water when reacted with or contacted with an
                                            7

   acid; and wherein the inorganic base is preferably selected to be a base which
   selectively, does not protonate the free phenol (i.e. the phenolic OH group) on
   the compound of formula (IX); in a first organic solvent; at a temperature in the
   range of from about 40'C to about 70'C; to yield the corresponding compound
 5 of formula (II).
          In an embodiment of the present invention, the compound of formula (II)
   is a compound of formula (Ila)
                                            N
                                               (R)OH
                                            (S)
                                                (S)
                                                   R
                             HO           0        H   (lla)
10        (also known as naltrexone; wherein R1 is -CH 2-(cyclopropyl)) or a
   pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof. In another embodiment of the
   present invention, the compound of formula (II) is a compound of formula (Ilb)
                                              N
                                                (R)OH
                                             (S)
                                                 (S)
                                                    R
                              HO          0         H O(Ilb)
          (also known as naloxone; wherein R1 is -CH 2-CH=CH 2 ) or a
15 pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof. In another embodiment of the
   present invention, the compound of formula (II) is a compound of formula (IIc)
                                              8

                                               N
                                                (R)OH
                                              (S)
                                                 (S)
                                       __._        R
                                HO                 H  O    (ic)
           (also known as nalbuphone; wherein R1 is -CH 2 -(cyclobutyl)) or a
   pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
 5         The present invention is further directed to a product prepared according
   to any of the processes described herein.
           Illustrative of the invention is a pharmaceutical composition comprising a
   pharmaceutically acceptable carrier and a product prepared according to any of
   the processes described herein. An illustration of the invention is a
10 pharmaceutical composition made by mixing a product prepared according to
   any of the processes described herein and a pharmaceutically acceptable
   carrier. Illustrating the invention is a process for making a pharmaceutical
   composition comprising mixing a product prepared according to any of the
   processes described herein and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.
15         Exemplifying the invention are methods for the treatment of pain (for
   example moderate or severe pain) comprising administering to a subject in
   need thereof a therapeutically effective amount of any of the products or
   pharmaceutical compositions described above.
           In an embodiment, the present invention is directed to a product
20 prepared according to any of the processes described herein for use as a
   medicament. In another embodiment, the present invention is directed to a
   product prepared according to any of the processes described herein for use in
   the treatment pain (for example moderate or severe pain). In another
   embodiment, the present invention is directed to a composition comprising a
25 product prepared according to any of the processes described herein for the
   treatment of pain (for example moderate or severe pain).
                                                9

          Another example of the invention is the use of a product prepared
   according to any of the processes described herein in the preparation of a
   medicament for treating pain (for example moderate or severe pain), in a
   subject in need thereof. In another example, the present invention is directed
 5 to a product prepared according to any of the processes described herein for
   use in a methods for treating pain (for example moderate or severe pain), in a
   subject in need thereof.
                   DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
10        The present invention is directed to a process for the preparation of
   opioid compounds, more particularly compounds of formula (1)
                                 HO
                                                     N
                                   0
                                    HO
                                                              (1)
          and pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof; and compounds of formula
   (II)
                                              R1
                                            N
                                              (R)OH
                                    /\      (S)
                                              (S)
                                                 R
15                             HO         0      H  0(11)
          wherein  R1 is selected from the group consisting of -CH 2-(cyclopropyl),
   CH 2-(cyclobutyl) and -CH 2-CH=CH 2 , and pharmaceutically acceptable salts
   thereof. The compounds of formula (1), the compounds of formula (II), and
                                           10

  pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof, are useful for the treatment of pain,
  including acute and chronic pain (for example moderate or severe pain), opioid
  addiction, alcohol addiction, opioid detoxification and / or for counteracting
  opioid overdose; or are useful as intermediates in the synthesis of compounds
5 useful for the treatment of pain.
         Abbreviations used in the specification, particularly the Schemes and
  Examples, are as follows:
      CPMB                     =    Cyclopropylmethyl bromide
      CPS Thebaine             =    Concentrate of poppy straw, thebaine
      CsNEt 2                  =    Cesium Diethylamide
      CsOEt                    =    Cesium Ethoxide
      CsOtBu or CsOt-Bu        =    Cesium tert-Butoxide
      DCM                      =     Dichloromethane
      DMA                      =     Dimethylacetamide
      DMF                      =     N,N-Dimethylformamide
      DMI                      =     1,3-Dimethyl-2-imidazolidinone
      DM0S                     =     Dimethyl sulfoxide
      HPLC                     =     High Performance Liquid Chromatography
      IPC                      =     In-Process Control
      KDA                      =     Potassium diisopropylamide
      KHMDS                    =     Potassium bis(trimethylsilyl)amide
      KOEt                     =     Potassium Ethoxide
      KOtBu or KOt-Bu          =     Potassium tert-Butoxide
      LDA                      =     Lithium diisopropylamide
      LiHMDS                   =     Lithium bis(trimethylsilyl)amide
      LiNEt 2                  =     Lithium diethylamide
      LiOEt                    =     Lithium Ethoxide
      LiOtBu or LiOt-Bu        =     Lithium tert-Butoxide
      Mesyl                    =     Methylsulfonyl
      MOM                      =     Methoxymethyl ether
      n-BuLi                   =    n-Butyl Lithium
      NaNEt 2                  =    Sodium Diethylamide
                                            11

        NaOEt                     =     Sodium Ethoxide
        NaOtBu or NaOt-Bu         =     Sodium tert-Butoxide
        NMP                       =     N-methyl-2-pyrrolidone
        NOMO                      =     Noroxymorphone
        Pd-C or Pd/C              =     Palladium on Carbon Catalyst
        t-Bu or tert-Bu           =     tert-Butyl
        tert-BuMgCI               =     tert-Butyl magnesium chloride
         THF                      =     Tetrahydrofuran
        THP                       =     Tetrahydropyranyl
        TMS                       =     Trimethylsilyl
        Tosyl                     =     p-Toluenesulfonyl
             As used herein, the notation "*"shall denote the presence of a
   stereogenic center.
             Where the compounds according to this invention have at least one
 5 chiral center, they may accordingly exist as enantiomers. Where the
   compounds possess two or more chiral centers, they may additionally exist as
   diastereomers. It is to be understood that all such isomers and mixtures
   thereof are encompassed within the scope of the present invention. Preferably,
   wherein the compound is present as an enantiomer, the enantiomer is present
10 at an enantiomeric excess of greater than or equal to about 80%, more
   preferably, at an enantiomeric excess of greater than or equal to about 90%,
   more preferably still, at an enantiomeric excess of greater than or equal to
   about 95%, more preferably still, at an enantiomeric excess of greater than or
   equal to about 98%, most preferably, at an enantiomeric excess of greater than
15 or equal to about 99%. Similarly, wherein the compound is present as a
   diastereomer, the diastereomer is present at an diastereomeric excess of
   greater than or equal to about 80%, more preferably, at an diastereomeric
   excess of greater than or equal to about 90%, more preferably still, at an
   diastereomeric excess of greater than or equal to about 95%, more preferably
20 still, at an diastereomeric excess of greater than or equal to about 98%, most
   preferably, at an diastereomeric excess of greater than or equal to about 99%.
                                               12

           Some of the crystalline forms for the compounds of the present invention
   may exist as polymorphs and as such are intended to be included in the
   present invention. In addition, some of the compounds of the present invention
   may form solvates with water (i.e., hydrates) or common organic solvents, and
 5 such solvates are also intended to be encompassed within the scope of this
   invention.
           It is intended that within the scope of the present invention, any element,
   in particular when mentioned in relation to a compound of formula (1)or a
   compound of formula (II), shall comprise all isotopes and isotopic mixtures of
10 said element, either naturally occurring or synthetically produced, either with
   natural abundance or in an isotopically enriched form. For example, a
   reference to hydrogen includes within its scope 1H, 2 H (D), and 3 H (T).
   Similarly, references to carbon and oxygen include within their scope
   respectively    12C, 13C and  14C  and   160  and   18.   The isotopes may be
15 radioactive or non-radioactive. Radiolabelled compounds of formula (1)or
   formula (II) may comprise a radioactive isotope selected from the group of 3 H,
   11c, 18F, 1221 1231 1251, 1311 75 Br, 76 Br, 77 Br and  82
                                                             Br. Preferably, the radioactive
   isotope is selected from the group of 3 H, 11C and         18
                                                                F.
20         As used herein, unless otherwise noted, the term "substantially pure
   form" shall mean that the mole percent of impurities in the isolated compound is
   less than about 5 mole percent, preferably less than about 2 mole percent,
   more preferably, less than about 0.5 mole percent, most preferably, less than
   about 0.1 mole percent. In an embodiment, the present invention is directed to
25 a process wherein the compound of formula (1) is prepared as a substantially
   pure form. In another embodiment, the present invention is directed to a
   process wherein the compound of formula (II) is prepared as a substantially
   pure form.
           As used herein, unless otherwise noted, the term "substantially free of a
30 corresponding salt form(s)" when used to described the compound of formula
   (1)or formula (II) shall mean that mole percent of the corresponding salt form(s)
   in the isolated base of formula (1)or isolated base of formula (II) is less than
   about 5 mole percent, preferably less than about 2 mole percent, more
                                                   13

   preferably, less than about 0.5 mole percent, most preferably less than about
   0.1 mole percent. In an embodiment, the present invention is directed to a
   process wherein the compound of formula (1) is prepared in a form which is
   substantially free of corresponding salt form(s). In another embodiment, the
 5 present invention is directed to a process wherein the compound of formula (II)
   is prepared in a form which is substantially free of corresponding salt form(s).
           As used herein, unless otherwise noted, the terms "treating", "treatment"
   and the like, shall include the management and care of a subject or patient
10 (preferably a mammal, more preferably a human) for the purpose of combating
   a disease, condition, or disorder and includes the administration of a compound
   or product of the present invention to prevent the onset of the symptoms or
   complications, alleviate the symptoms or complications, or eliminate the
   disease, condition, or disorder.
15         As used herein, unless otherwise noted, the term "prevention" shall
   include (a) reduction in the frequency of one or more symptoms; (b) reduction
   in the severity of one or more symptoms; (c) the delay or avoidance of the
   development of additional symptoms; and / or (d) delay or avoidance of the
   development of the disorder or condition.
20         One skilled in the art will recognize that wherein the present invention is
   directed to methods of prevention, a subject in need of thereof (i.e. a subject in
   need of prevention) shall include any subject or patient (preferably a mammal,
   more preferably a human) who has experienced or exhibited at least one
   symptom of the disorder, disease or condition to be prevented. Further, a
25 subject in need thereof may additionally be a subject (preferably a mammal,
   more preferably a human) who has not exhibited any symptoms of the disorder,
   disease or condition to be prevented, but who has been deemed by a
   physician, clinician or other medical profession to be at risk of developing said
   disorder, disease or condition. For example, the subject may be deemed at
30 risk of developing a disorder, disease or condition (and therefore in need of
   prevention or preventive treatment) as a consequence of the subject's medical
   history, including, but not limited to, family history, pre-disposition, co-existing
   (comorbid) disorders or conditions, genetic testing, and the like.
                                              14

           The term "subject" as used herein, refers to an animal, preferably a
   mammal, most preferably a human, who has been the object of treatment,
   observation or experiment. Preferably, the subject has experienced and / or
 5 exhibited at least one symptom of the disease or disorder to be treated and / or
   prevented.
           The term "therapeutically effective amount" as used herein, means that
   amount of active compound or pharmaceutical agent that elicits the biological or
   medicinal response in a tissue system, animal or human that is being sought by a
10 researcher, veterinarian, medical doctor or other clinician, which includes
   alleviation of the symptoms of the disease or disorder being treated.
           As used herein, the term "composition" is intended to encompass a
   product comprising the specified ingredients in the specified amounts, as well
   as any product which results, directly or indirectly, from combinations of the
15 specified ingredients in the specified amounts.
           To provide a more concise description, some of the quantitative
   expressions given herein are not qualified with the term "about". It is
   understood that whether the term "about" is used explicitly or not, every
20 quantity given herein is meant to refer to the actual given value, and it is also
   meant to refer to the approximation to such given value that would reasonably
   be inferred based on the ordinary skill in the art, including approximations due
   to the experimental and/or measurement conditions for such given value.
           To provide a more concise description, some of the quantitative
25 expressions herein are recited as a range from about amount X to about
   amount Y. It is understood that wherein a range is recited, the range is not
   limited to the recited upper and lower bounds, but rather includes the full range
   from about amount X through about amount Y, or any amount or range therein.
30         As more extensively provided in this written description, terms such as
   "reacting" and "reacted" are used herein in reference to a chemical entity that is
   any one of: (a) the actually recited form of such chemical entity, and (b) any of
                                             15

   the forms of such chemical entity in the medium in which the compound is
   being considered when named.
           One skilled in the art will recognize that, where not otherwise specified,
   the reaction step(s) is performed under suitable conditions, according to known
 5 methods, to provide the desired product. One skilled in the art will further
   recognize that, in the specification and claims as presented herein, wherein a
   reagent or reagent class/tyDe (e.g. base, solvent, etc.) is recited in more than
   one step of a process, the individual reagents are independently selected for
   each reaction step and may be the same of different from each other. For
10 example wherein two steps of a process recite an inorganic base as a reagent,
   the inorganic base selected for the first step may be the same or different than
   the inorganic base of the second step. Further, one skilled in the art will
   recognize that wherein a reaction step of the present invention may be carried
   out in a variety of solvents or solvent systems, said reaction step may also be
15 carried out in a mixture of the suitable solvents or solvent systems. One skilled
   in the art will further recognize that wherein two consecutive reaction or
   process steps are run without isolation of the intermediate product (i.e. the
   product of the first of the two consecutive reaction or process steps), then the
   first and second reaction or process steps may be run in the same solvent or
20 solvent system; or alternatively may be run in different solvents or solvent
   systems following solvent exchange, which may be completed according to
   known methods.
           Examples of suitable solvents, bases, reaction temperatures, and other
   reaction parameters and components are provided in the detailed description
25 which follows herein. One skilled in the art will recognize that the listing of said
   examples is not intended, and should not be construed, as limiting in any way
   the invention set forth in the claims which follow thereafter.
           As used herein, unless otherwise noted, the term "dipolar aprotic
30 solvent" shall mean an organic solvent with characteristically high polarity and
   low reactivity, that is, a solvent having a sizable permanent dipole moment that
   cannot donate labile hydrogen atoms to form strong hydrogen bonds. Suitable
   examples include, but are not limited to dimethylformamide (DMF),
                                              16

   dimethylacetamide (DMA), N-methylpyrrolidinone (NMP), dimethylsulfoxide
   (DMSO), sulfolane, 1,3-dimethyl-2-imidazolidinone (DMI), dialklylamide
   solvents, and the like.
           As used herein, unless otherwise noted, the term "leaving group" shall
 5 mean a charged or uncharged atom or group which departs during a
   substitution or displacement reaction. Suitable examples include, but are not
   limited to, Br, Cl, I, mesylate, tosylate, triflate, nosylate, nonaflate, and the like.
           During any of the processes for preparation of the compounds of the
   present invention, it may be necessary and/or desirable to protect sensitive or
10 reactive groups on any of the molecules concerned. This may be achieved by
   means of conventional protecting groups, such as those described in Protective
   Groups in Organic Chemistry, ed. J.F.W. McOmie, Plenum Press, 1973; and
   T.W. Greene & P.G.M. Wuts, Protective Groups in Organic Synthesis, John
   Wiley & Sons, 1991. The protecting groups may be removed at a convenient
15 subsequent stage using methods known from the art.
           As used herein, unless otherwise noted, the term "nitrogen protecting
   group" shall mean a group which may be attached to a nitrogen atom to protect
   said nitrogen atom from participating in a reaction and which may be readily
   removed following the reaction. Suitable nitrogen protecting groups include,
20 but are not limited to carbamates - groups of the formula -C(O)O-R wherein R
   is for example methyl, ethyl, t-butyl, benzyl, phenylethyl, CH 2 =CH-CH 2 -, and
   the like; amides - groups of the formula -C(O)-R' wherein R' is for example
   methyl, phenyl, trifluoromethyl, and the like; N-sulfonyl derivatives - groups of
   the formula -S0    2-R" wherein R" is for example tolyl, phenyl, trifluoromethyl,
25 2,2,5,7,8-pentamethylchroman-6-yl-, 2,3,6-trimethyl-4-methoxybenzene, and
   the like. Other suitable nitrogen protecting groups may be found in texts such
   as T.W. Greene & P.G.M. Wuts, Protective Groups in Organic Synthesis, John
   Wiley & Sons, 1991.
           As used herein, unless otherwise noted, the term "oxygen protecting
30 group" shall mean a group which may be attached to an oxygen atom to protect
   said oxygen atom from participating in a reaction and which may be readily
   removed following the reaction. Suitable oxygen protecting groups include, but
   are not limited to, acetyl, benzoyl, t-butyl-dimethylsilyl, trimethylsilyl (TMS),
                                               17

   MOM, THP, and the like. Other suitable oxygen protecting groups may be
   found in texts such as T.W. Greene & P.G.M. Wuts, Protective Groups in
   Organic Synthesis, John Wiley & Sons, 1991.
 5        Where the processes for the preparation of the compounds according to
   the invention give rise to mixture of stereoisomers, these isomers may be
   separated by conventional techniques such as preparative chromatography.
   The compounds may be prepared in racemic form, or individual enantiomers
   may be prepared either by enantiospecific synthesis or by resolution. The
10 compounds may, for example, be resolved into their component enantiomers
   by standard techniques, such as the formation of diastereomeric pairs by salt
   formation with an optically active acid, such as (-)-di-p-toluoyl-D-tartaric acid
   and/or (+)-di-p-toluoyl-L-tartaric acid followed by fractional crystallization and
   regeneration of the free base. The compounds may also be resolved by
15 formation of diastereomeric esters or amides, followed by chromatographic
   separation and removal of the chiral auxiliary. Alternatively, the compounds
   may be resolved using a chiral HPLC column.
          Additionally, chiral HPLC against a standard may be used to determine
   percent enantiomeric excess (%ee). The enantiomeric excess may be
20 calculated as follows
                     [ (Rmoles-Smoles)/(Rmoles+Smoles) ] X 100%
          where Rmoles and Smoles are the R and S mole fractions in the mixture
   such that Rmoles+Smoles = 1. The enantiomeric excess may alternatively be
   calculated from the specific rotations of the desired enantiomer and the
25 prepared mixture as follows:
                              ee = ([a-obs] / [a-max]) X 100.
           For use in medicine, the salts of the compounds of this invention refer to
   non-toxic "pharmaceutically acceptable salts." Other salts may, however, be
30 useful in the preparation of compounds according to this invention or of their
   pharmaceutically acceptable salts. Suitable pharmaceutically acceptable salts
   of the compounds include acid addition salts which may, for example, be
   formed by mixing a solution of the compound with a solution of a
                                              18

   pharmaceutically acceptable acid such as hydrochloric acid, sulfuric acid,
   fumaric acid, maleic acid, succinic acid, acetic acid, benzoic acid, citric acid,
   tartaric acid, carbonic acid or phosphoric acid. Furthermore, where the
   compounds of the invention carry an acidic moiety, suitable pharmaceutically
 5 acceptable salts thereof may include alkali metal salts, e.g., sodium or
   potassium salts; alkaline earth metal salts, e.g., calcium or magnesium salts;
   and salts formed with suitable organic ligands, e.g., quaternary ammonium
   salts. Thus, representative pharmaceutically acceptable salts include, but are
   not limited to, the following: acetate, benzenesulfonate, benzoate, bicarbonate,
10 bisulfate, bitartrate, borate, bromide, calcium edetate, camsylate, carbonate,
   chloride, clavulanate, citrate, dihydrochloride, edetate, edisylate, estolate,
   esylate, fumarate, gluceptate, gluconate, glutamate, glycollylarsanilate,
   hexylresorcinate, hydrabamine, hydrobromide, hydrochloride,
   hydroxynaphthoate, iodide, isothionate, lactate, lactobionate, laurate, malate,
15 maleate, mandelate, mesylate, methylbromide, methylnitrate, methylsulfate,
   mucate, napsylate, nitrate, N-methylglucamine ammonium salt, oleate,
   pamoate (embonate), palmitate, pantothenate, phosphate/diphosphate,
   polygalacturonate, salicylate, stearate, sulfate, subacetate, succinate, tannate,
   tartrate, teoclate, tosylate, triethiodide and valerate.
20         Representative acids which may be used in the preparation of
   pharmaceutically acceptable salts include, but are not limited to, the following:
   acids including acetic acid, 2,2-dichloroacetic acid, acylated amino acids, adipic
   acid, alginic acid, ascorbic acid, L-aspartic acid, benzenesulfonic acid, benzoic
   acid, 4-acetamidobenzoic acid, (+)-camphoric acid, camphorsulfonic acid, (+)
25 (1S)-camphor-10-sulfonic acid, capric acid, caproic acid, caprylic acid, cinnamic
   acid, citric acid, cyclamic acid, dodecylsulfuric acid, ethane-1,2-disulfonic acid,
   ethanesulfonic acid, 2-hydroxy-ethanesulfonic acid, formic acid, fumaric acid,
   galactaric acid, gentisic acid, glucoheptonic acid, D-gluconic acid, D-glucoronic
   acid, L-glutamic acid, a-oxo-glutaric acid, glycolic acid, hipuric acid,
30 hydrobromic acid, hydrochloric acid, (+)-L-lactic acid, (±)-DL-lactic acid,
   lactobionic acid, maleic acid, (-)-L-malic acid, malonic acid, (±)-DL-mandelic
   acid, methanesulfonic acid, naphthalene-2-sulfonic acid, naphthalene-1,5
   disulfonic acid, 1-hydroxy-2-naphthoic acid, nicotinc acid, nitric acid, oleic acid,
                                               19

   orotic acid, oxalic acid, palmitic acid, pamoic acid, phosphoric acid, L
   pyroglutamic acid, salicylic acid, 4-amino-salicylic acid, sebaic acid, stearic
   acid, succinic acid, sulfuric acid, tannic acid, (+)-L-tartaric acid, thiocyanic acid,
   p-toluenesulfonic acid and undecylenic acid.
 5         Representative bases which may be used in the preparation of
   pharmaceutically acceptable salts include, but are not limited to, the following:
   bases including ammonia, L-arginine, benethamine, benzathine, calcium
   hydroxide, choline, deanol, diethanolamine, diethylamine, 2-(diethylamino)
   ethanol, ethanolamine, ethylenediamine, N-methyl-glucamine, hydrabamine,
10 1H-imidazole, L-lysine, magnesium hydroxide, 4-(2-hydroxyethyl)-morpholine,
   piperazine, potassium hydroxide, 1-(2-hydroxyethyl)-pyrrolidine, secondary
   amine, sodium hydroxide, triethanolamine, tromethamine and zinc hydroxide.
           The present invention is directed to a process for the preparation of
15 opioid compounds of formula (1) and formula (II), and pharmaceutically
   acceptable salts thereof, as herein defined, comprising N-alkylation with a
   suitably selected alkylating agent (for example an alkylhalide);
           in the presence of a suitably selected inorganic base, preferably an
   anhydrous inorganic base; wherein the inorganic base does not form water
20 when reacted with or contacted with an acid, and wherein the inorganic base is
   sufficiently strong to neutralize any acid formed as a by-product of the reaction
   with the alkylating agent (for example, HBr which is formed as a by-product of
   the reaction with cyclopropylmethyl bromide), such as K2 HPO 4 , K3 PO 4 ,
   LiH 2PO 4 , NaH 2 PO 4 , KH 2PO 4 , CsH 2 PO 4 , Li 2 HPO 4 , Na 2 HPO 4 , K 2 HPO 4 , Cs 2 HPO 4 ,
25 Li3 PO 4, Na3 PO 4 , K3 PO 4 , Cs 3 PO 4 , Ca((H 2 PO 4 )2 , Ba(H 2 PO 4 )2 , Ca(HPO 4 ),
   Ba(HPO 4 ), Ca(P0 4 )3 , Ba(P0 4 ) 3, and the like, preferably anhydrous K2 HPO 4 or
   anhydrous K3 PO 4 , more preferably anhydrous K2HPO 4 ; wherein the inorganic
   base is preferably present in an amount greater than about 1 molar equivalent,
   preferably in an amount in the range of from about 1.5 to about 5 molar
30 equivalents, preferably in an amount in the range of from about 2 to about 4
   molar equivalents; preferably in an amount in the range of from about 2.25 to
   about 3.25 molar equivalents, preferably in an amount in the range of from
   about 2.4 to about 3 molar equivalents;
                                                    20

            optionally in the presence of a promoter such as Nal, NaBr,
   tetralkylammonium iodide (such as tetra(n-butyl)ammonium iodide, and the
   like), tetralkylammonium bromide (such as tetra(n-butyl)ammonium bromide,
   and the like), triethylbenzylammonium iodide, triethylbenzylammonium
 5 bromide, and the like; wherein the promoter is present in an amount in the
   range of from about 1 mole% to about 10 mole%, preferably in an amount in
   the range of from about 5 mole % to about 10 mole%;
            in a suitably selected first organic solvent (for example a dipolar aprotic
   solvent) such as DMF, DMA, NMP, DMSO, sulfolane, DMI, and the like,
10 preferably DMF; at a temperature in the range of from about 400C to about
   70'C, preferably at a temperature in the range of from about 550C to about
   650C, more preferably at a temperature of about 600C.
            In the processes of the present invention, the inorganic base is selected
15 to be a base which does not produce water as a by-product of the alkylation
   reaction (i.e. an inorganic base which does not produce water when reacted
   with or contacted with an acid). Advantageously, the absence of water in the
   product mixture resulting from the N-alkylation, eliminates the need for a
   distillation step following the N-alkylation (and before any optional 0
20 demethylation step).
            In the processes of the present invention, the inorganic base is selected
   to be a base which can neutralize any acid produced as a by-product of the N
   alkylation. For example, wherein the N-alkylation is achieved by reacting with a
   suitably substituted alkylbromide, the inorganic base is selected to be a base
25 which is capable of neutralizing any HBr produced as a by-product of said
   reaction.
            In an embodiment, the present invention is directed to a process for the
   preparation of a compound of formula (1) or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt
30 thereof, as described in Scheme 1 below.
                                               21

         (R)   (S) S    (R) NH _R)    1.0                              S  (R)   N
                      O                                       (R((S
           (R)  -(VI)
                                                            O   (R)
         HO           1
                                                              HO       "
                            jV(VII)
                                         HO
                                                  0N
                                                   (s)s)(R)
                                            (R)
                                           O111(R)     S
                                            HO         ul
                                                               (I)
                                       Scheme 1
           Accordingly, a suitably substituted compound of formula (V), a known
 5 compound or compound prepared by known methods (for example as
   described in Example 1 which follows herein), is reacted with a suitably
   substituted compound of formula (VI), wherein Ll is a suitably selected leaving
   group such as Br, Cl, I, mesylate, tosylate, nosylate, triflate, nonaflate, and the
   like, preferably Br, a known compound or compound prepared by known
10 methods; wherein the compound of formula (VI) is preferably present in an
   amount greater than about 1 molar equivalent (relative to the moles of the
   compound of formula (V)), preferably in an amount in the range of from about
   1.1 to about 2.5 molar equivalents, preferably in an amount in the range of from
   about 1.25 to about 1.75 molar equivalents, preferably in an amount in the
15 range of from about 1.3 to about 1.5 molar equivalents, more preferably in an
   amount of about 1.4 molar equivalents;
                                            22

            in the presence of a suitably selected inorganic base, preferably an
   anhydrous inorganic base; wherein the inorganic base does not form water
   when reacted with or contacted with an acid, and wherein the inorganic base is
   sufficiently strong to neutralize any acid formed as a by-product of the reaction
 5 with the alkylating agent (for example, HBr which is formed as a by-product of
   the reaction with cyclopropylmethyl bromide), such as K2 HPO 4 , K3 PO 4 ,
   LiH 2PO 4 , NaH 2 PO 4 , KH 2PO 4 , CsH 2 PO 4 , Li 2 HPO 4 , Na2 HPO 4 , K2 HPO 4 , Cs 2 HPO 4 ,
   Li 3 PO 4, Na 3 PO 4 , K 3 PO 4 , Cs 3 PO 4 , Ca((H 2 PO 4 )2 , Ba(H 2 PO 4 )2 , Ca(HPO 4 ),
   Ba(HPO 4 ), Ca(P0 4 )3 , Ba(P0 4 ) 3, and the like, preferably anhydrous K2 HPO 4 or
10 anhydrous K3 PO 4 , more preferably anhydrous K2HPO 4 ; wherein the inorganic
   base is preferably present in an amount greater than about 1 molar equivalent
   (relative to the moles of the compound of formula (V)), preferably in an amount
   in the range of from about 1.5 to about 5 molar equivalents (relative to the
   moles of the compound of formula (V)), preferably in an amount in the range of
15 from about 2 to about 4 molar equivalents; preferably in an amount in the range
   of from about 2.25 to about 3.25 molar equivalents, preferably in an amount in
   the range of from about 2.4 to about 3 molar equivalents;
            optionally in the presence of a promoter such as Nal, NaBr,
   tetralkylammonium iodide (such as tetra(n-butyl)ammonium iodide, and the
20 like), tetralkylammonium bromide (such as tetra(n-butyl)ammonium bromide,
   and the like), triethylbenzylammonium iodide, triethylbenzylammonium
   bromide, and the like; wherein the promoter is present in an amount in the
   range of from about 1 mole% to about 10 mole%, preferably in an amount in
   the range of from about 5 mole % to about 10 mole%;
25          in a suitably selected first organic solvent (for example a dipolar aprotic
   solvent) such as DMF, DMA, NMP, DMSO, sulfolane, DMI, and the like,
   preferably DMF; at a temperature in the range of from about 400C to about
   70'C, preferably at a temperature in the range of from about 550C to about
   650C, more preferably at a temperature of about 600C; to yield the
30 corresponding compound of formula (VII).
            The compound of formula (VII) is preferably not isolated.
                                                       23

            In an embodiment of the present invention, the reaction mixture
   containing the compound of formula (V), the inorganic base and the first
   organic solvent has a total water content of less than about 1 % w/w, more
   preferably less than about 0.75% w/w, more preferably less than about 0.60 %
 5 w/w, more preferably less than about 0.50 % w/w.
            One skilled in the art will recognize that in the reaction of the compound
   of formula (V) with the compound of formula (VI), the Ll group from the
   compound of formula (VI) reacts with the hydrogen released from the
10 compound of formula (V) to produce an acid as a by-product (for example,
   wherein the Ll is bromo, the acid produced as a by-product of the reaction is
   HBr). One skilled in the art will further recognize that said acid is neutralized by
   the suitably selected inorganic base, to yield the corresponding salt. In the
   processes of the present invention, the product mixture resulting from the
15 reaction of the compound of formula (V) with the compound of formula (VI) is
   optionally filtered to remove the salt resulting from the neutralization of the acid
   and further to remove any residual base.
            The compound of formula (VII) is reacted with a suitably selected
20 demethylating agent, preferably an O-demethylating agent (for example, a
   suitably selected mercaptan) such as n-C6 SH (n-hexane thiol), n-C7 SH (n
   heptane thiol), n-C8 SH (n-octane thiol), n-C9 SH (n-nonane thiol, n-Cj 0 SH (n
   decane thiol), n-C1 1SH, (n-undecane thiol), n-C12SH (n-docecane thiol), t-C 4 SH
   (tert-butylmercaptan or 2-methyl-propane thiol), t-C 6 SH (2-methylpentane-2
25 thiol), t-C 7 SH (2-methylhexane-2-thiol), t-C8 SH (2-methylheptane-2-thiol), t
   C9 SH (2-methyloctane-2-thiol), t-C 1oSH (tert-decanethiol), t-C1 1 SH (2
   methyldecane-2-thiol), t-C 12 SH (tert-dodecyl mercaptan or 2-methylundecane
   thiol), and the like (for example, other commercially available thio
   demethylating agents), preferably tert-dodecyl mercaptan; wherein the
30 demethylating agent is preferably present in an amount in the range of from
   about 2 to about 5 molar equivalents (relative to the moles of the compound of
   formula (V)), preferably in an amount in the range of from about 2.5 to about 4
   molar equivalents; more preferably in an amount in the range of from about 2.8
                                              24

   to about 3.4 molar equivalents, more preferably in an amount of about 3.1
   molar equivalents;
           in the presence of a suitably selected base such as a suitably selected
   inorganic alcohol such as NaOH, KOH, LiOH, CsOH, and the like or a suitably
 5 selected alkoxide base such as NaOEt, NaOtBu, KOEt, KOtBu, LiOEt, LiOtBu,
   CsOEt, CsOtBu, and the like; or a suitably selected amine base such as LiNEt 2,
   NaNEt 2 , CsNEt 2 , LiNH 2 , NaNH 2 , CsNH 2 , and the like, or a suitably selected
   hydride base such as NaH, KH, CsH, and the like, or a suitably selected base
   such as LDA, KDA, LiHMDS, KHMDS, n-BuLi, and the like; preferably NaOtBu;
10 wherein the base is preferably present in an amount in the range of from about
   2 to about 5 molar equivalents (relative to the moles of the compound of
   formula (V), preferably in an amount in the range of from about 2.5 to about 4
   molar equivalents; more preferably in an amount in the range of from about 2.8
   to about 3.4 molar equivalents, more preferably in an amount of about 3.1
15 molar equivalents;
           in a suitably selected second organic solvent (for example a dipolar
   aprotic solvent) such as DMF, DMA, NMP, DMSO, sulfolane, DMI, and the like,
   preferably DMF; wherein the second organic solvent is preferably the same as
   the first organic solvent; at a temperature in the range of from about 110 C to
20 about 1500C, preferably at a temperature in the range of 1280C to about 1350C,
   more preferably at a temperature of about 131 C; under an inert atmosphere,
   such as under nitrogen, under argon, under helium, and the like; to yield the
   corresponding compound of formula (1).
25         In another embodiment, the present invention is directed to a process for
   the preparation of a compound of formula (1) or a pharmaceutically acceptable
   salt thereof, as described in Scheme 2, below.
                                              25

          O                                                    HO
                (R(R)--,,
                    (S"
                     S        (R)     H __NH___                   R     )     3 (R)NH
              (R)                                                   (R)
            (R -j(1    1 1 IS       (V)                           H                   (VIII)
                                                  HO   (R)R
                                (VI)-
                                                    HO    (S)
                                                             9" S (R)
                                                     (R)  (-       R
                                                                          (R)
                                              Scheme 2
            Accordingly, a suitably substituted compound of formula (V), a known
 5 compound or compound prepared by known methods, is reacted with a suitably
   selected demethylating agent, preferably an O-demethylating agent (for
   example, a suitably selected mercaptan) such as n-C6 SH (n-hexane thiol), n
   C 7 SH  (n-heptane thiol), n-C8 SH (n-octane thiol), n-C9SH (n-nonane thiol, n
   CjoSH (n-decane thiol), n-C1 1SH, (n-undecane thiol), n-C12SH (n-docecane
10 thiol), t-C 4 SH (tert-butylmercaptan or 2-methyl-propane thiol), t-C6 SH (2
   methylpentane-2-thiol), t-C 7 SH (2-methylhexane-2-thiol), t-C8 SH (2
   methylheptane-2-thiol), t-C 9 SH (2-methyloctane-2-thiol), t-CjoSH (tert
   decanethiol), t-C 11 SH (2-methyldecane-2-thiol), t-C 12 SH (tert-dodecyl
   mercaptan or 2-methylundecane thiol), and the like (for example, other
15 commercially available thio demethylating agents), preferably tert-dodecyl
   mercaptan; wherein the demethylating agent is preferably present in an amount
   in the range of from about 2 to about 5 molar equivalents (relative to the moles
                                                 26

   of the compound of formula (V)), preferably in an amount in the range of from
   about 2.5 to about 4 molar equivalents; more preferably in an amount in the
   range of from about 2.8 to about 3.4 molar equivalents, more preferably in an
   amount of about 3.1 molar equivalents;
 5         in the presence of a suitably selected base such as a suitably selected
   inorganic alcohol such as NaOH, KOH, LiOH, CsOH, and the like or a suitably
   selected alkoxide base such as NaOEt, NaOtBu, KOEt, KOtBu, LiOEt, LiOtBu,
   CsOEt, CsOtBu, and the like; or a suitably selected amine base such as LiNEt 2,
   NaNEt 2 , CsNEt 2 , LiNH 2 , NaNH 2 , CsNH 2 , and the like, or a suitably selected
10 hydride base such as NaH, KH, CsH, and the like, or a suitably selected base
   such as LDA, KDA, LiHMDS, KHMDS, n-BuLi, and the like; preferably NaOtBu;
   wherein the base is preferably present in an amount in the range of from about
   2 to about 5 molar equivalents (relative to the moles of the compound of
   formula (V), preferably in an amount in the range of from about 2.5 to about 4
15 molar equivalents; more preferably in an amount in the range of from about 2.8
   to about 3.4 molar equivalents, more preferably in an amount of about 3.1
   molar equivalents;
           in a suitably selected first organic solvent (for example a dipolar aprotic
   solvent) such as DMF, DMA, NMP, DMSO, sulfolane, DMI, and the like,
20 preferably DMF; at a temperature in the range of from about 110 C to about
    1500C, preferably at a temperature in the range of 1280C to about 1350C, more
   preferably at a temperature of about 131 0C; under an inert atmosphere, such
   as under nitrogen, under argon, under helium, and the like; to yield the
   corresponding compound of formula (VIII).
25        The compound of formula (VIII) is preferably, not isolated.
          The compound of formula (VIII) is reacted with a suitably substituted
   compound of formula (VI), wherein Ll is a suitably selected leaving group such
   as Br, CI, 1, mesylate, tosylate, nosylate, triflate nonaflate, and the like,
30 preferably Br, a known compound or compound prepared by known methods;
   wherein the compound of formula (VI) is preferably present in an amount
   greater than about 1 molar equivalent (relative to the moles of the compound of
   formula (V)), preferably in an amount in the range of from about 1.1 to about
                                              27

   2.5 molar equivalents, preferably in an amount in the range of from about 1.25
   to about 1.75 molar equivalents, preferably in an amount in the range of from
   about 1.3 to about 1.5 molar equivalents, more preferably in an amount of
   about 1.4 molar equivalents;
 5          in the presence of a suitably selected inorganic base, preferably an
   anhydrous inorganic base; wherein the inorganic base does not form water
   when reacted with or contacted with an acid, and wherein the inorganic base is
   sufficiently strong to neutralize any acid formed as a by-product of the reaction
   with the alkylating agent (for example, HBr which is formed as a by-product of
10 the reaction with cyclopropylmethyl bromide), and wherein the inorganic base is
   a base which selectively does not protonate the free phenol (i.e. the phenolic
   OH group) on the compound of formula (VIII), such K2 HPO 4 , anhydrous K3 PO 4 ,
   LiH 2PO 4 , NaH 2 PO 4 , KH 2PO 4 , CsH 2 PO 4 , Li 2 HPO 4 , Na2 HPO 4 , K2 HPO 4 , Cs 2 HPO 4 ,
   Li 3 PO 4, Na 3 PO 4 , K 3 PO 4 , Cs 3 PO 4 , Ca((H 2 PO 4 )2 , Ba(H 2 PO 4 )2 , Ca(HPO 4 ),
15 Ba(HPO 4 ), Ca(P0 4 )3 , Ba(P0 4 ) 3, and the like, preferably anhydrous K2 HPO 4 or
   anhydrous K3 PO 4 ; wherein the inorganic base is preferably present in an
   amount greater than about 1 molar equivalent (relative to the moles of the
   compound of formula (V)), preferably in an amount in the range of from about
    1.5 to about 5 molar equivalents (relative to the moles of the compound of
20 formula (V)), preferably in an amount in the range of from about 2 to about 4
   molar equivalents; preferably in an amount in the range of from about 2.25 to
   about 3.25 molar equivalents, preferably in an amount in the range of from
   about 2.4 to about 3 molar equivalents;
            optionally in the presence of a promoter such as Nal, NaBr,
25 tetralkylammonium iodide (such as tetra(n-butyl)ammonium iodide, and the
   like), tetralkylammonium bromide (such as tetra(n-butyl)ammonium bromide,
   and the like), triethylbenzylammonium iodide, triethylbenzylammonium
   bromide, and the like; wherein the promoter is present in an amount in the
   range of from about 1 mole% to about 10 mole%, preferably in an amount in
30 the range of from about 5 mole % to about 10 mole%;
            in a suitably selected second organic solvent (for example a dipolar
   aprotic solvent) such as DMF, DMA, NMP, DMSO, sulfolane, DMI, and the like,
   preferably DMF; wherein the second organic solvent is preferably the same as
                                                       28

   the first organic solvent; at a temperature in the range of from about 400C to
   about 700C, preferably at a temperature in the range of from about 550C to
   about 650C, more preferably at a temperature of about 600C; to yield the
   corresponding compound of formula (1).
 5
           In an embodiment of the present invention, the reaction mixture
   containing the compound of formula (VIII), the inorganic base and the first
   organic solvent has a total water content of less than about 1 % w/w, more
   preferably less than about 0.75% w/w, more preferably less than about 0.60 %
10 w/w, more preferably less than about 0.50 % w/w.
           In another embodiment, the present invention is directed to a process for
   the preparation of a compound of formula (II), as described in Scheme 3,
   below.
                                                                           R1
                         H
                         N                                               N
                           (R)OH                                           (R)OH
                  /\    (S)
                          ()
                                           L2
                                           L-R1
                                                 R1                     (S)
                                                                        (s)
                            (s)             (                               (S)
                               R                               ___            R
          HO          0        H  0                       HO          0       H  0
15                                                                     (1
                                         Scheme 3
           Accordingly, a suitably substituted compound of formula (IX), a known
   compound or compound prepared by known methods, is reacted with a suitably
   substituted compound of formula (X), wherein R1 is selected from the group
20 consisting of -CH 2-(cyclopropyl), -CH 2-(cyclobutyl) and -CH 2-CH=CH 2 , and
   wherein Ll is a suitably selected leaving group such as Br, CI, 1, mesylate,
   tosylate, nosylate, triflate nonaflate, and the like, preferably Br, a known
   compound or compound prepared by known methods; wherein the compound
   of formula (X) is preferably present in an amount greater than about 1 molar
25 equivalent (relative to the moles of the compound of formula (IX)), preferably in
                                              29

   an amount in the range of from about 1.1 to about 2.5 molar equivalents,
   preferably in an amount in the range of from about 1.25 to about 1.75 molar
   equivalents, preferably in an amount in the range of from about 1.3 to about 1.5
   molar equivalents, more preferably in an amount of about 1.4 molar
 5 equivalents;
             in the presence of a suitably selected inorganic base, preferably an
   anhydrous inorganic base; wherein the inorganic base does not form water
   when reacted with or contacted with an acid, and wherein the inorganic base is
   sufficiently strong to neutralize any acid formed as a by-product of the reaction
10 with the alkylating agent (for example, HBr which is formed as a by-product of
   the reaction with cyclopropylmethyl bromide), and wherein the inorganic base is
   a base which selectively does not protonate the free phenol (i.e. the phenolic
   OH group) on the compound of formula (VIII), such as K2 HPO 4 , anhydrous
   K 3 PO 4 , LiH 2 PO 4 , NaH 2PO 4 , KH 2 PO 4 , CsH 2 PO 4 , Li 2 HPO 4 , Na 2 HPO 4 , K2 HPO 4 ,
15 Cs 2 HPO 4 , Li3 PO 4 , Na3PO 4 , K3 PO 4 , Cs 3PO 4 , Ca((H 2 PO 4 )2 , Ba(H 2 PO 4) 2 ,
   Ca(HPO 4 ), Ba(HPO 4 ), Ca(P0 4 )3 , Ba(P0 4 ) 3, and the like, preferably anhydrous
   K2 HPO 4 or anhydrous K3 PO 4 ; wherein the inorganic base is preferably present
   in an amount greater than about 1 molar equivalent (relative to the moles of the
   compound of formula (IX)), preferably in an amount in the range of from about
20  1.5 to about 5 molar equivalents (relative to the moles of the compound of
   formula (IX)), preferably in an amount in the range of from about 2 to about 4
   molar equivalents; preferably in an amount in the range of from about 2.25 to
   about 3.25 molar equivalents, preferably in an amount in the range of from
   about 2.4 to about 3 molar equivalents;
25           optionally in the presence of a promoter such as Nal, NaBr,
   tetralkylammonium iodide (such as tetra(n-butyl)ammonium iodide, and the
   like), tetralkylammonium bromide (such as tetra(n-butyl)ammonium bromide,
   and the like), triethylbenzylammonium iodide, triethylbenzylammonium
   bromide, and the like; wherein the promoter is present in an amount in the
30 range of from about 1 mole% to about 10 mole%, preferably in an amount in
   the range of from about 5 mole % to about 10 mole%;
             in a suitably selected first organic solvent (for example a dipolar aprotic
   solvent) such as DMF, DMA, NMP, DMSO, sulfolane, DMI, and the like,
                                                     30

   preferably DMF; at a temperature in the range of from about 400C to about
   700C, preferably at a temperature in the range of from about 550C to about
   650C, more preferably at a temperature of about 600C; to yield the
   corresponding compound of formula (II).
 5
          In an embodiment of the present invention, the reaction mixture
   containing the compound of formula (IX), the inorganic base and the first
   organic solvent has a total water content of less than about 1 % w/w, more
   preferably less than about 0.75% w/w, more preferably less than about 0.60 %
10 w/w, more preferably less than about 0.50 % w/w.
          In an embodiment, the present invention is directed to a process for the
   preparation of a compound of formula (II) wherein R1 is -CH 2-(cyclopropyl). In
   another embodiment, the present invention is directed to a process for the
15 preparation of a compound of formula (II) wherein R1 is -CH 2-CH=CH 2. In
   another embodiment, the present invention is directed to a process for the
   preparation of a compound of formula (II) wherein R1 is -CH 2-(cyclobutyl).
          One skilled in the art will recognize that the compound of formula (I1c) (a
   compound of formula (II) wherein R1 is -CH 2-(cyclobutyl)) corresponds to
20 nalbuphone, an intermediate in the synthesis of the semi-synthetic opioid
   nalbuphine, a compound of formula (Ill). More particularly, as shown in the
   Scheme 4, below,
                              N                                 N
                                (R)OH                            (R)OH
                              (s)                              (S)
                                 (S)                              (S)
                                   R                                R
             HO            0       H   0           HO         0     H   OH
                        (I1c)        (l~c)(Ill)
                                         Scheme 4
                                            31

           the compound of formula (ic) may be reacted with a suitably selected
   reducing agent, according to known methods, for example, as described in
   REZAIE, R., et al., US Patent 8,236,957 B2, issued August 7, 2012, to yield
   (nalbuphine) the corresponding compound of formula (Ill).
 5
           The present invention further comprises pharmaceutical compositions
   containing a product prepared according to any of the processes described
   herein with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. Pharmaceutical
   compositions containing one or more of the compounds of the invention
10 described herein as the active ingredient can be prepared by intimately mixing
   the compound or compounds with a pharmaceutical carrier according to
   conventional pharmaceutical compounding techniques. The carrier may take a
   wide variety of forms depending upon the desired route of administration (e.g.,
   oral, parenteral). Thus for liquid oral preparations such as suspensions, elixirs
15 and solutions, suitable carriers and additives include water, glycols, oils,
   alcohols, flavoring agents, preservatives, stabilizers, coloring agents and the
   like; for solid oral preparations, such as powders, capsules and tablets, suitable
   carriers and additives include starches, sugars, diluents, granulating agents,
   lubricants, binders, disintegrating agents and the like. Solid oral preparations
20 may also be coated with substances such as sugars or be enteric-coated so as
   to modulate major site of absorption. For parenteral administration, the carrier
   will usually consist of sterile water and other ingredients may be added to
   increase solubility or preservation. Injectable suspensions or solutions may
   also be prepared utilizing aqueous carriers along with appropriate additives.
25         To prepare the pharmaceutical compositions of this invention, one or
   more compounds or products of the present invention as the active ingredient
   is intimately admixed with a pharmaceutical carrier according to conventional
   pharmaceutical compounding techniques, which carrier may take a wide
   variety of forms depending of the form of preparation desired for administration,
30 e.g., oral or parenteral such as intramuscular. In preparing the compositions in
   oral dosage form, any of the usual pharmaceutical media may be employed.
   Thus, for liquid oral preparations, such as for example, suspensions, elixirs and
   solutions, suitable carriers and additives include water, glycols, oils, alcohols,
                                             32

   flavoring agents, preservatives, coloring agents and the like; for solid oral
   preparations such as, for example, powders, capsules, caplets, gelcaps and
   tablets, suitable carriers and additives include starches, sugars, diluents,
   granulating agents, lubricants, binders, disintegrating agents and the like.
 5 Because of their ease in administration, tablets and capsules represent the
   most advantageous oral dosage unit form, in which case solid pharmaceutical
   carriers are obviously employed. If desired, tablets may be sugar coated or
   enteric coated by standard techniques. For parenterals, the carrier will usually
   comprise sterile water, through other ingredients, for example, for purposes
10 such as aiding solubility or for preservation, may be included. Injectable
   suspensions may also be prepared, in which case appropriate liquid carriers,
   suspending agents and the like may be employed. The pharmaceutical
   compositions herein will contain, per dosage unit, e.g., tablet, capsule, powder,
   injection, teaspoonful and the like, an amount of the active ingredient
15 necessary to deliver an effective dose as described above. The
   pharmaceutical compositions herein will contain, per unit dosage unit, e.g.,
   tablet, capsule, powder, injection, suppository, teaspoonful and the like, of from
   about 0.01 mg to about 500 mg or any amount or range therein, and may be
   given at a dosage of from about 0.01 mg/kg/day to about 300 mg/kg/day, or
20 any amount or range therein, preferably from about 0.01 mg/kg/day to about 50
   mg/kg/day, or any amount or range therein, preferably from about 0.05
   mg/kg/day to about 15 mg/kg/day, or any amount or range therein, preferably
   from about 0.05 mg/kg/day to about 5 mg/kg/day, or any amount or range
   therein. The dosages, however, may be varied depending upon the
25 requirement of the patients, the severity of the condition being treated and the
   compound being employed. The use of either daily administration or post
   periodic dosing may be employed.
           Preferably these compositions are in unit dosage forms from such as
   tablets, pills, capsules, powders, granules, sterile parenteral solutions or
30 suspensions, metered aerosol or liquid sprays, drops, ampoules, autoinjector
   devices or suppositories; for oral parenteral, intranasal, sublingual or rectal
   administration, or for administration by inhalation or insufflation. Alternatively,
   the composition may be presented in a form suitable for once-weekly or once
                                            33

   monthly administration; for example, an insoluble salt of the active compound,
   such as the decanoate salt, may be adapted to provide a depot preparation for
   intramuscular injection. For preparing solid compositions such as tablets, the
   principal active ingredient is mixed with a pharmaceutical carrier, e.g.
 5 conventional tableting ingredients such as corn starch, lactose, sucrose,
   sorbitol, talc, stearic acid, magnesium stearate, dicalcium phosphate or gums,
   and other pharmaceutical diluents, e.g. water, to form a solid preformulation
   composition containing a homogeneous mixture of a compound of the present
   invention, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof. When referring to
10 these preformulation compositions as homogeneous, it is meant that the active
   ingredient is dispersed evenly throughout the composition so that the
   composition may be readily subdivided into equally effective dosage forms
   such as tablets, pills and capsules. This solid preformulation composition is
   then subdivided into unit dosage forms of the type described above containing
15 from about 0.01 mg to about 500 mg, or any amount or range therein,
   preferably from about 1 mg to about 150 mg, or any amount or range therein,
   preferably from about 2 mg to about 50 mg, or any amount or range therein, of
   the active ingredient of the present invention. The tablets or pills of the novel
   composition can be coated or otherwise compounded to provide a dosage form
20 affording the advantage of prolonged action. For example, the tablet or pill can
   comprise an inner dosage and an outer dosage component, the latter being in
   the form of an envelope over the former. The two components can be
   separated by an enteric layer which serves to resist disintegration in the
   stomach and permits the inner component to pass intact into the duodenum or
25 to be delayed in release. A variety of material can be used for such enteric
   layers or coatings, such materials including a number of polymeric acids with
   such materials as shellac, cetyl alcohol and cellulose acetate.
          The liquid forms in which the novel compositions of the present invention
   may be incorporated for administration orally or by injection include, aqueous
30 solutions, suitably flavoured syrups, aqueous or oil suspensions, and flavoured
   emulsions with edible oils such as cottonseed oil, sesame oil, coconut oil or
   peanut oil, as well as elixirs and similar pharmaceutical vehicles. Suitable
   dispersing or suspending agents for aqueous suspensions, include synthetic
                                             34

   and natural gums such as tragacanth, acacia, alginate, dextran, sodium
   carboxymethylcellulose, methylcellulose, polyvinyl-pyrrolidone or gelatin.
            The method of treating disorders described in the present invention may
   also be carried out using a pharmaceutical composition comprising any of the
 5 products as defined herein and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. The
   pharmaceutical composition may contain between about 0.5 mg and about 500
   mg of the compound, or any amount or range therein; preferably from about 1 mg
   to about 150 mg of the compound, or any amount or range therein, preferably
   from about 2 mg to about 50 mg of the compound, or any amount or range
10 therein, and may be constituted into any form suitable for the mode of
   administration selected. Carriers include necessary and inert pharmaceutical
   excipients, including, but not limited to, binders, suspending agents, lubricants,
   flavorants, sweeteners, preservatives, dyes, and coatings. Compositions suitable
   for oral administration include solid forms, such as pills, tablets, caplets, capsules
15 (each including immediate release, timed release and sustained release
   formulations), granules, and powders, and liquid forms, such as solutions, syrups,
   elixirs, emulsions, and suspensions. Forms useful for parenteral administration
   include sterile solutions, emulsions and suspensions.
            Advantageously, compounds or products of the present invention may be
20 administered in a single daily dose, or the total daily dosage may be administered
   in divided doses of two, three or four times daily. Furthermore, compounds or
   products of the present invention can be administered in intranasal form via
   topical use of suitable intranasal vehicles, or via transdermal skin patches well
   known to those of ordinary skill in that art. To be administered in the form of a
25 transdermal delivery system, the dosage administration will, of course, be
   continuous rather than intermittent throughout the dosage regimen.
            For instance, for oral administration in the form of a tablet or capsule, the
   active drug component can be combined with an oral, non-toxic pharmaceutically
   acceptable inert carrier such as ethanol, glycerol, water and the like. Moreover,
30 when desired or necessary, suitable binders; lubricants, disintegrating agents and
   coloring agents can also be incorporated into the mixture. Suitable binders
   include, without limitation, starch, gelatin, natural sugars such as glucose or beta
   lactose, corn sweeteners, natural and synthetic gums such as acacia, tragacanth
                                               35

   or sodium oleate, sodium stearate, magnesium stearate, sodium benzoate,
   sodium acetate, sodium chloride and the like. Disintegrators include, without
   limitation, starch, methyl cellulose, agar, bentonite, xanthan gum and the like.
            The liquid forms may be formulated in suitably flavored suspending or
 5 dispersing agents such as the synthetic and natural gums, for example,
   tragacanth, acacia, methyl-cellulose and the like. For parenteral administration,
   sterile suspensions and solutions are desired. Isotonic preparations which
   generally contain suitable preservatives are employed when intravenous
   administration is desired.
10          To prepare a pharmaceutical composition of the present invention, a
   product prepared according to any of the process(es) of the present invention,
   as the active ingredient, is intimately admixed with a pharmaceutical carrier
   according to conventional pharmaceutical compounding techniques, which
   carrier may take a wide variety of forms depending of the form of preparation
15 desired for administration (e.g. oral or parenteral). Suitable pharmaceutically
   acceptable carriers are well known in the art. Descriptions of some of these
   pharmaceutically acceptable carriers may be found in The Handbook of
   Pharmaceutical Excipients, published by the American Pharmaceutical
   Association and the Pharmaceutical Society of Great Britain.
20          Methods of formulating pharmaceutical compositions have been
   described in numerous publications such as Pharmaceutical Dosage Forms:
   Tablets, Second Edition, Revised and Expanded, Volumes 1-3, edited by
   Lieberman et al; Pharmaceutical Dosage Forms: Parenteral Medications,
   Volumes 1-2, edited by Avis et al; and Pharmaceutical Dosage Forms:
25 Disperse Systems, Volumes 1-2, edited by Lieberman et al; published by
   Marcel Dekker, Inc.
            Compounds or products of the present invention may be administered in
   any of the foregoing compositions and according to dosage regimens established
30 in the art whenever treatment of disorders described herein is required.
            The daily dosage may be varied over a wide range from about 0.01 mg to
   about 1,000 mg per adult human per day, or any amount or range therein. For
   oral administration, the compositions are preferably provided in the form of tablets
                                              36

   containing about 0.01, 0.05, 0.1, 0.5, 1, 2.5, 4, 5, 10, 15, 25, 30, 40, 50, 60, 75,
   80, 100, 150, 160, 200, 250 and 500 milligrams of the active ingredient for the
   symptomatic adjustment of the dosage to the patient to be treated. An effective
   amount of the drug is ordinarily supplied at a dosage level of from about 0.01
 5 mg/kg to about 500 mg/kg of body weight per day, or any amount or range
   therein. Preferably, the range is from about 0.05 to about 50 mg/kg of body
   weight per day, or any amount or range therein. More preferably, from about 0.05
   to about 15 mg/kg of body weight per day, or any amount or range therein. More
   preferably, from about 0.05 to about 7.5 mg/kg of body weight per day, or any
10 amount or range therein. More preferably, from about 0.05 to about 3 mg/kg of
   body weight per day, or any amount or range therein. The compound or product
   (as the active ingredient or drug) may be administered on a regimen of 1 to 4
   times per day.
            Optimal dosages to be administered may be readily determined by those
15 skilled in the art, and will vary with the particular compound used, the mode of
   administration, the strength of the preparation, the mode of administration, and
   the advancement of the disease condition. In addition, factors associated with the
   particular patient being treated, including patient age, weight, diet and time of
   administration, will result in the need to adjust dosages.
20          One skilled in the art will recognize that, both in vivo and in vitro trials
   using suitable, known and generally accepted cell and / or animal models are
   predictive of the ability of a test compound to treat or prevent a given disorder.
            One skilled in the art will further recognize that human clinical trails
   including first-in-human, dose ranging and efficacy trials, in healthy patients
25 and / or those suffering from a given disorder, may be completed according to
   methods well known in the clinical and medical arts.
           The following Examples are set forth to aid in the understanding of the
   invention, and are not intended and should not be construed to limit in any way
30 the invention set forth in the claims which follow thereafter.
            In the Examples which follow, some synthesis products are listed as
   having been isolated as a residue. It will be understood by one of ordinary skill
   in the art that the term "residue" does not limit the physical state in which the
                                                37

   product was isolated and may include, for example, a solid, an oil, a foam, a
   gum, a syrup, and the like.
                                  Synthesis Example 1
 5  (S)-2-((4R,4aS,6R,7R,7aR,12bS)-7,9-dimethoxy-1,2,3,4,5,6,7,7a-octahvdro
           4a,7-ethano-4,12-methanobenzofuro[3,2-elisoquinolin-6-yI)-3,3
                                    dimethylbutan-2-ol
      0O                                                    H2/Pd
       -N'CH3
                               0
                                   'N
                                       2 I          CH3
                                                                      "
                                                                                   N,
                                           A?CH
                Thebaine                        BUI                    02     )
                                        O                                 O     BU2
     tBuMgC     O          N    H3    BrCN     0%                 KOH
                HO        BU3                 HO      ' BU4               HO        BU5
10 Conversion of Thebaine CPS to Buprenorphine Intermediate BU2
            CPS Thebaine and toluene were charged to a reaction vessel. Next
   methylvinyl ketone was added and the charge line chased with toluene.
   Agitation was initiated, and the thin slurry heated to reflux (80 - 860C). The
   mixture was held at reflux until the reaction was deemed complete (at least 8
15 hrs) as determined by HPLC (not more than 1 area % thebaine). Water was
   charged and excess methylvinyl ketone was distilled along with toluene and
   water until a specified batch weight was achieved. Additional toluene was
   added and the batch distilled a second time, to yield buprenorphine
   intermediate BU1.
20         A solution of BU1 (100 g theor.) in toluene (200 g) was charcoal treated
   and then filtered. The filtrate was subjected to hydrogenation with a 5% Pd/C
   catalyst (5 g) at 75-85'C and 40-45 psi hydrogen. Once hydrogenation was
   complete, the batch was filtered to remove charcoal and Pd/C catalyst. The
   resulting product/toluene solution was then solvent exchanged to ethanol. The
                                             38

   product/ethanol solution was cooled to 18-22'C and the resulting slurry filtered.
   The filter cake was washed with ethanol and then dried under vacuum at 45
   550C.
   Preparation of tert-Butyl Magnesium Chloride and Preparation of
 5 Buprenorphine Intermediate BU3
           A dry vessel was charged with magnesium (57.4 g, 9.04 eq.) and THF
   (193.4 g) and cyclohexane (413.4 g) were added. The resulting mixture was
   heated to reflux and a 3-5% of the total solvent mass was distilled as a drying
   step. The batch was then adjusted to 64-66'C. A solution of tert-butyl chloride
10 (208 g, 8.61 eq.) in cyclohexane (166.6 g) was prepared. 5% of the total t-butyl
   chloride solution was added to the magnesium suspension. The resulting
   mixture was held with agitation until the Grignard formation reaction initiates as
   determined by the internal batch temperature exceeding jacket temperature by
   at least 20C. (A thin, fine, gray-white slurry was observed to begin to form once
15 initiated; If initiation did not occur, the batch can be treated with commercially
   available 1.0 M tert-BuMgCl solution in THF (1-5 g) and held for initiation.)
   Once initiation was achieved, the remaining t-butyl chloride solution was slowly
   added and the resulting exothermic reaction was allowed to slowly warm the
   batch to reflux. The mixture was observed to begin to reflux at about 70'C and
20 reached a maximum of about 740C at the end of the addition. Once addition of
   the t-butyl chloride solution was complete, the batch was held at 64-74'C for 1
   hr and then cooled to 8-12'C.
           BU2 (100 g, 1.00 eq., prepared as in the previous step) dissolved in
   toluene (250 g) was slowly added to the tert-BuMgCl slurry while maintaining
25 temperature at 8-12'C. Once addition was complete, the mixture was held at
   0-12'C for 1 hr, then transferred into a quench vessel containing ammonium
   chloride (417 g, 29.90 eq.) solution in water (1733 g). The transfer was
   exothermic and the quench vessel internal temperature was maintained at 0
   40'C (to ensure isobutane gas remains in solution). Once the quench was
30 complete the mixture is held at 20-30'C with agitation for six hours to consume
   any un-reacted magnesium chips. Next the batch was settled and the lower
   aqueous layer separated and discarded. An aqueous phosphate buffer was
   prepared by combining water (1326 g), 85% phosphoric acid (127.4 g) and 28
                                                39

   30% ammonium hydroxide (59.4 g). The pH of the buffer was adjusted to 3.8
   4.0 with phosphoric acid and/or ammonium hydroxide. The organic layer was
   washed twice with the buffer (each wash is % total buffer volume), then once
   with water (200 g) to yield buprenorphine intermediate BU3.
 5 Preparation of Buprenorphine Intermediate BU4
          BU3 (100 g, prepared as in the previous step), sodium carbonate (5.0 g)
   and DCM (200 g) were combined in a reaction vessel and the temperature of
   the resulting mixture adjusted to 200C. A 50 wt% solution of cyanogen bromide
   in DCM was added and the resulting mixture held at 220C for 22 hrs.
10        The resulting BU4 containing reaction mixture (100 g BU3 scale) was
   quenched by addition of water (68 g), ethanol (80 g) and ammonium hydroxide
   28-30% (72.5 g). The resulting mixture was settled and the lower product
   containing layer combined with water (160 g) and ethanol (80 g). The mixture
   was settled again and the lower product containing DCM layer separated. The
15 DCM solvent was then exchanged to ethanol by charging ethanol and distilling
   the batch to 75 0C  to yield a solution of buprenorphine intermediate BU4 in
   ethanol.
   Preparation of Buprenorphine Intermediate 5
          The BU4 / ethanol solution (prepared as in the previous step) was
20 combined with diethylene glycol (100 g BU3) and then 45% aq. KOH was
   added (71 g). The resulting mixture was distilled until batch temperature
   reached 130'C. The mixture was then held at 130'C for 4 hrs and sampled for
   reaction completion.
          After reaching completion, the mixture containing BU5 (100 g BU3 scale)
25 was cooled to 50'C. Toluene (200 g) and water (50 g) were added and the
   mixture warmed to 500C. The mixture was allowed to settle, and the bottom
   layer separated. The bottom layer was combined with toluene (100 g) and
   water (50 g). The mixture was adjusted to 500C and allowed to settle. The
   bottom layer was separated and combined with a third portion of toluene (100
30 g) and warmed to 50'C. The mixture was settled and the bottom
   diethyleneglycol /water layer separated and discarded. The three toluene
   extracts were combined and water washed twice (2 x 100 g/each). The toluene
   layers were then reduced by vacuum distillation to approximately 2/3 the
                                             40

   original volume. The resulting solution was then polish filtered to remove trace
   insoluble material. Heptanes (120 g) were added and the mixture was heated
   to dissolve the solids. The solution as cooled to -1OC and the resulting
   crystalline solid collected by filtration and dried under vacuum at 500C to yield
 5 buprenorphine intermediate BU5 (also known as of (4R,4aS,6R,7R,7aR,12bS)
   3-(cyclopropyl methyl)-6-((S)-2-hyd roxy-3,3-dimethyl butan-2-yl)-7-methoxy
   1,2,3,4,5,6,7,7a-octahydro-4a,7-ethano-4,12-methanobenzofuro[3,2
   e]isoquinolin-9-ol).
10                                Synthesis Example 2
     Preparation of (4R,4aS,6R,7R,7aR,12bS)-3-(cyclopropylmethyl)-6-((S)-2
      hydroxy-3,3-dimethylbutan-2-y)-7-methoxy-1,2,3,4,5,6,7,7a-octahvdro
             4a,7-ethano-4,12-methanobenzofuro[3,2-elisoquinolin-9-oI
                                       HO
                                                    N
                                         H0
15 STEP A:
                                 1. Br
                            NH        K2HPO4, DMF
                                                           0 CN
              HO                                           O
                           BU5                               HO  '"     BU6
          A 150 mL 5-neck EasyMax vessel was charged with DMF (56.6 g, 60
   mL), which was then purged with N2 . Anhydrous K2 HPO 4 (20.6 g) was added
   and the resulting mixture stirred under N2 at 20-25'C for 5-10 min. To the
20 mixture was then added BU5 (20.2 g) and cyclopropylmethyl bromide (8.84 g),
   and the resulting mixture heated to 55'C, stirring for 6.5 hours. The mixture
   was sampled and progression measured by HPLC. The reaction was deemed
   complete when the area % of starting material (BU5) was less than 0.15 %A.
                                               41

            Measured HPLC:        BU5: 0.12 area %; BU6: 98.99 area %
            The mixture was then heated to 700C and stirred for 30 minutes. The
   resulting mixture was then filtered at 70'C and the filter cake washed with DMF
   (38 g, 40 mL) at 65-750C. The filtrate was cooled to room temperature and
 5 used in the next step directly.
   STEP B:
                                                               HO
                                    3. tert-dodecyl mercaptan
                                             NaOtBu, DMF          --         N
                 C           N
                          N~~O                                       .
                            O                                    HO  5
              HO   -"
                           BU6                                               BU
            To the filtrate prepared in STEP A above was added tert-dodecyl
   mercaptan (29.7 g) at room temperature and the resulting mixture stirred under
10 N2 atmosphere. Sodium tert-butoxide (14.4 g) was then added to the mixture
   as a solid in one portion. The resulting opalescent solution was heated over 1
   hour to 1350C and a first portion of tert-butanol was distilled off under an inert
   atmosphere. The resulting mixture was stirred for 2 hours 10 min at 1350C and
   distillation under N2 continued. The mixture was sampled and progression
15 measured by HPLC. The reaction was deemed complete when the area % of
   starting material (BU5) was less than 0.15 %A. The resulting mixture was
   cooled to 500C over 1 hour.
            Measured HPLC:        BU6: 2.18 area %; BU:       92.67 area %
   HPLC METHOD:
20          The following parameters were used in the HPLC method noted above.
   Variant HPLC System with pump module 9012, detector module 9050 and
   autosampler 9300. The column was an X-Bridge, C8, 3.5 mm, 1150 mm x 4.6
   mm. injection volume was 1Opl, flow rate was 1.0 mL/min, equilibration time
   was 5 min, temperature was 400C and detection was at 284 nm. Solvent A
25 was prepared by mixing ammonium acetate (5.0 g) in water (900m mL),
   adjusting the pH of the solution to pH 5.0 with glacial acetic acid and bringing
   the mixture to volume by addition of water. Solvent B was prepared by mixing
                                                42

   50% acetic acid (0.5 mL) with sufficient methanol to attain a final volume of
   1000 mL). The gradient was as follows:
                             t (min)         %A          %B
                                 0           70          30
                                15           40          60
                                25           40          60
                                55           40          60
                                55            5          95
                                   Synthesis Example 3
 5   Preparation of (4R,4aS,6R,7R,7aR,12bS)-3-(cyclopropylmethyl)-6-((S)-2
     hydroxy-3,3-dimethylbutan-2-y)-7-methoxy-1,2,3,4,5,6,7,7a-octahvdro
    4a,7-ethano-4,12-methanobenzofuro[3,2-elisoquinolin-9-ol Hydrochloride
                                           Salt
         HO                                               HO
                                                               I           e HCI
                          N             HCI (Aq)                         N
                            ON
10        The following example describes a recipe / procedure for the synthesis
   of buprenorphine HCI. At least one batch of buprenorphine HCI was prepared
   according to said recipe / procedure, and the product isolated as a white to off
   white crystalline powder.
          A glass lined reactor vessel was purged with N2 . To the reactor was
15 then added a suspension of BU in 2-propanol (approximately 22.9 g per 100 g
   solvent) and the resulting mixture heated to 70'C to complete dissolution. A
   small portion of HCI was added and the resulting solution seeded with Bu HCI.
   After stirring for one hour at 70'C, a second portion of HCI was added at 70C,
   over 3-5 hours. The total amount of HCI was 1.05 M/M. The suspension was
20 then cooled via the following non-linear cooling curve to a final temperature of
   00C: Step A: cooling to 57'C, over 2 hours; Step B: cooling to 420C, over 2
   hours; Step C: cooling to 230C, over 2 hours; and Step D: cooling to 00C, over
                                            43

   2 hours. The resulting suspension was filtered and the solid dried to yield the
   title compound.
                                  Synthesis Example 4
 5       Preparation of (4R,4aS,7aR,12bS)-3-allyI-4a,9-dihydroxy-2,3,4,4a,5,6
          hexahydro-1 H-4,12-methanobenzofuro[3,2-elisoquinolin-7(7aH)-one
                      H
                      N                                                    N
                        (R)OH                                               (R)OH
                      (S)             Br                                  (S)
                         (S)                                  /              (S)
                           R             DMA, base                             R
         HO         0      H  0                           HO            0      H  O
            Noroxymorphone (NOMO) was converted to naloxone by reacting with
   allylbromide in N,N-dimethylacetamide (DMA) in the presence of dipotassium
10 hydrogenphosphate.
            Noroxymorphone (4.0 g) was suspended in DMA (7.05g, 1.75 mass eq.)
   at 20-30'C. To the reaction mixture was then added allybromide (1 .68g, 1.0
   mol. eq.). The resulting suspension was stirred at 20-30'C for 60-70 min until a
   clear brown solution was formed. To the mixture was then added dipotassium
15 hydrogenphosphate (2.43 g, 1 mol. eq.) at 20-30'C. The reaction mixture was
   stirred at 20-30'C for 12 h. During the stirring a slightly turbid suspension was
   formed. The reaction conversion was monitored by HPLC (R&D, area-%), with
    IPC after 12h at 20-30'C: noroxymorphone: 0.2%, naloxone: 98.0%, 3-allyl
   naltrexone: 0.4%).
20          Note: water content of K2 HPO 4 was 2.2 wt %, KF
                                            44

                                 Synthesis Example 5
     Preparation of (4R,4aS,7aR,12bS)-3-(cyclopropylmethyl)-4a,9-dihydroxy
   2,3,4,4a,5,6-hexahydro-1 H-4,12-methanobenzofuro[3,2-elisoquinolin-7(7aH)
                                          one
                  H
                  N                                                    N
                    (R)OH                                               (R)  H
                  (S)                 Br                              (S)
                   / (S)                                                 (s)
                       R         1-Methyl-2-pyrrolidone                    R
                        0                Base
 5   HO               H                                   HO         O     H   0
          Noroxymorphone (NOMO) was converted to naltrexone, reacting with
   bromomethylcyclopropane in 1-methyl-2-pyrrolidone (NMP) in the presence of
   a base. In this work two different bases were investigated: sodium carbonate
   and dipotassium hydrogenphosphate. Additionally, reaction time and
10 temperature were also varied. Table 1, below list experimental conditions for
   the completed experiments.
                                           45

                            Table 1: Experimental Conditions
     Experiment         Time and            Base       Mol. Eq.       Mass Eq.
        ID No.        Temperature                       (base)          (NMP)
        107-01          2.5 h 800C        Na2 CO 3        1.1             1.4
        107-02          5.5 h 800C        Na2 CO 3        1.1             1.4
        107-03         +1.5 h 850C        Na2 CO 3        1.1             1.4
        108-01          2.5 h 800C       K2 HPO 4 1       1.1             1.4
        108-02          5.5 h 800C       K2 HPO 4 1       1.1             1.4
        108-03         +1.5 h 850C       K2 HPO 4 1       1.1             1.4
        110-01           5 h 800C        K2 HPO 4[2]      1.1             1.4
        110-02           7 h 800C        K2 HPO 4[2]      1.1             1.4
        111-01           5 h 80 0 C      K2 HPO 4[2]      2.0             2.1
        111-02           7 h 800C        K2 HPO 4[2]      2.0             2.1
        112-01           5 h 800C        K2 HPO 4[2]      3.0             2.8
        112-02           7 h 800C        K2 HPO 4[2]      3.0             2.8
           [']Water content of K2 HPO 4 = 2.2 wt-%, KE
             21
           [  Water content of K2 HPO 4 = 0.6 wt-%, KF
 5 Sodium carbonate
           To 1-methyl-2-pyrrolidone (NMP) (7.1 g) were added noroxymorphone
   (5.0 g) and sodium carbonate (2.0 g, 1.1 mol. eq.) at 20-250C. After inerting
   with nitrogen, bromomethyl-cyclopropane (2.7 g) was added dropwise, and the
   dropping funnel washed with 1-methyl-2-pyrrolidone (1.5 g). The reaction
10 mixture was heated to 800C during 1 h and stirred at 800C for 5.5h. The
   temperature was increased to 850C and the reaction mixture held for 1.5 h.
   The reaction conversion was monitored by HPLC (R&D, area-%) with IPC as
   shown in Table 2.
   Dipotassium hydrogenphosphate
15         To 1-methyl-2-pyrrolidone (NMP) (7.1 g) were added noroxymorphone
   (2.5 g) anddipotassium hydrogenphosphate (in amounts as noted in Table 1
   above) at 20-250C. After inerting with nitrogen, bromomethyl-cyclopropane (1.4
   g) was added dropwise, and the dropping funnel washed with 1-methyl-2
   pyrrolidone (0.75 g). The reaction mixture was heated to 800C during 1 h and
                                             46

   stirred at 800C for 5.5h. The temperature was increased to 850C and the
   reaction mixture held for 1.5 h. The reaction conversion was monitored by
   HPLC (R&D, area-%) with IPC as shown in Table 2.
 5                       Table 2: Reaction Products (HPLC Area %)
         Experiment            NOMO             Naltrexone          Impurity[3 1
            ID No.        area-%, HPLC        area-%, HPLC        area-%, HPLC
            107-01               1.9               93.9                 3.0
            107-02               1.3               92.0                 5.6
            107-03               1.1               90.9                 6.3
            108-01              18.0               80.5                 0.3
            108-02              11.4               86.8                 0.5
            108-03               8.5               89.5                 0.6
            110-01              2.3                96.0                 0.6
            110-02              2.1                96.1                 0.9
            111-01               1.7               96.5                 0.6
            111-02               1.6               96.5                 0.9
            112-01               1.5               97.0                 0.4
            112-02               1.4               96.9                 0.7
           "J3-(cyclopropylmethyl)-naltrexone
           In summary, the use of Na2 CO 3 was observed to result in the fastest
   conversion, but also the highest impurity ratio. The conversion with K2HPO 4
10 was observed to be slower. However, compared with Na2 CO 3 the use of
   K2 HPO 4 as the base resulted in a lower ratio of the undesired dialkylated
   impurity. If dried K2 HPO 4 was used, the reaction was observed to run to near
   completion. A higher amount of K2 HPO 4 was also observed to result in better
   conversion, although the reaction mixture needed to be diluted, to have a
15 stirrable reaction mixture.
                                            47

                                Formulation Example 1
                    Solid, Oral Dosage Form - Prophetic Example
           As a specific embodiment of an oral composition, 100 mg of the
   compound prepared as in Example 3 is formulated with sufficient finely divided
 5 lactose to provide a total amount of 580 to 590 mg to fill a size 0 hard gel
   capsule.
           While the foregoing specification teaches the principles of the present
   invention, with examples provided for the purpose of illustration, it will be
10 understood that the practice of the invention encompasses all of the usual
   variations, adaptations and/or modifications as come within the scope of the
   following claims and their equivalents.
                                             48

We Claim:
1.      A process for the preparation of a compound of formula (1)
                            HO
                                     0N
                                      (S)   S   (R) N
                               (R)
                              N-0(R)
                               HO
                                                          (I)
        or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof; comprising
   00
           (    S  (R)  NH         LON
    (R)    (VS                            (R)                       S  (R)
       (R)
                                                          O   (R) R
                    HOjjiii
                        (V)
                                                                           (VII)
        reacting a compound of formula (V) with a compound of formula (VI),
wherein Ll is a leaving group; in the presence of an inorganic base; wherein
the inorganic base does not form water when reacted with or contacted with an
acid; in a first organic solvent; at a temperature in the range of from about 400C
to about 70'C; to yield the corresponding compound of formula (VII); and
                                              49

     O                                               HO
                                                         N                 N
      (R)   (S)  S  (R)                                 (R)    (S)  (R)
     O  (R)                                                (R)
       HO       "'HO
                                                            7             (
          R)(Vl)
         reacting the compound of formula (VII) with a demethylating agent; in
the presence of a base; in a second organic solvent; at a temperature in the
range of from about 110 C to about 1500C; under an inert atmosphere; to yield
the corresponding compound of formula (1).
2.       A process as in Claim 1, wherein Ll is bromo.
3.       A process as in Claim 1, wherein the compound of formula (VI) is
present in an amount in the range of from about 1.1 to about 2.5 molar
equivalents.
4.       A process as in Claim 1, wherein the compound of formula (VI) is
present in an amount in the range of from about 1.25 to about 1.75 molar
equivalents.
5.       A process as in Claim 1, wherein the inorganic base is an anhydrous
inorganic base.
6.       A process as in Claim 1, wherein the inorganic base is anhydrous
K 2 HP0 4.
7.       A process as in Claim 1, wherein the inorganic base is present in an
amount in the range of from about 2 to about 4 molar equivalents.
                                        50

8.     A process as in Claim 1, wherein the inorganic base is present in an
amount of in the range of from about 2.25 to about 3.25 molar equivalents.
9.     A process as in Claim 1, wherein the first organic solvent is DMF.
10.    A process as in Claim 1, wherein the compound of formula (VII) is not
isolated.
11.    A process as in Claim 1, wherein the demethylating agent is tert-dodecyl
mercaptan and wherein the base is an alkoxide base.
12.    A process as in Claim 10, wherein the alkoxide base is NaOtBu.
13.    A process as in Claim 1, wherein the demethylating agent is present in
an amount in the range of from about 2.5 to about 4 molar equivalents.
14.    A process as in Claim 1, wherein the demethylating is present in an
amount of in the range of from about 2.8 to about 3.4 molar equivalents.
15.    A process as in Claim 1, wherein the base is present in an amount in the
range of from about 2.5 to about 4 molar equivalents.
16.    A process as in Claim 1, wherein the base is present in an amount of in
the range of from about 2.8 to about 3.4 molar equivalents.
17.    A process as in Claim 1, wherein the compound of formula (V) is reacted
with the compound (VI) in the presence of a promoter.
18.    A process as in Claim 17, wherein the promoter is Nal; and wherein the
Nal is present in an amount in the range of from about 5 mole % to about 10
mole %.
                                       51

 19.     A process as in Claim 1, further comprising reacting the compound of
formula (1)with HCI to yield the corresponding hydrochloride salt of the
compound of formula (1).
20.      A process for the preparation of a compound of formula (1)
                               HO
                                         S      (R)
                                 (R)
                                O   (R)
                                 HO0
                                         ((1)
         or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof; comprising
             (s) s (R)     NH         L
                                                    ('    (R)   (     (R) N
                      (R))
     N1 (R)                             (VI)
                                                            (R)
      HOjiiiH
                           (V)
                                                                          (VII)
         reacting a compound of formula (V) with a compound of formula (VI),
wherein Ll is bromo; wherein the compound of formula (VI) is present in an
amount of about 1.4 molar equivalents;
         in the presence of anhydrous K2 HPO 4 ; wherein the anhydrous K2 HPO 4
is present in an amount of in the range of from about 2.4 to about 3 molar
equivalents;
         in DMF; at a temperature of about 600C; to yield the corresponding
compound of formula (VII); and
                                              52

    O                                                HO
                                                          N               N
     (R)     (S)  S  (R)                                 (R)    (S) (R)
    O   (R)                                                 (R)
      HO         "'HO
                                                             7           (
          R)(Vl)
         reacting the compound of formula (VII) with tert-dodecylmercaptan;
wherein the tert-dodecyl mercaptan is present in an amount of about 3.1 molar
equivalents;
         in the presence of NaOtBu; wherein the NaOtBu is present in amount of
about 3.1 molar equivalents;
         in DMF; at a temperature of about 131 C; under an inert atmosphere; to
yield the corresponding compound of formula (1).
21.     A process for the preparation of a compound of formula (VII)
                            0
                                 --  (S) s  (R) N
                               (R)
                            O    (R)
                              HO
                                                       (VII)
         or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof; comprising
                                           53

                                                          0
     ((R)    (s) s) (R)    NH                              0       (8)(R)   N
        (R)                                                               (
                                                          O   (R)
     HO
                           (V)
                                                                            (VII)
          reacting a compound of formula (V) with a compound of formula (VI),
wherein Ll is a leaving group; in the presence of an inorganic base; wherein
the inorganic base does not form water when reacted with or contacted with an
acid; in a first organic solvent; at a temperature in the range of from about 400C
to about 70'C; to yield the corresponding compound of formula (VII).
22.       A process as in Claim 21, wherein Ll is bromo; wherein the compound of
formula (VI) is present in an amount of about 1.4 molar equivalents; wherein
the inorganic base is anhydrous K2 HPO 4 ; wherein the anhydrous K2HPO 4 is
present in an amount of in the range of from about 2.4 to about 3 molar
equivalents; wherein the first organic solvent is DMF; and wherein the
compound of formula (V) is reacted with the compound of formula (VI) at a
temperature of about 600C.
23.       A process as in Claim 21, further comprising
    /O                                                 HO
                             O                                              N
                                      N                      ( )
                                                                  (S) S (R)
                                                                            N
      (R)'    (S)    (R)
         (R)                                                (R)
                      (R)0                                  (R)
       HO         "IHO                                                  a
                            (VII)
                                          54

        reacting the compound of formula (VII) with a demethylating agent; in
the presence of a base; in a second organic solvent; at a temperature in the
range of from about 110 C to about 1500C; under an inert atmosphere; yield
the corresponding compound of formula (1).
24.     A process for the preparation of a compound of formula (1)
                            HO
                                                  N
                                  (S)     S   (R)
                                 (R)
                               HO
        or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof; comprising
   01
           (s)  s  (R)  NH                                 0
                                                           (
                                                           (R)
                                                                  (R)  (R) N
       (R)                             (VI)
                                                              (R)
     HO         m
                        (V)
                                                                           (VII)
        reacting a compound of formula (V) with a compound of formula (VI),
wherein Ll is a leaving group; in the presence of an inorganic base; wherein
the inorganic base does not form water when reacted with or contacted with an
acid; in a first organic solvent; at a temperature in the range of from about 40'C
to about 700C; to yield the corresponding compound of formula (VII); and
                                            55

    O                                                HO
                                                         N                N
     (R)   (S)  S  (R)  NR)                                   (S)    (R)
    O  (R)                                                (R)
      HO       "'HO                                               2"
                                                           7             (
         R)(Vl)
        reacting the compound of formula (VII) to yield the corresponding
compound of formula (1).
25.     A product prepared according to the process of Claim 1.
26.     A product prepared according to the process of Claim 20.
27.     A process for the preparation of a compound of formula (II)
                                           R1
                                          N
                                           (R)OH
                                 /\      (S)
                                            (S)
                                              R
                            HO         0      H   0(ii)
        wherein R1 is selected from the group consisting of -CH 2-(cyclopropyl),
CH 2-(cyclobutyl) and -CH 2-CH=CH 2 ; or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt
thereof, comprising
                                        56

                                                                       R1
                        H
                        N                                            N
                          (R)OH                                        (R)OH
                 /\     (S)
                         ()
                                         L2
                                         L-R1
                                               R1                   (S)
                                                                    (s)
                           (s)            (                             (S)
                              R                            ___            R
        HO           0        H 0                     HO          0       H  0
                   (IX)                                            (II)
         reacting a compound of formula (IX) with a compound of formula (X),
wherein L2 is a leaving group; in the presence of an inorganic base; wherein
the inorganic base does not form water when reacted with or contacted with an
acid; in a first organic solvent; at a temperature in the range of from about 400C
to about 70'C; to yield the corresponding compound of formula (II).
28.      A process as in Claim 27, wherein Ll is bromo.
29.      A process as in Claim 27, wherein the compound of formula (X) is
present in an amount in the range of from about 1.1 to about 2.5 molar
equivalents.
30.      A process as in Claim 27, wherein the compound of formula (X) is
present in an amount in the range of from about 1.25 to about 1.75 molar
equivalents.
31.      A process as in Claim 27, wherein the inorganic base is an anhydrous
inorganic base.
32.      A process as in Claim 27, wherein the inorganic base is anhydrous
K 2 PO 4.
33.      A process as in Claim 27, wherein the inorganic base is present in an
amount in the range of from about 2 to about 4 molar equivalents.
                                            57

34.    A process as in Claim 27, wherein the inorganic base is present in an
amount in the range of from about 2.25 to about 3.25 molar equivalents.
35.    A process as in Claim 27, wherein the inorganic base is a base which
selectively does not protonate the free phenol on the compound of formula (IX).
36.    A process as in Claim 27, wherein the first organic solvent is DMF.
37.    A process as in Claim 27, wherein the compound of formula (IX) is
reacted with the compound (X) in the presence of a promoter.
38.    A process as in Claim 27, wherein the promoter is Nal; and wherein the
Nal is present in an amount in the range of from about 5 mole % to about 10
mole %.
39.    A process as in Claim 27, wherein R1 is -CH 2-(cyclopropyl).
40.    A process as in Claim 27, wherein R1 is -CH 2-(cyclobutyl).
41.    A process as in Claim 27, wherein R1 is -CH 2 -CH=CH 2.
42.    A process for the preparation of a compound of formula (II)
                                            R1
                                         N
                                            (R)OH
                                /\       (S)
                                           (S)
                                               R
                           HO                  H  O(ii)
       wherein R1 is selected from the group consisting of -CH 2-(cyclopropyl)
and -CH 2-CH=CH 2 ; of pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, comprising
                                        58

                                                                     R1
                       H
                       N                                          N
                         (R)OH                                       (R)OH
               /\      (S)
                        ()
                                     L2
                                     L-R1
                                            R1                   (S)
                                                                 (s)
                          (s)         (                              (S)
                             R                           __             R
       HO           0        H 0                   HO          0        H  0
                  (IX)                                          (II)
        reacting a compound of formula (IX) with a compound of formula (X),
wherein Ll is bromo; wherein the compound of formula (X) is present in an
amount of about 1.4 molar equivalents;
        in the presence of anhydrous K2 HPO 4 ; wherein the anhydrous K2 HPO 4
is present in an amount of in the range of from about 2.4 to about 3 molar
equivalents;
        in DMF; at a temperature of about 600C; to yield the corresponding
compound of formula (II).
43.    A process as in Claim 42, wherein R1 is -CH 2-(cyclopropyl).
44.    A process as in Claim 42, wherein R1 is -CH 2-(cyclobutyl).
45.    A process as in Claim 42, wherein R1 is -CH 2 -CH=CH 2.
46.    A product prepared according to the process of Claim 27.
47.    A product prepared according to the process of Claim 42.
                                        59

48.    A process for the preparation of a compound of formula (1)
                         HO
                                   0N
                                    (S) S (R)    N
                            (R)
                               (R)
                            HO
                                                         (1)
       or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof; as herein described.
49.    A process for the preparation of a compound of formula (II)
                                            R1
                                           N
                                            (R)OH
                                          (S)
                                             (S)
                                               R
                           HO            0     H   0(ii)
       wherein R1 is selected from the group consisting of -CH 2-(cyclopropyl),
CH 2-(cyclobutyl) and -CH 2-CH=CH 2 ; or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt
thereof, as described herein.
                                         60

50.  A process for the preparation of a compound of formula (Ill)
                                     N
                                       (R)OH
                                     (S)
                                        (S)
                                           R
                       HO          O       H  OH    (ill)
      or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, as described herein.
51.  A process for the preparation of a compound of formula (1)
                        HO
                                         0N
                           (R)           (R)
                         O (R)
                           HO
      or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof; comprising
    O                                              HO
         0S            NH                    ,-          %S,
                                                        'w              NH
     (R)    (S)    (R)                                  R     (S)   (R)
        (R)                                               (R)
     HO         "'HO                                              I
                       (V)                                              (Vill)
                                      61

        reacting a formula (V), with a demethylating agent; in the presence of a
base; in a first organic solvent; at a temperature in the range of from about
110 C to about 1500C; under an inert atmosphere; to yield the corresponding
compound of formula (VIIl);
  HO                                                     HO
    (R)   (    S   R(R) NH                                         S   (R) N
                   (R)                                      (3R)
                                        (VI)
   O  (R)                                                     (R)
    HO                                                      HO
                        (VIll)                                             (1)
        reacting the compound of formula (Vill) with a compound of formula (VI),
wherein Ll is a leaving group; in the presence of an inorganic base; wherein
the inorganic base does not form water when reacted with or contacted with an
acid, in a second organic solvent; wherein the second organic solvent is the
same as the first organic solvent; at a temperature in the range of from about
400C to about 70'C; to yield the corresponding compound of formula (1).
52.     A process as in Claim 51, wherein the demethylating agent is tert
dodecyl mercaptan and wherein the base is an alkoxide base.
53.     A process as in Claim 51, wherein the alkoxide base is NaOtBu.
54.     A process as in Claim 51, wherein the demethylating agent is present in
an amount in the range of from about 2.5 to about 4 molar equivalents.
55.     A process as in Claim 51, wherein the demethylating is present in an
amount of in the range of from about 2.8 to about 3.4 molar equivalents.
56.     A process as in Claim 51, wherein the base is present in an amount in
the range of from about 2.5 to about 4 molar equivalents.
                                           62

56.    A process as in Claim 51, wherein the base is present in an amount of in
the range of from about 2.8 to about 3.4 molar equivalents.
57.    A process as in Claim 51, wherein the first organic solvent is DMF.
58.    A process as in Claim 51, wherein the compound of formula (VIII) is not
isolated.
59.    A process as in Claim 51, wherein Ll is bromo.
60.    A process as in Claim 51, wherein the compound of formula (VI) is
present in an amount in the range of from about 1.1 to about 2.5 molar
equivalents.
61.    A process as in Claim 51, wherein the compound of formula (VI) is
present in an amount in the range of from about 1.25 to about 1.75 molar
equivalents.
62.    A process as in Claim 51, wherein the inorganic base is an anhydrous
inorganic base.
63.    A process as in Claim 51, wherein the inorganic base is anhydrous
K 2 HP0 4.
64.    A process as in Claim 51, wherein the inorganic base is present in an
amount in the range of from about 2 to about 4 molar equivalents.
65.    A process as in Claim 51, wherein the inorganic base is present in an
amount of in the range of from about 2.25 to about 3.25 molar equivalents.
66.    A process as in Claim 51, wherein the compound of formula (V) is
reacted with the compound (VI) in the presence of a promoter.
                                       63

67.     A process as in Claim 51, wherein the promoter is Nal; and wherein the
Nal is present in an amount in the range of from about 5 mole % to about 10
mole %.
68.     A process as in Claim 51, wherein the inorganic base is a base which
selectively does not protonate the free phenol on the compound of formula
(VIll).
69.     A process as in Claim 51, further comprising reacting the compound of
formula (1)with HCI to yield the corresponding hydrochloride salt of the
compound of formula (1).
70.     A process for the preparation of a compound of formula (1)
                           HO
                                                 N
                                       S   (R)N
                              O(R)()
                               (R)   S      R
                              HO
         or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof; comprising
       O                                              HO
                    S      NH                   ,o        'N         (R)
                                                                         NH
        (R)    (S)     (R)                                R)   (S)
           (R)                                          0  (R)
        HO        E"'HO                                            I
                           (V)                                           (Vill)
                                         64

         reacting a compound of formula (V) with tert-dodecyl mercaptan;
wherein the tert-dodecyl mercaptan is present in an amount of about 3.1 molar
equivalents;
         in the presence of NaOtBu; wherein the NaOtBu is present in amount of
about 3.1 molar equivalents;
         in DMF; at a temperature of about 131 C; under an inert atmosphere; to
yield the corresponding compound of formula (VIII);
  HO                                                    HO
     (R)    (S)    (R) NH             (VI)                 (R)    S   (R)  N
   O   (R)                                                    (R)
     HO                                                    HO
                       (VIll)                                              (I)
         reacting the compound of formula (Vill) with a compound of formula (VI),
wherein Ll is bromo; wherein the compound of formula (VI) is present in an
amount of about 1.4 molar equivalents;
         in the presence of anhydrous K2 HPO 4 ; wherein the anhydrous K2 HPO 4
is present in an amount of in the range of from about 2.4 to about 3 molar
equivalents;
         in DMF; at a temperature of about 600C; to yield the corresponding
compound of formula (1).
                                         65

