EXHAUST GAS CONTROL APPARATUS FOR INTERNAL
COMBUSTION ENGINE
ABSTRACT
       An exhaust gas control apparatus for an internal combustion engine in the present
invention includes: an SCR catalyst including transition metal ions for reducing NOx in exhaust
gas with NH 3 as a reducing agent; detection means for detecting temperature of the SCR
catalyst; and a heater configured to heat the SCR catalyst.    When NOx does not flow into the
SCR catalyst, and the temperature detected by the detection means is below a first temperature
that is a temperature causing exhibition of valence recovery of transition metal ions, the heater is
controlled such that the SCR catalyst is heated up to a first temperature or above and that the
SCR catalyst is maintained at or above the first temperature for a prescribed period so as to
achieve valence recovery of the transition metal ions put in a deteriorated state.

                                                   1
EXHAUST GAS CONTROL APPARATUS FOR INTERNAL
COMBUSTION ENGINE
BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
1.     Field of the Invention
       [0001]     The present invention relates to an exhaust gas control apparatus for an internal
combustion engine, and more particularly relates to an exhaust gas control apparatus including a
selective catalytic reduction catalyst (SCR catalyst).
2.     Description of Related Art
       [0002]     There is known an exhaust gas control apparatus for an internal combustion
engine operated to perform lean combustion driving (see, for example, Japanese Patent
Application Publication No. 2002-047922).          The exhaust gas control apparatus includes an
SCR catalyst disposed in an exhaust passage, an addition device that adds an additive that is
NH3 or a precursor of NH3 to exhaust gas flowing into the SCR catalyst, and a heater that heats
the SCR catalyst.     The exhaust gas control apparatus is configured to heat the SCR catalyst up
to an active temperature with the heater immediately before the internal combustion engine is
started.
SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
       [0003]     A NOX reduction action in the SCR catalyst is exhibited by an action of
transition metal ions which are supported by catalyst carriers of the SCR catalyst.      Specifically,
the transition metal ions adsorb NH3 supplied from the addition device.              When an ionic
valence of the transition metal ions containing adsorbed NH3 is equal to the valence necessary
for NOX reduction (such a state is referred to as "reference state" below), the transition metal
ions cause a reaction between NH3 and NOX in the exhaust gas, so that NOX in the exhaust gas
is reduced to N2.    In that case, since the ionic valence of the transition metal ions becomes less
than the valence necessary for NOX reduction, NOX reduction capacity of the transition metal

                                                   2
ions deteriorates (such a state is referred to as "deteriorated state" below).      However, H+ is
adsorbed to the transition metal ions in the deteriorated state at the time of the reaction between
NH3 and NOX.        When H+ adsorbed to the transition metal ions in the deteriorated state reacts
with 02 or N02 in the exhaust gas, the transition metal ions are re-oxidized, and thereby the
ionic valence of the transition metal ion is recovered to the ionic valence necessary for NOX
reduction.    Accordingly, in order to achieve continuous NOX reduction with the SCR catalyst,
it is necessary to recover the ionic valence of the transition metal ions, which is put in the
deteriorated state, to the valence necessary for NOX reduction.
       [0004]    Recovery of the ionic valence (referred to as "valence recovery" below) of the
transition metal ions put in the deteriorated state is exhibited in the atmosphere whose
temperature is above the temperature (active temperature) at which NOX reduction by the
transition metal ions in the reference state starts to be exhibited, the atmosphere containing 02
and N02.      Accordingly, when low-load operation of the internal combustion engine continues,
or when the exhaust gas flowing into the SCR catalyst continues to have an air-fuel ratio at or
below a stoichiometric air-fuel ratio, the transition metal ions in the reference state may
continuously decrease, while the transition metal ions in the deteriorated state may continuously
increase.   As a result, NOX reduction performance of the SCR catalyst may be deteriorated,
and continuous NOX reduction by the SCR catalyst may become difficult.            When the internal
combustion engine is shut down in the state where the amount of the transition metal ions in the
deteriorated state is relatively large, valence recovery of most of the transition metal ions in the
deteriorated state may be failed even when the SCR catalyst is temporarily heated before next
start of operation as in the aforementioned related art.     This is because as the amount of the
transition metal ions in the deteriorated state increases, the time needed for valence recovery of
these transition metal ions becomes longer.
       [0005]    The present invention provides a technique for an exhaust gas control apparatus
including an SCR catalyst, in which the ionic valence of transition metal ions contained in the
SCR catalyst can suitably be recovered.
       [0006]    The present invention controls the heater such that the SCR catalyst is heated to

                                                  3
a first temperature or above and is maintained at that state for a prescribed period, when NOX
does not flow into the SCR catalyst, and the temperature of the SCR catalyst is below the first
temperature.
       [0007]     Specifically, the exhaust gas control apparatus for an internal combustion
engine of the present invention includes: an SCR catalyst disposed in an exhaust passage of the
internal combustion engine, the SCR catalyst including transition metal ions for reducing NOX
in exhaust gas with NH3 as a reducing agent; detection means for detecting temperature of the
SCR catalyst; a heater configured to heat the SCR catalyst, and control means for executing
recovery processing when NOX does not flow into the SCR catalyst, and the temperature
detected by the detection means is below a first temperature that is a temperature causing
exhibition of valence recovery of the transition metal ions, the recovery processing being
processing of controlling the heater such that the SCR catalyst is heated up to the first
temperature or above and that the SCR catalyst is maintained at or above the first temperature
for a prescribed period.
       [0008]     A term "valence recovery" used herein refers to recovery of ionic valence of the
transition metal ions to the valence necessary for NOX reduction through reoxidation of the
transition metal ions put in the deteriorated state as described before.             A term "first
temperature" is the temperature causing exhibition of valence recovery of the transition metal
ions in the deteriorated state.       The first temperature is above the temperature (active
temperature) at which NOX reduction by the transition metal ions in the reference state starts to
be exhibited.    Furthermore, a term "prescribed period" refers to the period necessary for
valence recovery of substantially the entire amount of the transition metal ions in the
deteriorated state.
       [0009]     When the temperature of the SCR catalyst is raised to the first temperature or
above while NOX does not flow into the SCR catalyst, the NOX reduction by the transition
metal ions in the reference state is not exhibited, but the valence recovery by the transition metal
ions in the deteriorated state is exhibited.  Accordingly, the amount of the transition metal ions
in the deteriorated state can efficiently be reduced.    When the SCR catalyst is maintained at or

                                                  4
above the first temperature for the prescribed period, the ionic valence of substantially the entire
amount of the transition metal ions in the deteriorated state can be recovered.   Therefore, when
NOX flows into the SCR catalyst after the recovery processing is ended, it is possible to
suppress such situations where NOX reduction performance of the SCR catalyst is deteriorated
and where continuous NOX reduction by the SCR catalyst is difficult.
       [0010]     Here, the case where NOX does not flow into the SCR catalyst may be the case
where the internal combustion engine is shut down.         However, the temperature of the SCR
catalyst becomes lower as the lapsed time from the shutdown of the internal combustion engine
becomes longer.      Accordingly, when it is attempted to heat the SCR catalyst up to the first
temperature or above after a relatively long time has lapsed from the shutdown of the internal
combustion engine, energy consumed by the heater may possibly increase.           To avoid such a
situation, the recovery processing may be executed immediately after the shutdown of the
internal combustion engine.      That is, the control means in the present invention may execute
the recovery processing with the shutdown of the internal combustion engine as a trigger.         In
that case, since the recovery processing is executed while the SCR catalyst is at a relatively high
temperature, the energy necessary for the heater to heat the SCR catalyst up to the first
temperature or above can be kept low.
       [0011]     Depending on the operating state of the internal combustion engine before the
shutdown, the SCR catalyst may be at or above the first temperature upon the shutdown.            In
that case, it is estimated that valence recovery of the transition metal ions in the deteriorated
state is automatically attained before shutdown and immediately after shutdown of the internal
combustion engine.      Therefore, when the temperature of the SCR catalyst upon shutdown of
the internal combustion engine is equal to or above the first temperature, execution of recovery
processing may be prohibited.      However, in the case as described above, the ionic valence of
substantially the entire amount of the transition metal ions in the deteriorated state is not
necessarily recovered in an automatic manner.       Accordingly, in view of more reliably reducing
the amount of the transition metal ions in the deteriorated state (more reliably increasing the
amount of the transition metal ions in the reference state), the recovery processing may be
executed when the temperature of the SCR catalyst upon shutdown of the internal combustion

                                                  5
engine is the first temperature or above as when the temperature of the SCR catalyst is below
the first temperature.   However, in the period after the internal combustion engine is shut down
until the temperature of the SCR catalyst decreases to below the first temperature, valence
recovery of the transition metal ions in the deteriorated state is automatically performed without
heating of the SCR catalyst with the heater (such a period is referred to as "automatic recovery
period" below).     Accordingly, the recovery processing may be executed when the temperature
of the SCR catalyst decreases to below the first temperature after the internal combustion engine
is shutdown (when an automatic stop period expires).            When the recovery processing is
executed by such a method, the period (prescribed period) for maintaining the SCR catalyst at or
above the first temperature with use of the heater may be defined as a period necessary for
valence recovery of the amount of transition metal ions in the deteriorated state at the end of the
automatic recovery period.     Such setting of the prescribed period makes it possible to minimize
the consumption energy of the heater, while minimizing the amount of the transition metal ions
in the deteriorated state.
       [0012]     In the configuration where the recovery processing is executed during the
shutdown of the internal combustion engine as described in the foregoing, the control means
may control the heater such that the temperature of the SCR catalyst during execution of the
recovery processing becomes equal to or above the first temperature and below a second
temperature that is the temperature causing exhibition of NH3 oxidation.           Here, when the
internal combustion engine is shut down, there is a possibility that NH3 is adsorbed to at least
some of the transition metal ions included in the SCR catalyst.         In such a case, when the
temperature of the SCR catalyst during execution of the recovery processing is raised to the
second temperature or above, NH3 adsorbed to the transition metal ions is oxidized.        To cope
with this situation, the heater is controlled such that the temperature of the SCR catalyst during
execution of the recovery processing becomes equal to or above the first temperature and below
the second temperature.     This makes it possible to achieve valence recovery of the transition
metal ions in the deteriorated state without oxidizing NH3 adsorbed to the transition metal ions.
As a result, when NOX flows into the SCR catalyst after the next start of the internal
combustion engine, it becomes possible to reduce NOX inflow with use of NH3 adsorbed to the

                                                   6
transition metal ions.
       [0013]    Here, NH3 adsorbed to the transition metal ions of the SCR catalyst tends to
desorb in the atmosphere at or above a specified temperature (referred to as "third temperature"
below) that is above the first temperature and below the second temperature.       Accordingly, if
the temperature of the SCR catalyst at the time when the internal combustion engine is shut
down is above the third temperature, it can be assumed that the amount of NH3 adsorbed to the
transition metal ions is substantially zero at that time. Accordingly, in the configuration where
the recovery processing is executed during the shutdown of the internal combustion engine, if
the temperature, detected by the detection means when the internal combustion engine is shut
down, is the third temperature or above, the control means may control the heater such that the
temperature of the SCR catalyst during execution of the recovery processing becomes the
second temperature or above.      The amount of the transition metal ions whose ionic valence is
recovered per unit time tends to be larger as the temperature of the SCR catalyst becomes higher.
Accordingly, in the case where the temperature of the SCR catalyst during the recovery
processing is raised up to the second temperature or above, the execution period of the recovery
processing can be shortened as compared with the case where the temperature is kept less than
the second temperature.    As a result, even when the period from the shutdown to the restart of
the internal combustion engine is short, it becomes easy to complete the recovery processing.
       [0014]    Other cases where NOX does not flow into the SCR catalyst may include the
case where a gas that does not contain NOX flows through the SCR catalyst.        A term "gas that
does not include NOX" refers to not only the gas that does not contain NOX at all but also the
gas including a minute amount of NOX (the amount considered to achieve efficient valence
recovery of the transition metal ions which are put in the deteriorated state in the SCR catalyst,
the amount being referred to as "acceptable NOX amount").       Examples of the case where such
a gas flows through the SCR catalyst includes the case where NOX in exhaust gas is removed
upstream of the SCR catalyst during operation of the internal combustion engine, and the case
where fuel-cut processing of the internal combustion engine is executed.     Examples of the case
where NOX is removed upstream of the SCR catalyst during operation of the internal
combustion engine may include, for example, the case where a NSR catalyst is configured to be

                                                7
disposed in a portion of the exhaust passage upstream of the SCR catalyst, and an air-fuel ratio
of the exhaust gas flowing into the NSR catalyst is a lean air-fuel ratio that is higher than a
stoichiometric air-fuel ratio. The NSR catalyst used herein is a NOX storage reduction catalyst
that stores NOX in exhaust gas when the air-fuel ratio of the exhaust gas is a lean air-fuel ratio.
The NSR catalyst also reduces, while emitting, the stored NOX, when the air-fuel ratio of the
exhaust gas is a rich air-fuel ratio which is lower than the stoichiometric air-fuel ratio.
However, when the NOX storage amount of the NSR catalyst becomes relatively large, part of
NOX flowing into the NSR catalyst tends to slip through the NSR catalyst even when the
air-fuel ratio of the exhaust gas flowing into the NSR catalyst is the lean air-fuel ratio.
Accordingly, when the air-fuel ratio of the exhaust gas flowing into the NSR catalyst is a lean
air-fuel ratio and the NOX storage amount of the NSR catalyst is a specified upper limit or
below, it may be determined that NOX is removed upstream of the SCR catalyst.             A term
"specified upper limit" used herein is a value set on the assumption that if the NOX storage
amount of the NSR catalyst exceeds the specified upper limit, the amount of NOX beyond the
aforementioned acceptable NOX amount can slip through the NSR catalyst.
       [0015]    As described before, NH3 adsorbed to the transition metal ions of the SCR
catalyst tends to desorb in the atmosphere at or above the third temperature.          When the
recovery processing is executed during shutdown of the internal combustion engine, there is no
gas flow in the SCR catalyst.   Accordingly, even when NH3 desorbs from the transition metal
ions during the recovery processing, the desorbed NH3 stays within the SCR catalyst.      There is
a high possibility that the NH3 staying within the SCR catalyst is re-adsorbed to the transition
metal ions, when the temperature of the SCR catalyst after the end of the recovery processing
decreases below the third temperature.     Therefore, as described before, when the recovery
processing is executed during shutdown of the internal combustion engine, it can be said that
there is no necessity of restricting the temperature of the SCR catalyst to below the third
temperature.    When the recovery processing is executed while the gas that does not contain
NOX flows through the SCR catalyst, NH3 desorbed from the transition metal ions tends to be
discharged from the SCR catalyst together with the gas.   Accordingly, when there is a gas flow
in the SCR catalyst, and NH3 is desorbed from the transition metal ions in that state, the

                                                 8
desorbed NH3 is less likely to be re-adsorbed to the transition metal ions.   Accordingly, in the
configuration where the recovery processing is executed while the gas that does not contain
NOX flows through the SCR catalyst, the temperature of the SCR catalyst may be restricted to
below the third temperature.     That is, when the recovery processing is executed while the gas
that does not contain NOX flows through the SCR catalyst, the control means may control the
heater such that the temperature of the SCR catalyst becomes equal to or above the first
temperature and below the third temperature.     According to such a configuration, when the gas
including NOX flows into the SCR catalyst after the recovery processing is ended, the NOX
inflow can be reduced using the NH3 adsorbed to the transition metal ions.
       [0016]     In the configuration where the recovery processing is executed while the gas
that does not contain NOX flows through the SCR catalyst, it can be assumed that the amount of
the NH3 adsorbed to the transition metal ions is substantially zero when the temperature of the
SCR catalyst upon start of the recovery processing is the third temperature or above.
Accordingly, if the temperature, detected by the detection means upon start of the recovery
processing, is the third temperature or above, the control means may control the heater such that
the temperature of the SCR catalyst during execution of the recovery processing becomes the
second temperature or above.      According to such a configuration, it becomes easy to complete
the recovery processing even when the gas that does not contain NOX flows through the SCR
catalyst for a short time.
       [0017]     When the recovery processing is executed while the gas that does not contain
NOX flows through the SCR catalyst, the control means may control the heater such that the
heating amount of the SCR catalyst decreases in the case where the amount of the gas flowing
through the SCR catalyst is small, as compared with the case where the amount of gas is large.
In the case where the amount of the gas flowing through the SCR catalyst is small, the amount
of heat transmitted from the SCR catalyst to the gas decreases as compared with the case where
the amount of gas is large.    Accordingly, when the amount of the gas flowing through the SCR
catalyst is small, the SCR catalyst may be maintained at or above the first temperature with a
smaller heating amount as compared in the case where the amount of the gas is large.        As a
result, the consumption energy of the heater can be controlled to be lower.

                                                  9
       [0018]     Next, the exhaust gas control apparatus for an internal combustion engine
according to the present invention may further include estimation means for estimating a
requested recovery amount that is the amount of transition metal ions that need valence recovery
(the amount of the transition metal ions in the deteriorated state), among the transition metal
ions supported by the SCR catalyst.        In that case, the estimation means may execute the
recovery processing such that in the case where the requested recovery amount is small, a
prescribed period is shortened as compared with the case where the requested recovery amount
is large.  According to such a configuration, the period of heating the SCR catalyst with the
heater can be controlled to be as short as possible.    As a result, the consumption energy of the
heater can be controlled to be as low as possible.
       [0019]     The control means may not execute the recovery processing, when the
requested recovery amount estimated by the estimation means is below a specified threshold.
The term "specified threshold" used herein is a value considered to be small enough to allow the
SCR catalyst to demonstrate desired NOX reduction performance if the requested recovery
amount is below the specified threshold, or is a value considered to be small enough to allow
continuous NOX reduction by the SCR catalyst.       According to such a configuration, it becomes
possible to suppress increase in the consumption energy relating to the operation of the heater,
while securing the reduction function of the SCR catalyst.
       [0020]     According to the present invention, an exhaust gas control apparatus including
an SCR catalyst can suitably recover the ionic valence of transition metal ions included in the
SCR catalyst.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
       [0021]     Features, advantages, and technical and industrial significance of exemplary
embodiments of the invention will be described below with reference to the accompanying
drawings, in which like numerals denote like elements, and wherein:
       FIG. 1 illustrates a schematic configuration of an internal combustion engine to which the

                                                 10
present embodiment is applied, and an intake and exhaust system of the internal combustion
engine;
      FIG. 2 schematically illustrates a NOX reduction reaction in a SCR catalyst;
      FIG. 3 illustrates the amount of NOX inflow, the temperature of the SCR catalyst, an
operation state of a heater, and temporal change of a counter when the temperature of the SCR
catalyst upon shutdown of the internal combustion engine is below the first temperature;
      FIG. 4 illustrates the amount of NOX inflow, the temperature of the SCR catalyst, the
operation state of the heater, and the temporal change of the counter when the temperature of the
SCR catalyst upon shutdown of the internal combustion engine is the first temperature or above;
      FIG. 5 is a flowchart illustrating a processing routine executed by an ECU when the
recovery processing is performed in a first embodiment;
      FIG. 6 is a flowchart illustrating a processing routine executed by the ECU when the
amount of copper ions in the deteriorated state is calculated;
      FIG. 7 is a flowchart illustrating a processing routine executed by the ECU when the
recovery processing is performed in a modification of the first embodiment;
      FIG. 8 illustrates the relation among the temperature of the SCR catalyst, a valence
recovery rate of the copper ions in the deteriorated state, a desorption rate of NH3, and an
oxidation rate of NH3;
      FIG. 9 is a flowchart illustrating a processing routine executed by the ECU when the
recovery processing is performed in a second embodiment; and
      FIG. 10 is a flowchart illustrating a processing routine executed by the ECU when the
recovery processing is performed in a modification of the second embodiment.

                                                     11
DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF EMBODIMENTS
       [0022]     Specific embodiments of the present invention will be described below with
reference to the accompanying drawings.            Note that sizes, materials, shapes, and relative
arrangements of component members disclosed in the embodiments are not intended to restrict
the technical scope of the present invention thereto unless otherwise specified.
       [0023]    First embodiment
      First, the first embodiment of the present invention will be described with reference to
FIGS. 1 through 5. FIG. 1 illustrates a schematic configuration of an internal combustion
engine to which the exhaust gas control apparatus according to the present embodiment is
applied, and an intake and exhaust system of the internal combustion engine.               An internal
combustion engine 1 illustrated in FIG. 1 is a compression ignition-type internal combustion
engine (diesel engine) that uses gas oil as fuel.       The internal combustion engine 1 may be a
spark ignition-type internal combustion engine (gasoline engine) capable of performing lean
combustion operation.
       [0024]    The internal combustion engine 1 is connected to an exhaust passage 2 for
circulating burned gas (exhaust gas) discharged from the inside of a cylinder.                 In some
midpoint of the exhaust passage 2, a first catalyst casing 3 is disposed.           In a portion of the
exhaust passage 2 downstream from the first catalyst casing 3, a second catalyst casing 4 is
disposed.
       [0025]    The first catalyst casing 3 houses a catalyst carrier that supports an NSR
catalyst, and a particulate filter in a cylindrical casing.       The NSR catalyst stores NOX in
exhaust gas when an air-fuel ratio of the exhaust gas is a lean air-fuel ratio.       When the air-fuel
ratio of the exhaust gas is a rich air-fuel ratio, the NSR catalyst discharges the stored NOX while
causing the stored NOX to react with reducing components (such as HC and CO) in the exhaust
gas so as to reduce the stored NOX to N2.            The particulate filter collects particulate matter
(PM) contained in the exhaust gas.

                                                 12
       [0026]    The second catalyst casing 4 houses a catalyst carrier that supports the SCR
catalyst in a cylindrical casing.    The catalyst carrier is formed by coating, for example, a
monolith-type base material with an alumina-based or a zeolite-based catalyst carrier, the base
material having a honeycomb-like transverse section.        The catalyst carrier supports transition
metal elements such as Cu and Fe through ion exchange.          The thus-configured SCR catalyst
adsorbs NH3 contained in the exhaust gas, and reduces NOX in the exhaust gas to N2 by using
the adsorbed NH3 as a reducing agent.     In the present embodiment, copper ions are used as the
transition metal ions supported by the catalyst carrier of the SCR catalyst.
       [0027]    The second catalyst casing 4 is annexed with a heater 40 for heating the SCR
catalyst.   The heater 40 is an electric heating-type heater that heats the SCR catalyst by
converting electrical energy into thermal energy.    The heater 40 may be an induction heater that
heats the SCR catalyst using electromagnetic waves generated by energization.        The heater 40
may be implemented by forming the SCR catalyst as an electric heating-type catalyst.            The
heater 40 may be a burner that heats the SCR catalyst with flames.
       [0028]    In a portion of the exhaust passage 2 between the first catalyst casing 3 and the
second catalyst casing 4, an addition valve 5 is disposed for adding (injecting) an additive that is
NH3 or a precursor of NH3 into the exhaust gas.          The addition valve 5 is connected to an
additive tank 51 via a pump 50.     The pump 50 sucks the additive stored in the additive tank 51
and pumps the sucked additive to the addition valve 5.           The addition valve 5 injects the
additive pumped from the pump 50 into the exhaust passage 2.          As the additive stored in the
additive tank 51, an NH3 gas, or an aqueous solution of urea, ammonium carbamate, or the like
may be used.    In the present embodiment, the urea water solution is used.
       [0029]    When the urea water solution is injected from the addition valve 5, the urea
water solution flows into the second catalyst casing 4 together with the exhaust gas.        In that
case, the urea water solution is pyrolyzed upon reception of the heat of the exhaust gas, or is
hydrolyzed by the SCR catalyst.       When the urea water solution is pyrolyzed or hydrolyzed,
NH3 is generated.      The thus-generated NH3 is adsorbed to the SCR catalyst.           The NH3
adsorbed to the SCR catalyst reacts with NOX contained in the exhaust gas, and generates N2

                                                  13
and H20.
            [0030]     The thus-configured internal combustion engine 1 is annexed with an
ECU 10.      The ECU 10 is an electronic control unit including components such as a CPU, a
ROM, a RAM, and a backup RAM.            The ECU 10 is electrically connected to various sensors
such as a first NOX sensor 6, a second NOX sensor 7, an exhaust gas temperature sensor 8, a
casing temperature sensor 9, a crank position sensor 11, an accelerator position sensor 12, and
an air flowmeter 13.
       [0031]    The first NOX sensor 6 is disposed in a portion of the exhaust passage 2
between the first catalyst casing 3 and the second catalyst casing 4 to output an electrical signal
correlated with NOX concentration of the exhaust gas flowing into the second catalyst casing 4.
The second NOX sensor 7 is disposed in a portion of the exhaust passage 2 downstream from
the second catalyst casing 4 to output an electrical signal correlated with the NOX concentration
of the exhaust gas flowing from the second catalyst casing 4.         The exhaust gas temperature
sensor 8 is disposed in a portion of the exhaust passage 2 downstream from the second catalyst
casing 4 to output an electrical signal correlated with the temperature of the exhaust gas flowing
from the second catalyst casing 4.     The casing temperature sensor 9 is attached to the second
catalyst casing 4 to output an electrical signal correlated with the temperature of the casing
which houses the SCR catalyst.
       [0032]    The crank position sensor 11 outputs an electrical signal correlated with a
rotational position of an output shaft (crankshaft) of the internal combustion engine 1.       The
accelerator position sensor 12 outputs an electrical signal correlated with an operation amount of
an accelerator pedal (accelerator operation amount).     The air flowmeter 13 outputs an electrical
signal correlated with the amount (mass) of air sucked into the internal combustion engine 1.
       [0033]    The ECU 10 is electrically connected with not only various devices (for
example, a fuel injection valve, etc.) attached to the internal combustion engine 1, but also the
above-stated component members such as the addition valve 5, the heater 40, and the pump 50.
The ECU 10 electrically controls the various devices of the internal combustion engine 1 and

                                                   14
the component members such as the addition valve 5, the heater 40, and the pump 50 based on
the output signals of the various sensors described before.        For example, the ECU 10 executes
established control, such as fuel injection control that controls the injection amount and injection
timing of the fuel injection valve in accordance with engine load and engine speed of the
internal combustion engine 1, and addition control that causes intermittent injection of the
additive from the addition valve 5.      In addition, the ECU 10 executes recovery processing of
the SCR catalyst.     The recovery processing stated herein is the processing for recovering the
ionic valence of the copper ions included in the SCR catalyst to the valence necessary for NOX
reduction.    The recovery processing in the present embodiment will be described below.
       [0034]    First, the NOX reduction reaction in the SCR catalyst will be described with
reference to FIG. 2.      FIG. 2 schematically illustrates the NOX reduction reaction for the
description thereof.    The NOX reduction reaction in the SCR catalyst occurs on the copper ions
supported by the catalyst carrier.          The NOX reduction reaction is considered to be
schematically divided into four steps (a) to (d).     First, in step (a), NH3 is adsorbed to a copper
ion (Cu2+) whose ionic valence is a value (2+) necessary for NOX reduction.           Next, in step (b),
NOX (NO) is adsorbed to the copper ion.        As a result, in step (c), a reaction between NH3 and
NO is caused, so that N2 and H20 are generated and the ionic valence of the copper ion
decreases to 1+.    When the ionic valence of the copper ion decreases to 1+, the NOX reduction
capacity of the copper ion deteriorates (deteriorated state).        However, the hydrogen ion H+
generated in step (c) is adsorbed to the copper ion C+ in the deteriorated state.       When oxygen
(1/402) and NO2 are supplied to the copper ion C+ in this state in step (d), the copper ion C+ is
re-oxidized.   When the copper ion is re-oxidized, the ionic valence of the copper ion is
recovered to 2+ that is the value necessary for NOX reduction (reference state).        Consequently,
the reaction starting from step (a) can sequentially be continued again, so that continuous NOX
reduction by the SCR catalyst can be achieved.
       [0035]    In order to implement continuous NOX reduction in the SCR catalyst in this
way, it is considered that the valence of the copper ion C+ needs to be recovered (C+ -+ Cu2+)
in step (d).   However, the valence recovery of the copper ion put in the deteriorated state is
exhibited in the atmosphere whose temperature is equal to or above the temperature (active

                                                  15
temperature) at which NOX reduction by the copper ion in the reference state starts to be
exhibited, the atmosphere containing N02 and 02.         Accordingly, depending on the operating
state of the internal combustion engine 1, the state where the NOX reduction of the copper ion
in the reference state is exhibited but valence recovery of the copper ion in the deteriorated state
is not exhibited may continue.       For example, when the low load operation of the internal
combustion engine 1 continues, or the exhaust gas flowing into the SCR catalyst continues to
have an air-fuel ratio equal to or below the stoichiometric air-fuel ratio, there is a high
possibility that the state where the NOX reduction of the copper ion in the reference state is
exhibited but valence recovery of the copper ion in the deteriorated state is not exhibited
continues.    When the internal combustion engine 1 is shut down immediately after such a state
is continued, next operation of the internal combustion engine 1 starts in the state where the
amount of the copper ions in the reference state is small.      As a result, immediately after the
internal combustion engine 1 is started, NOX reduction performance of the SCR catalyst may be
deteriorated, and continuous NOX reduction by the SCR catalyst may become difficult.
       [0036]     Accordingly, in the present embodiment, the recovery processing is executed by
a method for controlling the heater 40 such that the temperature of the SCR catalyst is heated to
the first temperature or above, and the temperature is maintained for a prescribed period, when
NOX does not flow into the SCR catalyst and 02 is present in the second catalyst casing 4.       As
described in the foregoing, the first temperature stated herein is the temperature that causes
exhibition of the valence recovery of the copper ions in the deteriorated state, the temperature
(for example, 200'C or more) being above the temperature (for example, 150'C or more) at
which NOX reduction by the copper ions in the reference state starts to be exhibited.           The
prescribed period is the period necessary for performing valence recovery of substantially the
entire copper ions in the deteriorated state.   A method for setting the prescribed period will be
described later.
       [0037]     Here, the case where NOX does not flow into the SCR catalyst may be the case
where the internal combustion engine is at a shutdown state.      However, when execution of the
recovery processing is attempted after a relatively long time has elapsed since the shutdown of
the internal combustion engine 1, the power consumption of the heater 40 may increase.         This

                                                  16
is because the temperature of the SCR catalyst decreases as the lapsed time from the shutdown
of the internal combustion engine 1 becomes longer, which causes increase in the heating
amount needed to raise the temperature of the SCR catalyst to the first temperature or above.
Therefore, in the present embodiment, the recovery processing is executed immediately after the
shutdown of the internal combustion engine 1, that is, when the SCR catalyst is at a relatively
high temperature, by using the shutdown of the internal combustion engine 1 as a trigger.
       [0038]     Here, the method for executing the recovery processing will be described with
reference to FIG. 3.    FIG. 3 illustrates the amount of NOX flowing into the SCR catalyst (NOX
inflow amount), the temperature of the SCR catalyst, the operation state of the heater 40, and the
temporal change of a counter when the internal combustion engine 1 is shut down.              A term
"counter" in FIG. 3 refers to a counter for integrating the amount of copper ions whose ionic
valence is estimated to be recovered per unit time after the shutdown of the internal combustion
engine 1. A term "stipulated value" refers to a value corresponding to the amount of the copper
ions estimated to be put in the deteriorated state when the internal combustion engine 1 is shut
down.     In the present embodiment, the stipulated value is set by assuming the case where a
maximum amount of the copper ions is put in the deteriorated state when the internal
combustion engine 1 is shut down.         Such a stipulated value is statistically obtained from the
result of an experiment, a simulation, or the like.
       [0039]     As illustrated in FIG. 3, when the internal combustion engine 1 is shut down (tI
in FIG. 3), the amount of NOX (NOX inflow amount) flowing into the SCR catalyst is set to
"zero."    Consequently, the ECU 10 operates (turns on) the heater 40 to heat the SCR catalyst.
At that time, since the temperature of the SCR catalyst is relatively high, the SCR catalyst can
be heated to the first temperature or above with a heating amount smaller than the case where
the SCR catalyst is in a cold state.     Once the temperature of the SCR catalyst reaches the first
temperature (t2 in FIG. 3), valence recovery of the copper ions in the deteriorated state starts to
be exhibited.    In this case, since the NOX inflow amount is "zero", decrease in the ionic
valence relating to NOX reduction by the copper ions in the reference state is not exhibited.
As a result, the amount of the copper ions put in the deteriorated state can efficiently be reduced.
When the temperature of the SCR catalyst reaches the first temperature, and thereby the valence

                                                 17
recovery of the copper ions in the deteriorated state starts to be exhibited, the ECU 10 starts to
integrate the amount of copper ions with the counter.       Here, the amount of the copper ions
whose ionic valence is recovered per unit time becomes larger as the temperature of the SCR
catalyst becomes higher.     Therefore, a counter update amount per unit time increases more as
the temperature of the SCR catalyst becomes higher.
       [0040]    When the heater 40 heats the SCR catalyst and thereby the temperature of the
SCR catalyst reaches a target temperature Ttrg that is equal to or above the first temperature (t3
in FIG. 3), the ECU 10 controls the heater 40 such that the temperature of the SCR catalyst is
maintained at the target temperature Ttrg.      The target temperature Ttrg stated herein is the
temperature determined in consideration of a balance between the power consumption and the
valence recovery rate, or the like.    When the internal combustion engine 1 is shut down, there
is a possibility that NH3 adsorbs to at least some of the copper ions contained in the SCR
catalyst.  Accordingly, when the temperature of the SCR catalyst is excessively raised during
execution of the recovery processing, the NH3 adsorbed to the copper ions may desorb or
oxidize.   However, when there is no gas flow in the SCR catalyst as in the case of after the
shutdown of the internal combustion engine 1, the NH3 adsorbed to the copper ion stays in the
SCR catalyst even if it desorbs from the copper ion.    Accordingly, when the temperature of the
SCR catalyst decreases, there is a high possibility that the desorbed NH3 is re-adsorbed to the
copper ion.     Therefore, it can be said that there is no necessity of restricting the target
temperature Ttrg to below the temperature at which NH3 starts to desorb.        However, when the
temperature of the SCR catalyst is raised to the temperature above the temperature at which
NH3 starts to desorb, the NH3 adsorbed to the copper ions may oxidize.            Accordingly, the
target temperature Ttrg is restricted to temperatures below the temperature (second temperature)
at which oxidation of NH3 starts to be exhibited.      When the target temperature Ttrg is set in
this way, the valence recovery of the copper ions in the deteriorated state can be achieved,
without oxidization of the NH3 adsorbed to the copper ions.      As a result, when NOX flows into
the SCR catalyst after the next start of the internal combustion engine 1, it becomes possible to
reduce NOX inflow with use of the NH3 adsorbed to the copper ions.
       [0041]    With reference to FIG. 3 again, when the counter value reaches the stipulated

                                                    18
value (t4 in FIG. 3), the ECU 10 stops (turns off) the heater 40, while resetting the counter value
to "zero."    The prescribed period in this case is a period from t2 to t4 in FIG. 3.     That is, the
prescribed period in this case is a period needed to recover the ionic valence of substantially the
entire amount of the copper ions assumed to be put in the deteriorated state at the time when the
internal combustion engine 1 is shut down.
       [0042]     The description has been given of the method for executing the recovery
processing when the temperature of the SCR catalyst upon shutdown of the internal combustion
engine 1 is below the first temperature with reference to FIG. 3.       However, the temperature of
the SCR catalyst upon shutdown of the internal combustion engine 1 may be equal to or above
the first temperature.   In such a case, it is estimated that the valence recovery of the copper ions
in the deteriorated state is automatically attained before shutdown and immediately after
shutdown of the internal combustion engine 1. Accordingly, when the temperature of the SCR
catalyst upon shutdown of the internal combustion engine 1 is equal to or above the first
temperature, execution of the recovery processing may be prohibited.           According to such a
method, it becomes possible to suppress increase in the power consumption of the heater 40
attributed to execution of the recovery processing.        However, even in the above-stated case,
valence recovery of substantially the entire amount of the copper ions put in the deteriorated
state is not necessarily automatically performed.      As a result, the NOX reduction performance
of the SCR catalyst after the internal combustion engine 1 is started next time may not be a
desired performance.       Accordingly, in view of more reliably attaining the desired NOX
reduction performance of the SCR catalyst after the internal combustion engine 1 is started next
time, the recovery processing may be executed on the assumption that the amount of the copper
ions corresponding to the stipulated value are put in the deteriorated state, even in the case
where the temperature of the SCR catalyst upon shutdown of the internal combustion engine is
the first temperature or above as in the case where the temperature of the SCR catalyst is below
the first temperature upon shutdown of the internal combustion engine.             In that case, the
recovery processing may be executed when the temperature of the SCR catalyst decreases to
below the first temperature after the internal combustion engine is shut down.
       [0043]     Here, the method for executing the recovery processing in the case where the

                                                  19
temperature of the SCR catalyst upon shutdown of the internal combustion engine 1 is equal to
or above the first temperature will be described with reference to FIG. 4.    As illustrated in FIG.
4, when the temperature of the SCR catalyst upon shutdown of the internal combustion engine 1
is equal to or above the first temperature, the valence recovery of the copper ions in the
deteriorated state is performed automatically without heating of the SCR catalyst with the heater
40 during the period (automatic recovery period) from a time point (tI in FIG. 4) when the
internal combustion engine 1 is shut down to a time point (t2' in FIG. 4) when the temperature of
the SCR catalyst decreases to below the first temperature.        Accordingly, when the internal
combustion engine 1 is shut down, the ECU 10 starts to integrate the amount of copper ions with
the counter without operating the heater 40.      Then, when the temperature of the SCR catalyst
becomes below the first temperature (t2' in FIG. 4), the ECU 10 operates (turns on) the heater 40.
When the heater 40 heats the SCR catalyst and thereby the temperature of the SCR catalyst
reaches the target temperature Ttrg (t3 in FIG. 4), the ECU 10 controls the heater 40 such that
the temperature of the SCR catalyst is maintained at the target temperature Ttrg.         When the
counter value reaches the stipulated value (t4 in FIG. 4), the ECU 10 stops (turns off) the heater
40, while resetting the counter value to "zero."    The prescribed period in this case is the period
from t2' to t4 in FIG. 4.     That is, the prescribed period in this case is the period needed to
recover the ionic valence of the amount of copper ions assumed to be put in the deteriorated
state at the end of the automatic recovery period (the amount obtained by subtracting the amount
of copper ions, whose ionic valence is recovered in the automatic recovery period, from the
amount of copper ions assumed to be put in the deteriorated state upon shutdown of the internal
combustion engine 1).
       [0044]     As illustrated in FIGS. 3 and 4, when the recovery processing is executed
immediately after the shutdown of the internal combustion engine 1, valence recovery of
substantially the entire amount of the copper ions in the deteriorated state can be performed,
while keeping the power consumption of the heater 40 as low as possible.         Since the recovery
processing is executed while NOX does not flow into the SCR catalyst, the valence recovery of
the copper ions put in the deteriorated state can also efficiently be performed.       Furthermore,
since the temperature of the SCR catalyst during the recovery processing is restricted to below

                                                  20
the second temperature, valence recovery of the copper ions in the deteriorated state can be
performed without oxidizing NH3 that is adsorbed to the copper ions.         It is therefore possible
to suppress such a situation where NOX reduction performance of the SCR catalyst is
deteriorated or where continuous NOX reduction by the SCR catalyst is difficult, after the next
start of the internal combustion engine 1.
       [0045]      Hereinafter, execution procedures of the recovery processing in the present
embodiment will be described with reference to FIG. 5.         FIG. 5 is a flowchart illustrating a
processing routine executed by the ECU 10 when the recovery processing is performed.             The
processing routine is prestored in a storage device such as a ROM of the ECU 10, and is
executed with the shutdown of the internal combustion engine 1 as a trigger.        The shutdown of
the internal combustion engine 1 used herein is determined on condition that an ignition switch,
which is not illustrated, is switched from ON to OFF.         In the configuration of performing
so-called stop-start control, in which the internal combustion engine 1 is automatically shut
down and restarted while a vehicle is stopped, the internal combustion engine 1 may be
determined to be shut down when the internal combustion engine 1 is automatically stopped.
In so-called hybrid vehicles including not only the internal combustion engine 1 but also an
electric motor or the like as a motor of the vehicle, the internal combustion engine 1 may be
determined to be shut down when the internal combustion engine 1 is automatically stopped in
order to drive the vehicles with only the electric motor.
       [0046]      In the processing routine of FIG. 5, the ECU 10 first determines whether or not
a start request of the internal combustion engine 1 is generated in processing of S 101.       When
positive determination is made in the processing of S 101, the ECU 10 proceeds to processing of
S102.     In the processing of S102, the ECU 10 detects temperature Tscr of the SCR catalyst.
When the processing of S102 is executed for the first time after the shutdown of the internal
combustion engine 1, the temperature Tscr of the SCR catalyst immediately before the shutdown
of the internal combustion engine 1 may be read.          Immediately before the shutdown of the
internal combustion engine 1, exhaust gas is circulating through the SCR catalyst, and therefore
the heat of the SCR catalyst tends to be radiated to the exhaust gas.               Accordingly, the
temperature Tscr of the SCR catalyst is considered to be correlated with the temperature of the

                                                 21
exhaust gas flowing from the SCR catalyst.          Therefore, the temperature Tscr of the SCR
catalyst calculated from a measurement value of the exhaust gas temperature sensor 8 may be
stored in a storage device such as a backup RAM of the ECU 10.             When the processing of
S102 is executed for the second time or more after the shutdown of the internal combustion
engine 1, the ECU 10 calculates the temperature Tscr of the SCR catalyst based on the
measurement value of the casing temperature sensor 9.        This is because the temperature of the
SCR catalyst is considered to be more correlated with the measurement value of the casing
temperature sensor 9 than the measurement value of the exhaust gas temperature sensor 8, since
the heat of the SCR catalyst tends to be radiated to the casing when there is no gas circulation in
the SCR catalyst.    In the configuration where the second catalyst casing 4 is equipped with a
sensor that directly measures the temperature of the SCR catalyst, the measurement value of the
sensor may be used in either of the above-described cases.
       [0047]    In processing of S103, the ECU 10 determines whether or not the temperature
Tscr of the SCR catalyst detected in the processing of S102 is equal to or above a first
temperature TI.     The first temperature TI is a temperature causing exhibition of the valence
recovery of the copper ions in the deteriorated state as described before.
       [0048]    When negative determination is made in the processing of S103, the ECU 10
proceeds to processing of S108.     When the processing of S108 is executed for the first time
after the shutdown of the internal combustion engine 1, the ECU 10 operates (turns on) the
heater 40 by starting to supply driving electric power to the heater 40.   When the processing of
S108 is executed for the second time or more, the heater 40 is already in an operating state.
Accordingly, the ECU 10 may maintain the operating state of the heater 40 by continuously
supplying driving electric power to the heater 40.     After executing the processing of S108, the
ECU 10 returns to processing of S101.          In this case, if a restart request of the internal
combustion engine 1 is generated, it indicates that positive determination is made in the
processing of SIO.      Accordingly, the ECU 10 proceeds to processing of S106, where the
heater 40 is stopped (turned off).    Next, the ECU 10 resets a counter value C to "zero", and
terminates execution of the present processing routine.

                                                 22
       [0049]    When the temperature Tscr of the SCR catalyst upon shutdown of the internal
combustion engine 1 is equal to or above the first temperature TI, or when the temperature Tscr
of the SCR catalyst is raised to the first temperature TI or above by the operation of the heater
40, positive determination is made in the processing of S103.     In that case, valence recovery of
the copper ions in the deteriorated state is exhibited in the SCR catalyst.        Therefore, when
positive determination is made in the processing of S103, the ECU 10 proceeds to processing of
S104 and updates the value C of the counter.     As stated in the description of FIG. 3, the counter
is configured to count the integrated amount of the copper ions whose ionic valence is recovered
because the temperature of the SCR catalyst becomes equal to or above the first temperature TI
after the shutdown of the internal combustion engine 1.         The update amount of the counter
value C in the processing of S104 becomes larger as the temperature Tscr of the SCR catalyst
becomes higher as described before.
       [0050]    In processing of S105, the ECU 10 determines whether or not the counter value
C updated in the processing of S104 is equal to or above a stipulated value Cs.      The stipulated
value Cs is a value corresponding to the amount of copper ions put in the deteriorated state, at
the time when the internal combustion engine I is shut down as described before.                The
stipulated value Cs is preset by assuming the case where a maximum amount of the copper ions
is put in the deteriorated state at the time when the internal combustion engine I is shut down.
When negative determination is made in the processing of S105, valence recovery of the copper
ions in the deteriorated state is considered incomplete in the SCR catalyst.       Accordingly, the
ECU 10 proceeds to processing of S109.
       [0051]    In the processing of S109, the ECU 10 determines whether or not the
temperature Tscr of the SCR catalyst detected in the processing of S102 is equal to or above a
specified upper limit temperature Tmax.       The specified upper limit temperature Tmax used
herein is a temperature above the first temperature TI and below the second temperature
(oxidizing temperature of NH3).       For example, the specified upper limit temperature Tmax is a
temperature obtained by subtracting a specified margin from the second temperature.
       [0052]    When positive determination is made in the processing of S109, the ECU 10

                                                    23
proceeds to processing of S110.        In this case, when the heater 40 is in the operating state, the
ECU 10 stops the heater 40 so as to suppress the SCR catalyst heated to the second temperature
or above.     When the heater 40 is already in a stopped state, the ECU 10 maintains the heater 40
in the stopped state.
       [0053]      When negative determination is made in the processing of S109, or after the
processing of S110 is executed, the ECU 10 returns to processing of S 101.
       [0054]      When positive determination is made in the processing of the S105, valence
recovery of substantially the entire amount of the copper ions in the deteriorated state can be
considered completed in the SCR catalyst.         As a result, the ECU 10 proceeds to the processing
of S 106, where the heater 40 is stopped (turned off).      Next, the ECU 10 proceeds to processing
of S107, where the counter value C is reset to "zero", and terminates execution of the present
processing routine.
       [0055]      Here, when the ECU 10 executes the processing of S102, "detection means"
according to the present invention is implemented.        When the ECU 10 executes the processing
of S103 to S 110, "control means" according to the present invention is implemented.
       [0056]      When the recovery processing is executed along the procedures described in the
foregoing, efficient valence recovery of the copper ions put in the deteriorated state can be
performed in the SCR catalyst, while the power consumption of the heater 40 can be kept low.
As a result, it becomes possible to suppress such a situation where NOX reduction performance
of the SCR catalyst is deteriorated or where continuous NOX reduction by the SCR catalyst is
difficult after the start of the internal combustion engine 1 next time.
       [0057]      In the present embodiment, the heater 40 is controlled such that the temperature
of the SCR catalyst during the recovery processing does not reach the second temperature or
above.    However, when the temperature of the SCR catalyst upon shutdown of the internal
combustion engine 1 is equal to or above the temperature (third temperature) at which NH3
starts to desorb, the temperature of the SCR catalyst during the recovery processing may be

                                                  24
raised to the second temperature or above.        This is because if the temperature of the SCR
catalyst upon shutdown of the internal combustion engine 1 is above the third temperature, it
can be assumed that the amount of NH3 adsorbed to the copper ions is substantially zero.
When the temperature of the SCR catalyst during the recovery processing is raised to the second
temperature or above, the execution period of the recovery processing can be further shortened.
As a result, it becomes easy to complete the recovery processing before the restart request is
generated.
       [0058]     Modification of First Embodiment
      In the first embodiment described in the foregoing, a description has been given of the
example of executing recovery processing on the assumption that the amount of the copper ions
put in the deteriorated state at the time when the internal combustion engine 1 is shut down is a
predetermined fixed amount (the aforementioned stipulated value).            However, the amount
(requested recovery amount) of the copper ions put in the deteriorated state at the time when the
internal combustion engine 1 is shut down may be estimated, and the recovery processing may
be executed based on the requested recovery amount.
       [0059]     In the present modification, when the aforementioned requested recovery
amount is estimated, the amount of copper ions in the deteriorated state is suitably estimated
during operation of the internal combustion engine 1.      More specifically, the amount of copper
ions in the deteriorated state is obtained by integrating a difference between the amount of
copper ions which shifts from the reference state to the deteriorated state per unit time and the
amount of copper ions which shifts from the deteriorated state to the reference state per unit
time.    Here, a description is given of the procedures of calculating the amount of copper ions in
the deteriorated state during operation of the internal combustion engine 1 along FIG. 6.    FIG. 6
is a flowchart illustrating a processing routine executed by the ECU 10 when the amount of
copper ions in the deteriorated state is calculated.    The processing routine, which is prestored
in a storage device such as a ROM of the ECU 10, is periodically executed during operation of
the internal combustion engine 1 (for example, when the ignition switch is in an ON state).

                                                  25
       [0060]     In the processing routine of FIG. 6, first in processing of S201, the ECU 10
acquires the temperature Tscr of the SCR catalyst, an amount Ao2 of 02 flowing into the SCR
catalyst (02 inflow amount) per unit time, an amount (NOX inflow amount) Anox of NOX
flowing into the SCR catalyst per unit time, and an amount (N02 inflow amount) Ano2 of N02
flowing into the SCR catalyst per unit time.      Here, the temperature Tscr of the SCR catalyst is
calculated based on the measurement value of the exhaust gas temperature sensor 8 as described
before.    The 02 inflow amount Ao2 is estimated based on the temperature of the NSR catalyst
housed in the first catalyst casing 3 and on the operating conditions (for example, intake air
amount, fuel injection amount, engine speed, engine temperature, etc.) of the internal
combustion engine 1.       An 02 concentration sensor may be attached to a portion of the exhaust
passage 2 between the first catalyst casing 3 and the second catalyst casing 4 to calculate the 02
inflow amount Ao2 based on a measurement value of the 02 concentration sensor and an
exhaust gas flow rate (for example, a sum of the intake air amount and the fuel injection
amount).    The NOX inflow amount Anox is calculated based on the measurement value and the
exhaust gas flow rate of the first NOX sensor 6.       The N02 inflow amount Ano2 is calculated
based on an N02/NO ratio of the NOX flowing into the SCR catalyst and on the NOX inflow
amount Anox.       For example, the N02/NO ratio of NOX flowing into the SCR catalyst is
estimated using the temperature of the NSR catalyst and the operating conditions (engine speed,
engine load, etc.) of the internal combustion engine 1 as a parameter.
       [0061]     In the processing of S202, the ECU 10 calculates the amount (recovered ion
amount) Acu2+ of copper ions which shifts from the deteriorated state to the reference state per
unit time.   As described before, when the temperature of the SCR catalyst is equal to or above
the first temperature, and 02 or N02 is present in the SCR catalyst, valence recovery of the
copper ion in the deteriorated state is exhibited.   Therefore, it can be said that the recovered ion
amount Acu2+ is correlated with the temperature Tscr, the 02 inflow amount Ao2, and the N02
inflow amount Ano2 of the SCR catalyst.         In the present modification, the correlation data is
obtained based on the result of an experiment or a simulation, and the obtained correlation data
is stored as a map.     In the processing of S202, the ECU 10 derives the recovered ion amount
Acu2+ by accessing the map using as an argument the temperature Tscr, the 02 inflow amount

                                                 26
Ao2, and the N02 inflow amount Ano2 of the SCR catalyst acquired in the processing of the
S201.
       [0062]     In processing of S203, the ECU 10 calculates the amount (deteriorated ion
amount) Acu+ of the copper ions which shift from the reference state to the deteriorated state
per unit time.   NOX reduction by the copper ions Cu2+ in the reference state is exhibited when
the temperature Tscr of the SCR catalyst is equal to or above the active temperature, and NOX
flows into the SCR catalyst.    Therefore, it can be said that the deteriorated ion amount Acu+ is
correlated with the temperature Tscr and the NOX inflow amount Anox of the SCR catalyst.         In
the present modification, the correlation data is obtained based on the result of an experiment or
a simulation, and the obtained correlation data is stored as a map.      In the processing of S203,
the ECU 10 derives the deteriorated ion amount Acu+ by accessing the map using the
temperature Tscr, and the N02 inflow amount Anox of the SCR catalyst acquired in the
processing of the S201 as an argument.
       [0063]     In processing of S204, the ECU 10 calculates a variation AAcu+ (=Acu+
Acu2+) in the amount of copper ions in the deteriorated state per unit time by subtracting the
recovered ion amount Acu2+ calculated in the processing of S202 from the deteriorated ion
amount Acu+ calculated in the processing of S203.         Here, when the deteriorated ion amount
Acu+ is larger than the recovered ion amount Acu2+, the variation AAcu+ become a positive
value.    When the recovered ion amount Acu2+ is larger than the deteriorated ion amount Acu+,
the variation AAcu+ becomes a negative value.
       [0064]     In the processing of S205, an amount ZAcu+ of copper ions put in the
deteriorated state at the time is calculated.    Specifically, the ECU 10 calculates the amount
IAcu+ of copper ions put in the deteriorated state at the time by adding the variation AAcu+
calculated in the processing of S204 to a previous value lAcu+old of the amount of copper ions
put in the deteriorated state. The thus-calculated amount lAcu+ of copper ions is stored in the
backup RAM that can retain data after the shutdown of the internal combustion engine 1.
       [0065]     Next, execution procedures      of the recovery processing in the present

                                                  27
modification will be described with reference to FIG. 7.         FIG. 7 is a flowchart illustrating a
processing routine executed by the ECU 10 when the recovery processing is executed.               The
processing routine is executed with the shutdown of the internal combustion engine 1 as a
trigger as in the processing routine of the FIG. 5 described before.    The processing steps in FIG.
7 similar to those in the processing routine of the FIG. 5 are designated by similar reference
signs.   In the processing routine of FIG. 7, processing of S301 to S303 is executed before the
processing of S101 in the processing routine of FIG. 5.      In the processing routine of FIG. 7, the
processing of S105 in the processing routine of FIG. 5 is replaced with processing of S304 to
S305.
             [0066]    First, in processing of S301, the ECU 10 reads from the backup RAM the
value EAcu+ calculated in the processing routine of FIG. 6 immediately before the shutdown of
the internal combustion engine 1.      The value ZAcu+ corresponds to the amount of copper ions
(requested recovery amount) put in the deteriorated state upon shutdown of the internal
combustion engine 1.
       [0067]     In processing of S302, the ECU 10 determines whether or not the requested
recovery amount XAcu+ read in the processing of the S301 is equal to or above a specified
threshold Athre.    The specified threshold Athre used herein is the amount set on the assumption
that when the internal combustion engine 1 is restarted while the copper ions below the
specified threshold Athre are put in the deteriorated state, the SCR catalyst can provide a desired
NOX reduction performance or higher, or the amount set on the assumption that continuous
NOX reduction by the SCR catalyst can be performed.           When negative determination is made
in the processing of S302, the ECU 10 executes the processing of S106 and S107 in sequence,
and terminates execution of the present processing routine.       That is, the recovery processing is
not executed when negative determination is made in the processing of S302.            When positive
determination is made in the processing of S302, the ECU 10 proceeds to processing of S303
       [0068]     In the processing of S303, the ECU 10 sets a stipulated value Cs' used in
later-described processing of S304 using the requested recovery amount ZAcu+ read in the
processing of S301 as a parameter.       Specifically, the ECU 10 sets the stipulated value Cs' to a

                                                  28
value identical to the requested recovery amount XAcu+.       Alternatively, the stipulated value Cs'
may be set to a value obtained by subtracting the specified threshold Athre from the requested
recovery amount XAcu+.
      [0069]      The ECU 10 executes the processing of S101 to S103 in sequence after the
processing of S303 is executed.        In this case, when positive determination is made in the
processing of S103, the ECU 10 executes the processing of S104 and the processing of S304 in
sequence.    In the processing of S304, the ECU 10 determines whether or not the counter value
C is equal to or above the stipulated value Cs' set in the processing of S303.        When positive
determination is made in the processing of S304, the ECU 10 proceeds to the processing of
S305.    In the processing of S305, the ECU 10 resets the value EAcu+ stored in the backup
RAM to "zero".       Then, the ECU 10 executes the processing of S106 and the processing of
S107 in sequence, so that the recovery processing is terminated.
      [0070]      When the recovery processing is executed along such procedures, the period
(prescribed period) in which the heater 40 maintains the SCR catalyst at or above the first
temperature TI is changed in accordance with the amount of copper ions (requested recovery
amount) lAcu+ put in the deteriorated state at the time when the internal combustion engine 1 is
shut down.     That is, in the case where the requested recovery amount ZAcu+ is small, the
prescribed period is shortened as compared with the case where the requested recovery amount
IAcu+ is large.    As a result, it becomes possible to achieve valence recovery of the copper ions
put in the deteriorated state, while keeping the power consumption of the heater 40 to necessary
minimum.      When the requested recovery amount ZAcu+ is below the specified threshold Athre,
the recovery processing is not executed.      Accordingly, the unnecessary operation of the heater
40 can also be suppressed.
      [0071]      Second Embodiment
      Now, a second embodiment of the present invention will be described with reference to
FIGS. 8 to 10.     Here, configuration aspects other than those described in the first embodiment
will be described, while a description of similar configuration aspects is omitted.            In the

                                                 29
above-stated first embodiment, the case where the internal combustion engine 1 is shut down is
used as an example of the case where NOX does not flow into the SCR catalyst.          In the present
embodiment, the case where a gas that does not contain NOX flows into the SCR catalyst is
used as an example.     The gas that does not contain NOX used herein may include not only a
gas that does not contain NOX at all but also a gas containing an acceptable amount of NOX
(the amount considered to be small enough to allow efficient valence recovery of the transition
metal ions put in the deteriorated state in the SCR catalyst).
      [0072]      Examples of the case where the gas that does not contain NOX flows into the
SCR catalyst include the case where substantially the entire amount of NOX discharged from
the internal combustion engine 1 during operation of the internal combustion engine 1 is stored
in the NSR catalyst in the first catalyst casing 3, and the case where fuel-cut processing is
executed.    The case where substantially the entire amount of NOX discharged from the internal
combustion engine 1 is stored in the NSR catalyst may be the case where the air-fuel ratio of the
exhaust gas flowing into the NSR catalyst is a lean air-fuel ratio.        However, even when the
exhaust gas flowing into the NSR catalyst has a lean air-fuel ratio, part of NOX flowing into the
NSR catalyst tends to slip through the NSR catalyst if the NOX storage amount of the NSR
catalyst is relatively large.   Therefore, in the present embodiment, when the NOX storage
amount of the NSR catalyst is equal to or below a specified upper limit, and the air-fuel ratio of
the exhaust gas flowing into the NSR catalyst is a lean air-fuel ratio, it is determined that the gas
that does not contain NOX flows into the SCR catalyst.       The term "specified upper limit" used
herein is a value set on the assumption that if the NOX storage amount of the NSR catalyst
exceeds the specified upper limit, the amount of NOX beyond the aforementioned acceptable
NOX amount can slip through the NSR catalyst.        Such a specified upper limit is predetermined
based on the result of an experiment or a simulation.
      [0073]      Now, when the recovery processing is executed while the gas that does not
contain NOX flows through the SCR catalyst, NH3 adsorbed to the copper ion may desorb and
flow out from the SCR catalyst together with the gas.              Here, the relation among the
temperature of the SCR catalyst, the amount of copper ions (valence recovery rate) whose ionic
valence is recovered per unit time, the amount of NH3 (desorption rate) desorbed from the

                                                  30
copper ions per unit time, and the amount (oxidation rate) of NH3 oxidized per unit time, is
illustrated in FIG. 8. A solid line in FIG. 8 represents the valence recovery rate of the copper
ions.    A dashed dotted line in FIG. 8 represents the oxidation rate of NH3.      A two-dot chain
line in FIG. 8 represents the desorption rate of NH3.
       [0074]      As illustrated in FIG. 8, when the temperature of the SCR catalyst becomes T3
(third temperature) or above, desorption of NH3 adsorbed to the copper ions starts to be
exhibited.    The third temperature T3 is above the temperature (first temperature) TI at which
valence recovery of the copper ions in the deteriorated state starts to be exhibited, and below the
temperature (second temperature) T2 at which NH3 starts to oxidize.          Accordingly, as in the
aforementioned first embodiment, even when the temperature of the SCR catalyst during the
recovery processing is restricted to below the second temperature T2, the temperature of the
SCR catalyst may become the third temperature T3 or above.            When the temperature of the
SCR catalyst becomes the third temperature T3 or above while the gas that does not contain
NOX flows through the SCR catalyst, the NH3 desorbed from the copper ions tends to flow out
from the SCR catalyst with the gas.          Accordingly, even when the temperature of the SCR
catalyst decreases to the third temperature T3 or below after the valence recovery processing is
terminated, the desorbed NH3 is less likely to be re-adsorbed to the copper ions.
       [0075]      Accordingly, in the recovery processing of the present embodiment, the
temperature of the SCR catalyst is restricted to below the third temperature T3.          When the
temperature of the SCR catalyst during the recovery processing is restricted to below the third
temperature, it is possible to suppress the situation where the NH3 adsorbed to the copper ions
at the start of the recovery processing desorbs and flows out from the SCR catalyst.     As a result,
when the gas containing NOX flows into the SCR catalyst after the end of the recovery
processing, it becomes possible to reduce NOX in the exhaust gas by using the adsorbed NH3.
       [0076]      Hereinafter, execution procedures of the recovery processing in the present
embodiment will be described with reference to FIG. 9.         FIG. 9 is a flowchart illustrating a
processing routine executed by the ECU 10 when the recovery processing is executed.           Here,
the recovery processing is executed on the assumption that the amount of copper ions put in the

                                                    31
deteriorated state upon start of the recovery processing is a stipulated value (value set on the
assumption that a maximum amount of copper ions is put in the deteriorated state) similar to the
stipulated value in the first embodiment.       The processing steps in FIG. 9 similar to those in the
processing routine of FIG. 5 are designated by similar reference signs.             In the processing
routine of FIG. 9, the processing of S101 in the processing routine of FIG. 5 is replaced with
processing of S401.      Furthermore, in the processing routine of FIG. 9, the processing of S109
in the processing routine of FIG. 5 is replaced with processing of S402.
       [0077]     First, in the processing of S401, the ECU 10 determines whether or not
recovery conditions are satisfied.      Specifically, if the NOX storage amount of the NSR catalyst
is below the specified upper limit, and the air-fuel ratio of the exhaust gas flowing into the NSR
catalyst is a lean air-fuel ratio, the ECU 10 determines that the recovery conditions are satisfied.
When the fuel-cut processing of the internal combustion engine 1 is during execution, the ECU
10 also determines that the recovery conditions are satisfied.
       [0078]     When positive determination is made in the processing of S401, the ECU 10
executes the processing of S102 and onward.             When negative determination is made in the
processing of S103, the ECU 10 executes the processing of S108.           In the present embodiment,
when the heater 40 is operated in the processing of S108, an energizing amount of the heater 40
may be regulated in accordance with the amount of gas flowing through the SCR catalyst.
That is, in the case where the amount of gas flowing through the SCR catalyst is small, the
energizing amount of the heater 40 may be decreased as compared with the case where the
amount of gas flowing through the SCR catalyst is large.        This is because in the case where the
amount of gas flowing through the SCR catalyst is small, the amount of heat radiated from the
SCR catalyst to the gas is decreased as compared with the case where the amount of gas flowing
through the SCR catalyst is large, so that the SCR catalyst can be heated with a smaller
energizing amount.      When execution of the processing of S108 is ended, the ECU 10 returns to
the processing of S401.
       [0079]     When negative determination is made in the processing of S105, the ECU 10
proceeds to the processing of S402, where it is determined whether or not the temperature Tscr

                                                 32
of the SCR catalyst is equal to or above a specified upper limit temperature Tmax'.            The
specified upper limit temperature Tmax' used herein is a temperature obtained by subtracting a
specified margin from the third temperature T3.      When positive determination is made in the
processing of S402, the ECU 10 stops (turns off) the heater 40 in the processing of SI10 so as to
suppress the temperature Tscr of the SCR catalyst increasing to the third temperature T3 or
above.     When execution of the processing of SI10 is terminated, the ECU 10 returns to the
processing of S402.      When negative determination is made in the processing of S402, the ECU
10 skips the processing of SI10 and returns to the processing of S401.
       [0080]     When the recovery processing is executed in such a procedure, valence
recovery of the copper ions in the deteriorated state can be performed even while the gas
flowing through the SCR catalyst.       According to the above-stated procedures, it becomes
possible to perform recovery processing two or more times during one trip.      As a consequence,
it is easy to maintain the amount of copper ions in the deteriorated state to be small.       As a
result, it becomes easy to maintain the NOX reduction performance of the SCR catalyst to be a
desired performance or higher, and to implement continuous NOX reduction by the SCR
catalyst.
       [0081]     In the present embodiment, the heater 40 is controlled such that the temperature
of the SCR catalyst during the recovery processing does not reach the third temperature or above.
However, the amount of NH3 adsorbed to the transition metal ions can be regarded as
substantially zero, when the temperature of the SCR catalyst at the time when the recovery
processing is started is the third temperature or above.     Accordingly, the temperature of the
SCR catalyst during the recovery processing may be raised to the second temperature or above,
the second temperature being higher than the third temperature.        In that case, the execution
period of the recovery processing can be shortened more.       As a result, the amount of copper
ions in the deteriorated state can more reliably be reduced even in a relatively short period such
as in the fuel-cut processing.
       [0082]     Moreover, immediately after the air-fuel ratio of the exhaust gas flowing into
the NSR catalyst switches from the rich air-fuel ratio to the lean air-fuel ratio, such as

                                                   33
immediately after the end of S regeneration which is the processing for eliminating sulfur
poisoning of the NSR catalyst, and immediately after the end of rich spike processing which is
the processing for reducing and removing NOX stored in the NSR catalyst, 02 in exhaust gas is
stored in the NSR catalyst due to oxygen storage capacity (OSC) of the NSR catalyst.             As a
result, the air-fuel ratio of the exhaust gas flowing into the SCR catalyst may become an air-fuel
ratio in the vicinity of the stoichiometric air-fuel ratio.       When the recovery processing is
performed under such circumstances, 02 necessary for valence recovery of the copper ions put
in the deteriorated state runs short, which may make it difficult to efficiently recover the ionic
valence of the copper ions in the deteriorated state.     Therefore, immediately after switching the
air-fuel ratio of the exhaust gas flowing into the NSR catalyst from the rich air-fuel ratio to the
lean air-fuel ratio, such as immediately after the end of S regeneration and immediately after the
end of rich spike processing, execution of the recovery processing may be prohibited.
       [0083]      Modification of Second Embodiment
       In the second embodiment described in the foregoing, the description has been given of
the example of executing recovery processing on the assumption that the amount of the copper
ions in the deteriorated state at the time when the recovery conditions are satisfied is a
predetermined fixed amount (the stipulated value).        However, the recovery processing may be
executed based on the amount (requested recovery amount) of the copper ions put in the
deteriorated state at the time when recovery conditions are satisfied.
       [0084]      Hereinafter, execution procedures of the recovery processing in the present
modification will be described with reference to FIG. 10.        FIG. 10 is a flowchart illustrating a
processing routine executed by the ECU 10 when the recovery processing is executed.                The
processing steps in FIG. 10 similar to those in the processing routine of the FIG. 9 are designated
by similar reference signs.      In the processing routine of FIG. 10, processing of S501 to S503 is
executed before the processing of S401 in the processing routine of FIG. 9.        In the processing
routine of FIG. 10, the processing of S105 in the processing routine of FIG. 9 is replaced with
processing of S504 to S505.

                                                   34
       [0085]      First in the processing of S501, the ECU 10 reads the amount of copper ions
(requested recovery amount) XAcu+ put in the deteriorated state at the time.           The requested
recovery amount 1Acu+ is stored in the backup RAM when the processing similar to the
processing routine of FIG. 6 described before is executed.
       [0086]      In the processing of S502, the ECU 10 determines whether or not the requested
recovery amount IAcu+ read in the processing of the S501 is equal to or above a specified
threshold Athre'.      The specified threshold Athre' used herein is the amount provided on the
assumption that the NOX reduction performance of the SCR catalyst becomes a desired
performance or higher, and the continuous NOX reduction by the SCR catalyst is achieved, even
when NOX flows into the SCR catalyst while the amount of the copper ions less than the
specified threshold Athre' are put in the deteriorated state.      When negative determination is
made in the processing of S502, the ECU 10 executes the processing of S106 and S107 in
sequence, and terminates execution of the present processing routine.           That is, the recovery
processing is not executed when negative determination is made in the processing of S502.
When positive determination is made in the processing of S502, the ECU 10 proceeds to
processing of S503
       [0087]      In the processing of S503, the ECU 10 sets a stipulated value Cs' used in
later-described processing of S504 using the requested recovery amount 1Acu+ read in the
processing of S501 as a parameter.        Specifically, the ECU 10 sets the stipulated value Cs' to a
value identical to the requested recovery amount XAcu+.        Alternatively, the stipulated value Cs'
may be set to a value obtained by subtracting the specified threshold Athre' from the requested
recovery amount XAcu+.
       [0088]      The ECU 10 executes the processing of S401, S 102, S103 in sequence after the
processing of S503 is executed.         In this case, when positive determination is made in the
processing of S103, the ECU 10 executes the processing of S104 and the processing of S504 in
sequence.     In the processing of S504, the ECU 10 determines whether or not the counter value
C is equal to or above the stipulated value Cs' set in the processing of S503.         When positive
determination is performed in the processing of S504, the ECU 10 proceeds to the processing of

                                                35
S505, where the value of IAcu+ stored in the backup RAM is reset to "zero."        Then, the ECU
10 executes the processing of S106 and the processing of S107 in sequence, so that the recovery
processing is terminated.
            [0089]     When the recovery processing is executed along such procedures, the
period (prescribed period) in which the heater 40 maintains the SCR catalyst at or above the first
temperature TI is changed in accordance with the amount of copper ions (requested recovery
amount) IAcu+ put in the deteriorated state at the time when the recover conditions are satisfied.
As a result, it becomes possible to achieve valence recovery of substantially the entire amount of
the copper ions put in the deteriorated state, while keeping the power consumption of the heater
40 to necessary minimum.      When the requested recovery amount ZAcu+ is below the specified
threshold Athre', the recovery processing is not executed.         Accordingly, the unnecessary
operation of the heater 40 can also be suppressed.
      [0090]      Other Embodiments
      In the first and second embodiments described in the foregoing, the examples of using the
copper ions as the transition metal ions supported by the SCR catalyst have been described.
However, when the iron ions are supported on the SCR catalyst, the recovery processing can be
executed by the same method.       In the SCR catalyst including iron ions, NH3 adsorbed to the
iron ions (Fe3+) having an ionic valence (3+) that is necessary for NOX reduction reacts with
NOX in exhaust gas, so that the valence of the iron ions decreases from 3+ to 2+.         The iron
ions (Fe2+) put in the deteriorated state in this way are re-oxidized when hydrogen ions (H+)
adsorbed to the iron ions reacts with oxygen (1/402), so that the ionic valence of the iron ions is
recovered to the ionic valence (3+) necessary for NOX reduction.             Therefore, when the
recovery processing is executed in the SCR catalyst that supports the copper ions while NOX
does not flow into the SCR catalyst and 02 is present in the SCR catalyst, valence recovery of
substantially the entire amount of the iron ions put in the deteriorated state can be achieved.
However, since the temperature that causes exhibition of valence recovery of the iron ions is
above the temperature that causes exhibition of valence recovery of the copper ions (for
example, about 300'C), the target temperature Ttrg may be set accordingly.        The embodiment

                                                 36
of the present invention may be defined as follows.        An exhaust gas control apparatus for an
internal combustion engine, the exhaust gas control apparatus includes: a selective catalytic
reduction catalyst disposed in an exhaust passage of the internal combustion engine, the
selective catalytic reduction catalyst including transition metal ions for reducing NOX in
exhaust gas with NH3 as a reducing agent; a heater configured to heat the selective catalytic
reduction catalyst; and an electronic control unit configured to detect temperature of the
selective catalytic reduction catalyst, and execute recovery processing when NOX does not flow
into the selective catalytic reduction catalyst and the temperature of the selective catalytic
reduction catalyst is below a first temperature that is a temperature causing exhibition of valence
recovery of the transition metal ions, the recovery processing being processing of controlling the
heater so as to heat the selective catalytic reduction catalyst up to the first temperature or above
and to maintain the selective catalytic reduction catalyst at or above the first temperature for a
prescribed period.

                                                  37
CLAIMS
1.     An exhaust gas control apparatus for an internal combustion engine, the exhaust gas
control apparatus comprising:
       a selective catalytic reduction catalyst disposed in an exhaust passage of the internal
combustion engine, the selective catalytic reduction catalyst including transition metal ions for
reducing NOx in exhaust gas with NH 3 as a reducing agent;
       a heater configured to heat the selective catalytic reduction catalyst; and
       an electronic control unit configured to detect temperature of the selective catalytic
reduction catalyst, and
       execute recovery processing when NOx does not flow into the selective catalytic reduction
catalyst and the temperature of the selective catalytic reduction catalyst is below a first
temperature that is a temperature causing exhibition of valence recovery of the transition metal
ions, the recovery processing being processing of controlling the heater so as to heat the
selective catalytic reduction catalyst up to the first temperature or above and to maintain the
selective catalytic reduction catalyst at or above the first temperature for a prescribed period.
2.     The exhaust gas control apparatus according to claim 1, wherein
       the electronic control unit is configured to execute the recovery processing with shutdown
of the internal combustion engine as a trigger.
3.     The exhaust gas control apparatus according to claim 2, wherein
       the electronic control unit is configured to control the heater such that the temperature of
the selective catalytic reduction catalyst during execution of the recovery processing becomes
equal to or above the first temperature and below a second temperature, the second temperature
being a temperature that causes exhibition of NH 3 oxidation.
4.     The exhaust gas control apparatus according to claim 3, wherein
       the electronic control unit is configured to control the heater such that the temperature of
the selective catalytic reduction catalyst during execution of the recovery processing becomes
equal to or above the first temperature and below the second temperature, when the temperature

                                                   38
of the selective catalytic reduction catalyst upon the shutdown of the internal combustion engine
is below a third temperature, and
       control the heater such that the temperature of the selective catalytic reduction catalyst
during execution of the recovery processing becomes equal to or above the second temperature,
when the temperature of the selective catalytic reduction catalyst upon the shutdown of the
internal combustion engine is equal to or above the third temperature, and
       the third temperature is a temperature below the second temperature, the third temperature
causing exhibition of NH 3 desorption.
5.     The exhaust gas control apparatus according to claim 1, wherein
       the electronic control unit is configured to execute the recovery processing when the
temperature of the selective catalytic reduction catalyst is below the first temperature while
fuel-cut processing of the internal combustion engine is under execution.
6.     The exhaust gas control apparatus according to claim 1, further comprising:
       a NOx storage reduction catalyst disposed in a portion of the exhaust passage upstream
from the selective catalytic reduction catalyst, the NOx storage reduction catalyst being
configured to store NOx in the exhaust gas when an air-fuel ratio of the exhaust gas is a lean
air-fuel ratio above a stoichiometric air-fuel ratio, and reduce, while emitting, the stored NOx
when the air-fuel ratio of the exhaust gas is a rich air-fuel ratio below the stoichiometric air-fuel
ratio, wherein
       the electronic control unit is configured to execute the recovery processing during
operation of the internal combustion engine, when the air-fuel ratio of the exhaust gas flowing
into the NOx storage reduction catalyst is the lean air-fuel ratio, a NOx storage amount of the
NOx storage reduction catalyst is equal to or below a specified upper limit, and the temperature
of the selective catalytic reduction catalyst is below the first temperature.
7.     The exhaust gas control apparatus according to claim 5 or 6, wherein
       the electronic control unit is configured to control the heater such that the temperature of
the selective catalytic reduction catalyst during execution of the recovery processing becomes
equal to or above the first temperature and below a third temperature, the third temperature

                                                 39
being a temperature that causes exhibition of NH 3 desorption.
8.     The exhaust gas control apparatus according to claim 7, wherein
      the electronic control unit is configured to control the heater such that the temperature of
the selective catalytic reduction catalyst during execution of the recovery processing becomes
equal to or above the first temperature and below the third temperature, when the temperature of
the selective catalytic reduction catalyst upon start of the recovery processing is below the third
temperature, and
       control the heater such that the temperature of the selective catalytic reduction catalyst
during execution of the recovery processing becomes equal to or above a second temperature
that is above the third temperature, when the temperature of the selective catalytic reduction
catalyst upon start of the recovery processing is equal to or above the third temperature, and
      the second temperature is a temperature that causes exhibition of NH 3 oxidation.
9.     The exhaust gas control apparatus according to any one of claims 5 to 8, wherein
      the electronic control unit is configured to control the heater such that in a case where an
amount of gas flowing through the selective catalytic reduction catalyst during execution of the
recovery processing is small, a heating amount of the selective catalytic reduction catalyst
heated by the heater decreases as compared with a case where the amount of gas is large.
10.    The exhaust gas control apparatus according to any one of claims 1 to 9, wherein the
electronic control unit is configured to
       estimate a requested recovery amount that is an amount of the transition metal ions that
need valence recovery, among the transition metal ions included in the selective catalytic
reduction catalyst, and
       execute the recovery processing such that in a case where the requested recovery amount
is small, the prescribed period is shortened as compared in a case where the requested recovery
amount is large.

                                                40
11.   The exhaust gas control apparatus according to claim 10, wherein
      the electronic control unit is configured not to execute the recovery processing when the
estimated requested recovery amount is below a specified threshold.
                             Toyota Jidosha Kabushiki Kaisha
                  Patent Attorneys for the Applicant/Nominated Person
                                   SPRUSON & FERGUSON

<removed-date>
                              EDITORIAL NOTE
                                     <removed-apn>
              - There are 9 pages of Drawings only
<removed-apn>

                                                                    FIG. 1
<removed-date>                                                                                                    10
                                                      12       ACCELERATOR POSITION SENSOR
              13                                                                                         ECU
                                                      11            CRANK POSITION SENSOR
<removed-apn>
                                                               2
               14                                                                                   50
                                                                                                          51
                                                                         6                           4
                                                                                           5                        8
                                                                                                           7
                                                           3
                                            1
                                                                                               40
                                                                                       9
                                                                    FIG. 2
                                                      1/2 H2O
                                                                                               NH3
                                                ( STEP (d) )                 Cu   2+
                                                                                                ( STEP (a) )
                                         1/4 O2
                                                  H+ Cu
                                                                +
                                                                                                Cu2+
                                                                                                   NH3
                                       ( STEP (c) )   N2
                                                                                                         NO
                                                      H 2O                                          ( STEP (b) )
                                                                             Cu2+
                                                                             N H3
                                                                             N O
              <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+2706><U+271D> <U+271E><U+271F><U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D><U+2704><U+2701> <U+270C><U+270E>

                                                          FIG. 3
<removed-date>
                                                           PRESCRIBED PERIOD
                              NOX INFLOW AMOUNT
<removed-apn>
                                          0                                         TIME
              TEMPERATURE OF SCR CATALYST
              SECOND TEMPERATURE
                                                                                    Ttrg
                  FIRST TEMPERATURE
                                                                                    TIME
                OPERATING STATE OF HEATER
                                        ON
                                        OFF                                         TIME
                                       COUNTER
                      STIPULATED VALUE
                                                                                    TIME
                                                  t1 t2    t3                  t4
                                              (SHUTDOWN)
              <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+2706><U+271D> <U+271E><U+271F><U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D><U+2704><U+2701> <U+270C><U+270E>

                                                       FIG. 4
<removed-date>                  NOX INFLOW AMOUNT
                                                          PRESCRIBED PERIOD
<removed-apn>
                                         0                                         TIME
              TEMPERATURE OF SCR CATALYST
              SECOND TEMPERATURE
                                                                                   Ttrg
                  FIRST TEMPERATURE
                                                                                   TIME
               OPERATING STATE OF HEATER
                                       ON
                                       OFF                                         TIME
                                       COUNTER
                     STIPULATED VALUE
                                                                                   TIME
                                                 t1   t2 t3                  t4
                                             (SHUTDOWN)
              <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+2706><U+271D> <U+271E><U+271F><U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D><U+2704><U+2701> <U+270C><U+270E>

                                                          FIG. 5
<removed-date>                                 START
                 1
                     S101
                                                            YES
                                        START REQUEST
<removed-apn>
                                                  NO
                     S102
                                          DETECT Tscr
                     S103
                                                             NO
                                           Tscr    T1
                                                  YES
                     S104                                                               S108
                                       UPDATE COUNTER C            TURN ON HEATER
                     S105                                                    1
                                                            NO
                                            C     Cs
                                                  YES     S109
                                                                                          NO
                                                                      Tscr       Tmax
                                                                                 YES
                                                            S110
                                                                   TURN OFF HEATER
                                                                             1
                          S106
                                       TURN OFF HEATER
                          S107
                                       RESET COUNTER C
                                           TO ZERO
                                             END
              <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+2706><U+271D> <U+271E><U+271F><U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D><U+2704><U+2701> <U+270C><U+270E>

                                                    FIG. 6
<removed-date>                                              START
                                         S201
                                                        ACQUIRE
<removed-apn>
                                                Tscr, Ao2, Anox, AND Ano2
                                         S202
                                                   CALCULATE Acu2+
                                         S203
                                                   CALCULATE Acu+
                                         S204
                                                   Acu+ <U+2701> Acu+ - Acu2+
                                       S205
                                                <U+2702>Acu+ <U+2701> <U+2702>Acu+old + Acu+
                                                          END
              <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+2706><U+271D> <U+271E><U+271F><U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D><U+2704><U+2701> <U+270C><U+270E>

                                                           FIG. 7
<removed-date>
                                            START
                     S301
                                          READ Acu+
                     S302
                                                             NO
<removed-apn>
                                          Acu+     Athre
                                                  YES
                     S303
                                            SET Cs'
                 1
                     S101
                                                             YES
                                        START REQUEST
                                                  NO
                     S102
                                          DETECT Tscr
                     S103
                                                             NO
                                           Tscr    T1
                                                  YES
                     S104                                                                S108
                                       UPDATE COUNTER C             TURN ON HEATER
                     S304                                                     1
                                                             NO
                                            C     Cs'
                                                  YES      S109
                                                                                           NO
                     S305                                              Tscr       Tmax
                                           Acu+ <U+2701> 0
                                                                              YES
                                                             S110
                                                                    TURN OFF HEATER
                                                                              1
                          S106
                                       TURN OFF HEATER
                          S107
                                       RESET COUNTER C
                                           TO ZERO
                                             END
              <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+2706><U+271D> <U+271E><U+271F><U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D><U+2704><U+2701> <U+270C><U+270E>

                                                        FIG. 8
<removed-date>
                                           VALENCE
                   RATE                 RECOVERY RATE
                                                         DESORPTION
                                                            RATE
<removed-apn>                                                                 OXIDATION RATE
                                                                                 SCR CATALYST
                                       T1               T3            T2         TEMPERATURE
              <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+2706><U+271D> <U+271E><U+271F><U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D><U+2704><U+2701> <U+270C><U+270E>

                                                             FIG. 9
<removed-date>                                  START
                 2
                     S401                     ARE               NO
                                       RECOVERY CONDITIONS
<removed-apn>
                                           SATISFIED?
                                                   YES
                     S102
                                          DETECT Tscr
                     S103
                                                                NO
                                            Tscr    T1
                                                   YES
                     S104                                                               S108
                                       UPDATE COUNTER C               TURN ON HEATER
                     S105                                                      2
                                                                NO
                                             C     Cs
                                                   YES       S402
                                                                                          NO
                                                                        Tscr   Tmax'
                                                                               YES
                                                               S110
                                                                      TURN OFF HEATER
                                                                               2
                          S106
                                       TURN OFF HEATER
                          S107
                                       RESET COUNTER C
                                           TO ZERO
                                              END
              <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+2706><U+271D> <U+271E><U+271F><U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D><U+2704><U+2701> <U+270C><U+270E>

                                                             FIG. 10
<removed-date>
                                             START
                     S501
                                           READ Acu+
                     S502
                                                                NO
<removed-apn>
                                           Acu+     Athre'
                                                   YES
                     S503
                                             SET Cs'
                 2
                     S401                      ARE
                                       RECOVERY CONDITIONS      NO
                                            SATISFIED?
                                                  YES
                     S102
                                          DETECT Tscr
                     S103
                                                                NO
                                            Tscr    T1
                                                   YES
                     S104                                                                S108
                                       UPDATE COUNTER C                TURN ON HEATER
                                                                                2
                     S504
                                                                NO
                                             C     Cs'
                                                   YES        S402
                                                                                           NO
                     S505                                                Tscr   Tmax'
                                             Acu+ <U+2701> 0
                                                                                YES
                                                                S110
                                                                       TURN OFF HEATER
                                                                                2
                          S106
                                       TURN OFF HEATER
                          S107
                                       RESET COUNTER C
                                           TO ZERO
                                              END
              <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+2706><U+271D> <U+271E><U+271F><U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D><U+2704><U+2701> <U+270C><U+270E>

